10-08-2021||First Edit||RBI may have to change stance soon||It was expected that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) would keep the policy rates unchanged and maintain its accommodative stance. Even as it did so last week, there were indications that continuing with the growth-supportive stance was becoming increasingly difficult, with inflation obstinately remaining above the comfort zone. The benchmark interest rate is at the decade’s low, and the RBI has ensured that there is enough liquidity in the system. But growth rates have not responded well to the policy directions and it is unlikely that the situation will change for the better in the near future. The RBI has retained its full-year GDP growth forecast at 9.5%, but lowered the Q2, Q3 and Q4 growth projections it made two months ago. The projections from other agencies are less optimistic. The MPC has said that economic activity has started recovering with the waning of the second wave of the pandemic. It hopes that agriculture will perform well and there will be an increase in rural demand. There is also an expectation that the recovery of industry and services will boost urban consumption, and increased vaccinations will improve matters. All of these assumptions may go wrong. The monsoon deficit has affected kharif sowing and may affect farm growth. Business activity has slowed down in the past few weeks, according to the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI). Employment has not picked up. Consumer confidence is low. The pandemic situation is still uncertain and vaccination numbers have till now not kept pace with the targets. Bank credit growth has been negative in all months of the current financial year. All this indicates that recovery is not going quite as well as expected. On the other hand, the inflation forecast for the current financial year has been raised from 5.1% (as assessed in June) to 5.7%, which is only 30 basis points below the RBI’s tolerance limit. The RBI has till now held that the inflationary spike is a “transitory’' phenomenon, and promised to do “whatever it takes’’ to promote growth. But this position seems to be weakening, as seen from the lack of consensus among the MPC members over the stance. While five members voted to persist with the stance, one member expressed reservations. While prices are rising in India, commodity prices are firming up across the world. There are other global triggers, too, which will have an impact. Failure to address the inflation challenge in time may carry a risk, as negative interest rates cannot be sustained for long. The risk is greater when there is no fiscal action from the government. The RBI may soon have to change its stance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/rbi-may-have-to-change-stance-soon-1018081.html
10-08-2021||In Perspective||Judgement upholds federal structure||The judgement of the Supreme Court nullifying parts of 97th Constitutional Amendment Act, 2011, in so far as it related to state cooperatives is a welcome step in setting right the crumbling fine and delicate balance of federalism. In recent times, triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, there have been many instances of Centre-state friction. The 97th Constitutional Amendment, 2011, brought about many changes to the legal regime on cooperatives. It elevated the right to form cooperative societies as a fundamental right under Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution and also inserted Part IX-B in the Constitution, delineating terms for governing cooperative societies, both state and inter-state. Interestingly, the amendment was passed by a special majority in Parliament and notified thereafter without obtaining ratification by at least half of the state legislatures. Upon challenge, it was struck down partly by the Gujarat High Court in 2013 on grounds of violating amendment procedure as laid down under Article 368 of the Constitution. Article 368 lays down the procedure for amending the Constitution, which the 97th Amendment Act, 2011, was also bound by. Article 368 clearly provides that any amendment which affects the federal structure laid down under the Constitution requires not only a  majority of not less than two-thirds of the total Members of Parliament present and voting, but also the ratification of not less than half of the legislatures of the states of the Union. Under Entry 32, List II (State List) of Schedule VII of the Constitution, cooperative society is provided as a state subject and hence falls under the exclusive legislative domain of the states. The 97th Amendment Act, 2011, also sought to regulate state cooperatives, thereby encroaching upon the legislative domain of the state without following the procedure under Article 368. The Constitution envisages a federal system of governance in the country, whereby there is distribution of legislative, administrative and financial powers between the states and the Union. This system was chosen by the framers of the Constitution on account of the peculiar characteristics of India – the large size of the country and its socio-cultural diversity. Additionally, the federal system ensures not only efficient governance of the country but also reconciles national unity with regional autonomy. In fact, state subjects of legislation are indicative of regional matters that the states are best suited to handle, rather than Parliament. This unique and fine balance of federalism has been a subject of long-standing debate between scholars who have described our federalism as quasi-federal, sui generis federalism, cooperative federalism, and so on. In fact, our federalism has unique traits of unifying tendencies with a strong Union that becomes completely unitary during times of emergency. At the same time, it must not be mistaken to mean that a strong, unifying tendency renders the states nugatory and at the mercy of the Union. It has been held by the Supreme Court and the High Courts in a plethora of cases that legislative lists, i.e., Union and State Lists, are exclusive domains of Parliament and state legislatures, respectively, which cannot be encroached upon. While the trend of gradual increasing the Union’s power by transferring state subjects to the Concurrent list is not new, recent events have brought the issue of federalism to the forefront starkly. The Covid-19 pandemic has seen the states and the Union grappling with the legal regime, besides the undeclared state of medical emergency. This gained prominence when the Supreme Court, during hearing of a case on vaccine procurement, remarked that India under Article 1 provides for a Union and the central government had a duty to procure vaccines and provide it to the states, rather than leaving the individual states to struggle for them. The federalism issue took an ugly turn when the Centre ordered the Chief Secretary of West Bengal to be attached to the central government. Further, the Maratha reservation issue also revolved around the 102nd Constitutional Amendment, whereby the Supreme Court held that the power to notify backward class did not rest with the states via the 102nd Amendment Act. The issue of GST compensation is also unfolding gradually which will again bring federalism to the spotlight, as will the most recent move to form a Union Ministry of Cooperation. The Constitution strikes a fine balance through federalism for exercise of legislative, executive, financial powers in the country. It is imperative that functionaries of the Constitution adhere to this balance and work within its limits, failing which constitutional disputes are bound to arise in which the ultimate casualty is always the welfare of citizens for whom these functionaries are elected and the Constitution is made. In this regard, the judgement of the Supreme Court quashing parts of the 97th Amendment Act should be taken in the right spirit by the states and the Centre to mend their ways in working for India’s progress, rather than wasting energies in mutual conflicts. (The writer is a student at NLSIU, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/judgement-upholds-federal-structure-1018087.html
10-08-2021||In Perspective||Cybersecurity framework needed||Post-pandemic, cyberattacks have increased globally and in India. There have been primarily three types of incursions. The first and most frequent has been ‘financial crime,’ which grew by 220 per cent annually. As physical cash movement became difficult with the global lockdown, money-laundering went digital. This is estimated to be a $4 trillion industry globally, with just around 1 per cent of the criminals operating in it convicted. Global banks and large economies have shown little interest to check financial crimes and money-laundering, as they profit from them through indirectly controlled tax-havens. Unlike the UK, the US, or Singapore, India is not a destination of laundered money but a large source of money outflow. The second is ‘technology pilferage,’ which got global attention after the US accused China of industrial espionage and clamped down on Chinese companies, including Huawei and ZTE. Revelations of how Nortel, once a $220 billion Canadian telecom giant was infiltrated by hackers soon after Huawei became its hardware vendor and the subsequent rise of Huawei to become a $100 billion technology supplier of 5G infrastructure while Nortel went bankrupt, sent shockwaves across the technology world. Major Western nations banned Huawei and ZTE. Though India did not, it banned 59 popular Chinese apps, including TikTok, ShareIt, WeChat and UC Browser on charges of data pilferage amid the India-China border stand-off. In March, India initiated the criterion of ‘trusted procurement source’ under which telcos must inform the National Cyber Security Coordinator (NCSC) about the procurement of gear and services from vendors and take approval. The list excludes Huawei and ZTE. The third area of concern is ‘cyberterrorism’ that has alarmed most global leaders, bringing about the possibility of serious international cooperation. This is because terrorism affects governance and political control. Hackers, including criminal gangs, State-backed threat actors, opportunistic cyber mercenaries and ‘black hat’ activist hackers have all attacked and exploited key vulnerabilities in over a dozen nations. They have demonstrated technological competence and attacked banks, healthcare, water and the energy sector, including many Microsoft Exchanges, Google and Facebook servers, and even demanded a $50-million ransom after attacking Taiwanese computer-maker Acer. India has been subject to cyberattacks in at least three sectors since last summer. In June 2020, after the Galwan Valley clash, 24 of 101 servers of the J&K Power Board were hacked and their data deleted. Later in October, attacks on 10 power assets across India were carried out by Chinese State-backed hacker group ‘Red Echo’, including on the Load Dispatch Centres of Delhi, Telangana and the Eastern, North-Eastern and Western grids. The attack, which also disrupted Mumbai’s local trains, was a warning to India to back off in Ladakh, according to the New York Times. Attacks against power grids are done by hackers to demonstrate their capability to disrupt. India’s healthcare sector also came under cyberattacks recently for ‘technology pilferage’. Infiltration attempts were reported at Serum Institute of India (SII), Bharat Biotech and Dr Reddy’s Lab, besides a fire at SII that damaged equipment worth Rs 1,000 crore, necessitating hardware procurement off-the-shelf. Attacks on India made up 7 per cent of all global cyberattacks, reported IBM Security X-Force, with attacks on the finance and insurance sectors accounting for 60 per cent of them. In November 2020, HDFC Bank’s main datacentre suffered yet another power outage, reportedly due to a cyberattack. The RBI pulled the plug on new credit card acquisitions and digital initiatives in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning under HDFC 2.0, directing the bank to address security concerns first, and appointed a technology firm to audit the bank’s IT infrastructure. The suspension of NSE trading last month was reportedly due to cyberattacks. The SBI’s YONO app faced several customer complaints, and other banks that suffer frequent server outages are not reporting them due to fear of regulatory action and a crash in stockprices. Both the Government of India and the private sector are reluctant to disclose data breaches. Most believe that going offline is adequate protection against cyberattacks, but that is not so. Malware is being spread through USB ports, routers, computer and networking hardware and even firewalls. Future cyberattacks could be crippling. The Ukraine model used by the Russians shows that hackers keep bleeding the information network. The idea is not to shutdown networks completely but to keep them tripping and explore new vulnerabilities. The US has a PPP model for cybersecurity. A noted cybersecurity expert of the Indian Army says that the situation is bad because most politicians and bureaucrats can’t assess the technology or defence mechanism needed. “There is no expert technical lead in the field with adequate powers to device a defence framework. Initially, 16 infrastructure areas were identified to be protected, which was subsequently reduced to six. But not a single sector has an adequate defence strategy.” (The writer is a Delhi-based journalist and author of three books on economic governance)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/cybersecurity-framework-needed-1018308.html
10-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||More explosives found at Bebi Betta||The Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) concluded its three-day search operation at the mining region of Bebi Betta in Pandavapura taluk on Sunday. The squad found several explosives during their search. Close on the heels of this, a shepherd spotted some more explosives in the region on Monday. They immediately alerted the police, who rushed to the spot and found 92 gelatin sticks and other explosives on survey number 24 at Bannangadi village. The BDDS team, along with Mines and Geology Department, rushed to the spot and took the explosives into their custody. The BDDS conducted a thorough search at the quarries and crushing units at Chinakurali, Honaganahalli, Ragimuddahalli and surrounding areas in the region from August 6 to 8. While the squad recovered explosives on the first day, not much were found on the next two days. Hence, the squad from Mysuru, Mandya and Hassan returned on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/more-explosives-found-at-bebi-betta-1018193.html
10-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||VHP to hold placard protest against terror activities in Ullal on August 11||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) will hold a placard protest in Ullal against anti-national activities in the coastal area on August 11 between 7.30 am and 9 am.  VHP divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell said that the recent arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Ullal proves that the anti-nationals have made the coast as their centre of activities, adding that the Hindu community should wake up against such terror activities.   The NIA operations brought to light a fact that a Hindu woman is engaged in terror activities after her religious conversion, he said. “We have already requested the government to set up a base for NIA in Mangaluru to check terror activities effectively.”   He alleged that educated Hindu women from reputed families are being targeted. Members and leaders of various communities should create awareness against Love Jihad, he added.  The Maulvis should teach the youth from the community on good values, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vhp-to-hold-placard-protest-against-terror-activities-in-ullal-on-august-11-1018208.html
10-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||No substitute for hard work, say SSLC toppers in Udupi||SSLC toppers in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts have attributed their success to hard work and systematic study. Speaking to DH, Abhishek Jayanth Holla from Government High School in Volakadu in Udupi said, “The objective questions were really challenging as we students had to understand the entire concept fully. I was preparing for the exam throughout the year.” “Teachers also helped a lot. Initially, there were no physical classes at the beginning of the academic year. I had expected full marks in the exam,” he said with a smile on his face. “I want to become a computer engineer and will pursue my PU with a combination including computer science. I have learnt a bit of computer coding as well. I am interested in essay writing, quizzes and have won prizes,” he said. Anushree Shetty from V K R Acharya Memorial English Medium High School in Kundapura said, “Support from my teachers and family helped me to overcome all challenges to achieve a perfect score.” “Though I had a financial problem in my family, the school was very supportive and helped me to excel. My dream is to get admission at one of the IITs and I am working for the same. I am also interested in Yakshagana and play Kabaddi,” she added. 11 toppers The 11 toppers from the district are - Abhishek Jayanth Holla from Government High School in Volakadu; Anushree Shetty, Srijan Bhat R and Praneetha from V K R Acharya Memorial English Medium High School in Kundapura; Anushri Shetty from Mother Teresa School in Shankaranarayana; Navaneeth S Rao from TA Pai school in Kunjibettu; Prathiksha Pai from Sri Anantheshwara School in Udupi; Samatha H S from Government PU College for Girls in Udupi; Satwika Bhat from Narayana Guru School in Malpe; Shreya from Stella Mary School in Gangolli and Srinidhi from Viveka School in Kota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-substitute-for-hard-work-say-sslc-toppers-in-udupi-1018210.html
10-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||49 fall ill after consuming sweet dish||Over 49 people including children reportedly fell ill after consuming kheer (sweet dish) in a private programme at Bhanuvalli in the taluk on Monday night.  A dinner was arranged for the villagers on the occasion of naming ceremony for a baby on the night of August 9. Around 49 people of all age groups had the dinner. After consuming kheer, they complained of vomiting. They were taken to general hospital in the town immediately. Most people have returned home after recovery. A five-year-old child was shifted to District Chigateri General Hospital in Davangere city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/49-fall-ill-after-consuming-sweet-dish-1018382.html
10-08-2021||Main Article||Antyodaya and Antilia can’t sit together||The growing influence of large and powerful business conglomerates continues to raise concerns, not only in India but across the world. Suspicions have risen high these days in the age of the overwhelming influence of Facebook and Google but they go back many decades. Woodrow Wilson said it more than a century ago: “No country can afford to have its prosperity originated by a small controlling class…Every country is renewed out of the ranks of the unknown, not out of the ranks of those already famous and powerful and in control.” India has seen its own explosive rise of business conglomerates, and the attendant suspicions that they inevitably evoke among the common people. The Ambanis, in general, and Mukesh Ambani, as the head of Reliance Industries group in particular, are among the top houses that get named often, either as examples of high achievement or as a class that controls more than it should. Now, even Ambani has spoken of the uneven benefits of economic reforms, saying that “the disparity is neither acceptable nor sustainable”. While celebrating growth and announcing that “India’s time has come”, he wrote recently of the “common goal” of Mahatma Gandhi’s Antyodaya, or the idea of welfare and well-being reaching the last person. Gandhi and unbridled GDP growth appear to meet in this vision, offering a unique combination of Antyodaya and Antilia, the famously chronicled billion-dollar family skyrise where the Ambanis stay in luxurious opulence. There is, of course, a fundamental clash between the two, but can the gulf be bridged by the “Ambani thinking”, loosely a metaphor for development models that have reached us where we stand today and are being pushed onto a faster track? Or is Gandhi being appropriated, his commanding ideas and powerful lexicon subsumed by the offer of delivering on the ends if you allow the business class the luxury of using any means? The questions have to be seen in the light of the nexus between the State and big business, each protecting, supporting and enabling the other, all of it entrenched and regularised within the democratic framework.  Gandhi, of course, was not against wealth-creation. Yet, he would use the word “thieves” for those keeping anything more than their need. In Gandhi’s words: “I am no socialist and I do not want to dispossess those who have got possessions; but I do say that, personally, those of us who want to see light out of darkness have to follow this rule…If somebody else possesses more than I do, let him. But so far as my own life has to be regulated, I do say that I dare not possess anything which I do not want” (Selections from Gandhi by Nirmal Kumar Bose). In this approach, Antilia and Antyodaya cannot go together. Yet, damning the former cannot create space for the latter. In a complex subject that spans the moral, the material and indeed the spiritual, it is best to steer clear of mixing two ingredients that are inherently unmixable. The cocktail that emerges will please no one, however enticing the colour or the promise. In fact, each standing on its own is heady stuff— one a model of instant gratification focused on the outer, and the other a model of long-term fulfilment focused on the inner. The thrills of modernity, the promise of a GDP-delivered nirvana, and an economy built on endless consumption make for a captivating ride. It has given us jobs (for a few) and selective infrastructure upgrades on which ride fast cars, instant cash and super AMOLED screens full of AI-driven ads. It comes with its side effects — anxiety, stress, frequent crashes, plunder of the environment, rising inequality and violence embedded in every aspect of living. This is heady alright, if the nation were to argue that we never had enough and now we get all the stuff at home, ordered on Amazon. On the other hand, stands the combination of a bania and a sage in the personality of Mahatma Gandhi, resolute in his thinking that the above is a path to doom. This is the path of self-emancipation, of inner growth, of character that lives with the ideals of Narsinh Mehta’s eternal song, ‘Vaishnava jana to tene kahiye, je peed pariyi jaane re’ (Only that person is the lover of the Lord, who understands the pain of another). Here is the original minimalist, long before a movement by that name began anywhere. This is heady in a deeper sense, and meant only for the true seekers, not for the faint-hearted. Across the world, the perils of the GDP ride are becoming clearer even to those uninitiated in the lessons of Mahatma Gandhi. Climate change, the pollution in our oceans, the rising frequency of pandemics and growing inequality seen even in the most “developed” of nations mark the bitter harvest of which Gandhi had warned long, long ago. The truth is that India turned away from Gandhi’s path not today but long ago. The policies of privatisation and liberalisation in the 1990s meant a sharper turn in that original direction that we set for ourselves. With a new party at the helm, even as the original policies of the Congress come in for criticism, the turn in the direction is the same — sharper, faster and further away from Gandhi, now overtly so. There was a time it was said that the policies of liberalisation were dictated by the IMF and the World Bank. Then, what was dictated became the native language and we immersed ourselves in it and took to it seamlessly. In that sense, Dhirubhai Ambani’s original words: “To think small is unbecoming of an Indian” celebrated material dreams that were always there but never came to be articulated in those words. Now, as the Western model totters, as the world searches for a new path, it is India that is caught in a dark alley from which it will find it hard to come out unscathed. Across the globe, the turn against the way the modern-day growth model works is gaining momentum. As the Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz wrote in the IMF’s Finance & Development issue just when the pandemic struck: “We have an economy rife with market power and exploitation…We need a comprehensive rewriting of the rules of the economy.” (Jagdish Rattanani is a journalist and a faculty member at SPJIMR. Sudarshan Iyengar is the former Vice-Chancellor of Gujarat Vidyapith, the university founded by Mahatma Gandhi in 1920. Views are personal) (Syndicate: The Billion Press) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/antyodaya-and-antilia-can-t-sit-together-1018086.html
10-08-2021||National||India tops in terms of highest engagement on Facebook during Tokyo Olympics||India outranked countries like the US, Brazil and Philippines in terms of highest engagement on Facebook during the Tokyo Olympics 2020, with gold medallist Neeraj Chopra being the second most mentioned athlete on the global social networking platform. Facebook shared data from July 23-August 8, 2021 reflecting trends on Facebook and Instagram. In terms of the "Loudest countries engaging about the Olympics over the course of the Games" (ranked by number of people talking about Olympics on Facebook), India stood at the numero uno position, followed by the US, Brazil, the Philippines and Mexico. The mentioned sports on Facebook over the course of the Games globally was Track and Field, followed by Gymnastics, Rowing, Boxing and Swimming. The most mentioned athletes on Facebook were Simone Biles (American artistic gymnast), Neeraj Chopra, Hidilyn Diaz (Filipino weightlifter), Suni Lee (American artistic gymnast) and Tom Daley (British diver). "There was plenty to talk about over the course of the Games, but the top three days that had the most Olympics conversation globally on Facebook were August 7 (Neeraj Chopra won gold for India and Team USA basketball won gold), July 28 (the day after Simone Biles withdrew from the gymnastics team competition), and August 2 (Indonesia's Greysia Polii and Apriyani Rahayu won gold in badminton)," it said. Tai Tzu Ying's post thanking everyone for their support while she competed in Tokyo was the Facebook post from an athlete that drove the most interactions over the course of the Games, with more than 1.3 million interactions. On Instagram, athletes gained more than 75 million followers over the course of the Games, driving more than 410 million interactions and posting more than 300,000 stories. Neeraj Chopra gained 2.8 million new followers, PV Sindhu 7,02,778 and MC Mary Kom 2,70,104 new followers. Chopra was second globally after Rayssa Leal (Skateboarding, Brazil) who added 5.8 million new followers. Most mentioned athletes on Instagram over the course of the Games globally was Chopra, Biles, Leal, Greysia Polii (Badminton, Indonesia) and Apriyani Rahayu (Badminton, Indonesia). Leal's video of her skateboarding journey was the most-liked video from an athlete over the course of the Games, with more than 11 million views. In a separate statement, Facebook said it has partnered with UNICEF India to launch a one-year joint initiative on ending violence against children with a special focus on online safety.   The partnership seeks to create a safe environment for children online and offline, and aims to improve children's resilience and capacity to access the digital world safely, the statement said. The intent is to increase awareness on violence against children and its impact on children, families, and communities, as well as increase skills of communities and frontline workers to better prevent and respond to violence, it added. This partnership will include a nationwide social media awareness campaign, and capacity building for 100,000 school children on online safety, digital literacy, and psychosocial support. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tops-in-terms-of-highest-engagement-on-facebook-during-tokyo-olympics-1018075.html
10-08-2021||National||DH Toon | Vandana rewarded for past & future struggles?||Indian hockey star Vandana Katariya on Sunday was named the brand ambassador of the Centre's 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' scheme for Haridwar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-vandana-rewarded-for-past-future-struggles-1018088.html
10-08-2021||National||India's July fuel demand recovers to 3-month peak||Fuel demand in India rose in July to its highest since April as pandemic restrictions and lockdowns were unwound in most states, boosting industrial activity and mobility. Fuel consumption, a proxy for oil demand, totalled 16.83 million tonnes, up 2.9% from June and 7.9% from the same period a year ago, data on the website of the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) showed on Monday. Consumption had slumped in May to its lowest since August when a deadly second wave of Covid-19 prompted lockdowns in most Indian states. But most restrictions were eased in June and further in July, driving a recovery in demand. "We're expecting consumption to be flat for one more month, then accelerate seasonally in Q4, which by our estimates should be an increase over pre-pandemic levels," Natixis commodities strategist Joel Hancock said. Hancock, however, expects elevated domestic prices for petrol and diesel to limit the recovery. "There will be an impact of higher prices on consumption but the broader pandemic recovery trend will outweigh this - so we'll still get growth on a y/y basis and relative to 2019." Consumption of diesel, which accounts for about 40% of India's refined fuel sales, rose 11.5% year on year to 6.14 million tonnes but was down 1% from the previous month. Sales of gasoline, or petrol, increased by about 16.4% to 2.63 million tonnes on an annual basis and were up 9.2% from June. Sales of cooking gas, or liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), rose 4.6% to 2.37 million tonnes, while naphtha sales dropped by about 5.3% to 1.21 million tonnes. Sales of bitumen, used for making roads, were up 4.1%, while fuel oil was 5.1% lower. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-july-fuel-demand-recovers-to-3-month-peak-1018101.html
10-08-2021||National||Canada to extend ban on arriving passenger flights from India||The ban was first imposed on April 22 and has already been rolled over several times. The measure does not apply to cargo flights or medical transfers. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/canada-to-extend-ban-on-arriving-passenger-flights-from-india-1018108.html
10-08-2021||National||India played constructive role in Afghanistan: Pentagon||India has played a constructive role in Afghanistan in the past, the Pentagon acknowledged on Monday. “India has played a constructive role in Afghanistan in the past in terms of training and other infrastructure improvements,” Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby told reporters at his daily news conference. “That kind of work, that kind of effort to help Afghanistan maintain stability and good governances is always welcome,” he said when asked about India-US cooperation on Afghanistan. Responding to a question, Kirby said the United States continues to have conversations with Pakistani leadership about the safe havens that exist along that border between Afghanistan and Pakistan. “We are mindful that those safe havens are only providing a source of more insecurity and more instability inside Afghanistan. We are not bashful about having that discussion with Pakistani leaders,” he said. “We are also mindful that Pakistan and the Pakistani people also fall victim to terrorist activities that emanate from that region. So, we all have a shared sense of the importance of closing down those safe havens and not allowing them to be used by the Taliban or other terrorist networks to sew discord,” Kirby said. “And again, we're having that conversation with the Pakistanis all the time,” he added. Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, he said, shares the concern of the international community about the security situation in Afghanistan which is clearly not going in the right direction. “The secretary continues to believe that the Afghan Forces have the capability, they have the capacity to make a big difference on the battlefield,” he asserted. “He has maintained that we will continue to support them with the authority where and when feasible, understanding that it is not always going to be feasible. But where and when feasible will continue to support them with airstrikes, for instance,” he said. “The other thing is we're focused as we should be given the President's direction, we're focused on completing the drawdown by the end of the month and by transitioning to a different bilateral relationship with Afghan Forces that will be one of support, financial and logistical maintenance support from outside the country. That's the focus, that's what we're driving at,” he added. Kirby said the Taliban have been making advances. “No question. The Afghans have capacity. They have the capability. They have a capable air force,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-played-constructive-role-in-afghanistan-pentagon-1018125.html
10-08-2021||National||Kapil Sibal's private dinner party becomes talk of the town in Lutyens' Delhi||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Monday hosted a dinner attended by political bigwigs from the party and like-minded parties, creating a buzz in political circles given his recent role in party affairs. He was the prime mover behind the letter written to interim party chief Sonia Gandhi calling for wide-ranging reforms and is also seen one of the leaders who has serious differences with the working of Rahul Gandhi. Those who arrived for the dinner at Sibal's Teen Murti Marg residence included NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Trinamool Congress' Derek O'Brien, DMK's Tiruchi Siva, RLD President Jayant Chaudhary, Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav, accompanied with his senior party leader Prof Ram Gopal Yadav, RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, besides Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, and Anand Sharma. Sources say the meeting was nothing to do with politics but was gathering a day after Sibal turned 73, while sources close to the leaders say that this is a part of the opposition regrouping ahead of the crucial Assembly polls next year. The Congress leaders attending the dinner rejected any speculation that it was related to party's internal functioning but said they want strong opposition unity ahead of 2024 elections. While Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is on a two-day tour to Srinagar but prominent among missing leaders was Ghulam Nabi Azad who was also one of the Congress leaders pushing for reforms in the party. The Congress leaders, who came to be known as 'G-23', wanted elections from block to CWC level in the party and wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi in this regard. The dinner coincides with a year of the letter which took the party by storm, but its demands are still to be implemented with Sonia Gandhi still the interim President and Rahul Gandhi calling the shots in the decision making process, even as the party lost all crucial polls in Assam, Bihar, Kerala, Puducherry, and West Bengal. The only solace was Tamil Nadu, where it was part of the DMK-headed alliance. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kapil-sibals-private-dinner-party-becomes-talk-of-the-town-in-lutyens-delhi-1018126.html
10-08-2021||National||Jantar Mantar rally: Ashwini Upadhyay, 5 others detained over anti-Muslim slogans||The Delhi Police has arrested six people, including advocate and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, in connection with the anti-Muslim slogans allegedly raised during a protest at the Jantar Mantar here, officials said on Tuesday. "Six people have been arrested after an FIR was registered at the Connaught Place Police Station related to provocative sloganeering at a programme held near Bank of Baroda," Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said. "The accused have been identified as Ashwini Upadhyay, Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma and Vinit Bajpai," he said. They were arrested from different parts of the Delhi-National Capital Region and will be produced before the magistrate on Tuesday, police said. A video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar here was widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by Bharat Jodo Aandolan at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, had said the protest was held under the leadership of Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. "The protest was held against colonial laws and demanding to abolish 222 British laws. We have seen the video, but have no idea who they are. The police should take strict action against the persons who raised the slogans," Srivastava had said. Upadhyay too denied any involvement in the anti-Muslim slogan shouting incident. "I have submitted a complaint to the Delhi Police to examine the video which went viral. If the video is authentic, then strict action should be taken against the persons who were involved in it," he had said. "I have no idea who they are. I have never seen them, never met them and neither called them there. Till the time I was there, they were not seen there. If the video is fake, then a propaganda is being circulated to defame Bharart Jodo Andolan," Upadhyay said. The video shows a group of people shouting inflammatory slogans and threatening Muslims during the protest at Jantar Mantar. Yadav had said on Monday, "We have received a video and we are examining it. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the law and an investigation is in progress."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jantar-mantar-rally-ashwini-upadhyay-5-others-detained-over-anti-muslim-slogans-1018142.html
10-08-2021||National||I'll let you decide if it was a publicity stunt: Juhi Chawla responds to 5G row||Ever since Bollywood ActorJuhi Chawla filed a petition challenging the 5G rollout in the country, many have been claiming it to be ‘a publicity stunt’. Posting a video on her social media on Monday, Chawla responded to the allegations. After the online hearing of her case in June, the Delhi High Court had dismissed her petition and imposed Rs 20 lakh fine for the 'frivolous' plea.  The hearing was interrupted by Juhi’s fans after she shared the link to the Court hearing on her social media. The Court said, "It appears the suit was for publicity. Juhi Chawla circulated a link of the hearing on social media." After almost two months, the Bollywood actor-turned-activist posted an almost 15-minute-long video on her social media and wrote, "I'll let you decide if it was a publicity stunt." Chawla started the video talking about how 11 years ago she got concerned about the ill-effects of the radiation for the first time when she saw 14 mobile towers getting installed right in front of her Mumbai house. Later the actor got a private agency, based in Hyderabad, to conduct a test on the radiation from the mobile towers in her house and found out that it was on an alarming level. After which she took the legal route to get the towers removed.  Following the news, she started getting requests from people around the country to help them remove mobile towers near their houses and she started helping people, she said. In the video, the actor said that she has taken many steps to enquire about the measures taken by the government on the issue in these 11 years. She said, “I have filed several RTIs to enquire about any research that has been conducted by the government on the harmful effects of these radiations on men, women, adults, children, animals and every type of living organism.” According to Chawla, ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) replied to her saying it was conducting a study on the effects of radiofrequency 2G and 3G phone towers, but Science and Engineering Research Board said that no such study has been conducted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ill-let-you-decide-if-it-was-a-publicity-stunt-juhi-chawla-responds-to-5g-row-1018148.html
10-08-2021||National||Pegasus case: Supreme Court objects to 'parallel debate' on social media||The Supreme Court on Tuesday took exception to "parallel debate" on social media by a group of people who sought the top court's order for probe into Pegasus snooping case. "There has to be some discipline when the court is examining the matter. Some questions may be asked. Those may be inconvenient or encouraging. Both sides have to face music. If they have some points to raise, they can do so by filing an affidavit. They must have faith in the system," a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for journalist N Ram and others, said some statements made in the petition with regard to California court proceedings were raised. "It was taken out of context. But debates must not cross the limits. If they are using the system, they should have faith in the system," the CJI stressed. The bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, allowed Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, time till August 16 to take instructions on petitions for probe into the matter. Advocate M L Sharma, CPI(M) MP John Brittas, journalist N Ram, former IIM professor Jagdeep Chokkar, Narendra Mishra, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, S N M Abdi and Editors Guild of India and former Union Minister Yashwant Singh among others have filed separate petitions before the top court. On July 18, an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers that were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-case-supreme-court-objects-to-parallel-debate-on-social-media-1018153.html
10-08-2021||National||World Lion Day: Last few years saw steady increase in India's lion population, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said India's lion population has seen a steady increase in the last few years as he greeted people on World Lion Day. The lion is majestic and courageous, and India is proud to be home to the Asiatic Lion, Modi tweeted. "On World Lion Day, I convey my greetings to all those passionate about lion conservation. It would make you happy that the last few years have seen a steady increase in India's lion population," he said. The number of Asiatic lions, who live primarily in the Gir forests, was estimated to be 674 in 2020, an increase of 29 per cent in five years. Modi noted that when he was the chief minister of Gujarat, he had the opportunity to work towards ensuring safe and secure habitats for the Gir Lions. "A number of initiatives were taken which involved local communities and global best practices to ensure habitats are safe and tourism also gets a boost," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-lion-day-last-few-years-saw-steady-increase-in-indias-lion-population-says-pm-modi-1018157.html
10-08-2021||National||Odisha: Rape accused held after 7 years||A 31-year-old man who was on the run for seven years after allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl in Odisha’s Kendrapara district, has been arrested, police said. The man had raped the teenager in 2014 and fled to Bengaluru, where he earned his livelihood as a plumber, an officer said on Monday. He was apprehended in Bengaluru on Sunday. He was brought under transit remand on Monday and remanded in judicial custody, Pattamundai police station inspector Rakesh Tripathy said. "In a significant achievement, a team led by IIC (inspector in-charge) Pattamundai PS (police station) arrested the principal accused in the heinous crime of gangrape of a minor girl after 7 years of absconding (sic),” the Kendrapara Police tweeted. Another accused was earlier arrested from New Delhi in 2019. The rape survivor had delivered a girl child in 2015, according to police. The accused were booked under Indian Penal Code sections for charges of gangrape, obscene acts and criminal intimidation, as well as under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, the inspector added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-rape-accused-held-after-7-years-1018160.html
10-08-2021||National||CJAR, NCPRI demand live streaming of SC proceedings on Pegasus||The Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) and National Campaign for Peoples' Right to Information (NCPRI) have urged Chief Justice of India N V Ramana to live-stream the hearings of the petitions filed seeking investigation into the Pegasus snooping episode. In a letter to the Chief Justice on Monday, the CJAR and NCPRI said there has been "deep concern" regarding the recent revelations that the Pegasus software was used to "hack into the phones of Indian citizens, apparently at the behest of the Indian government". The letter claimed that the deployment of the Pegasus software has been established through cyber forensic analysis of some of the targeted phones by internationally reputed labs. "Such large-scale intrusive surveillance into the phones belonging to constitutional authorities, political leaders, journalists and activists, apart from being a violation of people’s fundamental right to privacy, is a frontal attack on our democracy," said the letter signed by Prashant Bhushan, Anjali Bhardwaj, Nikhil Dey and Venkatesh Nayak among others. Noting that the Supreme Court is hearing multiple petitions seeking a probe into the issue, the letter said, "Given that this case deals with matters of tremendous public interest, and its outcome will have wide ramifications for our republic, we are writing to request you to ensure live-streaming of the hearings of the case." The letter noted that media reports have shown that phone numbers belonging to a judge of the Supreme Court, registrars of the apex court and the woman staffer (and her family members) who had accused a former Chief Justice of India of sexual harassment were potentially hacked. It said these revelations point to a "grave threat" to the independence of the judiciary. An Election Commissioner of India, leaders of opposition parties, senior journalists and activists figuring in the list of people allegedly surveilled before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls "indicate a deep subversion of electoral democracy", the letter added. The Supreme Court had agreed to live-stream proceedings in important cases, the letter said referring to the Swapnil Tripathi vs Supreme Court of India judgment.  The CJAR and NCPRI pointed out that there has been significant progress in the last few years with at least some High Courts -- Gujarat, Karnataka, Orissa and Madhya Pradesh -- currently live-streaming their proceedings on YouTube via their official channels, which also allows the live-stream to be subsequently available as a recording. Chief Justice Ramana had earlier said that it was high time for "de-mystifying" the justice delivery system and furthering access through open courts.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cjar-ncpri-demand-live-streaming-of-sc-proceedings-on-pegasus-1018163.html
10-08-2021||National||Over 2.07 crore unutilised Covid-19 vaccines still available with states, private hospitals: Centre||More than 2.07 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. Over 52.56 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 48,43,100 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 51,09,58,562 doses, the ministry said.  Under the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Centre procures and supplies 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country to states and UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-207-crore-unutilised-covid-19-vaccines-still-available-with-states-private-hospitals-centre-1018169.html
10-08-2021||National||PM Modi seeks names of members absent during voting for statutory resolution in RS: Sources||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked the parliamentary affairs minister to submit details of members who were not present in Rajya Sabha on Monday when voting for a statutory resolution moved by several opposition MPs was held, sources said. The statutory resolution demanded that the Tribunals Reforms Bill be sent to the select committee of the House. However, it got negated. Speaking at the BJP parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday, Modi asked Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi to submit the details of those who were not present in the house when the voting was held, the sources said. The BJP parliamentary party led by Modi also gave a standing ovation to the Olympic medal winners, they said. Modi asked the BJP MPs to promote various kinds of sports besides cricket in their respective constituencies from the grass root level, the sources said. He told MPs to build sports infrastructure and make arrangements for training for the budding talent, they said. During the meeting, Sports Minister Anurag Thakur gave a presentation on India's performance at the Tokyo Olympics. Thereafter, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju, who held the sports portfolio till July, also spoke about the preparations made for the Games. During the meeting External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also spoke on the UNSC meeting. Modi became the first Indian prime minister to preside over a meeting of the UN Security Council on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-seeks-names-of-members-absent-during-voting-for-statutory-resolution-in-rs-sources-1018176.html
10-08-2021||National||Centre relaxes rules to free provide cooking gas to migrant workers under Ujjwala 2.0||The Centre has relaxed rules to include migrant workers in one of its flagship schemes that provides deposit free access to cooking gas cylinders to poor households. Announcing the concessions from poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, which accounts for the country’s largest number of inter-state migrant workers, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said migrant labourers simply have to declare where they live rather than having to provide proof of their address to obtain supplies. Along with deposit-free access to LPG supplies, the beneficiaries will be given a stove free of cost. Under the scheme, the first gas cylinder is free but consumers have to pay for subsequent cylinders. The Prime Minister noted that the resolve of health, convenience and empowerment of sisters has received great impetus from Ujjwala Yojana. In the first phase of the scheme, 8 crore poor, Dalit, deprived, backward and tribal families were given free gas connections. “The benefit of this free gas connection was felt in the era of the Corona pandemic. Ujjawala Yojana has led to manifold expansion of LPG gas infrastructure. During the last 6-7 years more than 11,000 LPG distribution centres have been opened. In UP the number of these centres increased to 4,000 from 2,000 in 2014. We are very near the cent per cent gas coverage as during the last 7 years more gas connections have been given than were there in 2014,” Modi said announcing the scheme. Many, he continued, from all over UP and other states including Bundelkhand, migrated from village to city or to other states for work. There they face the problem of address proof. He said that Ujjwala 2.0 scheme will give maximum benefit to lakhs of such families. He added that now these workers from other places need not run from pillar to post for address proof. He said the government has full faith in the honesty of the migrant workers. All one has to do is give a self-declaration of the address for getting a gas connection. Modi also said that efforts are on to provide gas through pipes at a much larger scale. He said PNG is much cheaper than cylinder and work is on to provide PNG in many districts of eastern India including in UP. In the first phase, a target has been to connect 12 lakh households in more than 50 districts of UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-relaxes-rules-to-free-provide-cooking-gas-to-migrant-workers-under-ujjwala-20-1018177.html
10-08-2021||National||Twitter 'prima facie' in compliance with new IT Rules, Centre tells Delhi HC; court seeks affidavit||The Centre told the Delhi High Court on Tuesday that Twitter was prima facie in compliance with the new Information Technology Rules by appointing a Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) and Nodal Contact Person on permanent basis. Justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a petition alleging non-compliance of IT Rules by the US-based microblogging site, sought an affidavit from the Centre to bring its stand on record within two weeks. “Chief Compliance Officer, Nodal Contact Person (NCP) and Resident Grievance Officer have been appointed in compliance with the law. That's the email that I've received (from the instructing authority). It's better to have an affidavit,” Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said. The court said that Twitter's affidavit on its compliance with IT Rules was “finally on record”. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, iterated that the company has appointed permanent officials for the posts of CCO, RGO and NCP. Poovayya said the appointed persons will work on a full-time basis and are fully capable of performing the functions in terms of the law. “Court gave us a long rope. Finally we have rectified the situation. We have permanent people occupying the position,” Poovayya submitted. On July 28, the court had expressed displeasure over Twitter appointing a contingent worker as CCO and said that the social media platform was in non-compliance with the new IT Rules. “I'm giving you a long rope but don't expect the court to do it on and on,” the court had said. Centre had also claimed that Twitter was acting in “abject non-compliance of the rules”. The Centre said in its affidavit that Twitter failed to comply with India's new IT Rules, which could lead to its losing immunity conferred under the IT Act. The court had earlier granted time to Twitter to file an affidavit to show compliance with the IT Rules. Petitioner-lawyer Amit Acharya, represented by senior advocate G Tushar Rao, claimed that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance of IT Rules by Twitter when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 seek to regulate dissemination and publication of content in cyber space, including social media platforms, and were notified in February by the central government. The matter would be heard next on October 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-prima-facie-in-compliance-with-new-it-rules-centre-tells-delhi-hc-court-seeks-affidavit-1018183.html
10-08-2021||National||Govt taking steps to deal with impact of big online retailers on small biz: Piyush Goyal||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday flagged concerns about the influence of big online retailers that are adversely impacting small players and asserted that the government is taking steps to ensure that in the long run, consumers get good quality products at affordable prices. Against the backdrop of the Supreme Court rejecting pleas of Amazon and Flipkart against a Competition Commission of India (CCI) probe into alleged unfair trade practices, the minister told the Lok Sabha that the influence of big online retailers are increasing due to their money power and small retailers are getting shut. Not just in India, concerns are being expressed by governments across the world, he added. Goyal is in charge of the ministries of commerce and industry as well as consumer affairs, food and public distribution and has been vocal in supporting domestic traders. He made the remarks while responding to supplementaries during the Question Hour on a question related to Amendment of Consumer Protection (e-commerce) Rules, 2020. In India, there are around six crore small retail businesses giving jobs to around 12-13 crore people, he noted. Goyal said big online retailers would have a major influence and eventually consumers might not have a choice but to buy things at a higher price. Asserting that the government is taking strict action with respect to the influence of big online retailers, he said CCI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are looking into the issue. The companies tried to stop a probe by CCI but "I am happy that yesterday, on the anniversary of Quit India Movement," all efforts of these companies failed and the Supreme Court decided that CCI will probe the matter, Goyal said. On Monday, the Supreme Court refused to entertain pleas of Amazon and Flipkart, saying that challenging the enquiry is like wanting a notice before the registration of an FIR under the criminal law and asked the e-commerce giants to submit themselves to the CCI probe. On January 13, 2020, CCI ordered a probe against Flipkart and Amazon for alleged malpractices, including deep discounting and tie-ups with preferred sellers on their platforms, following which both the companies had moved the high court seeking quashing of the probe order. The government is taking steps to ensure that in the long run, consumers get good and quality products at fair prices, Goyal said on Tuesday. The Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 were notified on July 23, 2020. In order to further strengthen the regulatory framework for prevention of unfair trade practices in e-commerce that harm the interest of consumers in the long run, the central government has sought views/ comments/ suggestions on the proposed amendments to the rules by placing it on the website of the Department of Consumer Affairs, the minister said in a written reply. The proposed amendments also include provisions related to banning of fraudulent flash sales where technology is used to enable only a specific seller or a group of sellers managed by the e-commerce company to sell goods or services on its platform," Goyal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-taking-steps-to-deal-with-impact-of-big-online-retailers-on-small-biz-piyush-goyal-1018185.html
10-08-2021||National||Govt approves Bharat Biotech's Ankleshwar plant to produce Covaxin: Mandaviya||Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday said the government has given approval to Bharat Biotech's Ankleshwar-based manufacturing plant to produce Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. "Govt of India approves vaccine manufacturing facility for production of @BharatBiotech's #Covaxin in Ankleshwar, Gujarat," Mandaviya tweeted. The approval would help increase the availability of Covid-19 vaccines in the country, he added. "Following PM @NarendraModi  ji's vision of #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine, this will increase vaccine availability & accelerate the world's largest vaccine drive," the minister who heads both Chemicals and Fertilisers and Health ministries noted. In May this year, Bharat Biotech had announced that it plans to produce an additional 200 million doses of Covaxin at its subsidiary's Ankleshwar-based facility. The Hyderabad-based firm had noted that it would utilise the manufacturing plant of its wholly-owned unit -- Chiron Behring, to add another 200 million doses of Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-approves-bharat-biotechs-ankleshwar-plant-to-produce-covaxin-mandaviya-1018187.html
10-08-2021||National||India evacuating its nationals from consulate in Mazar-e-Sharif||India has moved to bring back home its citizens living in and around Mazar-e-Sharif amid fierce war between the Afghan National Security and Defence Force and the rapidly advancing Taliban near the capital of the Balkh province in northern Afghanistan. As the Taliban overran several major cities in northern Afghanistan over the past few days and continuing its blitzkrieg, the Embassy of India in Kabul “strongly advised” Indians living across the war-torn country to immediately take flights back home before commercial air services get discontinued. “As violence in many parts of Afghanistan has escalated, commercial air travel services to many provinces and cities are getting discontinued,” the Embassy of India in Kabul noted in its latest security advisory issued on Tuesday. “All Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are strongly advised to keep themselves updated on the availability of commercial flights from various parts of Afghanistan and make immediate travel arrangements to return to India before commercial air services are discontinued to their place of stay or visit in Afghanistan.” The Consulate General of India in Mazar-e-Sharif on Tuesday posted on Twitter that a special aircraft would leave the city for New Delhi late in the evening. It advised the Indian citizens living in and around the city to take the flight back to the country. The aircraft would also bring back to the country the officials and security personnel deployed in the consulate. A source in New Delhi, however, clarified that the consulate would not be closed down and the local employees would continue to run it and issue visas to Afghans living in Balkh, Jawzjan, Faryab, Samangan and Sar-e-Pul who are seeking to travel to India. India moved to bring back home its officials and citizens from northern Afghanistan exactly a month after it evacuated its officials posted at its consulate in Kandahar in southern part of the conflict-ravaged country. The Taliban over the past few weeks continued its advances through Afghanistan taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies from the country. Its fighters reached closer to Mazar-e-Sharif on Monday after overrunning Kunduz and several other cities in northern Afghanistan by Sunday. If the Taliban can take over Mazar-e-Sharif, it is likely to pose a serious security threat to national capital Kabul, which is just about 425 kilometers away. Not only the Government of India, but the United Nations also moved to evacuate its officials from Mazar-e-Sharif. The Taliban’s spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid claimed in a tweet in the evening that the militants had taken over nine bases and outposts of the Afghan National Security and Defence Force and gained control over vast territories, including Kod-e-Barq Chowk on the outskirts of Dehdadi and Mazar-e-Sharif.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-evacuating-its-nationals-from-consulate-in-mazar-e-sharif-1018189.html
10-08-2021||National||Centre to set up 'Indian Institute of Heritage' in Noida: Culture Minister Reddy||The Centre has decided to set up a world-class institute in Noida near Delhi that would offer postgraduate and doctorate courses in the history of arts, conservation, museology and archaeology, Minister for Culture G Kishan Reddy said. The 'Indian Institute of Heritage' will impact higher education and research in the fields related to the country's rich heritage and its conservation, Reddy informed the Lok Sabha on Monday. “The Indian Institute of Heritage would offer Masters and Ph.D courses in History of Arts, Conservation, Museology, Archival Studies, Archaeology, Preventives Conservation, Epigraphy and Numismatics, Manuscriptology as well as conservation training facilities to in-service employees and the students of the Indian Institute of Heritage,” he said in a written reply. He said the institute is being set up as "deemed to be university" by integrating the Institute of Archaeology (Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology), School of Archival Studies under National Archives of India, New Delhi, the National Research Laboratory for Conservation of Cultural Property (NRLC), Lucknow, National Museum Institute of History of Art, Conservation and Museology (NMICHM) and Academic Wing of Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA), New Delhi. These shall become various schools of the institute, Reddy said. “The Indian Institute of Heritage will be a world-class university that would focus on the conservation and research in India's rich tangible heritage while offering research, development and dissemination of knowledge, excellence in the education of its students and activities associated with the heritage that contributes to the cultural, scientific and economic life of India,” he said. “This would be a standalone institution of its type in the country,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-set-up-indian-institute-of-heritage-in-noida-culture-minister-reddy-1018206.html
10-08-2021||National||DGCA advices passengers planning to travel abroad to check fares on airline's website||Aviation regulator DGCA on Tuesday advised passengers planning to travel to international destinations to check ticket prices on the website of the airline concerned as metasearch engines at times do not reflect the actual point to point fare. Various metasearch engine websites such as Google and Skyscanner operate in India. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Twitter that metasearch engines at times do make combinations of multiple airlines -- when a passenger is looking for a point to point travel -- and end up with an exaggerated figure of airfare. Last Saturday, Sanjeev Gupta, Secretary, Inter-State Council Secretariat, Union Home Ministry, had complained on Twitter that an economy-class ticket on British Airways's Delhi-London flight for August 26 was priced at Rs 3.95 lakh. However, the Ministry of Civil Aviation clarified on Sunday that an economy-class ticket on Delhi-London flight has been available for between Rs 1.03 lakh and Rs 1.47 lakh during August. While there have been lower and upper limits on all domestic airfares in India since May 25 last year, no such limits have been imposed on international airfares. In a statement, Nishant Pitti, Co-founder and CEO, EaseMyTrip.com, said on Tuesday that there are a large set of third party platforms and travel portals that are inflating their international airfares to take advantage of the pent-up demand and peak university admission season. "It is imperative for customers to check for ticket prices from trusted travel portals such as ours that directly collaborate with airlines to offer the best prices for travellers," he mentioned. Customers need to be vigilant about third party platforms that do not have such connections with airlines, he stated. "These platforms tend to fluctuate their prices on the basis of the demand they foresee instead of keeping the customers' best interest in mind," he mentioned. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 last year amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, limited special international passenger flights have been operating since July 2020 under the air bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries, including the UK. The DGCA said on Twitter on Tuesday: "Passengers travelling to international destinations are requested to check the fare preferably from the website of the concerned airline as the metasearch engines at times do not reflect the actual point to point fare and do make combinations of multiple airlines and end up with an exaggerated figure."  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-advices-passengers-planning-to-travel-abroad-to-check-fares-on-airlines-website-1018217.html
10-08-2021||National||No criminal cases against politicians to be withdrawn without HC's approval: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said no criminal case against MPs and MLAs can be withdrawn without the approval of the High Court concerned. “No prosecution against MP/MLA to be withdrawn without leave of High Court,” a three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said. The bench, also comprising Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, also ordered that special court judges, hearing cases against accused MPs and MLAs, should not be transferred until further orders. Senior advocate and amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria, who was assisted by advocate Sneha Kalita, said that the Uttar Pradesh government has sought to withdraw 76 cases against elected representatives, including the Muzaffarnagar riot cases against Sangeet Som, Kapil Dev, Suresh Rana and Sadhvi Prachi.  In a report submitted to the top court, he said that withdrawal from prosecution under Section 321 of the Criminal Procedure Code was permitted in the public interest and cannot be done for political consideration.    The report said the state governments should be allowed to withdraw cases against former or sitting legislators only after the High Court’s approval.  The report added such application by the Public Prosecutor can be made in good faith, in the interest of public policy and justice, and not to thwart or stifle the process of law. The amicus made the recommendation in a petition filed by advocate and BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay relating to fast-tracking of criminal trials against sitting and former MPs/MLAs.  He referred to a news report of January 12, 2020, stating that the UP government has decided to withdraw 76 cases related to the Muzzafarnagar riots in which 65 persons were killed and around 40,000 persons were displaced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-criminal-cases-against-politicians-to-be-withdrawn-without-hcs-approval-sc-1018225.html
10-08-2021||National||India, UK review permission granted to Nirav Modi to appeal against extradition||The UK’s Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) on Tuesday said it is reviewing the London High Court ruling to grant fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi permission to appeal against his extradition order with the Indian government for the next stage in the legal process. The CPS, which represents the Indian authorities in court, highlighted that the appeal can be heard at a full hearing on two grounds related to the mental health of the 50-year-old diamantaire, who is lodged at Wandsworth Prison in south-west London as he fights his extradition to face charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case. “Nirav Modi has been granted permission to appeal his extradition to India on two grounds. The CPS is reviewing the next steps with the Government of India,” a CPS spokesperson said. On Monday, High Court judge Martin Chamberlain granted Modi permission to appeal against a Westminster Magistrates’ Court order in favour of extradition to India on mental health and human rights grounds. The permission to appeal was denied on all other grounds, including leave to appeal against UK Home Secretary Priti Patel’s extradition order, a legal avenue which is now closed. The appeal against District Judge Sam Goozee’s February decision to send the case to the Home Secretary was granted leave to appeal in respect of two of the grounds – under Article 3 of the European Convention of Human Rights (ECHR) to hear arguments if it would be “unjust or oppressive” to extradite him due to his mental state and Section 91 of the Extradition Act 2003, also related to mental ill health. “I will not restrict the basis on which those grounds can be argued, though it seems to me that there should be a particular focus on whether the judge was wrong to reach the conclusion he did, given the evidence as to the severity of the appellant’s (Nirav Modi’s) depression, the high risk of suicide and the adequacy of any measures capable of preventing successful suicide attempts in Arthur Road prison,” Justice Chamberlain’s ruling notes. If Modi wins that appeal hearing in the High Court, he cannot be extradited unless the Indian government is successful in getting permission to appeal at the Supreme Court on a point of law of public importance. On the flip side, if he loses that appeal hearing, Modi can approach the Supreme Court on a point of law of public importance, to be applied to the Supreme Court against the High Court’s decision within 14 days of a High Court verdict. However, this marks a high threshold as appeals to the Supreme Court can only be made if the High Court has certified that the case involves a point of law of general public importance. Finally, after all avenues in the UK courts are exhausted, he could still seek a so-called Rule 39 injunction from the European Court of Human Rights. Therefore, the legal process for his extradition still has a long course ahead. Monday’s High Court verdict followed a remote hearing on July 21, when his counsel Edward Fitzgerald QC had argued that Judge Goozee’s February extradition order was wrong to hold that there was “nothing unusual” about his mental condition. “The judge was wrong to discount the high risk of suicide on the basis that it was not ‘immediate’,” Fitzgerald had argued. CPS barrister Helen Malcolm QC, arguing on behalf of the Indian authorities, had countered to reiterate the assurances provided by the Indian government of adequate mental health care for the accused on being extradited to Barrack 12 at Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai. Meanwhile, all other grounds raised by the defence, including the admissibility of evidence provided by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), were dismissed. “The judge’s approach to the identification of a prima facie case was correct. Given the test he had to apply, and the volume of evidence relied upon against the appellant, he was entitled to conclude that each of the requests disclosed a prima facie case,” the High Court ruling notes. Modi is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the CBI case relating to a large-scale fraud upon the PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the ED case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud. He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or “criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added to the CBI case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-review-permission-granted-to-nirav-modi-to-appeal-against-extradition-1018244.html
10-08-2021||National||BJP shows income of over Rs 3,623 crore in 2019-20||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has shown an income of over Rs 3,623 crore in 2019-20 and it earned Rs 2,555 crore from electoral bonds. According to the BJP's audited annual accounts for 2019-20 put in public domain by the Election Commission, the party's receipts stood at Rs 3623,28,06,093. Its expenditures stood at Rs 1651,02,25,425. The BJP received Rs 2,555 crore (Rs 2555,00,01,000) from electoral bonds in 2019-20. Its total expenditure on election and general propaganda in 2019-20 stood at Rs 1,352.92 crore. Lok Sabha elections were held in 2019. As part of its election expenditure and general propaganda, the BJP spent over Rs 400 crore on advertisements. While the details were submitted to the EC on July 22 this year, the document was out in public domain by the poll panel this week. In 2019-20, the Nationalist Congress Party received Rs 29.25 crore through electoral bonds, Trinamool Congress Rs 100.46 crore, DMK Rs 45 crore, Shiv Sena Rs 41 crore and the Rashtriya Janata Dal Rs 2.5 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-shows-income-of-over-rs-3623-crore-in-2019-20-1018252.html
10-08-2021||National||Rohingya Muslims indulging in illegal activities: Centre||The government has reports that Rohingya Muslim migrants are indulging in illegal activities, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai also said that all foreign nationals who enter into the country without valid travel documents are treated as illegal migrants. "There are reports about some Rohingya migrants indulging in illegal activities," he said in a written reply. Rai said the central government has issued instructions to state governments and union territory administrations advising them to sensitise the law enforcement and intelligence agencies for taking appropriate steps for prompt identification of illegal migrants, their restriction to specified locations as per provisions of law. Instructions have also been issued to capture their biographic and biometric particulars, cancellation of fake Indian documents and for taking legal proceedings including initiation of deportation proceedings under provisions of law. Rai also said that consolidated instructions to tackle the issue of overstay and illegal migration of foreign nationals have been issued on March 30, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rohingya-muslims-indulging-in-illegal-activities-centre-1018253.html
10-08-2021||National||Indian parents now more supportive of children opting for sports career other than cricket: Survey||India's best-ever medal haul at the Olympics – including Neeraj Chopra's historic gold – has instilled fresh energy into the prospects of non-cricket sports in the country and more parents are now willing to support their child opting for a career in sports other than the gentleman's game, according to a survey by LocalCircles. The survey, which was conducted to understand the sentiment after the stellar performance of the Indian contingent, comprised close to 18,000 respondents residing in 309 districts of the country (42 per cent respondents from tier I districts, 29 per cent from tier III and 29 per cent from tier III, IV and rural districts). About 51 per cent of the respondents said they followed India's performance closely in the Tokyo Olympics, while 47 per cent said they did not. “This seems to be a significant increase in comparison to 2016 where a similar LocalCircles survey had indicated that less than 20 per cent Indians were tracking India's performance in Olympics,” LocalCircles said. For a cricket-crazy nation like India, other sports tend to get recognition only during sporting events such as Olympics. Also, there are only a handful of world-class sporting institutions or coaching schools across the country that train athletes, other than cricket. Historically, most middle-class parents have been reluctant to support their children to take up sports outside cricket as a career with the belief that they do not provide regular earnings and financial stability in the long term. However, the likes of Rani Rampal (Indian women's hockey team captain) have inspired thousands of young girls to get interested in sports while the athletes from Haryana including the gold medalist Chopra seem to have energised the entire state. Cash awards and gifts from corporates and the government have also poured in. “All of this is bound to influence the young ones and their parents to take up sports as a career… Tokyo Olympics seems to have instilled new and fresh energy into the prospects of non-cricket sports in India,” LocalCircles said. The majority of 71 per cent of Indian parents surveyed said they would be supportive if their child chose a non-cricket sport as a career. About 19 per cent said they wouldn't support their child taking sports as their career, while 10 per cent did not have an opinion. “Once again this is a drastic rise from the survey result in 2016 where approximately 40 per cent of parents had said that they would support their child taking up a sporting career outside of cricket,” the report said. LocalCircles noted that the Tokyo Olympics has marked a step-change in the level of interest Indians take in non-cricket sports. “The need of the hour is for Central Government and State Governments to find ways to create new infrastructure to promote sports and find ways so the existing infrastructure can be maintained and made available efficiently to those with potential. This along with roping to deploy CSR funds in the development of sports could go a long way in developing many more high-quality Indian sports stars for Paris 2024,” it added. Chopra created history by bringing home the country's first-ever gold medal in javelin throw in Tokyo Olympics 2020. He produced a second-round throw of 87.58 meters in the finals at the Tokyo Games to claim the country's first track-and-field medal and become only the second Indian to win an individual gold in the Olympics. India registered its best-ever medal haul at an Olympics with seven medals, including two silver and four bronze. In this Tokyo 2020, Bajrang Punia (Bronze), Mirabai Chanu (silver), P V Sindhu (bronze), Lovlina Borgohain (bronze), men's hockey team (bronze), and Ravi Kumar Dahiya (silver) clinched medals for India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-parents-now-more-supportive-of-children-opting-for-sports-career-other-than-cricket-survey-1018261.html
10-08-2021||National||Only SCs, STs notified under 1950 orders to be enumerated in Census 2021: Government||The Census 2021 exercise, when carried out, will enumerate only those SCs and STs that were notified through the constitutional orders of 1950, the government informed Parliament on Tuesday. Union minister Nityanand Rai said this in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha on whether the government is planning to undertake a caste census along with the General Decennial Census 2021. "In Census, the castes and tribes which are specifically notified as Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) as per the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order 1950 and the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950, as amended from time to time, are enumerated," he said. Rai said the Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011 was conducted by the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) and the then Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation (HUPA) in rural and urban areas respectively and the SECC 2011 data, excluding the caste data, have been finalised and published by MoRD and HUPA. "The Office of the Registrar General, India had provided logistics and technical support in conducting the SECC-2011. The raw caste data have been provided to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MoSJE) for classification and categorisation of the data. As informed by MoSJE, there is no proposal to release the caste data at this stage," he said. The minister also said the census schedule is designed in consultation with various stakeholders, including the state governments. The intent of the Centre for conducting Census 2021 was notified in the Gazette of India on March 28, 2019 but due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the census activities have been postponed, he informed Parliament. Rai said during the census exercise, data is collected on demographic and various socio-economic parameters such as education, SC and ST, religion, language, marriage, fertility, disability, occupation and migration of individuals. He said the forthcoming census will be the first digital census and there is a provision for self-enumeration. A mobile application for data collection and a census portal for the management and monitoring of various census-related activities have been developed, he added. The individual data are not used for the preparation of any other database, including the National Register of Citizens (NRC), and only the aggregated census data at various administrative levels are released, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-scs-sts-notified-under-1950-orders-to-be-enumerated-in-census-2021-government-1018271.html
10-08-2021||National||Online training in Kannada, Tamil, Telugu for teachers||National Testing Service-India (NTS-I) of Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL), Manasagangotri, Mysuru, is organising a five-day online training-cum-workshop on Testing and Evaluation in September in Kannada, Tamil and Telugu languages for assistant professors, lecturers and teachers (secondary or higher secondary or PUC or junior college), said deputy director of NTS-I P R Dharmesh Fernandez, in a press release. Research scholars of Kannada, Tamil and Telugu language, literature and linguistics from recognised colleges, schools and universities may participate in the workshop. For details, visit: www.ciil-ntsindia.net, or mail to conf.ws.nts@gmail.com or contact: 0821 2345112.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-training-in-kannada-tamil-telugu-for-teachers-1018283.html
10-08-2021||National||RSS 'strong supporter' of reservation; should continue as long as inequality exists in society: Hosabale||Amid the spotlight on OBC and Dalit issues ahead of UP polls and growing clamour of some parties for caste census, RSS on Tuesday voiced its strong backing for reservation saying this "tool of affirmative action" should continue as long as a particular section of the society experiences inequality. At an event organised by the India Foundation for the launch of a book "Makers Of Modern Dalit History", RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale said Sangh is a strong supporters of reservation, a pitch RSS has made from time to time whenever the Opposition parties in past attacked RSS and BJP over its committment to reservation issue. "History of India is not different from History from Dalits. Without their history, India's history is incomplete," Hosabale said, a comment that came at a time when the Congress has mounted an offensive on the BJP highlighting incidents of Dalit atrocities in Delhi (where the police are under Centre's Home Ministry headed by Amit Shah) and Uttar Pradesh ruled BJP's Yogi Adityanath. Congress SC department  is organising a "Halla Bol” protest on  August 12 in the national capital. "When we discuss the various aspects of SC and ST sections of society, invariably certain aspects come to fore such as reservation. My organisation and I are strong supporters of reservations for decades. When there were anti-reservation protests in many campuses, we passed a resolution and organised a seminar in Patna in support of reservation," Hosabale said. He also said, "social harmony and social justice are not political strategies for us and both of these are articles of faith for us...Reservation is a historical necessity for India. It should continue as long as there is inequality being experienced by a particular section of society." This is not the first time that RSS has reiterated its commitment to reservation. In August 2019 when RSS chief Mohan Bhagwats' remarks calling for a conversation on reservation kicked up a political storm, RSS Publicity Head Arun Kumar had issued a statement saying that RSS has time and again made it clear that it "full supports" reservation for SC/ST/OBC as well as those getting quota on economic grounds. The controversy had kicked up then ahead of polls in three BJP-ruled states Maharashtra, Haryana and Jharkhand. Way back in 2015 during Bihar polls when Nitish Kumar was leading an Opposition alliance against the BJP,  Bhagwat's remarks calling for a "review" of reservation had become a major poll issue and the RJD-Congress-JDU alliance had then tried to paint the BJP as anti-reservation. RSS was quick to assert its commitment to the quota issue. BJP and RSS have repeatedly attempted to douse such controversies with unequivocal assertions of their support to the quota issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, himself assuring that nobody can do away with reservation saying "till Modi is here, nobody can touch the reservations, given to us by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-strong-supporter-of-reservation-should-continue-as-long-as-inequality-exists-in-society-hosabale-1018290.html
10-08-2021||National||IAF focused on boosting capabilities after Balakot strikes, Galwan Valley clashes: IAF chief||India's air power capabilities in terms of hitting targets with precision, defending assets and use of new technologies have gone up significantly after the Balakot air strikes and rapid developments in eastern Ladakh following the Galwan Valley clashes, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria said on Tuesday. In an address at a leading think-tank, the IAF Chief said India now has an "edge" in its ability on both the Western and Northern fronts to "react fast, respond fast and hit fast", noting that induction of Rafale jets has helped in bringing the "next level" of operational transformation. About the drone strike on the Jammu airbase, he said the IAF is taking a series of initiatives including procuring next-generation jammers to deal with such challenges and added that the attack would not have been possible if it was attempted two-three months later. Referring to the 11-day conflict between Israel and Hamas in May, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said that Israel's use of air power in carrying out operations with surgical precision to achieve its objectives in Gaza against the militant group while ensuring minimum collateral damage was a reflection of the ability of the air assets. Explaining the role of air power, the IAF Chief also talked about the general perception to look at only its offensive role and the general tendency to say "no-no" for its use in certain situations, saying the paradigms and scenarios have shifted and there is a need to keep this in mind. "The ability of air power which was largely seen as an offensive, as a no-no in some situations particularly in the subcontinent...the paradigms have shifted, the scenarios have shifted and we need to keep this in mind as we go ahead," he said at the United Service Institution of India (USI). At a seminar last month, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, while referring to the proposed integrated theatre commands, described the Air Force as a "support arm" but Air Chief Marshal Mr. Bhadauria disagreed with him, saying airpower has a huge role to play. About the IAF's operational readiness, he said the focus was to bring in the next level of operational transformation including in the cyber-security domain after the Galwan Valley clashes and his force has been largely successful in its endeavour. Air Chief Marshal Mr. Bhadauria said the "edge" that the IAF has today came from a combination of its weapons, training status, platforms network environment and its ability to "react fast, respond fast and hit fast. "That is the edge we have today in both scenarios, be it on the western front or be it on the northern front," he said. He said the "transformation" was triggered by the developments like Balakot strikes and situation in eastern Ladakh and it now has now taken the IAF to the "next level. The IAF Chief said the induction of the Rafale aircraft has helped in lifting the overall offensive capability of the Air Force. "It is a level or a level-and-a-half above where we were." He said the focus after the Galwan Valley clashes was to bolster the cyber security system as it was identified as an area of concern mainly because of some of the "actions", he said in an apparent reference to the ability of the adversary to the IAF's networks. He said the IAF's operational offensive capability has gone up in terms of having long-distance air-to-ground weapons, in carrying out precision strikes and possessing network-centric environment. Twenty Indian Army personnel laid down their lives in clashes with Chinese troops on June 15 last year that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades. In February, China officially acknowledged that five Chinese military officers and soldiers were killed in the clashes though it is widely believed that the death toll was higher. The Chief of Air Staff also mentioned Balakot air strikes as an important event while talking about the transformation of the IAF in the last few years, and said it sent out a clear message about India's approach in dealing with security challenges. Indian fighter jets bombed Jaish-e-Mohammed's biggest training camp near Balakot deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019, 12 days after the terror outfit claimed responsibility for a suicide attack on a CRPF convoy in Kashmir, killing 40 soldiers. Pakistan retaliated by attempting to target Indian military installations the next day. However, the IAF thwarted their plans. Air Chief Marshal Mr. Bhadauria also spoke about the low cost activities of commercial drones and its use for supply of arms, drugs, money as well as use of the armed version of the unmanned aerial vehicles to launch an attack on the Jammu airbase. He referred to China's emergence at the world stage, its diplomacy, economic clout and military belligerence in Indo-Pacific.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-focused-on-boosting-capabilities-after-balakot-strikes-galwan-valley-clashes-iaf-chief-1018294.html
10-08-2021||National||Can only appeal, can't transgress into lawmaking, says SC on barring criminals from entering politics||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said political parties refuse to wake up from deep slumber and take steps to end criminalisation in politics, though the menace is growing day by day. "The nation continues to wait and is losing patience. Cleansing the polluted stream of politics is obviously not one of the immediate pressing concerns of the legislative branch of government," a bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai said. In a judgment holding major political parties guilty of flouting its directions on disclosing criminal records of the candidates during Bihar polls, the bench said no one can deny that the menace of criminalisation in the Indian political system is growing day by day. However, the only question is, whether this court can do so by issuing directions that do not have a foundation in the statutory provisions, the bench asked. "We desire that something urgently requires to be done in the matter, our hands are tied and we cannot transgress into the area reserved for the legislative arm of the state," the bench pointed out. The bench further said the top court, time and again, has appealed to the lawmakers of the country to rise to the occasion and take steps for bringing out necessary amendments to prohibit the involvement of persons with criminal antecedents in the polity. "All these appeals have fallen on the deaf ears. The political parties refuse to wake up from deep slumber," the bench said. The court pointed out its direction issued on February 13, 2020, to political parties to disclose reasons for selecting candidates with criminal antecedents was only to enable a voter to have all the necessary information so that he can exercise his right to franchise effectively. "The directions in no way impinge upon the right of a political party to choose a candidate of its own choice," the court explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-only-appeal-cant-transgress-into-lawmaking-says-sc-on-barring-criminals-from-entering-politics-1018318.html
10-08-2021||National||'After Centre sought data, only one state has so far reported suspected death due to oxygen shortage'||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said no States, barring just one, reported any Covid-19 deaths due to oxygen shortage contradicting the ground realities three months ago when hospitals were in dire need of oxygen and patients died due to non availability of the life saving gas. "When the States were asked, only one State reported suspected Covid-19 deaths due to oxygen shortage. Other States did not report any such deaths,” Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary in the ministry said. The official reiterated what the ministry had informed the Parliament last month, triggering sharp criticism from political parties and health experts. Nearly 20 days after the Parliament reply, the ministry stuck to its position seemingly in the absence of information from the States. Sources said 13 States and Union Territories - Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Nagaland, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Sikkim, Tripura, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Punjab - had responded to the Centre's query. Only Punjab had reported four "suspected" deaths due to oxygen shortage. However, the ground realities of April and May, when the ferocious second wave of the Covid-19 epidemic was surging through the nation, were different. Every big city and a large number of hospitals, including the big ones, reported deaths of Covid-19 patients due to oxygen deficiency, compelling the Supreme Court to take note and force the government to improve the oxygen supply. On the Covid-19 situation, Agarwal said 37 districts have been reporting an increasing trend in daily new cases since the last two weeks. Five of such districts are in Karnataka - Kodagu, Uttara Kannada, Chamarajanagara, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. Kerala has 11 such districts, followed by Tamil Nadu (7) and Himachal Pradesh (6). Also worryingly, India’s Covid reproduction number, which signals an epidemic’s ability to spread, crossed the threshold value of one. According to an official estimate, it stays above one in eight states including the large and populous Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The highest R-value of 1.3 has been recorded in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab. “The second dose of the vaccine is a must for full protection. Those having comorbidities should get the two doses fast,” said V K Paul, NITI Ayog member and the government’s principal advisor on Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-centre-sought-data-only-one-state-has-so-far-reported-suspected-death-due-to-oxygen-shortage-1018320.html
10-08-2021||National||Parliamentary panel flags 'abysmally low' conviction rate in crimes against women and children||A parliamentary panel has expressed dismay over the “abysmally low” conviction rate in crimes against women and children in the country and suggested that the government work out a mechanism for gathering information on reasons for the delay in the investigation in criminal cases on an annual basis. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs, headed by Congress leader Anand Sharma, also expressed disappointment over the continuous diversion of the Nirbhaya Fund towards other schemes and projects. “The Committee is constrained to note the abysmally low conviction rate in crimes against women and children which also shows a serious mismatch between the measures adopted and their implementation,” the report, submitted to Rajya Sabha, said. The committee noted that an analytical tool - "Online Investigation Tracking System for Sexual Offences (ITSSO)" -  has been provided to law enforcement agencies to monitor and track police investigations within two months in sexual offenses as per the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2018. The committee, therefore, recommended that the MHA should take up the matter with all the states and UTs for stringent implementation of the analytical tool ITSSO.  Further, the panel said, the MHA should also work out a mechanism for gathering information on reasons for the delay in the investigation in criminal cases on an annual basis, preferably in the analytical tool ITSSO itself. Based on information so gathered, the MHA can analyse and issue necessary SOPs or advisories to states or UTs for taking necessary corrective steps, it said. The committee noted with disappointment that women presently constitute only 10.30 percent of the police force and said it has failed to understand the delay on the part of states and UTs to give adequate representation to women in police forces. “The committee notes that the MHA has regularly advised the states to ensure that 33 percent of police forces are women and has made it mandatory in UTs. But, no state or UT police in the country has representation even close to 33 percent,” the report said. The committee, therefore, recommended that the MHA may advise the states and UTs to conduct special recruitment drives to induct women at all levels in a time-bound manner. The ministry may also coordinate with the states and UTs to remove all administrative bottlenecks for the same, it said. The committee noted with dismay that Nirbhaya Fund is continuously diverted towards other schemes or projects. It took a very serious note of this and strongly recommended that the ministry desist from sanctioning funds for such schemes from Nirbhaya Fund and adhere to the original purpose of Nirbhaya Fund. The Nirbhaya fund was set up in 2013 by the UPA government to improve the safety and security of women in the aftermath of the brutal gang rape of a 23-year-old paramedic student, who came to be known as Nirbhaya, in December 2012 in a moving bus in Delhi. The Committee observed that crimes against women and children are on the rise and are happening all across the country.  At times, the brutality that follows these crimes shocks the human consciousness and these images flash out of India, across the world, which brings a very bad name to the country, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-flags-abysmally-low-conviction-rate-in-crimes-against-women-and-children-1018324.html
10-08-2021||National||Opposition MPs may face suspension over ruckus in Rajya Sabha||Centre and the Opposition sparred over the ruckus in Rajya Sabha during the discussion on farmers' issue even as a couple of protesting MPs stared at the possibility of being suspended from the House on charges of unruly behaviour. AAP's Sanjay Singh had climbed the reporters' table and waved black flags while Congress' Pratap Singh Bajwa threw a file at the Chair after the House was adjourned. Another Congress MP Ripun Bora also stood on the table while others like V Sivadasan (CPI-M), Binoy Viswam (CPI), Rajamani Patel (Congress) and Mausam Noor and Arpita Ghosh (both Trinamool Congress) were seen sitting on the table. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge defended the Opposition protest saying that what they needed was a discussion on repeal of farm laws and farmers protest and not the general one -- agriculture problems and solutions -- listed by the government. Asked about the ruckus, he said some MPs might have got emotional but it was not meant to hurt anybody. "The government wants to send a message that the Opposition is disrupting Parliament and not allowing a discussion. But look at the way they designed the discussion and we could not accept that," he said. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi "strongly condemned" the ruckus and said the Opposition has "crossed all limits of unparliamentary behaviour today and did not even spare the Chair". While Singh called the government's claim "a joke", Bajwa said it was an "attempt to deceive" the nation. Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh said, "today's pandemonium in the Rajya Sabha is a direct consequence of the mischievous strategy of the Modi govt to divide the Opposition and its refusal to discuss the repeal of the 3 farm laws and the ongoing agitation of farmers." While Bajwa described the move as an "attempt to deceive the nation", senior RJD MP Manoj K Jha said the Opposition did not want a "poetic discussion" on the agriculture sector. "What we demanded was a discussion on the repeal of farm laws. This government is dishonest," Jha said. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien said the government tried to be "too clever" by tweaking the subject. "Nobody wants to discuss in general. What we demanded was a discussion on a specific point. All opposition parties have called out the government bluff. The government is running away from Pegasus. It is running away from repealing farm laws," he said. CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem said "two important expressions were conspicuously" absent from the subject of the short duration discussion, which were "repeal of the laws" and "farmers' protest"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-mps-may-face-suspension-over-ruckus-in-rajya-sabha-1018325.html
10-08-2021||National||India ranks 122nd on new Global Youth Development Index||India is ranked 122nd on a new Global Youth Development Index measuring the condition of young people across 181 countries, released by the Commonwealth Secretariat in London on Tuesday. The triennial rankings of youth development found India among the top five risers on the index between 2010 and 2018, alongside Afghanistan and Russia, advancing their score on average by 15.74 per cent across areas such as education and employment. "The top five risers from 2010 to 2018 were Afghanistan, India, Russia, Ethiopia and Burkina Faso,” says the ‘2020 Global Youth Development Index’. Singapore ranked topmost followed by Slovenia, Norway, Malta and Denmark. Chad, the Central African Republic, South Sudan, Afghanistan and Niger came last respectively. "Young people are indispensable to delivering a future that is more just, inclusive, sustainable and resilient. By measuring their contributions and needs with hard data, our advocacy for their development becomes more powerful, and we are then able incrementally to increase the positive impact and benefits youth are able to add towards building a better future for us all,” said Commonwealth Secretary-General Baroness Patricia Scotland. "Our Youth Development Index is a vital tool which has already significantly enhanced our capacity to assess the extent to which youth are engaged to contribute beneficially in their societies, and empowered by enabling policies and tools," she said. The index ranks countries between 0.00 (lowest) and 1.00 (highest) according to the developments in youth education, employment, health, equality and inclusion, peace and security, and political and civic participation. It looks at 27 indicators including literacy and voting to showcase the state of the world’s 1.8 billion people between the age of 15 and 29. "While the data used to compile the index was gathered before the Covid-19 pandemic, the findings indicate where progress was being achieved and where it was not, and that urgent action is now needed so that pre-pandemic gains are not lost but sustained and developed further, more broadly and more inclusively,” added Baroness Scotland. The 2020 Global Youth Development Index reveals that the conditions of young people have improved around the world by 3.1 per cent between 2010 and 2018. Overall, the index shows advances in youth’s participation in peace processes and their education, employment, inclusion and health care since 2010. Health made the largest gains of 4.39 per cent driven by a 1.6 per cent decline in global youth mortality rates and a 2 per cent drop in HIV, self-harm, alcohol abuse and tobacco use. Sub-Saharan Africa made the greatest strides in improving the health of young people. Levels of underemployed youth and those not in school, training or work remained constant. Advances in equality and inclusion are led by improved gender parity in literacy as well as fewer child marriage cases and pregnancies in girls under 20. Yet, the index found no progress occurred in women’s safety. The global education score increased by 3 per cent, with South Asia making the largest improvement of 16 per cent. Peace and security improved by 3.41 per cent, resulting from fewer young people dying from direct violence. Somalia recorded the largest gains in the peace and security of young people, followed by Colombia, Sri Lanka, Eritrea and Russia. The index, which draws on multiple data sources, was to be released at the now-postponed Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) in 2020. However, with CHOGM being postponed again until 2022, it was decided to release the index this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ranks-122nd-on-new-global-youth-development-index-1018328.html
10-08-2021||National||AIIMS Rishikesh director says R-naught count has crossed one in eight states, urges caution||The R-naught count in Uttarakhand and seven other states have crossed one, a senior doctor said on Tuesday, citing the recent findings of the University of Michigan. Director of AIIMS, Rishikesh, Ravi Kant urged people to remain cautious and not lower their guard even after getting both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. "R-naught indicates virus prevalence and the speed at which it is spreading. It also shows how many people one Covid-19 patient can infect," he said. "The R-naught count should not be more than one. The bigger the number, the faster the rate of spread of the disease among the population," he added. Citing the recent findings of the University of Michigan, Kant said the R-naught count in eight Indian states has crossed 1. Mizoram tops the table with an R-naught count of 1.56, followed by 1.27 in Meghalaya, 1.26 in Sikkim, 1.17 in Uttarakhand, 1.13 in Himachal Pradesh, 1.08 in Manipur, 1.01 in Kerala and 1.02 in Delhi, he said. "People in Uttarakhand need to be more careful as tourists, devotees, yoga and adventure sports lovers from all over the country visit the state and often become unmindful of the Covid guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in their excitement," Kant said. He said more and more people should get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19 and not lower their guard even after getting both doses of the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-rishikesh-director-says-r-naught-count-has-crossed-one-in-eight-states-urges-caution-1018336.html
10-08-2021||National||From the Newsroom: PM Modi launches the second phase of the Ujjwala cooking gas scheme||Supreme Court fines all major political parties after holding them guilty of contempt of its 2020 order on disclosing criminal antecedents of candidates and the reasons for selecting them during the Bihar Assembly polls; Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai gives a slew of directions to the police including a tight vigil in the districts bordering with neighbouring states where the Covid-19 cases are on the rise and PM Modi launches the second phase of the Ujjwala cooking gas scheme.  In a development to check the criminalisation of politics, the Supreme Court on Tuesday fined all major political parties after holding them guilty of contempt of its 2020 order on disclosing criminal antecedents of candidates and the reasons for selecting them during the Bihar Assembly polls A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai stressed on the need for amendments in law to check criminals entering into polity, saying "a major surgery" was required for "weeding out the malignancy of criminalisation in politics". Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday gave a slew of directions to the police including a tight vigil in the districts bordering with neighbouring states where the Covid-19 cases are on rise, zero tolerance towards crime and crackdown on drug cases. Hailing the police force in the state for their exemplary work during a review meeting at the Vidhana Soudha, Bommai directed the officials to create a peaceful environment in the state. The Chief Minister laid emphasis on containing Covid-19 to avoid a third wave. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it was unfortunate that people had to wait decades for basics like hospitals, roads and electricity, indirectly targeting the previous governments as he launched the second phase of the Ujjwala cooking gas scheme. "As we will be celebrating 75th year of Independence this year and look at the progress in the past seven-and-a-half decades, we feel that some situation and conditions should have changed decades ago," the prime minister said in his address. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-pm-modi-launches-the-second-phase-of-the-ujjwala-cooking-gas-scheme-1018339.html
10-08-2021||National||Delta Plus Covid-19 variant detected in 86 samples so far, has not led to exponential surge: Government||The Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV2 has been detected in 86 samples in the country so far and it has not led to any exponential surge in cases, the government said on Tuesday. "We found the Delta Plus variant in 86 (genome) samples (sequenced)," Sujit Singh, head of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), said at the health ministry's press briefing. He said four types of variants are categorised as Delta Plus — AY1 (B.1.617.2.1), AY2, AY3 and one more sub-lineage — in which one more gene has been detected and its only sample was found in Maharashtra. He said the highest number of 34 samples were detected in Maharashtra, followed by Madhya Pradesh (11) and Tamil Nadu (10). "The detection of 86 samples since March from different places, with no surge (of cases recorded) in any district (due to it), or restricting it to any specific state indicates that this (Delta Plus variant) does not have the capacity to give rise to any exponential surge. We have not found any (such) evidence. "This variant, through its transmission, has not led to any major exponential surge," Singh said. "There is no evidence of adverse effects of over and above the Delta variant," V K Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog, said. Singh said 80-90 per cent of the samples sequenced in all the INSACOG laboratories were of the Delta variant. INSACOG is a consortium of laboratories of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the Department of Science and Technology (DST), the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT). Paul said the Delta variant is "ruling the nation and the world" and many countries have been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases due to it. The Delta variant was the prime driver behind the deadly second wave of coronavirus that struck the country between March and May. It overwhelmed the health infrastructure, claimed thousands of lives and infected lakhs of people. Citing a World Health Organization (WHO) report, Paul said the transmissibility and attack rate of the Delta variant are higher than the other variants of the virus. If the transmission rate of the original SARS-CoV2 virus is 100, that of the Alpha variant, which originated in the UK, was 60 per cent higher than the original one. Delta's attack rate is 60 per cent higher than that of Alpha, Paul explained. The viral load of the Delta variant is more and it increases the chances of hospitalisation, he said. Paul, however, added that vaccines help prevent severe disease and mortality against this variant. Singh said the INSACOG network has sequenced 58,240 samples. The B.1.617.3 and Kappa variants are under investigation, he added. Singh said for any new variant, a rapid response strategy is devised and directions are issued to the states. When a new mutant is detected by a laboratory, its tracking and contact tracing should be done at a rapid pace, he added. Singh said the states have been requested to form rapid response teams at the medical college level. Many states have started implementing it, he added. The teams will contact a patient. The teams will have a microbiologist, a public health expert and a clinician who will check the severity of the disease. The team will take additional samples and send those for sequencing and also determine the severity of the disease and the kind of public health impact the new mutant is giving rise to.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delta-plus-covid-19-variant-detected-in-86-samples-so-far-has-not-led-to-exponential-surge-government-1018352.html
10-08-2021||National||Denied introduction in Parliament, Modi ministers to fan out in 195 Lok Sabha seats||Not allowed to be introduced in Parliament by an unruly opposition, newly appointed ministers in the Modi government will undertake a three-day 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' to reach out to the people directly. The 39 new ministers have been asked to visit at least three Lok Sabha seats and four districts before reaching their respective constituencies and seek blessings of the people – a move that would help BJP cover 195 parliamentary seats. Addressing the media, BJP general secretary and convenor of the 'Jan Ashirvad Yatra' Tarun Chugh said, all the 39 newly inducted ministers seek people’s blessings in three-day across 19 states. “Together all 39 ministers will cover 19,567 kilometres, 195 Lok Sabha constituencies and 265 districts of the country. The newly-appointed 39 ministers will reach their Lok Sabha constituencies after travelling to three Lok Sabha and four districts of their home state, before reaching their own constituency,” Chugh said. The Ministers of State (MoS) will take out yatra from August 16 to 18, while the cabinet ministers will participate in the exercise from August 19-21. Chugh said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given representation to all the regions and sections of society and slammed the opposition for not allowing him to introduce the ministers to Parliament. “Now, these ministers will take blessings from people during the yatra and explain to people about the development and welfare measures taken by the Modi government since May 26, 2014,” he said. Chugh said the Yatra has been planned by BJP President J P Nadda along with a team of office bearers including the party’s national vice president M Chuba, Chugh, and national secretaries Arvind Menon, Vinod Sonkar, Sunil Deodhar, Satya Kumar and Pankaja Munde. Chief Ministers, deputy chief ministers of party ruled states, MPs, MLAs, state unit presidents, office bearers, elected representatives of local bodies will also participate in the Yatra..||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/denied-introduction-in-parliament-modi-ministers-to-fan-out-in-195-lok-sabha-seats-1018379.html
10-08-2021||National||DMRC to run feeder e-buses on pilot basis from Aug 12; vehicles won't have conductors||In a first for the DMRC, feeder electric buses will start playing on a trial basis in the city from August 12 to boost connectivity with the Delhi Metro network, officials said on Tuesday. In a statement, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said it will introduce 100 feeder e-buses by the end of October in a phased manner to provide an enhanced last-mile commuting experience from 14 metro stations covering 10 routes to the public. "Feeder electric buses are being introduced for the first time in Delhi on a trial basis by the Delhi Metro from this Thursday, under which 25 low-floor e-buses (24-seater buses) will be plying on two routes," the DMRC said in a statement. Only Delhi Metro passengers having a Delhi Metro smart card or metro DTC smart card will be allowed to avail services of these e-buses, officials said. Commuters can use smart cards to pay for cashless travel since these buses will operate in a fully contactless way and will not have a conductor. Entry and exit would be through turnstiles on the bus using the metro smart card, officials said. Metro smart cards are already being used in DTC buses. For buses starting from metro stations, entry of the passengers will be permitted only from the stations and the bus will halt only at the designated stops, officials said. No entry of passengers will be permitted at other stoppages on the route. For buses going to metro stations, entry will be allowed at all stoppages, but passengers will be allowed to deboard only at metro stations. This is to ensure that only genuine metro passengers use this service. Passengers will be allowed to enter from the front gate and exit from the rear gate of the bus, the statement said. One route (MC-721) will be from Shastri Park Metro station to Gokulpuri Metro station via Khajuri Chowk, spanning 10.3 km. The other (ML-05) spanning 7.7 km will be from Shastri park metro station to Mother Dairy, the DMRC said. The fare structure will be Rs 10 for zero to four km, Rs 15 for four to eight km; Rs 20 for eight to 12 km and Rs 25 for journeys beyond 12 km. These e-buses are specially designed and equipped with an intelligent transport system with CCTVs and GPS facilities. These also have anti-skid, anti-brake locking systems and will not move till all doors are closed. The doors will also not close on detection of any obstruction officials said. For the differently-abled and elderly passengers, these buses are fitted with ramps and anchorage for a wheelchair. For any emergency, these buses are also equipped with a panic button and a stop request button, the DMRC said. For the maintenance and stabling of these buses, dedicated depots have been also set up at Shastri Park and Majlis Park, along with an operational control centre to monitor the vehicles, officials said. There are 2.5 MW electric connection facilities to charge the e-buses. For regular cleaning, automatic wash plants have also been provided at both the e-bus depots, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmrc-to-run-feeder-e-buses-on-pilot-basis-from-aug-12-vehicles-wont-have-conductors-1018398.html
10-08-2021||National||India, Saudi Arabia set to carry out first-ever naval exercise||India and Saudi Arabia are all set to conduct their first-ever naval exercise, in reflection of their growing defence and military cooperation, officials said on Tuesday. Indian Navy's guided-missile destroyer INS Kochi reached Saudi Arabia on Monday for the "Al-Mohed Al-Hindi 2021" exercise. The warship went to Saudi Arabia after carrying out a naval exercise with the UAE Navy off the coast of Abu Dhabi on Saturday, they said. The harbour phase of the "Al-Mohed Al-Hindi 2021" exercise began on Monday while the sea-based drills are taking place from Wednesday On its arrival at the Jubail port, the ship was given a warm welcome by officials of the Royal Saudi naval forces. The exercise is taking place amid rising tension in the Gulf region after a drone attack on a merchant tanker off Oman killed a British national and a Romanian citizen over a week back. The UK and the US pointed fingers at Iran for the attack on MV Mercer Street, operated by an Israeli-owned firm. Tehran has already rejected the charges. In December last year, Army Chief Gen MM Naravane visited the UAE and Saudi Arabia in a first-ever visit by a head of the Indian Army to the two important Gulf countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-saudi-arabia-set-to-carry-out-first-ever-naval-exercise-1018399.html
10-08-2021||National||Ruckus in RS direct consequence of govt's mischievous strategy of dividing Oppn: Cong||The Congress on Tuesday said the pandemonium in the Rajya Sabha is a direct consequence of the "mischievous" strategy of the government to divide the Opposition by not allowing a discussion on a repeal of three farm laws. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said the Opposition members wanted a discussion on a repeal of the three laws and the ongoing farmers' agitation, but the government listed a discussion on the problems facing the farm sector instead. "Tuesday's pandemonium in the Rajya Sabha is a direct consequence of the mischievous strategy of the government to divide the Opposition and its refusal to discuss the repeal of the three farm laws and the ongoing agitation of farmers," he said. The former Union minister said a bill to privatise the General Insurance Corporation (GIC) will be taken up in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. "All opposition parties, including those friendly to the (ruing) BJP, want it referred to a select committee. But the government is adamantly refusing," he added. The Rajya Sabha witnessed uproarious scenes on Tuesday after Opposition members protested the taking up of a discussion on farmers' problems. Some Opposition members climbed atop the table occupied by Rajya Sabha officials in the Well, with one of them throwing the official file at the chair soon after the House was adjourned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ruckus-in-rs-direct-consequence-of-govts-mischievous-strategy-of-dividing-oppn-cong-1018400.html
10-08-2021||National||Educating women is my preferred way to control population: Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday dug in his heels on the issue of population control, making it clear that he preferred to control demographic explosion by educating and empowering women. The assertion of Kumar, who is the de facto leader of the JD(U), an NDA ally, assumes significance in the wake of a clamour for a law by the BJP which is pushing for a population control policy in some of the states ruled by it like Uttar Pradesh and Assam. “Our experience in Bihar speaks for itself. There has been a notable rise in the proportion of women who complete high school or pursue higher studies. There has been a corresponding decline in fertility rate,” he told reporters. He was replying to queries from journalists after addressing a function where he inaugurated 989 health projects with a total value of Rs 2705.35 crore. “A woman who is educated feels empowered to take decisions. We had observed long ago that in families where the wife has studied beyond high school, the fertility rate was healthier. We have therefore given a fillip to educating the girl child. This is going to be our way forward. I do not wish to be drawn into what other states are doing,” replied Kumar. The chief minister’s stand comes less than a month after a demand by some BJP legislators in the assembly that recommendations of the Karunakaran Committee, which favoured debarring those with more than two children from contesting municipal and panchayat polls, be implemented in Bihar. Earlier, a categorical demand from state BJP chief Sanjay Jaiswal that Bihar too should have a population control law, shortly after the chief minister had come out with his different take on the issue, had exposed the ideological differences between the BJP and the JD(U). Although Kumar, whose party was earlier known as the Samata Party, has been a BJP ally for close to three decades, he has maintained an ideologically distinct position on the saffron party’s pet issues like Ayodhya, Article 370 and Uniform Civil Code. Recently, his stance on population law, caste census and Pegasus controversy was viewed with some consternation in the BJP camp. The JD(U) maintains that this has nothing to do with the close ties it shares with the BJP. Kumar’s detractors, however, claim otherwise. LJP leader Chirag Paswan, who has of late centred his politics around attacks on the Bihar CM, recently claimed that Kumar was singing a tune different from the BJP since he had plans to push the state towards a mid-term poll. The LJP leader, who has been receiving some sympathy from the opposition camp despite his being non-committal on severing ties with the BJP, has sought to rake up the old rivalry between Kumar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the JD(U) leader’s former Gujarat counterpart. He has claimed that by rubbishing demands for a population law, forcefully calling for caste census and advocating an inquiry into allegations of phone-tapping, Kumar has been demonstrating his “Prime Ministerial ambitions”. However, after Tuesday's function, the Bihar chief minister ducked queries about the meeting in Delhi where opposition leaders are understood to have chalked out a strategy to take on the BJP in 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “I have nothing to do with it,” was the curt reply of the JD(U) leader, who was once seen as a “secular alternative” to Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/educating-women-is-my-preferred-way-to-control-population-nitish-1018403.html
10-08-2021||National||Rousing welcome for Odisha’s Olympian hockey players||After showing their outstanding performances in the Tokyo Olympics, Odisha players who were members of the men's and women's national hockey teams on Tuesday returned home to a rousing reception. Hockey players from Odisha -- Deep Grace Ekka and Namita Toppo (both women’s team), Birendra Lakra and Amit Rohidas (men’s team) -- were received at the Biju Patnaik Intrnational Airport here by Sports & Youth Services Minister Tusharkanti Behera and officials, including Sports Secretary R Vineel Krishna and Odisha Hockey Promotion Council chairman Dilip Tirkey. The state has been abuzz with excitement ever since their names were announced in the men's and women's teams. Once the teams scripted history, qualifying for the semifinals, it became a moment of glory for Odisha too as the state has partnered with Hockey India to sponsor the men's and women's national teams for a period of five years starting 2018. "A new era in hockey has started and Odisha is proud that players from the state are forever making their mark in the international platform and this time they have brought glory not only for their state but for the entire nation," said Behera. "We are extremely proud for each one of them. Our Olympians have inspired a generation of young hockey players and hockey will surely scale greater heights from here on." Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik will be felicitating the four hockey players for their Olympic achievements, sources said. Welcoming the players, Tirkey, said, "It is after 41 years that India has won a medal in hockey. The Indian women’s team has also performed exceedingly well against some of the top teams in the world." "It is a matter of great pride for Odisha Hockey that four of our own played a significant role in making this miracle happen for India.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rousing-welcome-for-odisha-s-olympian-hockey-players-1018404.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||Inside Sibal's private dinner party: A look at what was on the table||Opposition leaders met on Monday to reaffirm their commitment to strengthen their unity and defeat the BJP in the 2022 UP Assembly polls and the 2024 general elections. According to PTI sources, the leaders came together at a dinner hosted by senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal where almost all the members of the 'Group of 23' who had written to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi seeking an organisational overhaul were also present. Sources told the agency the meeting had nothing to do with politics as it was a gathering a day after Sibal turned 73, while sources close to the leaders said that this is a part of the Opposition regrouping ahead of the crucial Assembly polls next year. The Congress leaders attending the dinner rejected any speculation that it was related to the party's internal functioning but said they want strong Opposition unity ahead of the 2024 elections. "Such meetings should be organised more frequently to ensure that the unity is strengthened further. We have to defeat the BJP in Uttar Pradesh first in 2022 and then in general elections of 2024," said an Opposition leader, who was present during the meet. Among the political heavyweights present were RJD's Lalu Prasad Yadav, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Akhilesh Yadav and Ram Gopal Yadav of Samajwadi Party, CPI-M's Sitaram Yechury, CPI's D Raja, Omar Abdullah of National Conference and Congress leader P Chidambaram. Sanjay Raut of Shiv Sena, Sanjay Singh of AAP, TMC leaders Kalyan Banerjee and Derek O'Brien, BJD leaders Pinaki Mishra and Amar Patnaik, DMK's Tiruchi Siva and TK Elangovan, RLD's Jayant Chaudhary and leaders of TRS and TDS also attended the dinner meet. The 'Group of 23' leaders who participated included Ghulam Nabi Azad, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik, Prithviraj Chavan, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, besides Sibal who hosted the post-birthday dinner for them. Incidentally, this was the first such engagement of Congress leaders of the 'Group of 23' with top Opposition leaders. The sources said after the initial remarks by Sibal, all leaders said they had to get together to defeat the BJP first in UP in 2022 and then in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. "We must fight the BJP together and remain united," a leader was quoted as saying at the meeting. Another leader alleged that the BJP "has destroyed democracy and the democratic institutions that keep a check on the government". "We must defeat BJP and restore democracy in the country," he said. They also claimed the BJP has done "nothing" for the oppressed and poor sections of society, especially during the pandemic and after, and the ruling party needed to be "exposed", according to the sources. The Opposition leaders, the sources said, also lauded the efforts of the Group of 23 leaders in strengthening the Congress. The sources said Sibal, who is legal luminary, succeeded in bringing so many Opposition leaders together due to his personal rapport with them. The Opposition parties have been ratcheting up pressure on the government on a slew of issues like the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws and the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Check out latest videos from DH:  (With PTI/IANS inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/inside-sibals-private-dinner-party-a-look-at-what-was-on-the-table-1018144.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till 12 amid Opposition uproar over Pegasus row||Rajya Sabaha proceedings were adjourned till 12 noon on Tuesday as opposition parties raised slogans and insisted on a debate on the Pegasus spyware allegedly being used to snoop on opposition leaders, government critics and journalists. Soon after the listed papers and reports were laid on the table of the House, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he had received notices (under Rule 267) from Sukhendu Sekhar Ray (TMC), Mallikarjun Kharge (Congress), Elamaram Kareem (CPM) and Binoy Viswam (CPI) for the suspension of the business to discuss the Pegasus spyware issue. "...as the matter has already been taken up and members were called to ask for supplementaries, clarification, it did not happen. So, I did not allow it," Naidu said, leading to a protest by some opposition members. The chairman pointed out that Tuesday was the 16th sitting of the House during the monsoon session, but it has functioned at the rate of only one hour per day. He said a discussion on the farmers' issues is scheduled even as several opposition members entered the Well of the House and raised slogans demanding the taking up of the Pegasus matter. Some of them were also carrying placards. "You are preventing discussion on the farmers' issue which is a larger issue and is scheduled for discussion today in the House," Naidu said, adding if the Rajya Sabha is not allowed to function, a message will go out that the House was not concerned about the plight of the farmers. "...so the House must be allowed to function," he said. However, opposition members did not yield. At this point, the chairman adjourned the proceedings till 12 noon. A short duration discussion on the agricultural problems and solutions is listed in the business schedule for Tuesday. Earlier, when the chairman called Union Minister Anurag Singh Thakur to make a statement, some opposition members were heard shouting 'goli maro' (shoot), an apparent reference to the BJP leader's comment during an election rally. To this, Naidu said raising slogans was not allowed in the House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-12-amid-opposition-uproar-over-pegasus-row-1018164.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourns till noon following Opposition uproar||Lok Sabha proceedings on Tuesday were adjourned till noon following vociferous protests by Opposition members over the Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues. The Question Hour was disrupted and only one question related to ecommerce rules could be taken up. The proceedings were adjourned in around 15 minutes after the House convened for the day. Opposition members shouted slogans and displayed placards and trooped into the Well of the House as they protested against various issues. Birla told the protesting members that they were not elected to the House for sloganeering but to raise issues relating to the poor, adding that their behaviour was not appropriate. Stressing that the Question Hour is important, he said there should be discussions in the House and urged the members to go back to their seats. Birla noted that it was Advisai Diwas on Monday and wished that the House could discuss about those people. As the din continued, the proceedings were adjourned till noon. Parliamentary proceedings have been disrupted since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19 due to Opposition protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourns-till-noon-following-opposition-uproar-1018168.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||Only PM can answer on behalf of all ministries, why is he silent: Chidambaram on Pegasus row||A day after the defence ministry stated that it did not have any transaction with the NSO Group, which is at the centre of the Pegasus row, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Tuesday said only Prime Minister Narendra Modi can answer on behalf of all ministries and departments over the issue and asked: "Why is he silent?" NSO Group, an Israeli surveillance software company, has been under increasing attack following allegations that its Pegasus software was used for surveillance of phones of people in several countries, including India. Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt, while replying to a question in Rajya Sabha on Monday, said, "Ministry of Defence has not had any transaction with NSO Group  Technologies." Reacting to the development, Chidambaram tweeted, "MoD has 'absolved' itself of any deal with the NSO Group, Israel. Assuming, MoD is correct, that takes out one Ministry/Department. What about the remaining half a dozen usual suspects?" MoD has ‘absolved’ itself of any deal with the NSO Group, Israel Assuming, MoD is correct, that takes out one Ministry/Department. What about the remaining half a dozen usual suspects? Only the PM can answer on behalf of ALL ministries/departments. Why is he silent? "Only the PM can answer on behalf of ALL ministries/departments. Why is he silent?" the former home minister said. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including that of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, union ministers Prahlad Singh Patel and Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, and at least 40 journalists, were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-pm-can-answer-on-behalf-of-all-ministries-why-is-he-silent-chidambaram-on-pegasus-row-1018173.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha debates on constitution amendment bill which seeks to restore states' rights on OBC Bill||For the first time since the Monsoon Session of Parliament began on July 19, the Lok Sabha witnessed debate in an orderly manner on Tuesday as it took up a constitutional amendment bill which seeks to restore the states' power to make their own OBC lists. Moving the Bill for consideration and passage, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar described 'The Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021' as a historic legislation as 671 castes in the country would benefit from it. Kumar said the Bill will restore the states' rights to prepare their own lists of OBCs so that various communities can be given social and economic justice. The minister said the Bill should be considered as the 105th Constitution Amendment Bill after being renumbered. The 102nd Constitution Amendment Act of 2018 inserted articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Classes, and 342A that deals with the powers of the president to notify a particular caste as an SEBC and the power of Parliament to change the list. Article 366 (26C) defines SEBCs. The Supreme Court has dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' power to notify SEBCs for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions. "If this Constitution Bill is not brought, 671 OBCs would not have got reservation. All of them will be benefited now," he said. Initiating the debate, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury extended his party's wholehearted support to the Bill but criticised the government for the 2018 amendment saying had the government inserted the suggestion proposed by the Opposition, today's situation would not have arisen. "You tweaked the Constitution by bringing the 102 Constitution Amendment Bill in 2018 which gave people opportunity to go to the court and finally the Supreme Court removed the states' power," he said. Chowdhury also slammed the government for allegedly running away from debate on the issue of "snooping" through the Pegasus spyware, saying the country after country like Hungary, the US and Israel have ordered probe into the controversial issue. The Constitutional amendment Bill requires a special majority for passage the two Houses of Parliament. There should be a majority of the total membership of the House and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members of that House present and voting. Earlier, the proceedings of the House was disrupted by opposition following protests over Pegasus and other issues. When the House re-assembled at noon after one adjournment, the opposition again started protests. The sloganeering and protests continued when papers related to different ministries were laid on the table of the House. However, when Speaker Om Birla announced taking up this Bill for consideration, the opposition members went to their seats and participated in the proceedings. Since the start of the Monsoon Session, parliamentary proceedings have been continuously witnessing disruptions due to protests by Opposition parties and a logjam has persisted over their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row and farmers' protests||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-debates-on-constitution-amendment-bill-which-seeks-to-restore-states-rights-on-obc-bill-1018201.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||Kapil Sibal's Opposition unity meet raises questions||Adding a new twist to Opposition unity efforts, which could raise many eyebrows within the Congress, senior party leader Kapil Sibal on Monday night held a dinner meeting with Opposition leaders, which also recorded the surprise attendance of leaders from Naveen Patnaik's Biju Janata Dal, a party which was against the Opposition stand and bailed out Modi government in Parliament on many occasions. Sibal had also called on socialist leader Sharad Yadav on August 8 after which Yadav had tweeted, "My very good friend and well-wisher who needs no introduction about his vast experience and acquaintance with all the issues facing the country. Rajya Sabha MP Kapil Sibal made a courtesy call. Sibal Sahab, thank you very much." The presence of a galaxy of top leaders from the Opposition camp----Lalu Prasad from RJD, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Akhilesh Yadav of SP, NC chief Omar Abdullah, CPI-M's Sitaram Yechury, besides leaders from non-BJP, non-Congress allies like Shiromani Akali Dal (which deserted NDA in 2020 opposing farm bills), TDP (which deserted NDA in 2018) and YSRCP led by Jagan Mohan Reddy, whose likely induction in NDA is being talked about for quite some time --- in a meeting hosted by Sibal has kicked off quite a buzz. That the meeting called by the senior Congress leader did not have the presence of any of the Gandhis, gives a picture of Opposition unity attempt, being worked out at multiple parallel levels, which has the risk of running at cross purposes. From the Congress, those who attended the meeting were Ghulam Nabi Azad, Shashi Tharoor, Manish Tewari, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Prithviraj Chavan, Anand Sharma, Mukul Wasnik (all members of G-23), P Chidambaram and his son Karti Chidambaram. "Kapil Sibal is a senior leader, a senior lawyer. He has a warm relationship with everyone. The entire Opposition was present there. We talked about 2024 and UP polls and talks happened in a very positive manner," Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut, who was also among the attendees, said on Tuesday. One of the key discussions in the meeting was to chalk out a formula on how the Opposition can fight the BJP together in the upcoming Assembly polls in March 2022 in UP with 80 Lok Sabha constituencies, which could be sort of a precursor to larger Opposition unity in 2024. The meeting also came at a time when the AICC is engaged in brand building of Rahul Gandhi, calling him the only leader in national politics who is not afraid of questioning Narendra Modi and BJP.   While SP said it is open to alliance with smaller parties (thereby ruling out Congress), BSP has openly said it will fight the polls on its own and an "organisationally weak" Congress is far waging a lonely batter, albeit somewhat spirited one with the push of Priyanka Gandhi. BJP, which got nearly 50 per cent votes in UP in the last Lok Sabha polls, could find it easier to defeat a divided Opposition as any party with a 35 per cent vote can easily form the government in such a quadrangular contest. The meeting was also attended by Congress ally DMK's Tiruchy Siva, CPI's D Raja, AAP's Sanjay Singh, RLD's Jayant Chaudhary, Akali Dal's Naresh Gujaral and Derek O' Brien and Kalyan Banerjee from Trinamool Congress, besides BJD's Pinaki Misra. Sibal's meeting was the fourth parallel Opposition unity attempt being led by different leaders. To start with, Sharad Pawar held a meeting at his residence in Delhi of Rashtra Manch of Yashwant Sinha in June, where some junior leaders from Opposition parties took part along with eminent persons from other walks of life. In July end, Mamata Banerjee was on a five-day tour of Delhi, during which she met many Opposition leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, while on August 3, Rahul Gandhi held a breakfast meeting with leaders of 15 Opposition parties. However, given the attendance of leaders of stature, Sibal's dinner meeting steals the show. Sibal has been in the forefront, seeking changes in the way Congress is functioning. At the meeting, some leaders are learnt to have pitched for urgent measures to revive the Congress. A number of senior leaders in the Opposition are not quite enthused by the idea of working under Rahul Gandhi in any united Opposition umbrella even as they are not averse to Congress taking a lead role in such an arrangement. Secondly, many in the Opposition feel that Congress should not contest in a large number of seats in Assembly polls in states, where it is a minor player and leave it on the dominant regional party to take on the BJP--like SP in UP, RJD in Bihar, DMK in Tamil Nadu, TMC in West Bengal and BJD in Odisha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kapil-sibals-opposition-unity-meet-raises-questions-1018218.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||Congress will continue to fight against PM Modi's ideology that divides India, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said he and his party will continue to fight against Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "ideology that divides India", even as he claimed that the Opposition is not being allowed to raise important issues like farm bills, snooping, unemployment and corruption in Parliament. He also alleged that the BJP has launched an assault not only on Jammu and Kashmir, but on the entire country. "I fight against Narendra Modi and we will continue to fight against his divisive ideology, the ideology that divides India," the former Congress chief said addressing a party function. "We are not allowed to speak in Parliament on issues like farm bills, Pegasus (snooping controversy), corruption, Rafale (deal) and unemployment," he added. Gandhi said the "assault" is not only on Jammu and Kashmir, but on Tamil Nadu and West Bengal as well. "The assault is on the idea of India. While the assault in the rest of India is direct, it is indirect in Jammu and Kashmir," he added. Gandhi alleged that the media in the country is being suppressed and not allowed to do its job. "They (media) always have a fear when they report as their job is at stake," he said. The Congress leader said his fight is not against a person or even on issues such as unemployment or corruption, it is against hatred and fear. "I fight against hate and fear. The difference between the Congress and other parties is that we do not hate anyone and we do not believe in violence. The Congress is an army of peace and love," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-will-continue-to-fight-against-pm-modis-ideology-that-divides-india-says-rahul-gandhi-1018237.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||No decision yet on nationwide NRC: Centre||The government has not taken any decision on preparing a National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) for the whole country, Union minister Nityanand Rai said in Parliament on Tuesday. He, however, said the government has decided to update the National Population Register (NPR) under the Citizenship Act, 1955, along with the first phase of Census 2021. "Till now, the government has not taken any decision to prepare the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC) at national level," Rai said in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha. So far, the NRC has been updated only in Assam. When the final list of the NRC was published in 2019, a total of 19.06 lakh of the 3.3 crore applicants were excluded, triggering a huge political row. Replying to another question, the minister said any person who is not satisfied with the outcome of the decisions of the claims and objections during the process of preparing the NRC in Assam may prefer an appeal before the designated Foreigners Tribunals within 120 days from the date of such order. Since those excluded from the NRC in Assam are yet to exhaust all possible legal remedies available to them, the question of their nationality verification does not arise at this stage, he added. Referring to the NPR, Rai said the government has decided to update it along with the first phase of Census 2021. He said the demographic and other particulars of each family and individual are to be updated or collected during the exercise of updating the NPR. "No document is to be collected during this exercise. However, due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the update of NPR and other related field activities have been postponed," Rai said. The objective of the NPR is to create a comprehensive identity database of every usual resident in the country. The database would contain demographic as well as biometric particulars. The NPR is a register of the usual residents of the country. It is being prepared at the local (village and sub-town), sub-district, district, state and national levels under the provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1955 and the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-decision-yet-on-nationwide-nrc-centre-1018238.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||Govt asks Chirag Paswan to vacate bungalow allotted to his father Ram Vilas Paswan||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry has issued eviction notices to Lok Sabha MP Chirag Paswan and other occupants of the 12, Janpath bungalow and asked them to vacate the accommodation. This bungalow was allotted to his late father and former Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan, but his wife, son Chirag Paswan and other family members have been staying in it. Chirag Paswan, who is also a Lok Sabha MP, was allotted another accommodation. The 12, Janpath bungalow has been the official address of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) which was regularly holding its organisational meetings and other related events there. Ram Vilas Paswan, who was the Lok Janshakti Party patron, stayed at the bungalow for nearly three decades till his demise in October last year. Since Paswan died, the Urban Affairs Ministry issued a notice asking the occupants to vacate it. The bungalow is earmarked for Union ministers, said an official in the Ministry. Chirag Paswan is locked in a power tussle with his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras for the LJP's leadership. Paras, an MP from Hajipur, was last month inducted into the Narendra Modi-led government and given the charge of the key Ministry of Food Processing Industries. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-asks-chirag-paswan-to-vacate-bungalow-allotted-to-his-father-ram-vilas-paswan-1018272.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||BJP members playing truant in Rajya Sabha draw PM Modi's ire||BJP members playing truant in Rajya Sabha have drawn the ire of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The BJP was caught on the backfoot when the Opposition sought a vote on sending the Tribunals Reforms Bill, which seeks to abolish nine appellate tribunals, to a select committee in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. BJP floor managers had to scurry to ensure adequate numbers to defeat the Opposition move. At the BJP Parliamentary Party meeting on Tuesday, the Prime Minister asked Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi to submit the names of members who were missing from the House. Modi had asked the newly inducted council of ministers and party members to be present in the House and observe the proceedings and learn from it. However, both Houses of Parliament have rarely functioned during the Monsoon Session as Opposition members forced adjournments on issues such as Pegasus snooping revelations and repeal of farm laws. The Prime Minister also lauded the performance of Indian sportspersons at the Tokyo Olympics. Minister Anurag Thakur made a presentation on India's performance at the Olympics and BJP members gave a standing ovation to the national squad. Modi urged party members to encourage sportsmen in their constituencies and suggested organising competitions for the youth. “It was the last meeting of the ongoing Monsoon Session. It is a matter of pride that we got our biggest-ever tally of medals in the Olympics,” Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-members-playing-truant-in-rajya-sabha-draw-pm-modis-ire-1018332.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition protests melt as LS passes OBC bill unanimously||The three-week long protests over Pegasus revelations in Lok Sabha melted on Tuesday as members discussed and passed a politically sensitive bill that seeks to restore the states' powers to draw up OBC lists. The opposition targeted the Modi government, accusing it of ignoring their warnings in 2018 when Parliament granted constitutional status to the National Commission on Backward Classes and in the process, deprived the rights of states to make OBC lists. “The Government could have avoided wasting time and resources required for Supreme Court petitions and the effort of passing another Constitution Amendment Bill if it had listened to the warnings and advice of the Opposition in 2018,” Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said. Opposition parties put their protests over Pegasus snooping allegations and repeal of farm laws on pause and debated the Constitution (127th) Amendment Bill and demanded that the government also remove the 50 per cent ceiling on reservations. The Lok Sabha passed the Bill with 385 members voting in favour and none against it. Earlier during the debate, BJP member Sanghmitra Maurya slammed the successive Congress governments for "denying the backward classes their rights and appeasing them only during elections". Senior BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav rejected the Congress' claim that it had introduced the reservation policy and asserted that the move was initiated by the makers of the Constitution and not by any political party. Trinamool members Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Kalyan Banerjee wondered why the Modi government was "scared" to discuss the Pegasus snooping allegations that had stalled proceedings in Parliament for three weeks. Responding to the debate, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar cited several Supreme Court observations to assert that the demand by Lok Sabha members to increase the 50 per cent ceiling on reservations require “careful legal scrutiny” as Constitutional issues were involved. During the discussion, A M Ariff of the CPI-M accused the NDA government of diluting federalism and said that the Bill was being brought in view of the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections. E T Mohammed Basheer (IUML) said that the government has crushed the crux of reservation policy by adding economic criteria which was "not at all good in any respect".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-protests-melt-as-ls-passes-obc-bill-unanimously-1018335.html
10-08-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha passes amendment Bills on homoeopathy, National Commission for Indian System of Medicine||The Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed the National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021, amid din over the opposition demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping row. The two Bills were taken up by the Chair soon after the House passed a constitutional amendment Bill that seeks to restore states' power to make their own OBC lists. While there was order in the Lok Sabha when the constitutional amendment Bill was passed, opposition members stormed the Well of the House as soon as the other two Bills were taken up for consideration and passage. Both the Bills were passed amid Opposition uproar following which the House was adjourned for the day. The National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021, proposes to amend the National Commission for Homoeopathy Act, 2020 to provide a medical education system that improves access to quality and affordable medical education. The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeks to repeal the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970 and help make available the Indian system of medicine professionals across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-passes-amendment-bills-on-homoeopathy-national-commission-for-indian-system-of-medicine-1018367.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar: NCM notice to deputy commissioner of Delhi police||The National Commission for Minorities on Monday issued a notice to Delhi's deputy commissioner of police over anti-Muslim slogans allegedly raised during a protest at the Jantar Mantar here and asked the official to apprise it of the action taken in the matter. As directed by NCM Vice-Chairman Atif Rasheed, the panel has taken suo motu cognisance of the news in social media regarding an event organized under "Bharat Jodo Movement" which took place at Jantar Mantar, wherein anti-Muslim slogans were raised, the notice said. "The same has hurt the sentiments of the Muslim community. You are directed to be present in the commission on 10.8.2021 at 12 noon," it said. The commission has asked the deputy commissioner of police to furnish information as to what action has been taken against the people who raised such slogans, whether any arrests have been made and, if so, the sections under which the accused have been booked. The commission also asked the deputy police commissioner to apprise it on whose permission was such an event organised and what are the measures taken to prevent such incidents in future. Also, Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind chief Maulana Mahmood Madani has written to Home Minister Amit Shah and the Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana and demanded stern action against the guilty. Apart from this, a delegation led by Maulana Hakeemuddin Qasmi, the General Secretary of the Jamiat, called on Jaspal Singh, the Joint Police Commissioner, New Delhi Range and Deepak Yadav, the DCP, at a makeshift camp at Jantar Mantar and handed over to them the copy of the letter. It states that the hate-filled video was being circulated and shared by a large number of people on social media platforms. It has hurt the Muslims and peace-loving people across all communities, the letter said. A video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar here is being widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday, officials said. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by Bharat Jodo Aandolan at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Shipra Srivastava, the media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, said the protest was held under the leadership of advocate and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. "The protest was held against colonial laws and demanding to abolish 222 British laws. We have seen the video, but have no idea who they are. The police should take strict action against the persons who raised the slogans," Srivastava said. Upadhyay too denied any involvement in the anti-Muslim slogan-shouting incident. "I have submitted a complaint to the Delhi Police to examine the video which went viral. If the video is authentic, then strict action should be taken against the persons who were involved in it," he said. The video shows a group of people shouting inflammatory slogans and threatening Muslims during the protest at Jantar Mantar. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said, "We have received a video and we are examining it. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the law and an investigation is in progress." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-muslim-slogans-at-jantar-mantar-ncm-notice-to-deputy-commissioner-of-delhi-police-1018074.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||4 accused in alleged rape, murder of Dalit girl remanded in police custody for 3 days||The four accused in the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl were remanded in the custody of the Delhi Police for three days on Monday, officials said. The girl died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped and forcibly cremated by a crematorium's priest in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal village. The agitated locals, along with the parents of the girl, had blocked the road in the area demanding justice. However, police have cleared the stretch. A senior police officer in the Crime Branch said they have got the four accused in their remand for three days and they will be interrogated. The girl lived with her parents in a rented house in front of the crematorium. Around 5.30 pm on August 1, she went to get water from a cooler at the crematorium. Around 6 pm, the crematorium's priest Radhey Shyam and two-three others called the girl's mother to the spot. Showing the girl's body to her mother, they claimed that she got electrocuted while getting water. There were burn marks between her left wrist and elbow, and her lips were also blue. The priest and the others dissuaded her mother from making a PCR call, saying police will make a case out of it and during post-mortem, doctors will steal the girl's organs, so it was better to cremate her. The girl was cremated but subsequently, her parents alleged that it was done without their consent. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-accused-in-alleged-rape-murder-of-dalit-girl-remanded-in-police-custody-for-3-days-1018085.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Vandana Katariya now a brand ambassador of 'Beti Bachao' campaign||"We are proud that Uttarakhand's daughter Vandana Katariya made an unforgettable contribution to India's great performance in women's hockey at the Tokyo Olympics. In recognition of this, she would be given a cash reward of Rs 25 lakh," Dhami said. An attractive new sports policy will soon be introduced in the state that will help nourish budding talent in different games, he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vandana-katariya-now-a-brand-ambassador-of-beti-bachao-campaign-1018100.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Militants attack CRPF team in J&K's Shopian, constable injured||A security force personnel was injured in firing by militants on a road opening party of the CRPF in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, officials said. The ultras attacked the team at Kralcheck while they were carrying out road opening duties, they said. Constable Ajay Kumar of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) sustained injuries, they said. The area has been cordoned off and search operations have begun, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-attack-crpf-team-in-jks-shopian-constable-injured-1018138.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||India logs less than 30K daily Covid cases, 373 deaths||With 28,204 more people testing positive for Covid-19, India's infection tally now stands at 3,19,98,158, while the death toll climbed to 4,28,628 with 373 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. The number of active cases has declined to 3,88,503 which comprise 1.2 per cent of the total infections, data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,11,80,968, the data stated. As many as 15,11,313 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Monday, taking the total number of such examinations so far to 48,32,78,545. Cumulatively, over 50 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Tuesday morning. India's Covid-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-logs-less-than-30k-daily-covid-cases-373-deaths-1018143.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||40 political activists killed in Kashmir after abrogation of Article 370||At least 40 political activists, including panchayat members and grassroots workers, have been killed by militants in Kashmir since the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state under Article 370 in August 2019. Nearly half of them (19) belonged to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In the latest incident, Lashkar-e-Taiba militants shot dead a BJP sarpanch and his panchayat member wife in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday evening. Soon after the fall of PDP-BJP government in June 2018, the panchayat and municipal elections were held in Jammu and Kashmir in November. After the elections, most candidates were given accommodation in heavily secured hotels in Srinagar, far from their villages and wards. Many still remain there. As the two main regional parties -- National Conference and the PDP -- boycotted these polls, it gave the BJP a chance to control at least four of the 20 civic bodies in the four militancy-hit districts of Anantnag, Kulgam, Pulwama and Shopian in south Kashmir. But this did not stop the attacks on BJP workers. Kashmir reportedly has at least 7.5 lakh BJP workers on the ground and all of them do not have security. But it is not only the BJP workers, who have been targeted by the militants from south to north Kashmir. Militants have also targeted elected panchs and sarpanchs belonging to other political parties. When the militancy erupted in Kashmir in 1989, militants targeted political workers in a similar manner to derail the political system. The first political killing was that of the NC activist Yusuf Halwai in the old city Srinagar on August 21, 1989. He had reportedly refused to turn off the lights of his home on Independence Day, on August 15, when NC’s Farooq Abdullah was chief minister and the JKLF had called for a 'black out'. After Halwai, BJP leader Tika Lal Taploo was shot dead on September 13, 1989, in Habbakadal, Srinagar and after which the practice to target political workers never stopped. Over 5,000 pro-Indian political activists have been killed in identical attacks in Kashmir since 1989 while some estimates put this number at 7,000. But the latest spate of political killings has returned to haunt the Valley at a time when the violence was apparently on the decline. Compared to 2020, there has been a steep decline in militancy-related violence in J&K, according to official data. Till July 16, the number of such incidents officially reported this year stood at 67. Between January and June 30 last year, 105 such incidents had been recorded in the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/40-political-activists-killed-in-kashmir-after-abrogation-of-article-370-1018156.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||'Would send a wrong message': Venkaiah Naidu urges Opposition to not disrupt discussion on farmers' issue in Rajya Sabha||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday said that if the Opposition disrupted the discussion on farmers' issue in the Upper House, it would send a "wrong message" to people. As Opposition MPs demanded immediate discussion on Pegasus issue after Naidu refused permission to notices by them, Naidu said Tuesday was the 16th sitting of the ongoing Monsoon Session and the House has functioned for an average one hour per day. "Important subject of farmers' issue is scheduled for discussion today in the House. If the House is not allowed to function today also, a message will go out that this House has no concern for the plight of farmers who are the bread givers for our people," Naidu said. A short duration discussion on 'agricultural problems and solutions' has been listed for Tuesday. Naidu's comments came as Opposition MPs continued to raise the demand for discussion on Pegasus, which the government has stonewalled so far. On Tuesday, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, Trinamool Congress' Sukhendu Shekhar Roy, CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem and CPI's Binoy Viswam had submitted notices for suspension of business to discuss Pegasus. However, Naidu refused permission. Parliament has been witnessing protests by the Opposition on the issue though it has made it clear that it would pause its protests to participate in the discussion on the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill 2021 to restore powers of states to identify Other Backward Classes (OBCs) and support it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/would-send-a-wrong-message-venkaiah-naidu-urges-opposition-to-not-disrupt-discussion-on-farmers-issue-in-rajya-sabha-1018165.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi visits Kheer Bhawani temple in J&K||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday visited the Kheer Bhawani temple in Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said.   Gandhi, who arrived on a two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir on Monday, reached the temple nestled among mighty chinars in Tullamulla area of the central Kashmir district early in the morning, a Congress leader said.  He said Gandhi was accompanied by the party's general secretary organisation K C Venugopal to the famous Ragnya Devi temple popularly known as Kheer Bhawani. "This was a private visit. Rahul ji wanted to pay obeisance at the temple," the leader said. Scores of party leaders and supporters were waiting outside the shrine complex to welcome the former Congress president. Gandhi is also scheduled to visit the Dargah Hazratbal shrine on the banks of the Dal Lake here after the visit to the temple. The Congress MP had attended a wedding reception of Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee president Ghulam Ahmad Mir's son at a posh hotel here on Monday evening. At 11:30 on Tuesday, the Congress MP will inaugurate the Congress Bhawan at MA Road in the heart of the city here. "He will also interact with party leaders and workers at the party office," the Congress leader added. Gandhi will leave for Delhi later on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-visits-kheer-bhawani-temple-in-jk-1018170.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court says cases against lawmakers cannot be withdrawn by prosecutors without sanction from HCs||The Supreme Court Tuesday ordered that public prosecutors cannot withdraw criminal cases against lawmakers accused under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) without sanction from High Courts. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana also said that it was mulling setting up of a special bench at the top court to monitor the cases against politicians. The bench, which also comprised Justices Vineet Saran and Surya Kant, ordered that special courts judges, hearing cases against the MPs and MLAs, will not be transferred until further orders. It directed the Registrar Generals of all the High Courts  to provide information, in a particular format, about the cases decided by special courts against the lawmakers. It has also sought the details of pending cases and their stages before the trial courts. The order came after the top court perused the report of senior advocate Vijay Hansaria and lawyer Sneha Kalita who are assisting the bench. The bench was hearing a PIL of 2016 filed by lawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay on fast-tracking of criminal trials against MP and MLAs besides seeking life ban on convicted politicians from contesting polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-says-cases-against-lawmakers-cannot-be-withdrawn-by-prosecutors-without-sanction-from-hcs-1018180.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Prohibitory orders imposed in Muzaffarnagar ahead of festive season||Prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC have been imposed in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh ahead of the festive season, banning the assembly of more than four people without the permission of the authorities concerned, officials said on Tuesday. According to Additional District Magistrate Amit Singh, the prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) were clamped in the area in view of the upcoming festivals of Muharram, Raksha Bandhan, and Janmashtami. The orders were issued to maintain law and order in the area and will remain in place till October 6, Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prohibitory-orders-imposed-in-muzaffarnagar-ahead-of-festive-season-1018186.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi demands restoration of full statehood to J&K||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday demanded the restoration of full statehood for Jammu and Kashmir, along with free and fair elections. “Congress party’s stand on J&K is clear. We want full statehood to be restored along with free, fair and transparent Assembly polls at the earliest,” he said while addressing party workers at J&K Congress headquarters in Srinagar. Gandhi, who arrived on a two-day visit to J&K on Monday, said that he was fighting against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his policies of “dividing India.” “There is not only assault on J&K, but in other parts of the country like Tamil Nadu and Bengal also. But one thing is clear that J&K is under direct assault from New Delhi while other parts are facing an indirect attack,” the Congress leader alleged. Trying to connect with the people of J&K, the Gandhi scion said he can feel the pain of people of the union territory (UT). “I am with you to build a relationship based on love and honour,” he said and vowed to continue his fight against Modi’s ideology and “violence he is preaching beside his mission of breaking India.” Responding to senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad’s suggestion to move a bill in the Lok Sabha to press for the restoration of statehood for J&K, Gandhi said that he was not even allowed to speak in the Parliament. “I can’t speak about Rafale, unemployment and corruption. They (BJP) have attacked the judiciary, Lok Sabha and even the voice of media stands muzzled,” he alleged. Earlier the Congress leader visited the Kheer Bhawani temple in central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district and the Hazratbal shrine, here. Reports said Gandhi spent over half an hour at the temple and offered prayers. He was also seen sharing a table with regional National Conference president Farooq Abdullah and former Sadr-e-Riyasat of Jammu and Kashmir Karan Singh during a dinner hosted by J&K Congress President Ghulam Ahmad Mir at his son’s wedding on Monday evening. This is Gandhi’s first visit to J&K after the abrogation of J&K’s special status under Article 370 on August 5, 2019. He had tried to visit Kashmir to assess the situation in August 2019 but was sent back from Srinagar Airport to Delhi along with other leaders including Azad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-demands-restoration-of-full-statehood-to-jk-1018197.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Ruckus in Rajya Sabha as Opposition MPs climb on table, throw files at Chair during discussion on farmers' issue||High drama was witnessed in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday during the discussion on farmers issue with at least Opposition two MPs climbing the reporters' table in Rajya Sabha -- one waving a black cloth and another throwing a file at the Chair after the proceedings were adjourned -- while around half a dozen MPs sat on the table. The Opposition MPs sat on the reporters' table in front of the Chair for around 100 minutes on the reporter's table between 2:16 PM and 4:01 PM during which multiple adjournments were witnessed before Vice-Chairperson Bhubaneswar Kalita called it a day. On their feet for the 16th day during the proceedings of the Monsoon Session as the ruling party stalled their demand for a discussion on Pegasus, the Opposition found fault with the government as soon as Kalita called for a short duration discussion on 'agricultural problems and solutions'. While the government called the incident inside the House one which broke all barriers of unparliamentary behaviour, the Opposition said that what they wanted was not a "poetic discussion" on agriculture but one specific on repealing the contentious farm laws and the farmers' protest. The Rajya Sabha had witnessed high drama during the passage of the contentious three farm laws during Monsoon Session in September last year with the Opposition MPs trooping to the Well of the House, shouting slogans, throwing the rule book at the Chair, breaking microphones and throwing papers. Eight Opposition MPs were suspended for the remainder of the session then. As the House assembled at 2 PM on Tuesday, Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh cited a ruling by the Chair in 2015 and said his notice for calling attention motion has been converted into short duration discussion without taking the sense of the House. This decision is unilateral, he said even as Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said if sense of the House is required then take it though such a thing has never happened. Kalita said he cannot go back on the decision as it was taken by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and called the first speaker Vijay Pal Singh Tomar, prompting Opposition MPs to rush to the Well of the House shouting slogans. AAP's Sanjay Singh was the first to climb the table at around 2:16 PM when BJD's Prasanna Acharya was speaking and waved a black cloth at the Chair, prompting Kalita to adjourn the House for 15 minutes. The MPs did not leave the table till the last adjournment even as a large number of marshals were deployed in the House. As the House was adjourned while marshals brought Singh down from the table, Congress' Pratap Singh Bajwa climbed the table, shouted slogans and then threw a file at the Chair. Congress' Ripun Bora was also seen standing on the table for some time. The sloganeering by the Opposition and counter-sloganeering by the BJP MPs continued inside the House even after the short adjournment. A number of Opposition MPs were wearing black shirts, kurtas and sarees while some others were wearing black shawls, black bands and black masks. When the House re-assembled, Singh was back on the table and got company in CPI's Binoy Viswam, CPI(M)'s V Sivadasan, Congress' Deepender Hooda, Ripun Bora and Rajamani Patel, DNK's M Shanmugham and Trinamool Congress' Mausam Noor, leading to another adjournment for 30 minutes. At 3:03 PM before adjourning the House for another hour, Kalita announced that Deputy Chairman Harivansh has invited all floor leaders for an immediate meeting to find a solution. However, there was no meeting ground and Kalita adjourned the House for the day when it re-assembled at 4 PM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ruckus-in-rajya-sabha-as-opposition-mps-climb-on-table-throw-files-at-chair-during-discussion-on-farmers-issue-1018204.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||BJP draws up strategy to counter farmers' agitation ahead of UP polls||Apparently wary of the impact of the ongoing agitation by the farmers against the new farm laws on the next assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP has drawn up a comprehensive strategy to reach out to the farmers through a series of programmes to counter the effect of the protests.  According to the BJP sources, the saffron party has decided to undertake a statewide' 'Kisan Sampark Yatra' and hold 'kisan chaupals' in different parts of the state, especially in western UP, where the farmers' protest was more intense. The party would also organise a 'Kisan Panchayat' in the state capital of Lucknow in the third week of this month. The date of the 'kisan panchayat' was yet to be finalised, sources said. Besides, the BJP has also decided to hold a big meeting of the farmers in Meerut later this month.  Sources said that the BJP 'Kisan Morcha' had been entrusted with the task of holding talks with the farmer leaders as well as organise these programs before the next assembly polls in the state that are scheduled to be held in March 2022. ''It is our assessment that the farmers' agitation may have some impact in the western UP region....the Bharitya Kisan Union, which is at the forefront of the protests, is active in several western UP districts...we will therefore focus on the region,'' said a UP BJP leader while speaking to DH here on Tuesday. ''We will be highlighting the steps taken by the Centre as well as the state government for the benefit of the farmers...the BJP governments have undertaken several measures to double the income of the farmers,'' he said adding that the party would also tell the farmers that their agitation had been 'hijacked' by ''foreign agencies''. The leader said that the party would make sure that a large number of farmers participate in the programs. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait has been campaigning among the farmers in different regions of the state to what he terms ''expose' the BJP's 'anti-farmer' policies. Tikait had recently visited Lucknow and had threatened to hold a Ghazipur border-like protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-draws-up-strategy-to-counter-farmers-agitation-ahead-of-up-polls-1018224.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Only two persons bought two properties in J&K post Article 370 abrogation: Govt to Parliament||Only two persons have purchased as many properties in Jammu and Kashmir since August 2019 when Article 370 was abrogated ending the special status given to the erstwhile state, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai's written reply came in response to a question on whether many people from other states of the country have purchased and are also interested to buy properties in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir after the removal of Article 370. "As per the information provided by the Government of Jammu and Kashmir, two persons from outside Jammu and Kashmir have purchased two properties in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir since August, 2019,” he said. Asked whether any hardship or impediments are being faced by the government and people of other states while buying properties in Jammu and Kashmir, Rai said, “No such instance has been reported to the government." The Central government had abrogated Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated the state into two Union Territories. Since the abrogation of special status, the administration has formulated a new definition of domicile for Jammu and Kashmir. According to that definition, a person residing there for at least 15 years will be eligible to be a permanent resident of the UT. The government notification also extended domicile rights to central government employees who have served in the state for 10 years and also to their children. Before August 5, 2019, the Jammu and Kashmir assembly was constitutionally empowered to define a resident of the erstwhile state. These defined residents were alone eligible to apply for jobs or own immovable property. However, the home ministry amended a 2010 legislation -- the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment Act) -- last year by substituting the term "permanent residents" with "domiciles of Jammu and Kashmir".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-two-persons-bought-two-properties-in-jk-post-article-370-abrogation-govt-to-parliament-1018229.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: 53% eligible population administered first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||At least 53 per cent of the eligible population in Madhya Pradesh has been administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccines, while 10 per cent have also taken the second dose, a senior official said on Tuesday. The figures were presented in a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday to review the Covid-19 situation, the official said. A total of 2.93 crore people have taken the first dose of vaccines so far, while 57 lakh have been administered both doses, he said. During the meeting, the chief minister directed officials to ensure that 100 per cent of the targeted population is vaccinated at the earliest and urged people to take the second dose compulsorily to get complete protection from the viral infection, the official said. Chouhan also directed to speed-up vaccination work, which was disrupted due to heavy rains in the state and asked officials to plan mega campaigns for this purpose, he said. The chief minister further stressed that Covid-19 testing should not be brought down in any district to prevent the third wave, the official added. As per an official release, 3,54,12,763 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far. The Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 7,91,970 on Monday with the addition of 10 fresh cases, while the toll stood at 10,514, as no new casualties were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-53-eligible-population-administered-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-1018233.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh mulls commission for upper castes||The Himachal Pradesh government is actively considering setting up a commission for the upper castes, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said here on Tuesday. Replying to the issue raised by Shimla rural Congress legislator Vikramaditya Singh through a point of order soon after the Question Hour in the Assembly, the chief minister said the Madhya Pradesh government had already constituted a Swarna Aayog (commission for upper castes) and the hill state was also actively considering to constitute the same. The chief minister said he had urged the representatives of an organisation seeking the constitution of the Swarna Aayog not to hold any agitation in this regard. They have already presented their issue and the government is also actively considering the constitution of the Swarna Aayog, he added. This is unfortunate that some agitators raised slogans against a section of the society during their agitation, he added. Earlier, Singh stated that the Swarna Aayog should be constituted without infringing upon the rights of any other section of society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-mulls-commission-for-upper-castes-1018236.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Not received any letter from Centre seeking info on deaths due to oxygen scarcity: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday alleged that the city government has not received any letter from the Centre inquiring if any deaths in the national capital occurred due to oxygen shortage during the second Covid wave. The minister, however, said they have decided to share all the details with the central government. "You can put out that reply in front of the Supreme Court and the public," he said in an online briefing. Sisodia accused the Centre of not showing seriousness towards the oxygen crisis which happened during the second wave. "I read in newspaper reports that the Centre is saying that it has asked state governments to share the number of oxygen-related deaths," he said. Sisodia, however, said that they have not received any communication till date on the matter. "Delhi government has not received any letter on oxygen-related deaths. When you (Centre) have not written any letter, how can you say that states are not informing you. We had formed an inquiry committee but you did not allow it (probe) to happen through Delhi LG," he said. Delhi government believes that there was an oxygen crisis and without an inquiry it is difficult to say whether any deaths happened due to it or not, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-received-any-letter-from-centre-seeking-info-on-deaths-due-to-oxygen-scarcity-manish-sisodia-1018250.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||10 civilians injured in Srinagar grenade attack||Ten civilians were injured as militants hurled a grenade towards security forces in the congested Hari Singh High street near city centre Lal Chowk, here, on Tuesday.  A police official said the militants lobbed a grenade on a vehicle of security forces near Hari Singh High Street.  However, it missed the intended target and exploded on the road, causing splinter injuries to ten civilians, he said.  The injured civilians were shifted to the nearby SMHS hospital for treatment. Reports said immediately after the incident, security forces launched a search operation to nab the attackers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-civilians-injured-in-srinagar-grenade-attack-1018258.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi has overcome Delta variant; new sero survey soon, says Satyendar Jain||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said Delhi has already overcome the Delta variant of coronavirus detected in over 80 per cent of Covid samples sent for genome sequencing during the second wave of the pandemic and thereafter. The minister told reporters the Centre has not yet asked for data on deaths due to shortage of oxygen and that a new sero survey will be undertaken in the city soon. The first sero survey conducted in June-end last year found Covid antibodies in 22.6 per cent of the samples.  The number increased to 29.1 per cent in August and then dropped to 25.1 per cent in September. In October, it went up to 25.5 per cent. The January round of the survey found antibodies in 56.13 per cent of people screened. Jain said more than 80 per cent of the samples sent for genome sequencing during the second wave and thereafter showed the presence of the Delta variant. "Since the Delta variant originated in India, we have already faced the wrath of this variant during the second wave. Other countries need to prepare themselves as it is spreading there. "Delhi has already battled and overcome the Delta variant wave. The ICMR has also pointed out that Delhi was battling the Delta variant during the second wave. Therefore, I don't think that it should be a cause of concern for us anymore," he said. The health minister said the Delhi government is preparing 37,000 beds, including 12,000 ICU beds, in anticipation of a third wave of coronavirus. In the last wave, the city government had prepared around 23,000 beds, of which 6,000 were ICU beds. The Delhi government has also started a 'Graded Response System' under which restrictive measures will be taken according to test positivity rate. The system, prepared along the lines of a similar mechanism to fight air pollution during winter months, was drafted by an expert committee appointed by the Delhi government. Yellow, amber, orange and red alerts will be issued as the positivity rate increases. According to the plan, curbs kick in from 0.5 per cent positivity rate. Private offices, malls, weekly markets and the Delhi Metro will be shut down if TPR rises above 2 per cent and the city will be put under a curfew if the TPR breaches the 5 per cent-mark. "The first level will be implemented at a positivity rate of 0.5 per cent. The second, third and fourth levels will be activated at a TPR of 1 per cent, 2 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. Last time, the red level was implemented when we had reached a positivity rate of about 14-15 per cent," Jain said. The minister said though the government has been making preparations keeping children and their health in view, the "overall number of children who need hospitalisation is very less in comparison to the adult population".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-has-overcome-delta-variant-new-sero-survey-soon-says-satyendar-jain-1018303.html
10-08-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh meets Sonia amid fresh attack by Sidhu||As the internal fight in Punjab Congress appears to be headed down the Rajasthan route, Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh rushed to Delhi and held a meeting with Congress President Sonia Gandhi with no end in sight in his row with Navjot Singh Sidhu, who again raised questions over the party government over the action against the drug mafia and threatened to bring a resolution in Assembly for making the reports public. "Met @INCIndia  president #SoniaGandhi ji in Delhi this evening to discuss various state related issues. Spent an extremely satisfying one hour with her.’: @capt_amarinder," Singh said according to a tweet by the Chief Minister's media advisor. Singh met Gandhi for the first time after the party high command named Sidhu as PPCC chief, ignoring the Chief Minister's initial objections. The meeting took place ahead of an imminent Cabinet reshuffle in the state in which Sidhu is keen to accommodate people close to him. Singh is learnt to have discussed potential candidates to be inducted after the reshuffle and also the political situation playing out in Punjab seven months before the polls. Hours before Singh's meeting with Gandhi, Sidhu tweeted "The Congress Worker - My Inspiration … The only Instrument of Triumph" sharing a video clip of his meeting with Congress workers in Moga and Faridkot on August 5. The Chief Minister is learnt to be unhappy about Sidhu's continued attacks on the government headed by him and hence, the issues of progress made on 18 issues pointed by Mallikarjun Kharge, are also believed to have been discussed. At the height of Singh and Sidhu's war of words, a three-member panel headed by Kharge with AICC general secretary for Punjab Harish Rawat and Delhi M P J P Agrawal, had met all Congress leaders from Punjab and come out with an 18-point agenda to be acted upon, which included taking action against the drug mafia, transport mafia and those involved in the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib. On Monday Sidhu posted a series of tweets pointing out that he had held a press conference in 2018 asking the state government to immediately act upon the information shared by STF with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. "After 2.5 years of delay, how much more the People of Punjab should wait ? What investigation had Punjab Police done ? What action had Punjab government has taken ? Must be brought into public domain. Since submission of reports, what further action did the state take in 2.5 years ? Govt must make itself accountable to the Public with complete transparency !! Punishing culprits behind Drug trade is Congress’s priority under 18-Point Agenda... . If further delayed will bring resolution in Punjab Vidhan Sabha for making the Reports Public," Sidhu tweeted. What investigation had Punjab Police done ? What action had Punjab Govt taken ? Must be brought into public domain. Since submission of reports, what further action did the state take in 2.5 years ? Govt must make itself accountable to the Public with complete transparency !! 4/6 The Chief Minister has been maintaining that his government has already implemented several steps from the 18-point agenda given by the Congress high command. Singh also says that his government had fulfilled 93 per cent of the party's promises made in the election manifesto.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-meets-sonia-amid-fresh-attack-by-sidhu-1018341.html
10-08-2021||Oasis||Conspiracy is negative activity ||Conspiracy is a secret  planning  for some  harmful  or unlawful  purpose. This method has been used through out human history. Opponents of any mission always adopt one of following two methods. The first is to openly engage in hostile  activities against the mission. The other one is to engage in silent and hidden planning aimed at destroying  the mission. There are a number of examples of both these methods being used. Conspiracy is actually another name for cowardly opposition. Conspiracies are always the handiwork of people who are hypo critical— that  is, externally, they  appear  to be  good  and well behaving, but on the inside they harbour malice. Thus because of  this inner attitude, they silently engage in negative activities. And thus such people are called    conspirators, and they are very harmful to society. One who is engaged in negative activities  gives the appearance of being a good person, but he quietly indulges in negative planning. One who has become an enemy and conspirator of a mission is unable to see the illogic of his stand  on account of his enmity. But those who have no enimity, because of their unbiased mind, can easily see the lack of reason in the position adopted by the conspirator. The conspirator always wants enmity with his opponent but will never succeed in his mission. The Baghavad Gita's third chapter emphasises that work must be done by keeping in mind the  interests of others. The holy Quran clearly says that those who plot evil deeds shall be sternly punished and their plotting will come to nothing. The conspirator always proclaim false sayings, he attempts to publicise these through various fraudulent claims. His aim is to belittle the truth, even by recourse to the most evil means available. The  conspirator is unaware of the weakness of his planning, while other people, who are free of enmity, judge what he says on the basis of reason and logic. When they find that  there is no logic in what the conspirator says, they refuse to accept it. Thus  the conspiracy of the conspirator is practically rendered ineffective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/conspiracy-is-negative-activity-1018078.html
10-08-2021||Opinion||India isn’t ready for another Covid-19 wave||Mihir Sharma But we can’t be sure about that at all. Epidemiological models that predicted the second wave suggest that another, shallower wave might hit India as soon as this month. And the country isn’t nearly as ready as it thinks. Part of what is driving overconfidence is the particularly devastating nature of India’s second wave: The broad spread of infection exposed a huge swath of Indians to the virus, who should thus now have some degree of immunity. Yet the simple fact is that we still don’t know enough about the second wave to make easy predictions about the third. Results from the fourth survey, carried out in June and July, suggest that two-thirds of Indians have been exposed to Covid-19, up from roughly 24% in December and January. While that’s a lot, it still leaves 400 million Indians without antibodies. A third or fourth wave might raise the overall death toll sharply. To make matters worse, we still don’t have a good grasp of how many Indians have died thus far. The federal government claims a death toll under half a million. Some models suggest the real number could be two to three million. Other estimates are even higher. Economists at the Center for Global Development have estimated between 3.4 million and 4.7 million excess deaths in India during the pandemic — though not all may have been directly due to Covid-19. Some state governments have concealed deaths to bolster their reputations as Covid-fighters. This is a problem because without a clear sense of how and where the second wave was most virulent, we can’t really figure out what a third will look like. The primary lesson of India’s second wave was that local healthcare systems need to be bolstered before cases spike, or they will be easily overwhelmed. Without knowing who was affected in the past, we can’t figure out where and who might be most vulnerable the next time around. Then there’s India’s stuttering vaccination program. A months-long export ban on Indian-made vaccines has left the rest of the emerging world struggling to fend off the Delta variant. It hasn’t helped India all that much either. The government has tried to bully vaccine manufacturers into providing doses on the cheap. To ensure the companies can invest in more capacity, they’ve also allowed them to sell to the private sector at higher prices. This strategy might have worked if private healthcare had any incentive to beef up the vaccine distribution system. Instead, the government then limited hospitals’ margins, so only the largest private players have been interested. Meanwhile, state governments have consistently complained that they aren’t getting enough vaccines to distribute themselves. Vaccine supply is another bottleneck. The mRNA-based vaccines from Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc. appear to be more effective against the Delta variant than others. Yet the government first ignored Pfizer and subsequently has been dickering with the company about indemnity clauses that most other countries signed months ago. This means that India hasn’t accepted any of the 110 million doses the US has shipped to the emerging world. Millions of Moderna shots meant for India were held back in July. When US and Indian leaders met months ago, they announced plans to fund the manufacturing of the Johnson & Johnson shot in India. There’s been no obvious progress since then. The other crucial lesson of the second wave, when the world rallied to get oxygen and medicines to India, was that no country, even one as big as India, can deal with the pandemic alone. India’s establishment, which has turned inward on every front over the past few years, has chosen to forget that. India’s slow vaccination effort, and a renewed vulnerability to Covid-19, is the price of this failure to learn. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-isn-t-ready-for-another-covid-19-wave-1018123.html
10-08-2021||Panorama||Safal will help in learning outcomes||While addressing various stakeholders of the education fraternity on the special eve of the first anniversary of the New Education Policy–2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi formally launched Safal (Structured Assessment for Analysing Learning). It is one of the major assessment tools for school education that aims to revolutionise assessment beyond the present day rote learning assessment yardsticks in the form of a 2 hours yearend written examination. Safal is a competency-based assessment for Class 3, 5 and 8, initially implemented through CBSE (Central Board of Secondary Education). In short, all Class 3, 5 and 8 students will take school examinations which will examine the foundational learning outcomes, through analysis of core concepts and competencies among students. Safal as a diagnostic assessment caters developmental feedback to schools, parents and teachers. At present CBSE, ICSE and state Boards conducts assessment only for Class 10 and 12 students. NEP-2020 has made clear postulates to improve the quality of assessment in all levels of school education. It recommends transforming the assessment system for improving the learning levels needed for the 21st century. Assessment of pupils' learning outcomes is vital to improving the quality of education. It is the process of collecting and assessing information on what learners know, what they understood, what they can do, how they can act it in real-life situations etc. The new assessment method would be focused on the core competencies like literacy, numeracy and language skills along with relevant HOTS (Higher Order Thinking Skills) and application of acquired knowledge in contemporary real-life situations rather than rote memorisation. For Class 3, the assessment includes areas such as basic literacy, numeracy and other foundational skills, reading, speaking, writing and comprehension etc. The noteworthy feature of Safal is that the assessment records are not meant for promotion purposes from one class to the next higher class, but is meant only for the required interventions by the school authorities, teachers or parents to improve pupils' learning outcome. In the present world scenario, many countries practise similar assessment tools like Safal. For example, Australia conducts assessments for Class 3, 5, 7 and 9 similar to Safal. In Britain, students of Class 2, 6, 9 and 12 are assessed in key competencies in language, science and mathematics like the PISA (Programme for International Students Assessment) pattern. The very purpose of introducing the globally accepted assessments norm like Safal is to equip our new generation learners with 21st-century learning skills and our teachers with new generation teaching skills. These factors, in turn directly support to reap the benefits of the ongoing demographic dividends in the next 3 decades (2020-2050) expecting an overall growth of 15% to 18%. No doubt, the NEP-2020 is exclusively meant to make preparatory ground to harvest demographic dividends. (The writer is the principal, Sharada Residential School, Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/safal-will-help-in-learning-outcomes-1018080.html
10-08-2021||Panorama||India, UK at pivotal moment of enhanced cooperation, says Alexander Ellis||In the wake of Brexit, the United Kingdom has come to view India as one its most important global partners as Britain seeks out new economic partnerships outside the European Union and builds alliances for a changing world. British High Commissioner to India Alexander W Ellis, who took his post in February, tells DH’s Akhil Kadidal that Britain’s immigration policy now only looks at skills and education, and that benefits Indians hugely. How does the United Kingdom view India, following Brexit? Brexit will help India and the UK insofar as business and trade is concerned. India is one of those countries that the UK regards as an opportunity. Inherently, Brexit has created two clear effects and one psychological effect. The clear effects are that you have a different migration policy, plus increased trade. How will this impact India? Our immigration policy is now much better for India because we do not discriminate against potential migrants on the basis of which country they come from. Our only criteria now are skills and education, and that's been of huge benefit to India. What aspects of immigration were discussed between Prime Ministers Boris Johnson and Narendra Modi during the virtual discussions held earlier this year? One of the agendas was a new migration and mobility partnership that opens up another route for temporary migration to the UK. As far as the young professionals scheme goes, India is the first visa-requirement country in the world to benefit from that scheme. We have already had the scheme open to people from Australia and New Zealand but we had not opened it to any visa country before. The counterbalance to that is that it will be tougher on people who overstay or enter the country illegally. By 2031, what sort of trade and commerce relationship would you likely see between India and the UK? There are four or five areas we think we're really going to work together on. A strategic partnership means total relationships on defence and security, healthcare, plus sustainability and climate. It also means more people flow on the “living bridge,” [immigration], plus trade and investment. We have big investments coming into India from the UK on electric vehicles, for example. We are targeting doubling our trade investment by 2030. All this is a consequence of the kind of strategic realignment, which I think has led to the creation of the UK being India's first comprehensive strategic partner. Does the UK’s interest in India partly have to do with countering China? I'll connect this to my first answer when I said there is a third element about Brexit— in that it is pushing the UK to look outwards to the world. As part of the Modi-Johnson meeting, you had an agreement to launch a free trade agreement, which we're starting out or going up again on trade policy after 50 years. And then, I think every country in the world is grappling with the question of how do you work with China. Do you consider an assertive Communist China a threat? With China, it's not a simple good or bad. At times, you're competing with China. At times, you are contesting with China, and sometimes cooperating. It is a much more complex environment than that of the Cold War, which I grew up in. And so, every country should work out how we balance between these different objectives, and that's partly determined by China's behaviour. For example, in Hong Kong. It's not that we want to change our policies toward China, but China is behaving in ways that make countries do: “Well, we think maybe we should have to shift our balance between these different competing objectives.” Also, what we do and who we do it with matters. Britain’s new Carrier Strike Group is currently exercising with the Indian Navy. Is this a projection of force? If you look at the roadmap which the two Prime Ministers signed, maritime cooperation is a big part of that, particularly in the western Indian Ocean. The sea is becoming more relevant as a contested space. The deployment of the Carrier Strike Group is the biggest we've had since the Cold War. It is a projection of hard power, but it is a global projection. It is also a statement that we are seeking to work with India on defence and security. At the same time, it is a signal about the reinvestment of the UK in defence. Did any deals materialise out of Aero India? The days when you just sell people military equipment are coming to an end. Most countries are now looking to indigenise. But that's not a thing which is done in isolation. So, discussions are ongoing about how we can cooperate more closely, government to government, but also company to company. Is the UK collaborating with the Centre on Covid and healthcare solutions? We are working with the Centre on increasing genomic sequencing capabilities. We have a shared interest in knowing what's going on in India because health in India, in a pandemic, is important for other parts of the world. Britain supplied large quantities of ventilators and other gear to India during the second wave… Frankly, India had supported us last year, in terms of equipment such as PPE kits and the like. We wanted to repay that gesture. Despite the awfulness of Covid-19, an intense time of collaboration has resulted. What we'd like to do from that is create a longer-term health relationship. Longer-term cooperation? Yes, on issues like antimicrobial resistance and resistance to antibiotics. What we would like to have is enhanced research on treating non-communicable diseases like diabetes. We were also talking to the Indian government this week about giving more value to the nursing profession. The UK has great expertise in nursing, and so actually a lot of Indian nurses work in the UK. We discussed the possibility of bringing back some of that expertise back to India. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/india-uk-at-pivotal-moment-of-enhanced-cooperation-says-alexander-ellis-1018090.html
10-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Office matters ||When I was faced with life’s challenges, I was lucky that I could approach competent people for help. For instance, the person to whom I am most indebted had graduated from a reputed institution and gained experience working in big corporate houses. His father initiated my interaction with his son, who will be referred to as X. Soon X and I communicated on a daily basis talking about our respective activities. One day I received a registered letter that I was supposed to officially act on but didn’t want to. Flustered, I approached X who had a simple solution. He said: “Madam, it’s so easy. Just say that when you opened the cover you found it empty and wondered why someone had mailed you an empty envelope.” On one of his visits to our office, X was an observer when some staff members were having a discussion. Later, he gave me his assessment of their outlook. On official matters, they were likely to say what they thought would please me rather than voice their true opinions. I found out soon enough that X’s forewarning was correct. The head of a sister institution had advised me, “you must act according to your values, madam. If you think something is wrong, it must be so. Take action. Keep an iron hand in a velvet glove.” That I wielded an iron hand seemed to have reached the ears of the powers-that-be. The-then health secretary, GOI, asked me, ”what do you eat that gives you so much courage” It hadn’t occurred to me to check on the motive behind the help someone had offered. “What is his interest in helping you?” queried my former school teacher. Egged on by some fellow staff, I was about to act when a timely phone call stopped me from defying written orders. My saviour told me that they would have watched the fun if the action were to be initiated against me. How to ensure that one doesn’t fall a victim to such ploys? “Stay legally in the clear. Then you gain confidence in what you are doing.”  I scrupulously followed the advice and ensured access to a legal mind at all times. I could even defy orders. “As a teacher, you reign supreme in your domain. You don’t have to follow orders which you consider contrary to the interests of what falls in your domain.” On relocating to Bengaluru, I continued my telephonic interactions with X. “Should I give the maid a raise that she is asking for?” I asked. X replied “Are you willing to let her go? If not, better give her the raise.” The happiness I used to sense in his greeting "a very good morning to you, madam” soon gave way to despondence as he recounted his fight against the disease that had struck him. Soon he ceased answering my phone calls, confirming the worst. “Rest in peace” was my last communication to X.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/office-matters-1018079.html
10-08-2021||Second Edit||Rise in dropouts a worrying sign||While the pandemic has adversely impacted almost everybody in one way or the other, perhaps the most worrisome consequence, to which not enough attention is being paid, is the rise in school and college dropouts, which will have a direct bearing on the quality of citizenry and human resources available in the future. While the Union Ministry of Education has issued some guidelines, a concrete action plan to bring dropouts back to the learning system is still missing. Globally, UNESCO has estimated that 24 million additional students and youth may drop out or not have access to schools due to the pandemic’s economic impact alone.  In Karnataka, NGOs have found several students working as casual labourers to augment the lost income of their poor parents. While it is estimated that about 20% of students pursuing higher education have discontinued their studies, mainly due to financial constraints, the Department of Collegiate Education claims it is not aware of this disturbing trend, which only points to the state government’s cavalier attitude to an issue that needs urgent attention. In its policy brief, the Right to Education Forum has estimated that 10 million girls in India could abandon secondary school due to the pandemic, which could disproportionately affect them by putting them at risk of early marriage and pregnancy, poverty and trafficking. Experts have also pointed out that it is important to ensure continuity of education as students tend to forget what they have studied in their previous class when there is a gap in learning. While a door-to-door survey has begun to identify dropouts based on the Centre’s guidelines, there is an immediate need for affirmative action at the ground level so that the situation does not deteriorate further. Though the disruptions in the education system were more than evident in the beginning of the year, the central budgetary allocation for the sector was cut by 6% compared to the previous fiscal. Karnataka has allocated 13% of its expenditure for education, as against the national average of 15.9%. It is imperative to increase the national spend on education to at least 6% of GDP, as has been repeatedly recommended and promised, from the current 3.1%. Even as the government focusses on bringing back dropouts, it should simultaneously ensure that existing students do not discontinue their studies by offering them financial assistance, providing technical and non-technical learning aids, house visits by teachers and volunteers and classroom-on-wheels to take education to the doorstep, among others. The issue needs to be tackled on a war footing to ensure that the gains made in providing universal access to education are not negated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/rise-in-dropouts-a-worrying-sign-1018082.html
10-08-2021||South||Former AIADMK minister Velumani booked by DVAC for abusing official position||AIADMK’s Coimbatore strongman S P Velumani, considered the eyes and ears of former Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, on Tuesday, came under the radar of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) which registered a case against him and conducted searches at over 60 premises belonging to him and his relatives.  The First Information Report (FIR) registered by the DVAC accuses Velumani, who ensured that the AIADMK-BJP alliance won all 10 assembly seats at stake in Coimbatore district despite facing a resurgent DMK, of indulging in “large-scale favouritism” by abusing his official position in awarding contracts to his close associates, including his elder brother P Anbarasan.  The FIR lists Velumani, Anbarasan, and 15 others, including individuals and companies, and unnamed officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and Coimbatore City Corporation (CCC) as accused. The FIR says Velumani allotted tenders worth Rs 464.02 crores from GCC and Rs 346.81 crores from CCC between 2014 and 2018 to his relatives by “misusing” his official powers.  The DVAC launched reinvestigation into the complaints against Velumani after the AIADMK regime closed the case. The Madras High Court had asked the state to spare no effort getting to the bottom of the matter and proceeding against those involved in irregularities.  The raids which began on Tuesday morning at 60 places related to Velumani, Anbarasan and others was wrapped up at around 7 pm. Sources said DVAC sleuths also questioned Velumani who was at the MLA’s hostel in Chennai.  “During the search proceedings, cash of Rs 13,08,500, documents related to land registration, transaction documents of business firms, fixed deposits to the tune of Rs 2 crores, official records of Corporation, electronic hard discs, and other incriminating documents were seized,” DVAC said in a statement. Even as the raids were underway, DVAC chief K Kandaswamy met Chief Minister M K Stalin and is understood to have briefed about the raids – so far two former AIADMK ministers have been raided. AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Palaniswami condemned the raids against Velumani and asked the DMK dispensation to focus on “welfare measures” rather than hounding party leaders. Velumani was the Municipal Administration Minister from 2014 to 2021 and emerged as the most powerful person next only to Palaniswami after the latter assumed office as Chief Minister in 2017. The FIR, a copy of which is available with DH, said the case was registered following a complaint by DMK MP R S Bharathi and anti-corruption NGO Arappor Iyakkam.  The FIR alleges that the turnover of the companies owned by Velumani’s relatives increased as much as 900 times after he took over as Municipal Administration Minister.  The document further states that prima facie it has been established with materials that Velumani entered a criminal conspiracy with “dishonest intentions” to “injudiciously” award tenders to various companies owned by his relatives by violating various established procedures. It also accuses the officials of blatantly violating all rules of business in the allocation of tenders. At Velumani’s residence in Coimbatore, one of the venues where raids are being conducted, over 100 AIADMK cadres gathered and protested the “political vendetta” of the new DMK dispensation.  The raids against Velumani were not surprising as he was the first in the list of corruption charges against the then AIADMK ministers that DMK submitted to Governor Banwarilal Purohit in December 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-aiadmk-minister-velumani-booked-by-dvac-for-abusing-official-position-1018159.html
10-08-2021||South||Kerala rolls out bio-bubble system for vacationers to revive Covid-hit tourism sector||In a bid to ensure a sustainable revival of the Covid-19-ravaged tourism industry, Kerala has introduced a bio-bubble model ensuring a protective layer from coronavirus to the tourists in the state. Ensuring Covid-free staff to handle tourists right from entry to the state till the destination is the highlight of the bio-bubble model. Already targeted vaccination drive at popular tourist destinations were on and Vythiri tourist spot at Wayanad achieved the status of a first fully vaccinated location. All hotel staffs and accredited cab operators have been administered the vaccine shot. Kerala Tourism director V R Krishna Teja told DH that the state tourism sector has already started getting a good response. As many as 200 bookings received for houseboats for the weekend is an indicator. The state's bio-bubble model aims at a sustainable revival of the tourism sector considering the fact that Covid will remain for more time. The bio-bubble model would ensure that the state's tourist destinations will remain protected from Covid even if the virus situation continues. Hence the tourism sector could be protected from further shutdown due to the pandemic. It would be ensured that there was no overcrowding at any tourist destination in the state, he said. The tourism sector was reopened after the lockdown on Monday with entry being restricted to those who have received at least one dose of Covid vaccine or those with a  RT-PCR test negative certificate, not older than 72 hours.  A tourist arriving in the state could now get assistance from vaccinated staff at airports, get cabs operated by vaccinated drivers or those with Covid negative certificate and stay at hotels with staff protected from Covid, said Teja. Kerala tourism minister Mohamed Riyad said in a statement that the state tourism's bio bubble model should be a model to other states. Tourists arriving in the state could be free from any anxiety over Covid-19 and engage in leisure activities. Kerala tourism industry was estimated to have suffered a revenue loss of over Rs. 30,000 crore owing to the pandemic. The livelihood of thousands of people, directly and indirectly, depending on the sector was also hit. The state government had also announced support schemes for the industry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-rolls-out-bio-bubble-system-for-vacationers-to-revive-covid-hit-tourism-sector-1018222.html
10-08-2021||South||BJP's move on OBC may bring relief to Kerala Left govt too||The move of the BJP government at the Centre to restore powers of state governments to identify Other Backward Classes has come at a time when the Left Front government in Kerala is caught up in a political row over the issue. The Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala decided to bring the Christian-Nadar community under OBC reservation just ahead of the recent Assembly polls. The decision was considered to have benefited the left front in the election at many seats, especially in state capital Thiruvananthapuram. But the Kerala High Court last week stayed the order citing that state governments do not have the power to include communities in the OBC list. The HC scrapped the state government's order citing the SC verdict in the Maratha reservation case also.  This had triggered allegations from Congress camps that the Left Front's decision to include the Christian-Nadar community in OBC was a political stunt to woo voters of the community. Though the state government filed an appeal against the single bench order, the HC division bench that considered it on Monday refused to stay the single bench order. It was in February, just ahead of the Assembly polls, that the Pinarayi Vijayan government decided to include the Christian Nadar community in the OBC list, a long pending demand of the community. Thiruvananthapuram is one of the strongholds of the community and the left front won 13 of the 14 Assembly seats in the district. Being an issue concerning a community the Congress is also not making open statements on the matter. Congress earlier faced criticisms for allegedly neglecting the demand. Sources said that in the present context if the power of states to identify OBC is restored, the Left Front government would be able to go ahead with its decision to include the Nadar Christian community in the OBC list. This would help the Left Front to further strengthen its relationship with the community that was so far considered as pro-Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjps-move-on-obc-may-bring-relief-to-kerala-left-govt-too-1018249.html
10-08-2021||South||Over 50% of India's Covid-19 cases in 7 days from Kerala||Kerala reported more than half of the total Covid-19 cases recorded in the country in the past seven days, the central government said on Tuesday. At a joint press briefing on the pandemic, an official said that 37 districts across nine states, including Kerala (11 districts) and Tamil Nadu (seven districts), were showing rising trend in daily new Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks. As many as 44 districts across 11 states and union territories reported a weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent, the official said. Kerala reported 51.51 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases recorded in India in past seven days, he said. According to the central government, the reproduction number that denotes the spread of Covid-19 was more than 1 in five states — Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The increasing trend of reproduction number in some states is cause of concern, although there is stabilisation in Covid-19 cases in the country, it said, adding there are significant reasons to enforce pandemic control measures. The government said Delta Plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been detected in 86 samples in India, including 34 in Maharashtra, as on August 9. India logged 28,204 new coronavirus infections, the lowest in 147 days, taking the total tally of cases to 3,19,98,158, while the active cases fell to 3,88,508, the lowest in 139 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,28,682 with 373 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-50-of-indias-covid-19-cases-in-7-days-from-kerala-1018268.html
10-08-2021||South||Viral vlogs may land Kerala vlogger brothers in more trouble||Two vlogger brothers from Kerala, who have so far been known for their viral travel videos, are now in the news for a series of wrong reasons ranging from causing a ruckus at traffic enforcement officials to road rule violations. Kannur natives Ebin and Libin, who run a popular YouTube channel 'E Bull Jet' landed in trouble after their vehicle was confiscated by the Kerala Transport Department officials the other day for unlawful modifications ranging from body colour change to oversized tyres, apart from non-payment of road tax. The two subsequently created unruly scenes in the transport department office on Monday and even allegedly threatened the enforcement officials. They also posted an emotional video on social media which drew many of their followers to the spot and allegedly joined the two in causing a ruckus. The vlogger brothers, who claimed themselves to be journalists, also alleged police excesses. The two were booked by the police for various offences including destruction of public property and obstructing officials from discharging duty. Though they obtained bail in the case on Tuesday, the enforcement agencies seem to be in no mood to let them go scot-free. Police and transport department sources said that the vloggers had earlier posted some videos of rashly driving their vehicles through other states, that too by sounding alarms. They could be also seen evading tolls at some places. The details of such instances were being traced and it would be reported to respective state authorities for necessary legal action, said sources. Meanwhile, the vlogger brothers were also inviting criticism on social media for their alleged unlawful acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/viral-vlogs-may-land-kerala-vlogger-brothers-in-more-trouble-1018346.html
10-08-2021||South||Budget session of Tamil Nadu Assembly from August 13 to September 21||The budget session of the Tamil Nadu Assembly which will begin on August 13 with the presentation of the revised Budget by Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan will conclude on September 21. The duration of the session was decided at the Business Advisory Council meeting chaired by Speaker M Appavu on Tuesday. Thiaga Rajan will present the state’s first e-budget at 10 am on Friday at the Kalaivanar Arangam here. Agriculture Minister M R K Panneerselvam will present the Agriculture Budget, the first for the state, on Saturday following which the debate on General and Agriculture Budget will begin from August 16. The reply will be given on August 19. From August 23, demands for grants for each department will be discussed and passed in the House. While Water Resources is the first department whose demands for grants will be taken up, Public Department and Special Projects Implementation will be the last to be taken up. Thiaga Rajan had on August 9 released a 112-page White Report on Tamil Nadu’s finances blaming “lack of political will and administrative skill” for the state getting into a “vicious cycle” of increasing debts. In a departure from the tradition, Thiaga Rajan is believed to have written a major part of the speech that he will deliver while presenting the Budget, raising expectations about the tabling of the financial document. It is believed that the Budget speech will have announcements regarding some of the DMK’s poll promises like Rs 1,000 as “rightful money” for women head of households.  Presentation of an e-budget will be the first step towards achieving a ‘paperless’ Tamil Nadu Assembly. The legislators will have to scroll through the PDF document on their screens as Thiaga Rajan flips through the pages reading out his maiden Budget speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/budget-session-of-tamil-nadu-assembly-from-august-13-to-september-21-1018350.html
10-08-2021||South||No Onam gatherings to be allowed in Kerala; TPR crosses 15%||Kerala government has decided to now allow any gatherings during the upcoming Onam festival season and has insisted on Covid vaccination or negative test certificate mandatory for Sabarimala pilgrims. The state government decided to tighten the restrictions as Covid TPR of the state again crossed the 15 per cent mark and reached 15.91 per cent on Tuesday. As the Onam festival approaches, experts had cautioned against the chances of a further surge in Covid cases in the state. A review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to strictly avoid gatherings during Onam festival that is hardly ten days away. The earlier norm that either vaccination certificate or 72 hours prior Covid negative test certificate was required even to go to shops was relaxed in view of resentment. As Sabarimala temple opens for monthly poooja on August 15, only those who took both doses of vaccination or with 72 hour prior Covid negative test certificate would be allowed darshan through the virtual queue system. With 21,119 fresh cases being reported on Tuesday, the number of active cases in the state reached 1.71 lakh. As part of enhancing the vaccination drive, 20 lakh dose vaccines would be procured for private hospitals in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-onam-gatherings-to-be-allowed-in-kerala-tpr-crosses-15-1018374.html
10-08-2021||South||Kerala district logs over 5,000 breakthrough Covid-19 cases||In a curious case, one district in Kerala has reported more than 5,000 cases of Covid-19 reinfections after two doses of the vaccine, prompting the central government to initiate a probe into the dynamics of the disease at Pathanamthitta. The district in southern Kerala reported 5,042 cases of Covid-19 reinfections after two doses of the vaccine, Sujit Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control, here said at a press conference. The Centre sought information from the state on the severity of the disease for such individuals and how much time had elapsed after their second dose to determine if these cases fit into the description of breakthrough infections. Breakthrough infections are those that happened two weeks after the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccination. Also, nearly 15,000 people were infected in Pathanamthitta after the first shot. While more than 51 per cent of last week’s total cases come from Kerala, the officials are worried about upcoming Onam festivities, which last year had triggered Kerala’s upward journey in the Covid-19 trajectory. With the state reporting a reproduction number of 1.12, the Malabar state may report an additional 4.62 lakh new cases between August 1 and August 20. Nearly 55 per cent people in the state are still vulnerable as the seropositivity is just about 44 per cent, according to the ICMR’s latest sero-survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-district-logs-over-5000-breakthrough-covid-19-cases-1018376.html
10-08-2021||South||P R Sreejesh receives a rousing reception at his home town Kochi||Indian hockey goalkeeper P R Sreejesh received a rousing reception at his home town Kochi in Kerala on Tuesday. Sreejesh, who is a resident of Kizhakambalam in the suburbs of the city, was taken to his home from Cochin international airport in an open vehicle on his arrival after winning the Olympics bronze medal. State sports minister V Abdurahiman received him on behalf of the state government and accompanied him in the roadshow. Thousands of fans thronged the streets to greet Sreejesh. Meanwhile, the delay on the part of the state government in announcing reward for Sreejesh triggered resentment from sports personalities. Kerala education minister V Sivankutty told the Assembly on Tuesday that the next cabinet meeting would announce a befitting honour of the state government for Sreejesh. Already various forums and even individuals announced rewards to Sreejesh. NRI businessman from Kerala Dr Shamsheer Vayalil announced a reward of Rs 1 crore to him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/p-r-sreejesh-receives-a-rousing-reception-at-his-home-town-kochi-1018387.html
10-08-2021||State||BJP reorganisation on the cards after leadership change||Following the long-drawn process of easing out B S Yediyurappa from the chief minister’s post, the state BJP unit is now looking at a rejig in its ranks. According to sources, the rejig will likely be affected ahead of the upcoming Legislative Assembly election in 2023. Among the party posts that could be changed include its president and general secretaries who play a key role in party organisation at the ground level. Though Yediyurappa could not ensure his son and BJP vice-president B Y Vijayendra’s induction into the Cabinet, the party sources say that Yediyurappa will pull some strings to ensure a key position to his son in the party unit. “Right now, Vijayendra is vice-president of the state unit - which technically is below the post of president and general secretary. He wanted to be the general secretary the last time the state party unit was reorganised, which was struck down by the high command. Now, after Yediyurappa’s resignation as CM, Vijayendra is bound to stake a claim on a more prominent position in the state unit,” a source said. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel is also expected to be on his way out, and former minister and MLA Arvind Limbavali could be his replacement. “Limbavali - who was part of Yediyurappa Cabinet - was among the ministers dropped under Bommai, even though he was minister for just six months. Since Limbavali is an organisation man, he was removed only after assurance of a better position,” a BJP functionary said. Limbavali, along with BJP general secretary C T Ravi, emerged front-runners to head state BJP unit last time, before the high command surprised everyone by picking Dakshina Kannada MP Kateel. However, the party office-bearers say that they are confident that any rejig of the state unit will only be after it completes the three-year term. “It’s been just over a year since the current unit took charge. I don’t think any change of state unit is on the cards as Kateel and the rest of the unit is doing amazing work,” an office-bearer, under the condition of anonymity, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-reorganisation-on-the-cards-after-leadership-change-1018366.html
10-08-2021||State||SSLC student ends life over low marks||A student, who had obtained low marks in the SSLC examination, ended her life at Lokapur in Mudhol taluk in the district on Tuesday.  Ishwarya Shankara Barakera (16) took the extreme step when no one was at the house, her mother Shanthavva stated in a complaint registered with the police.  Ishwarya was living with her mother at Bhovi Galli in the village. Her father had passed away ten years ago. Her mother is a lime seller.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sslc-student-ends-life-over-low-marks-1018373.html
10-08-2021||State||Give reservation benefits to Panchamasalis: Seer demands govt||Kudalasangama-based Panchamasali Mutt Seer Jagadguru Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami threatened that he would launch an agitation in Freedom Park, Bengaluru from October 1 if the state government fails to add the Panchamasali community under the 2A category before September as it promised.  Speaking to media persons, here on Tuesday evening, he said the Centre has decided to restore the power of states to prepare a list of backward classes. So, the BJP-led government in Karnataka must provide 2 A category reservation benefits to the Panchamasali community without fail.  Welcoming the passage of The 127th Constitution Amendment Bill 2021 in Lok Sabha, the seer said the bill aims to clear a constitutional amendment that aims to restore the power of states to identify backward castes. With this, the state government gets the power to provide reservation benefits to backward classes. So, the government must collect a report from Backward Classes Commission and accord reservation benefits to the community, the seer demanded.   Recalling the past, the seer said the then chief minister B S Yediyurappa had promised in the assembly that reservation benefits would be given to the community in six months when padayatra was taken out from Bidar. Now, Basavaraj Bommai who had convinced Yediyurappa in this regard has become chief minister. Bommai, who became legislator thrice, has the responsibility of expressing gratitude to the community by including it under the 2A category in a month.  The seer said a meeting of the Panchamasali community agitation committee will be held in Hubballi on August 12 and the next course of action will be decided there. Panchamasali pratijna panchayat abhiyan will be organised across the state from August 26 to 30 and it will start from Male Mahadeshwara temple, Chamarajnagar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/give-reservation-benefits-to-panchamasalis-seer-demands-govt-1018378.html
10-08-2021||State||Karnataka plans to build 1400 check dams in Western Ghats: Madhuswamy||The Karnataka government plans to build 1400 check dams in the Western Ghats to store water, Minor Irrigation Minister J C Madhuswamy said on Monday. Madhuswamy, who met Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in Delhi, told reporters that the state government sought money from the Centre for this project. Since it is a massive project, the Centre's assistance would help to complete it at the earliest, the Minister said. Through these mini dams, the government planned to store water generated in the Western Ghats which currently goes to sea, the Minister said. Besides, the state also sought money to provide piped water supply to individual households under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM). He said a total of Rs 3500 crore was sought from the Jal Shakti Ministry under various centrally sponsored schemes. The Union Minister positively responded to the state plea, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-plans-to-build-1400-check-dams-in-western-ghats-madhuswamy-1018395.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Bommai to seek BJP high command's help to counter dissident voices||As all efforts to assuage the disgruntled leaders upset over the cabinet portfolio allocation seems to be failing, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is preparing to visit New Delhi to find a solution to quell the dissidence in the party. Bommai has already announced that he would be making a Delhi trip over the issue of Mekedatu in the coming week. The party insiders said that meeting party high command over rising dissidence is also one among the top agendas of Bommai's Delhi trip. He is going to convey the message that it is not possible to quell the dissidence at the state level and party high command should intervene, they added. Bommai already held a first round of talks with MTB Nagaraj, the minister for Municipal Administration who has been venting out in public that he did not get what he wished for. "I have been demoted by the BJP government. If nothing changes, I will take my call," he stated. MTB Nagaraj resigned as a cabinet minister from the Congress-JD (S) coalition government to join the BJP. Anand Singh, a three-time MLA from Vijayanagar, has made his displeasure public as soon as he was allocated the Tourism portfolio. Party sources said he is simmering with discontent and even contemplating resigning. "I was the first one to resign from the Assembly to bring the BJP to power. Eight days later everyone followed. Is there no contribution from me to the party," he questioned. MTB Nagaraj is the richest man in the cabinet and Anand Singh is also quite resourceful, Bommai is trying hard to convince them but they seem to be not relenting, say sources. In another development, prominent Backward Class leader B. Sriramulu ironically stated that he is neither satisfied nor disappointed with the allocation of cabinet berth. Sriramulu's supporters staged a protest in Ballary alleging that their leader was snubbed by the party. Senior party leader from Mysuru A. Ramdas did not turn out to welcome Bommai, when he took charge as the Chief Minister. Sources in the party confirmed that even as Bommai tried to get in touch, Ramdas has avoided it. Senior BJP leader Apachu Ranjan's followers are planning a car rally from Madikeri to Bengaluru to protest against the non-inclusion of their leader into the cabinet. Meanwhile, former minister C.P. Yogeshwar has camped in New Delhi to meet top leaders over the issue of non allocation of cabinet berth. He is expected to stay in Delhi for two days. If the high command hears him out, then all other disgruntled elements would parade to New Delhi, party sources said. In another important development, powerful BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi, who was dropped from the cabinet following the sex-cd case when B.S. Yediyurappa was the Chief Minister, had been meeting former Chief Minister Jagadish Shettar. Shettar declined a cabinet berth as he called Bommai his junior. BJP MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi, brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi has been trying to arrange a meeting of former minister C.P. Yogeshwar, Chief Minister aspirants Aravind Bellad, Basavanagouda Patil Yatnal, former minister Sreemanth Patil and MLA Mahesh Kumatalli. Party sources also said that Balachandra Jarkiholi is in touch with Yediyurappa's son B.Y. Vijayendra. State intelligence has briefed about all these developments to Bommai. Party sources explained that he has decided to deal with the situation without giving any room for further developments. Sources further stated that Bommai would discuss counter strategy to deal with the existing situation, including reallocation of ministries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-bommai-to-seek-bjp-high-commands-help-to-counter-dissident-voices-1018171.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bans practice of giving gifts during government events||The Basavaraj Bommai administration on Tuesday banned the practice of giving gifts and memorabilia during government events.  As an alternative, Kannada books can be given.  Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar issued a circular on this following an order by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. During the day, Bommai refused to accept a bouquet at a review meeting with senior police officers, calling it “unnecessary expenditure”. He said the practice of giving gifts in the name of protocol should be done away with.  Accordingly, Kumar’s circular asks all department heads and government undertakings to comply with Bommai’s instruction without fail. “It is hereby directed that any form of gifts, bouquets, garlands, cockades, fruit baskets, shawls and memorabilia should not be given at events and meetings conducted by the state government and government-run institutions,” Kumar stated.  On August 6, after he was sworn-in, Energy and Kannada & Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar made an appeal asking people to not give him gifts. He asked for Kannada books that he could donate to a library in his Karkala constituency. He is said to have received hundreds of books in response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bans-practice-of-giving-gifts-during-government-events-1018184.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||K S Eshwarappa sparks row with expletive against Congress leaders, apologises later||In a fresh low in public discourse, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa on Tuesday belted out a Kannada expletive at Congress leaders. Eshwarappa quickly withdrew his words even as Congress demanded Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to take action.  The minister was responding to a comment made against him by Congress leaders on Tuesday. The retaliation was specifically to Congress leader B K Hariprasad, who quipped that Eshwarappa should change his name to "Mera Naam Joker" as the minister often made controversial statements.  However, Eshwarappa quickly backtracked and stated that he was withdrawing the usage of the expletive. "I take back the expletive. You told me about the comment that was made against me and I hit back. It was a spur of the moment comment," Eshwarappa said, urging reporters not to "make a big deal of it".   The minister went on to add that Congress leaders made off-the-cuff remarks without thinking. "Take Siddaramaiah, for instance. Recently, he dared the BJP to announce a Dalit chief minister. The Congress was in power since independence. Why didn't they make a Dalit as CM? Who is the joker? Congress, BJP or Eshwarappa?" he said, alleging that the Congress thought of Dalits only as vote bank. He also pointed out that the Union Cabinet had 27 OBCs and 20 Dalits. "Has this ever happened before?" NSUI workers staged a protest outside Eshwarappa's Vasanthnagar house.  "Speaking vulgarly about opposition leaders shows Eshwarappa's culture," Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said. "Bouquets and brickbats are common in a democracy. Those in power should learn to receive them both."  Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said, "The entire state is watching these kind of statements made by BJP leaders. Let's see what the CM does about Eshwarappa." Meanwhile, Congress' Hariprasad, Ramalinga Reddy and M Narayanaswamy demanded that Eshwarappa be removed from Cabinet for his recent 'hate speech' in Shivamogga. "An FIR must be registered against him," they demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/k-s-eshwarappa-sparks-row-with-expletive-against-congress-leaders-apologises-later-1018273.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basavaraj Bommai directs police to be vigilant in border districts||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday gave a slew of directions to the police including tight vigil in the districts bordering with neighbouring states where the Covid-19 cases are on rise, zero tolerance towards crime and crackdown on drug cases. Hailing the police force in the state for their exemplary work during a review meeting at the Vidhana Soudha, Bommai directed the officials to create a peaceful environment in the state. The Chief Minister laid emphasis on containing Covid-19 to avoid the third wave. “Action has to be taken to prevent the possible Covid third wave. Precautions have to be taken at the border districts. Senior officers will have to work more responsibly. Inspection at the check posts in borders will be mandatory,” a statement issued by the chief minister's office said. Noting that crime is like a virus, Bommai directed officials to bring the crime rate under control and curtail it strongly. In this regard, he told officers that maintaining Law and Order was his government's first priority. He also asked them to prevent crimes related to land disputes. Bommai also told officers that the fight against narcotics and drugs will continue. He directed them to take strict action across the state. The Chief Minister also asked the police officials to strengthen the internal security division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basavaraj-bommai-directs-police-to-be-vigilant-in-border-districts-1018281.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 1,338 new Covid-19 cases, 31 deaths||Karnataka has reported 1,338 new cases of Covid-19 and 31 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,21,049 and death toll to 36,848, the Health Department said on Tuesday. The day also saw 1,947 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,61,499. Out of 1,338 new cases reported on Tuesday, 315 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 492 discharges and 3 deaths. Total number of active cases in the state stood at 22,676. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.05 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.31 per cent. Out of 31 deaths reported on Tuesday, 8 were from Dakshina Kannada followed by Uttara Kannada (4), Bengaluru Urban and Hassan (3), Kolar and Mysuru (2), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 378, followed by Bengaluru Urban (315), Chikkamagaluru (93), Udupi (92) and others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,31,097, followed by Mysuru 1,74,081 and Tumakuru 1,18,343. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,06,980, followed by Mysuru 1,70,545 and Tumakuru 1,16,415. Cumulatively, a total of 4,01,04,915 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,26,400 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-1338-new-covid-19-cases-31-deaths-1018327.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Party workers miffed with Gowda-Bommai meeting: MLA||Hassan BJP MLA Preetham Gowda, who is miffed with Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, said on Tuesday that the habit of his party leaders meeting their counterparts in the JD(S) or others, would hurt party workers. Speaking to reporters, Preetham said that he had met Bommai earlier in the day and had conveyed the feelings of BJP workers in the old Mysuru region over the CM's meeting with JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda. "In politics, it is okay to meet (Opposition leaders) after one or two months or as a courtesy call, or for (discussion) on issues regarding land, water or language. But party workers questioned whether the meeting was required within 24 hours (of Bommai taking charge). If party workers want to raise this question, they can't enter the Vidhana Soudha and do so. As their representative, I have raised their question," he said, after meeting Bommai. "Not only CM, let any ministers visit JD(S) leaders and have lunch or snacks. But, when it comes to constituency, district and politics, the habit of visiting JD(S) or other leaders will hurt BJP karyakartas," he said.  Apart from Bommai, Revenue Minister R Ashoka was present in the meeting. Preetham said that the CM has assured him that the government and the party will work together, and none of the party workers would be left aggrieved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/party-workers-miffed-with-gowda-bommai-meeting-mla-1018363.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka likely to drop 'false' cases against right-wingers||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday hinted that his government would continue to drop “false” cases lodged against pro-Hindu activists and BJP workers. Bommai was responding to Social Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary’s petition to the government on withdrawing “false” cases that have been filed targeting BJP and pro-Hindu workers in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and other parts of the state. “[Poojary’s] petition is to withdraw politically-motivated cases that were filed by previous governments,” he said. “In the last two years, we have already withdrawn some cases not just against BJP workers, but also those that were unnecessarily filed against farmers and pro-Kannada activists,” he said, adding that more cases will be reviewed for withdrawal as per the High Court and Supreme Court directions. Bommai also defended RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa’s “hit back” statement. “What he said is not inflammatory. He merely recalled the attacks on our party workers in the past,” he said. “The atrocities and murders that took place during previous governments in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Karwar and Sirsi... workers from one party and organisation were killed openly. He spoke in that pain,” Bommai said. Bommai served as the home minister since 2019, until his elevation as chief minister late last month. In his meeting with police officials, Bommai directed them to take all measures to prevent the third wave of Covid-19. Precautions have to be taken at the border districts and inspection at border checkposts is mandatory, he told them. He also asked them to strengthen law and order, be citizen friendly and implement welfare programmes for the uniformed personnel. Officials have been asked to stringently check the crime rate in the state. Gambling, dark web and other illegal activities must be controlled, he said.  “I have also given clear instruction that there should not be any nexus between the police and the land mafia,” Bommai said. “We have already taken action and some officials have been suspended. We will take further stringent action.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-likely-to-drop-false-cases-against-right-wingers-1018365.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Stuntman death: New norms soon, says Karnataka CM||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the government would issue fresh orders on safety norms to be followed by the film industry, after a stuntman died on the sets of an upcoming movie on Monday. “Such incidents are coming to light. There are norms already, but some are not following them. We will issue norms with more clarity that make it easy to obtain the necessary permissions, while ensuring that no one indulges in such activities without the requisite clearances," Bommai told reporters. The fresh orders will be issued in a day or two “keeping all things in mind,” he added.  Vivek, the 35-year-old stuntman, died of electrocution on the sets of Love You Rachu in Jogenahalli near Bidadi. He came in contact with a high-tension wire while performing a stunt. In 2016, two stuntmen Uday and Anil drowned while performing an action scene for the film Maasthi Gudi at the Thippagondanahalli reservoir.  Meanwhile the director, fight master and crane operator on duty during the shooting have been remanded into 14 days judicial custody by a local court. Producer Gurudeshpande and production manager Fernandes have absconded the police have launched a hunt to trace them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stuntman-death-new-norms-soon-says-karnataka-cm-1018368.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||With more than 400 SSLC toppers, laptops a new worry for KSEEB||The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB), which declared the results of Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations just a day ago, has a new worry. The Free Laptop scheme of the Board for first three SSLC toppers in each district has more expenditure, as more students hit the spot this year. As per the data available from the Board, more than 400 students are in the list to receive the laptops this year. According to the officials, this will cause financial burden for the Board. According to sources, the KSEEB spends Rs 43,000 per laptop. “Every year, that number would be around 100, and this year, we need to think about it as the number of students securing first, second and third place in each district itself, is more,” added an official. The SSLC 2021 results were announced on Monday and as many as 157 students scored 625 out of 625. The previous year, this number was just six. Competition is the same even for the second spot, with 289 students securing 623 for 625, and this number was 43 last year. The third place has only two students who scored 622, but this number is likely to go up. “In some districts, if there is no student with the score of 622, then we should consider those who have secured 621,” the official mentioned. When asked about this, S R Umashankar, principal secretary of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education, said, “These are all administrative decisions and will take time.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/with-more-than-400-sslc-toppers-laptops-a-new-worry-for-kseeb-1018370.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||100% waste collection in 98% wards, govt tells NGT||The Karnataka government has informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that out of 6,902 wards in the urban local bodies in the state, 6,764 (98 per cent) wards have achieved 100 per cent door-to-door collection of waste while 5,395 (78 per cent) wards have achieved 100 per cent source segregation. A total of 313 urban local bodies with 6,902 wards having 2.36 core population in the state generate 11,085 tonnes of municipal solid waste per day, including wet and dry waste. In this, 10,662 tonnes of waste is being collected every day, the state informed the Green Bench. Earlier, the Tribunal had asked all the states, including Karnataka, to submit details about the implementation of solid, plastic, biomedical waste management rules in urban local bodies and gram panchayats. A total of 5,876 tonnes of waste is being processed generating 672 tonnes of city compost and 158.16 cubic meter biogas. Efforts are being taken to sell the city compost through the Agriculture Department, the state said in the affidavit. The government also informed that has plans to establish two waste and energy plants to handle 800-tonne non-recycled combustible dry waste in the state with one jointly by BBMP and KPCL and another by NTPC. The affidavit also said that as per estimate, 1.5 crore tonnes of legacy waste exist in the state in 26 cities with one lakh population. The government also informed the Green Bench that it has planned a total of 178 faecal sludge and septage management (FSSM) plants with a capacity to treat 1,369 KLD of septage with an estimated cost of about Rs 350 crore in non-UGD towns as an interim measure till UGD systems are established in these urban local bodies. “In the first phase of the implementation, 46 FSSM plants are planned in which the detailed project reports of 30 FSSM plants are ready for approval,” the state said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/100-waste-collection-in-98-wards-govt-tells-ngt-1018371.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||2A category tag: Panchamasali seer threatens agitation||Kudalasangama-based Panchamasali Mutt Seer Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami has threatened to launch an agitation in Freedom Park, Bengaluru from October 1 if the state government fails to being Panchamasali community under 2A category before September. Speaking to media persons on Tuesday evening, the seer said the Centre had decided to restore the power of states to prepare a list of backward classes. So, the BJP-led government in Karnataka must provide 2A category status to Panchamasali community without fail, he demanded.  The seer said previous chief minister B S Yediyurappa had promised in the Assembly that reservation benefits would be given to the community in six months when padayatra was taken out from Bidar. Now, Basavaraj Bommai who had convinced Yediyurappa in this regard, has become chief minister. "Bommai, who became legislator thrice, has the responsibility of expressing gratitude to the community by including it under 2A category in a month," he said. The seer said a meeting of  Panchamasali community agitation committee will be held in Hubballi on August 12 for deciding next course of action||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2a-category-tag-panchamasali-seer-threatens-agitation-1018372.html
10-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||100% waste collection in 98% wards of ULBs, Karnataka government tells NGT||The Karnataka government has informed the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that out of 6,902 wards in the urban local bodies (ULBs) in the state, 6,764 (98 per cent) wards have achieved 100 per cent door-to-door collection of waste while 5,395 (78 per cent) wards have achieved 100 per cent source segregation. A total of 313 urban local bodies with 6,902 wards having 2.36 core population in the state generate 11,085 tonnes of municipal solid waste per day, including wet and dry waste. In this, 10,662 tonnes of waste is being collected every day, the state informed the Green Bench. Earlier, the Tribunal had asked all the states, including Karnataka, to submit details about the implementation of solid, plastic, biomedical waste management rules in urban local bodies and gram panchayats. A total of 5,876 tonnes of waste is being processed generating 672 tonnes of city compost and 158.16 cubic meter biogas. Efforts are being taken to sell the city compost through the Agriculture Department, the state said in the affidavit. The government also informed that has plans to establish two waste and energy plants to handle 800-tonne non-recycled combustible dry waste in the state with one jointly by BBMP and KPCL and another by NTPC. The affidavit also said that as per estimate, 1.5 crore tonnes of legacy waste exist in the state in 26 cities with one lakh population. The government also informed the Green Bench that it has planned a total of 178 faecal sludge and septage management (FSSM) plants with a capacity to treat 1,369 KLD of septage with an estimated cost of about Rs 350 crore in non-UGD towns as an interim measure till UGD systems are established in these urban local bodies. “In the first phase of the implementation, 46 FSSM plants are planned in which the detailed project reports of 30 FSSM plants are ready for approval,” the state said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/100-waste-collection-in-98-wards-of-ulbs-karnataka-government-tells-ngt-1018397.html
10-08-2021||West||Maharashtra govt planning more relaxations in Covid-19 curbs: Official||Maharashtra Covid task force on Monday discussed the possibility of granting more relaxations in Covid-19 curbs while observing precautions, an official said, adding the government is identifying new areas and preparing guidelines. The meeting of the task force, held in the evening, was attended by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, state Covid task force head Dr Sanjay Oak and other members. “The Maharashtra government is now preparing new guidelines after receiving various suggestions and instructions from doctors, experts and government departments. The focus of the discussion (in the meeting) was basically on how to introduce further relaxations while observing precautions,” said a state government official, who attended the meeting. He said the government is listing down new areas where more relaxation can be introduced. The task force also discussed issues related to tackling of a projected third wave of the pandemic, requirement of medical oxygen, increasing the pace of vaccination, effective implementation of tracing and tracking among others, he said. The state government had excluded malls, cinema halls, theatres, religious places and religious gatherings from the purview of the relaxations introduced last Monday. The government had allowed shops to function till 8 pm in 25 districts excluding 11 districts where level-3 restrictions continue to remain in force due to a higher Covid-19 positivity rate. Restaurant owners, malls and other establishments are demanding that the government extend the current timings. Artists also demanded that theatres be allowed to function with restrictions. Thackeray had also said that the Covid-19 situation in Pune, Ahmednagar, Solapur, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, and Beed districts was a cause of concern. Maharashtra on Monday reported 4,505 new coronavirus positive cases and 68 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 63,57,833 and the toll to 1,34,064, the state health department said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-planning-more-relaxations-in-covid-19-curbs-official-1018092.html
10-08-2021||West||Court acquits man accused of flashing minor girl||A court here in Maharashtra has acquitted a 32-year-old man accused of flashing a minor girl in 2014, while observing that the prosecution failed to prove the case against him. Additional Sessions Judge K D Shirbhate passed the order on August 3 and a copy of it was made available on Tuesday. According to the prosecution, the man, a resident of Lokmanya Nagar in Thane city, reportedly flashed the 13-year-old girl residing in his neighbourhood on April 9, 2014. A case was later registered against the man under Indian Penal Code Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The judge in her order noted that the FIR was registered on April 11, 2014 and the statement of the victim was recorded on March 7, 2016. It appears the investigating officer has not investigated the matter properly and not appeared before the court to lead the evidence, the judge said. Without corroborative evidence to the deposition of the victim, her evidence cannot be relied upon, she said. Considering the facts and circumstances of the present case, the prosecution has failed to prove the charges against the accused. Thus, the accused is entitled for the order of acquittal, the judge said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/court-acquits-man-accused-of-flashing-minor-girl-1018151.html
10-08-2021||West||Tejpal case: Judiciary failed victim, country needs to know how, Tushar Mehta to Bombay HC||The judiciary as an institution has failed to mete justice to a rape victim, who had approached the Court with a complaint, specific allegations, precise facts and corroborative evidence and the country needs to know the reasons why, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday, while making a case for appeal against the acquittal of the former Tehelka editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal in a rape case filed in 2013 by a junior colleague. Commenting on a plea for in-camera trial by Tejpal's counsel Amit Desai, Mehta also broke down a colloquial phrase related to "removal of clothes" suggesting that while in court, a rapist is also stripped off his clothes, which is why his lawyers offer plea for in-camera proceedings. "The way in which our institution has failed, I am using every word not only with sincerity, but with a sense of responsibility. Our institution has failed, leaving an inevitable impression upon all victims of sexual violence or sexual onslaught that it has a deterrent effect among those who are potential victims," Mehta told Justices Sunil Deshkmukh and Mahesh Sonak of the Bombay High Court bench in Goa. "They (sexual assault victims) would not come before your lordship or not come before the Court of law. The country has a right to know what happened with the girl who came to the Court with the complaint, specific allegations, precise facts, pleaded proved with corroborating evidence," said the Solicitor General of India, who is representing the Goa government in the appeal case.  A junior colleague at Tehelka had accused Tejpal of allegedly raping her twice at a five-star resort in Goa. In May this year, a Goa Court had acquitted Tejpal of all charges levelled against under sections 376 (rape), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement) 354A (sexual harassment) and 354B (criminal assault), of the Indian Penal Code, following which the Goa government had filed an appeal against the acquittal before the Bombay High Court. Tejpal's counsel, Desai, while cautioning against commenting against the judiciary "just because the Government of Goa did not appreciate the outcome" of the case, also pleaded for an in-camera hearing of the appeal hearing, arguing that the trial itself was conducted in-camera. Responding to the request made by Desai, Mehta offered a cryptic response. "...I must say and this is not my argument, this is on the lighter side. Your lordships are aware my lord, in colloquial terms, there are two ways of removing clothes... a. Accused removes literally the clothes of the victim (in case of rape) and when the accused faces those allegations in a court of law, his clothes are being removed and therefore requests come to hold it in-camera," Mehta said.   "Here incidentally on the lighter side, even the evidence has been recorded in-camera. It is captured in camera and we are relying upon CCTV camera," Mehta said, referring to hotel CCTV footage which has been cited on numerous occasions by the defence and prosecution lawyers during the trial to make their case. The next hearing in the appeal is scheduled for August 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tejpal-case-judiciary-failed-victim-country-needs-to-know-how-tushar-mehta-to-bombay-hc-1018202.html
10-08-2021||West||Empty liquor bottles found in Maharashtra secretariat; govt orders probe||Several empty liquor bottles were found dumped in a duct in the Maharashtra secretariat complex in south Mumbai on Tuesday, prompting the state government to order a probe. The bottles were found lying under the staircase leading to the canteen on the ground floor of the Mantralaya, where offices of the chief minister, ministers, the chief secretary and other bureaucrats are located. The incident has raised questions about the apparent loopholes in the security system at the state government's seat of power. Speaking to a regional news channel on the incident, Minister of State for General Administration Dattatray Bharane suspected the role of private contractors and labourers who visit the Mantralaya for some construction works in bringing in the liquor bottles. “It is my personal opinion that the bottles could have been brought inside the Mantralaya by employees of some private contractors carrying out various works in the premises. I will inform state home minister Dilip Walse Patil about the dumping of liquor bottles on the premises of the state administrative headquarters,” he said. Bharne said a detailed investigation will be conducted and the guilty will face stringent action. "No person can indeed enter the Mantralaya without a valid pass issued by security officials," he said when asked whether the incident is a security lapse. Maharashtra BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye slammed the Shiv Sena-led MVA government over the incident. “This government has a soft corner for liquor business which is not hidden from anyone. It is disgusting to see so many liquor bottles lying in the Mantralaya," he said. Upadhye said the then BJP government had banned the sale and distribution of liquor in the Chandrapur district in east Maharashtra but the MVA dispensation has reversed that decision. "Even during the COVID-19 lockdown, this government has opened liquor shops before introducing relaxations to other shops and services,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/empty-liquor-bottles-found-in-maharashtra-secretariat-govt-orders-probe-1018232.html
10-08-2021||West||Throwing love chit on married woman amounts to outraging her modesty, says Bombay HC||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court has observed that throwing a chit professing love for a married woman amounts to outraging her modesty and imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the accused while directing it to be paid to the victim as compensation. Hearing the matter on August 4, Justice Rohit Deo said the very act of throwing a chit on a married woman, that professes love for her and contains poetic verses, is "sufficient to outrage her modesty". The Akola sessions court had earlier convicted the accused, Shrikrushna Tawari, under Indian Penal Code Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and sentenced him to two years of rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 40,000, of which Rs 35,000 was to be paid as compensation to the victim. The 45-year-old victim had on October 4, 2011 lodged a complaint at the Civil Lines police station in Akola, alleging that on October 3 that year the accused, who owned a grocery shop in their neighbourhood, approached her when she was washing utensils and tried to hand over a chit. When the woman refused to accept the chit, the applicant threw it on her and left muttering “I love you”. The next day, he made obscene gestures and warned her not to disclose the contents of the note to anyone, the woman alleged. She also alleged that the accused had flirted with her on several occasions and used to throw small pebbles at her. On the basis of contents of the chit and other material on record, the Akola sessions court had held the accused guilty of offences punishable under IPC Sections 354, 506 (criminal intimidation) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman). The accused challenged the sessions court verdict by filing a criminal revision application, contending the victim had filed a false complaint, and approached the HC. Justice Deo while hearing the matter said the very act of throwing a chit on a 45-year-old married woman, that professes love for her and contains poetic verses, albeit extremely, purely written, is "sufficient to outrage her modesty". "The modesty of a woman is her most precious jewel and there cannot be a straitjacket formula to ascertain whether modesty is outraged," he observed. Justice Deo further said he had no reason to disbelieve the victim's evidence that the applicant threw a chit on her containing objectionable material. No fault can be found with the concurrent finding that the applicant did outrage her modesty. The evidence of the victim that the applicant used to flirt, make gestures like pouting of lips, and on occasions hit her with small pebbles is confidence inspiring and in exercise of revisional jurisdiction, he noted. The high court observed that the accused deserves a chance to reform and further incarceration is not likely to be of any avail, as he has already undergone 45 days of incarceration. Moreover, considering the date of the incident and commission of offence, as the provisions of law stood then, there was no minimum sentence provided for offence punishable under Section 354 of the IPC, it said. The high court, however, enhanced the fine amount by Rs 50,000 to total Rs 90,000, to be deposited in the trial court and paid as compensation to the victim, and disposed of the plea. The HC further said the trial magistrate shall ensure the victim is made aware of this judgement, and the enhanced fine is duly paid to her or to her legal heirs, if, due to death or any other reason, the victim is not available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/throwing-love-chit-on-married-woman-amounts-to-outraging-her-modesty-says-bombay-hc-1018254.html
10-08-2021||West||Ayurveda proponent, spiritual leader Balaji Tambe dies||Dr Shri Balaji Tambe, a well-known spiritual leader who was also an Ayurveda doctor and proponent of Yoga, died at a private hospital here on Tuesday following a brief illness, sources close to his family said. He was 81. The founder of 'Atmasantulana Village', a holistic healing centre near Lonavala, Dr Tambe had written several books on spirituality, Yoga and Ayurveda. He is survived by wife, two sons and daughters-in-law as well as four granddaughters. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray condoled his death, saying with the help of Ayurveda and Yoga, he brought about change in many people's lives. "With the demise of Dr Tambe, we have lost a true proponent of Ayurveda, Yoga. His contribution will be remembered," said Thackeray. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari also expressed grief over Tambe's death. "Saddened to know about the demise of Ayurvedacharya Shri Balaji Tambe. He dedicated his entire life to promote and popularize Ayurveda and Yoga. Through his lucid writings and talks he showed the path of an exalted and healthy life to the people of all ages till last," Koshyari said in his message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ayurveda-proponent-spiritual-leader-balaji-tambe-dies-1018267.html
10-08-2021||West||Gujarat petrol pump offers free fuel to people named 'Neeraj' to celebrate Olympic gold medal win||To celebrate Indian javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra's gold medal win in the recently held Tokyo Olympics, a petrol pump in Gujarat's Bharuch district offered free fuel to people sharing his first name. The petrol pump, located in Netrang town, also put up a poster, asking people to avail the offer by showing their ID card, following which 28 people having the name 'Neeraj' received free petrol worth Rs 501 at the facility, the fuel pump owner told PTI. Nirajsinh Solanki of the nearby Kosamba town, who was one of the lucky customers, said, "I came to Netrang after one of my friends informed me about the offer. It is a matter of great pride that I share my name with someone who won a gold medal for our country in the Olympics." Another lucky customer Niraj Patel, of Netrang town, said "I appreciate this wonderful gesture of the petrol pump owner. Neeraj Chopra made every Indian proud and it's my sheer luck that I share my name with such a talented sports personality." Meanwhile, the Girnar ropeway service management in Junagadh also announced that people with the name 'Neeraj' can enjoy a free ropeway ride till August 20. Neeraj Chopra created history on August 7 as he became the first athlete from the country to win a gold in track and field event in the Olympics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-petrol-pump-offers-free-fuel-to-people-named-neeraj-to-celebrate-olympic-gold-medal-win-1018277.html
