11-08-2021||First Edit||India shows it’s got moves at UNSC helm||India has begun its presidential term at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on a positive note. Unlike the big powers in the UNSC— the US, Russia and China— which were preoccupied with trading accusations against each other during the virtual open debate on maritime security on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech, as he chaired the meeting, focused on putting forward a “framework of mutual understanding and cooperation” that called on the international community to adopt a five-point approach to global cooperation in maritime security affairs — peaceful settlement of maritime disputes in accordance with international laws, removal of barriers to legitimate maritime trade, joint efforts in tackling maritime threats from natural disasters and non-state actors, preservation of the maritime environment and resources, and promotion of responsible maritime connectivity. In an endorsement of India’s cooperative approach, its presidential statement was unanimously adopted by the UNSC members. More importantly, for the first time ever, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) was recognised at the UNSC in the context of maritime security. New Delhi can take credit for this as it was the efforts of its diplomats that resulted in all the powers coming on board. Monday’s debate, which saw the participation of Russian President Vladimir Putin and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, among others, was the first time that the UNSC has discussed maritime security as an exclusive agenda item at such a high-level open debate. India did well to highlight the issue. The country has suffered repeatedly on account of insecurity on the high seas. Piracy along major trade routes has affected India’s trade significantly. Vessels with Indian personnel or commodities headed for markets in India or abroad have been hijacked. Piracy has also increased insurance premiums, making trade more expensive. India’s security has been undermined by terrorists who enter the country via the seas, as was the case with the November 2008 terrorist attack on Mumbai. India holds the presidency of the UNSC for a brief one-month period. It should ensure that it is positive and productive. The US, with the world’s strongest navy and being an immense trading nation, has not ratified UNCLOS, though it recognises it as customary international law and expects other powers to abide by it. As New Delhi seeks to show the world what it can expect from India if it were to sit permanently at the security high table, it must make efforts to get the US to ratify UNCLOS. That, and the five principles that India has enunciated, will help draw a firm framework for a “free and open Indo-Pacific.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/india-shows-it-s-got-moves-at-unsc-helm-1018685.html
11-08-2021||In Perspective||Ladakh now wants statehood||This August 5 marked two years of the picturesque cold desert of Ladakh as a Union Territory, with complete separation from Jammu and Kashmir. Situated along the Line of Actual Control with China and the Line of Control with Pakistan, the Ladakh region, with a population of nearly 300,000, was nearly two-thirds of the geographical area of the former state of J&K. At face value, the Ladakh region seemed to be the main beneficiary of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act as there was sentiment against being ruled from Srinagar or Jammu. However, after two years, the region is politically largely dissatisfied with the status quo. The demand for Ladakh as Union Territory is an old one and goes back to 1949. It was first spearheaded by the legendary Kuskh Bakola, who was India's Ambassador to Mongolia. Coinciding with the beginning of militancy in the Valley— it later spread to Jammu province— the demand for UT status had become a mass-based movement in Buddhist-majority Leh. In 1989, the agitation started by the Ladakh Buddhist Association (LBA) lasted for four months. The administration was paralysed by a month-long strike by Buddhist employees. The agitation had taken a violent turn with three LBA activists killed in police firing on August 27, 1989. The UT demand was predicated on the grounds of alleged discrimination by the J&K government, governed from Srinagar in summers and Jammu in winters, and that “the people of Ladakh were treated as second-class citizens in the matter of services and other related spheres.” Finally, on October 10, 1993, the central government announced an autonomous hill council status. However, it is to be emphasised that the demand for UT was limited to Leh district of Ladakh and excluded Kargil district. As per the 2011 Census, Ladakh is nearly 46.4 per cent Muslim, 39.7 per cent Buddhist and 12.1 per cent Hindu. In 1995, while the state was still under President’s rule, former prime minister P V Narasimha Rao executed the decision to give Leh the hill council status. Kargil, a Shia Muslim-majority district of Ladakh, which had originally opposed the demand, got a similar council in 2003 under Chief Minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed. On the day Ladakh attained its UT status, there were protests in Kargil as people in the district demanded that the capital of the new UT should rotate between Leh and Kargil. However, the current arrangement has left both Leh and Kargil dissatisfied and the reasons are not hard to understand. The region is presently controlled by a Lieutenant Governor, appointed by the federal government, and the elected bodies of Leh and Kargil come under the L-G’s authority. Breaking the past practice of articulating separate demands, the political leadership in both Leh and Kargil have now collectively demanded statehood for Ladakh and restoration of Permanent Resident Certificate (PRC) kind of arrangement to protect their identity. One of the critical aspects of Article 370 was the provision of PRC,  given to people whose ancestors had lived in J&K for at least 10 years before May 14, 1954. Those with PRC could buy land and get local jobs. Ladakh lies at the strategic crossroads of Asia. The eastern part of Leh faces China-controlled Tibet, with whom it shared the same form of Buddhism. The last two years have been marked by military tensions between India and China in this tract. Kargil, via Gilgit-Baltistan, falls on the old route of South Asia’s connectivity with Central Asia.  In the midst of these developments, there are changes anticipated across the Line of Control in Pakistan-controlled Gilgit-Baltistan, which was earlier a part of undivided J&K and in ethnic terms closer to Kargil district. Reports suggest that the Pakistani government has finalised the draft of a constitutional amendment to grant provincial status or statehood to the region. In March 1999, the Supreme Court of Pakistan had ordered that the Northern Areas, the previous name for the region, be given the same political, economic and administrative rights as given to the other provinces of Pakistan. There were also local demands for provincial status, to end the rule from Islamabad. With a population of at least 1.4 million, the Pakistani establishment had earlier been reluctant to grant provincial status as this would weaken its stance on J&K in international fora. De jure, Pakistan has kept Gilgit-Baltistan and Pakistan-occupied  Kashmir (POK), with Muzaffarabad as capital, separate from Pakistan’s provinces. However, de facto, Islamabad wields veto powers over the political, administrative and financial issues relating to the two regions. While proposals of POK becoming a province have been shot down by Pakistan PM Imran Khan recently, Gilgit-Baltistan, which also adjoins China’s restive province of Xinjiang, is on the way to becoming a province. The China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is critically dependent on the region. (The writer is the author of ‘Across the LoC’, published by Columbia University Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/ladakh-now-wants-statehood-1018438.html
11-08-2021||In Perspective||Air quality in the NCR: The burning issue||The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill, 2021, was passed by the Lok Sabha on August 4 and by the Rajya Sabha the next day. This was to convert an ordinance on the matter into law. The ordinance was promulgated a second time in April 2021, after the first ordinance on the matter issued in October 2020 had lapsed in March 2021. An important aspect relating to agriculture in the Bill is that it covers on-farm stubble-burning. This situates the Bill in the ongoing farmer protests. Since the three legislative changes relating to agriculture were passed in Parliament in September 2020, the protesting groups have been against any liability for air pollution being imposed on farmers. In a meeting held in January 2021, the Agriculture Ministry had agreed with the farmers’ demands to exempt stubble-burning from the penal provisions under the ordinance. Section 14 of the Bill passed by Parliament makes any contravention of the Act an offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend up to five years, or with fine which may be up to Rs 1 crore, or with both. The proviso to this section exempts farmers from this section for causing air pollution by stubble-burning or mismanagement of agricultural residue. However, Section 15 of the Bill states that the Commission may impose and collect environmental compensation from farmers causing air pollution by stubble-burning, at such rate and in such manner, as may be prescribed. Hence, farmers are not absolved of the responsibility of air pollution caused due to stubble-burning on their farms. They will not be put in prison for it, but they will certainly be asked to pay damages. The rules for the same are under preparation by the Environment Ministry. But the responsibility for stubble-burning is not of the farmers’ alone. The Agriculture Ministry has to play a much bigger role to address the problem at its very root. In fact, framing the problem as merely an environmental issue is problematic in itself. Only when it is recognised as a problem of current policies on agricultural production and the associated perverse incentives can we work on solutions on that front. The Bill makes it mandatory for the Commission to provide for an effective framework, action plan, and to take appropriate steps for tackling the problem of stubble-burning and monitoring the measures taken by the states to prevent it. Any appeal is to be taken to the National Green Tribunal. The law makes it only optional for the Commission to co-opt a representative of the Union Agriculture Ministry. The geographic focus of the Commission is NCR and its adjoining areas, which are essentially the Green Revolution states. In 2014, the Agriculture Ministry had announced The National Policy for Management of Crop Residues (NPMCR). The policy acknowledges that on-farm burning of crops adds to the problem of greenhouse and other gas emissions and could aggravate various air-borne/lung diseases. Among other things, it recommends formulation and implementation of suitable law and legislative/policy measures to curb and control the burning of crop residues. Yet, the policy suggests that such laws ought to come from either the Environment Ministry or the state governments. In doing so, it passes the responsibility on to those state agencies. It suggests that the Environment Ministry issue an advisory to various state governments and Union Territories to curb this nuisance of crop residue burning. It also suggests that the state governments take necessary steps to curb the practice of such burning, citing the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, wherein the subject of agriculture falls under the purview of the state governments. The challenge with both the NPMCR and the current Air Quality Management Bill is that they deal with the end-result of current crop production. Until and unless the crops that generate this quality and quantity of residue are reduced, the problem will not go away. What India needs is a post-Green Revolution imagination, with a clear strategy to diversify its crop production. It warrants a policy to facilitate a paradigm shift, reducing the cultivation of wheat, paddy and sugarcane. This will address the problems of air pollution, water use and excess production. The change must come from the Agriculture Ministry. Just as the Commerce Ministry announces an EXIM Policy every five years under the Foreign Trade Act of 1992, the Agriculture Ministry could announce a cropping policy for the country every five years. Till then, the Commission for Air Quality Management will literally be doing just firefighting. Meanwhile, the farmers locked into this situation will now also be confronted by the Centre’s environmental regulatory framework. And the issue burns on in the Kisan Sansad, while the Parliament session winds down. (The writer is a legal researcher and policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/air-quality-in-the-ncr-the-burning-issue-1018681.html
11-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||At 44, this attender passes her SSLC examination||A 44-year-old attender at a college here overcame all barriers in front of her to clear the SSLC examinations. "I am grateful to the college and teaching faculty, particularly Prof Uday Kumar and Dr Shobha, who motivated me to write the SSLC examinations," said Jayashri, who works as an attender on a temporary basis at the University College. Jayashri has been working in the college for the past five years. "I had to discontinue studies after Class V due to financial problems at home. Earlier, I had worked in a cashew factory. Now, after over three decades, I attended online classes of tutorials, which helped me cope up with the studies, and sat on a bench to write the examinations," she recollected with a smile. “It was Dr Shobha of the University College who enrolled me to Matha Education Tutorials. Initially, I was finding it difficult to cope up with the lessons. The teachers had conducted online classes and I had to do my homework. The teachers were even scolding us for not completing the homework," she said. Jayashri was ecstatic when the results were announced. "I am happy that I could clear the SSLC exams in the very first attempt,” she said her face beaming with pride. Hailing from Sooterpete in Mangaluru, Jayashri’s husband works as a security guard. “When I announced my decision on enrolling for the SSLC exam, all my family members supported and encouraged me. Now, they are congratulating me for having achieved success. It is hard work and determination which helped me to pass. It was difficult to understand English, Hindi and Mathematics lessons. Still, I did not lose hope but continued to work hard in order to pass the exam," she added. Jayashri scored 60 marks in Kannada, 40 in English, 35 each in Hindi and Mathematics, 38 in science and 35 in social science. “Kannada was easy for me. Hence, I could score well in Kannada," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/at-44-this-attender-passes-her-sslc-examination-1018523.html
11-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav: Karnataka Coast Guard holds walkathon||The Coast Guard District Headquarters (Karnataka) organised a walkathon on Wednesday in order to commemorate India's 75 years of Independence with a theme “Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav”.  Imamuddin Ahmad, Commissioner CGST and Customs, Mangaluru stressed on the importance of walkathon and said that it is a great way to get everyone on their feet and active by promoting healthy lifestyle. He said a target of 75,000 steps for "Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav" should be one such event in which the spirit of freedom struggle, tribute to the martyrs and their pledge to create India could be experienced. The significance of the event is to emphasise on India's glorious history and showcase India's development since Independence and to encourage people to remain healthy and fit by including physical activities and sports in their daily lives. A total of 100 people participated in the walkathon near Custom Road covering 7.5 Kms. ICG Commanader DIG Venkatesh said that they have planned special community interaction drive for fishermen in next coming days and will be hoisting the national flag at various islands and light houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-karnataka-coast-guard-holds-walkathon-1018576.html
11-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Checkposts to screen inter-district passengers in Chamarajanagar||Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi issued orders to re-establish five inter-district checkposts, as a precautionary measure, in fear of a third Covid-19 wave. The passengers from other districts, entering Chamarajanagar, will be screened at the checkpoints. Chairing a meeting with officials of various departments, including the Health and Police department, and nodal officers, he directed the authorities to resume screening of passengers at Tagarupura, Sattegala, Banalli, Kavalande, Begur checkposts with immediate effect. A team of police, revenue and health departments should be formed, he said. The passengers from other districts visiting the tourist and religious spots of Chamarajanagar districts should be screened. Those above 60 years and the people with Covid-like symptoms should be subject to Rapid Antigen Test, he suggested. The authorities should not give permission for the private buses to ferry passengers above the seating capacity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/checkposts-to-screen-inter-district-passengers-in-chamarajanagar-1018654.html
11-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress files two cases against KSE||District Congress Committee leaders on Wednesday lodged two complaints at Kote police station against Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa seeking disciplinary action for his provocative remarks during BJP core committee meeting held in Shivamogga and for using abusive words against Congress leaders in Bengaluru. In his complaint, Shivamogga District Youth Congress President H P Girish urged the police to book a case against the BJP leader for his provocative remarks during the meeting held on August 8, under Goondas Act at the earliest. Eshwarappa is an elected representative. Police must initiate action against him immediately, he demanded.  State Youth Congress Committee General Secretary M Pravin Kumar demanded in his complaint disciplinary action against Eshwarappa for abusing Congress leaders while criticising them in Bengaluru. His remarks have hurt workers of the Congress party across the state.  Agitation in front of police station Girish has threatened to launch an agitation in the premises of Kote police station if police fail to register FIR against BJP leader within 24 hours. Video clips involving Eshwarappa's provocative remarks have been given to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-files-two-cases-against-kse-1018746.html
11-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||CM Bommai dismisses reports of Anand Singh's resignation||Amid reports that Tourism Minister Anand Singh would resign from the Cabinet, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he would meet Singh and address his concerns. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said that the minister has not resigned from the Cabinet. "He is a friend of three decades. I am in touch with him regularly and have spoken to him yesterday and will talk to him again," the CM said. Bommai said that he has asked the minister to meet him either today or day after tomorrow. "All his concerns will be addressed after he meets me," he said. Bommai dismissed reports that the minister had submitted his resignation during their meeting on Sunday. "There is nothing like that," he said. To a question, he said that Singh has discussed everything with him in detail. "I will talk to him again. It will be addressed," he said. On whether he had raised the issue of disgruntlement with high command, the CM said that he was yet to do so. "I will talk to them after meeting Singh," he said. On demands of a better portfolio by Municipal Administration and Small Scale Industries minister MTB Nagaraj, Bommai said that the minister was not unhappy anymore. Singh, among the migrants in BJP, was eyeing the Forest portfolio and was left aggrieved over the allocation of Tourism, and Environment and Ecology portfolio under Bommai. According to reports, Singh is expected to meet Bommai later in the day. He is also likely to visit former CM BS Yediyurappa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-bommai-dismisses-reports-of-anand-singhs-resignation-1018520.html
11-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Book suo motu case against K S Eshwarappa for his comments, Congress demands SP||KPCC spokesperson and former MLA K B Prasanna Kumar has appealed to Superintendent of Police B M Laxmi Prasad to book suo motu case against Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa for his provocative remarks during BJP core committee meeting held in the city on August 8.  In the memorandum submitted to the police officer, he said, 'The BJP leader has reportedly told his party workers to hit back with double force if they are attacked during a core committee meeting. Eshwarpapa himself admitted it before the media. His remarks are provocative and aimed at disturbing the peace in society. It is unbecoming of a minister to make such remarks. While taking oath as a minister in the cabinet headed by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai recently, he had promised that he would not indulge in any kind of enmity. Now, he has gone against his own words. So, police must book a case against him." Speaking to media persons, Congress leader Prasanna Kumar alleged that Eshwarappa succeeded in dethroning B S Yediyurappa from the top post. "Later, the BJP leader did everything to become the chief minister or deputy chief minister. But he did not succeed. So, he has lost his mental balance. Hence, Eshwarappa is making such provocative statements. Shivamogga had witnessed communal violence whenever such statements were made. So, police must act against the minister," Prasanna Kumar demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/book-suo-motu-case-against-k-s-eshwarappa-for-his-comments-congress-demands-sp-1018584.html
11-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sulking Anand Singh hints at quitting as Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai waits||Tourism Minister Anand Singh on Wednesday dropped enough hints that he was considering resignation as Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai kept his fingers crossed and maintained that everything will be alright. Singh has been sulking ever since Bommai gave him the tourism, environment & ecology portfolio. On Tuesday, Singh is said to have closed down his office in Hospet, fueling speculation of his resignation. Speaking to reporters after conducting a laborious ritual at the Venugopala temple in Hospet (Ballari), Singh made a cryptic statement in which he confessed that he was unhappy. “In these 15 years of political life, I was under the wrong impression that there are leaders and friends who will protect me,” Singh said, adding that he had lost all hope. “Lord Venugopala Krishna has given me confidence to do what is right, even if that means my own sacrifice. I am confident that he will stand by me with whatever decision I take,” he said. He maintained that he would not do anything to embarrass the ruling BJP and said he had not entered politics to “make or loot” money. “My political journey, which is just 15 years old, started in this temple. Let’s see if it will end in this very temple. Everything is in the hands of Lord Krishna,” he said. The temple, he pointed out, was built by his grandfather six decades ago. Singh said he had made his mind clear to those who mattered in the party. “I have expressed myself with (former chief minister) BS Yediyurappa also. He has given me everything I asked for - the Vijayanagara district, lift irrigation projects...If he continued as CM, I'd have merely requested him instead of taking a decision like this,” he said, adding that he lacked the art of flattery. “Maybe I should have learned that.” Singh is expected to come to Bengaluru later in the evening to talk to Bommai. “I am constantly in touch with him. I have understood his sentiments,” Bommai said, adding that Singh was being emotional. “Not just me, but our party president (Nalin Kumar Kateel) has spoken to him. National leaders will also talk to him,” he said. Bommai said he would have to talk to the BJP central leadership to fulfill Singh’s demand. “I will first talk to Singh and then go upstairs.” Singh, a 4-time MLA, was among the 17 legislators who defected from the Congress-JD(S) coalition. Before he joined the Congress, Singh was with the BJP and served as a minister when the party was in power between 2008 and 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sulking-anand-singh-hints-at-quitting-as-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-waits-1018604.html
11-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Don't fight for portfolios: Vishwanath to ministers||Requesting ministers in Karnataka not to fight for portfolios, former minister H Vishwanath on Wednesday said all portfolios are equal and ministers are public servants. “If the ministers are serious about serving the public, they should discharge their duty from whatever the portfolios allotted to them,” he said. "Since all the ministers in the Basavaraj Bommai headed government are holding cabinet ranks, there is no inequality among them," he said. "Let Anand Singh show his performance with the current portfolio without bickering," he said. Former Minister MP Renukacharya pleaded Anand Singh not to take any hasty decision. Singh's efforts were highest among all leaders, who defected from Congress and JD(S), to bring the BJP to power in the state in 2019. "Former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa knew Singh's contribution to the BJP and I hope Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai will resolve his problems," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dont-fight-for-portfolios-vishwanath-to-ministers-1018674.html
11-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sulking Anand Singh stays put for now after CM Bommai's assurance||Karnataka Tourism Minister Anand Singh on Wednesday appeared to have deferred his plan to resign after Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai assured him that his demands would be taken up with the BJP central leadership. Singh has been sulking ever since Bommai gave him the tourism, environment & ecology portfolio. He wants a 'better' portfolio. Bommai, Singh, Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Shorapur MLA Raju Gouda huddled for nearly two hours late evening on Wednesday. "It's true Singh wants a better portfolio that is at par with his capability. I have explained the current situation to him. Ultimately, the BJP central leadership will decide and all of us have to abide by it," Bommai told reporters. "We have decided to stay united."After his meeting with Bommai, Singh said there was no question of his resignation. "I have asked for a change in portfolio. He said he will review it. "Bommai also said Singh would hoist the tricolour in Vijayanagar on August 15. The late evening meeting came on a day full of hectic political developments surrounding Singh. Earlier in the day, Singh performed a ritual at the Venugopala temple in his Vijayanagar constituency and dropped broad hints that he was considering resignation. On Tuesday, Singh is said to have closed down his office in Hospet, fueling speculation. "In these 15 years of political life, I was under the wrong impression that there are leaders and friends who will protect me,” Singh said earlier in the day. “Lord Venugopala Krishna has given me the confidence to do what is right, even if that means my own sacrifice. I am confident that he will stand by me with whatever decision I take,” he said. “My political journey, which is just 15 years old, started in this temple. Let’s see if it will end in this very temple. Everything is in the hands of Lord Krishna,” he said. Later, former chief minister BS Yediyurappa dispatched his loyalist Raju Gouda to Ballari to bring Singh to Bengaluru. Singh met Yediyurappa, who is said to have advised the minister to not take "hasty" decisions. "There are things that we can't discuss publicly," Raju Gouda told reporters. Singh, a 4-time MLA, was the first among 17 legislators to defect from the Congress-JD(S) coalition. Before Congress, Singh was with the BJP and served as a minister between 2008 and 2013. Once linked to the mining scam, Singh has several cases pending against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sulking-anand-singh-stays-put-for-now-after-cm-bommais-assurance-1018699.html
11-08-2021||Main Article||A gag order too far||A group of 109 retired senior officers of the central and state governments recently wrote an open letter to the Prime Minister expressing their trepidation over the amendment to the Central Civil Service (Pension) Rules. The government recently amended the rules to prohibit personnel who retired from security agencies like the Intelligence Bureau, Research and Analysis Wing, the Central Reserve Police Force, Border Security Force, the Central Industrial Security Force, Sashastra Seema Bal, National Investigation Agency, Central Bureau of Investigation, National Technical Research Organisation, the Assam Rifles and a few others — 26 in all— from publishing anything related to the organisation in which they served. While there can be no denying the fact that personnel of IB, CBI, RAW, NIA and the NTRO are privy to humongous information relating to the security of the nation, apart from other information that would strictly be in the domain of politically advantageous material, officials of the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) are not privy to such information that could be detrimental to national security in any manner. Ironically, personnel of the military services have been kept out of the order, though they have access to vital information that impacts national security. Maj Gen V K Singh, who did a stint with RAW, wrote a book in 2007 “India’s External Intelligence: Secrets of Research and Analysis Wing,” which came under the scanner of the government. Singh, who was on deputation to RAW as Joint Secretary (Telecom) and retired in 2002, was booked by the CBI for wrongful communication of information under Section 5 of the Official Secrets Act. The information divulged in the book was considered to be sensitive in nature and prejudicial to national interest. Such aberrations are too few to count. In 2007, the CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972, was amended to prohibit the intelligence agencies from sharing sensitive information with anyone. The latest changes in rules, issued on the recommendations of a Committee of Secretaries, has put the CAPFs, apart from several other organisations included in the second schedule of the Right to Information Act which are exempted from parting with any information sought under RTI, in the same basket. Some veterans have termed the amendments “draconian”. Had the committee that recommended the amendment included a few eminent retired IPS officers such as Julius Rebeiro and Prakash Singh, the amendments could have been incorporated in a manner that would have been acceptable to all pensioners. But the threat of complete or part withdrawal of pension either permanently or for a certain duration has come as a Sword of Damocles hanging on the head of such pensioners from the intelligence or security forces who venture to write articles or books that are well-intentioned. Having joined government service, all employees are governed by the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules under which they are prohibited from writing books or contributing articles relating to the government. Sports, arts and culture are the only subjects they can write on. Shackled thus by the rules while in service, they would have much to express through their writings after retirement. But the recent gag order seeks to throttle all such voices. Shackled till death. In the missive to the Prime Minister, the retired officers have averred that pension is earned by the retirees for the services rendered to the government and as such cannot be meddled with unless one is convicted for any serious crime. “Only those who have been involved in security-related matters, internal or external, can speak with authority and credibility. Other domain experts, scholars and even interested members of the public look forward to such words of wisdom based on personal experience,” they said. “We are unable to understand why there is such a need for amendment to the Central Pension Rules when there already exists an Official Secrets Act, 1923, and the State can, under it, prosecute officials and former officials who reveal information prejudicial to the State”, the letter stated. It needs to be emphasised here that those who write in the media are usually very senior officials who have a holistic view of government policies by virtue of having held senior ranks. They definitely have the wisdom and the prudence to reveal only those facts that they believe would not endanger the security and sovereignty of our nation. Having served the nation for decades, they are well placed to sift the chaff from the wheat and disseminate facts that would in no way jeopardise our sovereignty. Getting a clearance from the head of an organisation for each piece or book written is not easy. As the current heads of these organisations would usually be juniors to the writers, it would be difficult for them to edit portions that in their estimation may warrant revision. They would therefore prefer to pass the buck to the Ministry of Home Affairs where it would be under scrutiny for several weeks, if not months, and thus lose its relevance by the time it is cleared for publication. Thus, freedom of speech and expression gets strangled during government service and this rule will continue to stifle the freedom granted by Article 19 of the Constitution even after retirement. This rule and the threat to tinker with pensions should go. Perhaps the government could institute a period of debarment from writing articles or books — say a year or two after retirement— but thereafter, they should be allowed to enjoy the freedom to express themselves. And when they do voice their opinions, they will do so for the betterment of governance in the country. Depriving former officials of the security forces of the freedom to express themselves post-retirement is tantamount to enslaving them for life once they venture to join these forces. (The writer is a former Inspector General of Police, CRPF)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-gag-order-too-far-1018441.html
11-08-2021||Main Article||Poverty of wit and humour in Parliament||Politicians use humour to imbue the audience with a particular image. Humour is sometimes used in the House to add levity and attract the attention of other members and a larger audience. It's also used to bring members closer together (especially on the opposition side). As a 2014 thesis noted, “some MPs have used humour as a relational management strategy (and...) to procure more time from the Chair”. When in the Opposition benches, Indian lawmakers have generally used wit and humour more effectively. It allows them to pack more punch into their arguments while also alleviating tensions and tempers. This could lead to a productive debate in Parliament in a dignified atmosphere. Maybe members should try this during the next session. But let’s talk about what definitely were better times. In the 1950s and 1960s, when our Parliament was young and had stalwarts like Jawaharlal Nehru, Piloo Mody, Ram Manohar Lohia, et al, they were able to handle caustic comments and sharp-edged words with ease. Lohia, the great socialist leader, would attack Nehru with violent wit, and the latter would counter with equally stinging words. Despite that, sessions were not disrupted because Lohia called Nehru a "bald man". Incidentally, that's ad hominem, since Nehru was bald. Once, Lohia told the House that Nehru wasn’t an aristocrat as he was portrayed. “I can prove that the prime minister’s grandfather was a chaprasi in the Mughal court,” Lohia said. To which, Nehru smiled and replied: “I am glad the honourable member has, at last, accepted what I have been trying to tell him for so many years: That I am a man of the people.” Not one Congressman rose up and screamed: “You called our leader a grandson of a chaprasi. Shame, shame” and caused disruption. Nehru’s Finance Minister T T Krishnamachari once depicted Feroze Gandhi as Nehru's "lapdog". Feroze Gandhi didn’t take that lying down. He said since Krishnamachari considered himself a ‘pillar’ of the nation, he would do to him what a dog usually does to a pillar. Congress' JC Jain once kept mocking Piloo Mody. An aggravated Mody yelled, “Stop barking!” Jain was up on his feet yelling and pleading with the chair: “Sir, he’s calling me a dog. This is unparliamentary language.” Chairman Hidayatullah concurred and pronounced, “This will not go on record.” Piloo Mody corrected himself thus: “All right then, stop braying.” Jain did not know what the word implied. It stayed on the record. On one occasion, Piloo Mody was censured for showing negligence to the seat by talking with his back to the Speaker. Mody shielded himself by saying, "Sir, I have neither front nor back, I am round." Such self-deprecating humour is the most effective instrument for managing tensions and keeping tempers cool. In a parliamentary debate on the war with China in 1962, Nehru told Parliament that Aksai Chin, which the Chinese had occupied, was an area where “not a blade of grass grows.” Thereupon, Mahavir Tyagi, a senior Congress MP, pointed to his own bald pate and exclaimed: “Not a hair grows on my head. Does it mean it should be cut off and given to China, too?” When Lohia was pleading for Stalin’s daughter Svetlana to be given asylum in India on the grounds of her marriage with an Indian, the charming lady member Tarkeshwari Sinha interjected to mock the bachelor Lohia as to how he could talk about conjugal sentiments when he didn’t have any experience of it. Lohia hit back: "Tarkeshwari, when did you give me any chance."   Once while rejecting an amendment moved by Rajaji, Nehru said: "You see, Rajaji, the majority is with me." Rajaji countered: "Yes, Jawaharlal, the majority is with you, but the logic is with me". Nehru laughed with the House, realised that Rajaji had a point and accepted his amendment. Such gestures are hardly conceivable now. Speaker Somnath Chatterjee lost his cool when Varkala Radhakrishnan, a fellow communist, was going on and on with his speech, despite the Speaker telling him that the time allotted to him had expired. Chatterjee shouted from the chair: “Varkalaji, I know you have been a good Speaker, but you are a bad member.” Pat came the response from Varkala: “Sir, it is the opposite in your case. You have been a good member, but a bad Speaker.” In contemporary India, tremendous changes have occurred in parliamentary proceedings. Most of the time of Parliament is being lost on political controversies, disorder and theatrics due to the passing of a controversial bill hurriedly or the refusal to permit a discussion on what the Opposition considers to be a crucial issue, or ignoring the Opposition’s demand to refer a matter to a committee for in-depth examination. Nehru didn’t engage in political jousts with Sardar Patel. Ambedkar didn’t display a brisk no-nonsense manner with his colleagues. Though these great men, who shaped modern India, did have serious differences with their colleagues and opponents, the differences were argued out rationally, intellectually, and in civilised language. There was no personal vilification of each other. Arguments were always with the aim of convincing the other party, never with the aim of humiliating or disrespecting him/her. Of late, the fading away of wit and humour from the sacred temple of democracy is surprising since Indian literature and mythology, especially the indigenous cultures, are rich in humour and satire. The words spoken in Parliament are recorded for posterity. They provide an insight into the thinking of our elected representatives. They appear to be unable to lift the public discourse to the levels that a Nehru or a Lohia or an Ambedkar or a Vajpayee were able to. Listening to them, the public saw democracy as the path to a civilised society. Not any longer. (The writer is retired Deputy Director of Boilers, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/poverty-of-wit-and-humour-in-parliament-1018689.html
11-08-2021||Mysuru||Siddaramaiah demands BJP to hold caste census to identify the poor||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah demanded the ruling BJP in Karnataka, as well as at the Centre, to conduct a caste census to identify the real poor and needy people. Speaking to media persons here on Wednesday, Siddaramaiah said now that the BJP is in power for a total of 16 years, it should conduct a caste census as the party has been against caste-based reservations, ideologically. “The government should identify the real needy persons to formulate policies and to make sure its schemes and projects reach them properly,” he said. Siddaramaiah alleged that the BJP is not in favour of social justice. “The BJP is not in favour of reservation. Thus, the party has provided reservation to forward castes. The poor have got only 10 per cent reservation. So, the BJP leaders do not speak about reservations now. A caste sensus will make the facts about poverty and backwardness clear,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/siddaramaiah-demands-bjp-to-hold-caste-census-to-identify-the-poor-1018593.html
11-08-2021||National||India's pride is in its traditional knowledge, need not copy other countries: Mohan Bhagwat||India's pride is in its traditional knowledge and it need not copy other countries, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Tuesday. Bhagwat was speaking at the launch of the book, "Bharat Vaibhav", by the National Book Trust (NBT). " India’s pride is its traditional knowledge. India was born to share its knowledge tradition with the whole world... The ocean of information about India should be translated into all Indian languages and should be widely publicised. "I am often asked why cannot we do like China or America or Russia. I would say why do we have to copy any other country, why do we have to do like them, we should do things our own way," he said in his address. He claimed that the earlier education policy did not talk enough about "the great deeds of our own people" and noted that the new national education policy will give importance to Indian languages. "What is the point if whatever is taught in our country does not talk about the great deeds of our people. Our education policy didn't talk about this," he said. The book ‘Bharat Vaibhav’ presents the various dimensions of India and its traditional knowledge system, its ancient culture and civilization and its need for today’s world. Governor of Kerala Arif Mohammad Khan said that the morale and self-confidence of any nation have only been awakened with the help of its culture. "Indian culture is eternal and it is our collective responsibility to try our best to imbibe it in our lives and pass it to our future generations as well," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-pride-is-in-its-traditional-knowledge-need-not-copy-other-countries-mohan-bhagwat-1018451.html
11-08-2021||National||No BJP MP from Maha said a word on Maratha quota in Lok Sabha: Chavan||Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan on Tuesday said it is unfortunate that no BJP Member of Parliament from the state spoke about the Maratha reservation issue when the Lok Sabha debated a constitutional amendment bill to restore the powers of states to make their own OBC lists. Speaking to reporters, Chavan, who heads a state cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation, said an opportunity to relax the 50 per cent cap on reservation in education and government jobs has been missed by the Centre. The Congress minister's comments came after the Lok Sabha passed the 'The Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021', that seeks to restore the power of states and Union Territories to make their own OBC lists, with the NDA government getting the support of opposition parties for the legislation. He said, “Parliament has been at a standstill on Pegasus or 'black' agri laws, but every political party in the opposition cooperated with the Centre and discussed the bill." The former chief minister said the Centre should have also taken steps to remove the 50 per cent cap on reservations. “Union Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar had said the government will consider relaxation on reservation cap at right time. It was the right time to take this decision. How long the Maratha community will continue its legal battle for quota?" Chavan asked. “The Union government could have made the Maratha community's legal battle for reservation easier. Directives were given to Congress members in the Lok Sabha by our leader Sonia Gandhi (for seeking relaxation in quota cap). Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury is from West Bengal, but he still stood firm on this issue,” he said. During the debate on the OBC bill, several opposition parties, including the Congress, demanded removal of the 50 per cent cap on reservations, while the central government underlined its commitment to social justice. “Shiv Sena MPs such as Vinayak Raut, Prataprao Jadhav, NCP MP Supriya Sule and Balu Dhanorkar of the Congress strongly pitched for Maratha reservation. However, not a single MP of the BJP from Maharashtra uttered a word over the issue...this is truly unfortunate,” Chavan said. The 102nd Constitution Amendment Act of 2018 inserted articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Classes, and 342A that deals with the powers of the president to notify a particular caste as an SEBC and the power of Parliament to change the list. Article 366 (26C) defines SEBCs. The Supreme Court had dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' power to notify SEBCs for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions. In May, the Supreme Court struck down the 2018 Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs, terming it as "unconstitutional", and held there were no exceptional circumstances to breach the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Mandal verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-bjp-mp-from-maha-said-a-word-on-maratha-quota-in-lok-sabha-chavan-1018452.html
11-08-2021||National||Financial creditors realised 36% of their total claims under IBC: Govt||The government on Tuesday said that financial creditors have realised Rs 2.45 lakh crore or 36 per cent of their total claims under the insolvency resolution process till the end of June. As many as 4,540 companies were admitted under the corporate insolvency resolution process as of June 30 this year. The process is initiated under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). "394 companies were resolved till 30th June, 2021 wherein Financial Creditors (FCs) including financial institutions, had total claims amounting to Rs 6.80 lakh crore, out of which Rs 2.45 lakh crore have been realised, which is 36 per cent of their claims," Minister of State for Corporate Affairs Rao Inderjit Singh told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply. The queries were about the total number of cases referred under the Code, number of cases resolved and the percentage of realisation of amount lent by financial institutions. According to him, the insolvency resolution process of the corporate debtor is market driven and the outcome depends on market forces which varies from case to case and sector to sector. "The value realised by creditors depends on available assets at the stage of admission of case under the Code," he added. This was in response to a query on whether it is a fact that the haircut was above 90 per cent in some cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/financial-creditors-realised-36-of-their-total-claims-under-ibc-govt-1018453.html
11-08-2021||National||40-year-old man held for threatening Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan over phone||The Kerala Police on Tuesday arrested a 40-year-old man for allegedly threatening Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over phone, officials said on Tuesday. The accused, Kottayam-native Anil, was apprehended by a team led by Vaikom Deputy SP, while travelling from Thalayolaparambu to Ernakulam on a bus. "According to our preliminary investigation, the man is mentally unstable. It seems that he noted the phone numbers of the chief minister and other political leaders and government officials from a government diary of a fellow passenger and threatened them over phone," police said. As soon as the call was made to the chief minister's phone, a case was registered at the Cantonment police station in Thiruvananthapuram. The cyber cell of the police traced the tower location of the accused and handed over the details to Vaikom police who nabbed the accused from the bis nabbed him from the private bus, officials said. They said the accused has many similar cases registered against him for making threatening phone calls to several people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-year-old-man-held-for-threatening-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-over-phone-1018460.html
11-08-2021||National||DH Toon | Hatred may get to us before global warming||Extreme sea level events that previously occurred once in 100 years could happen every year by the end of this century, the latest IPCC report on climate change said on Monday with scientists warning that sea level rise, floods, heavy rainfall and glacier melting are some of the irreversible effects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-hatred-may-get-to-us-before-global-warming-1018463.html
11-08-2021||National||India, US ink deal to improve weather, monsoon forecasts||Indian and American bodies have signed an agreement on monsoon data analysis and cooperation to improve weather forecasts in the region. The agreement was signed by India's National Institute of Ocean Technology Director G A Ramadass and the US Assistant Administrator for Research and Acting Chief Scientist Craig McLean of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration on Monday. As a result of this, the two bodies would enhance technical cooperation in the development of the Research Moored Array for African-Asian-Australian Monsoon Analysis and Prediction (RAMA) and the Ocean Moored buoy Network in the northern Indian ocean (OMNI) for improving weather and monsoon forecasts between NOAA and India’s Ministry of Earth Sciences. The agreement is a follow up to the memorandum of understanding signed between the Ministry of Earth Sciences and NOAA last October for Technical Cooperation in Earth Observations and Earth Sciences. The MoU was signed by India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu and Dr Neil A Jacobs, Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Acting Administrator, NOAA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-ink-deal-to-improve-weather-monsoon-forecasts-1018482.html
11-08-2021||National||DCGI gives nod to study on mixing Covaxin and Covishield||India's drug regulator has given approval for a study to be conducted by the Christian Medical College (CMC), Vellore on mixing of Covid-19 vaccines Covaxin and Covishield, official sources said on Wednesday. An expert panel of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) on July 29 had recommended granting permission for conducting the study. The trial will involve 300 healthy volunteers. "The aim of the study is to assess the feasibility on whether a person can be given two different vaccine shots -- one each of Covishield and Covaxin -- to complete the inoculation course," a source said. The study also found that immunisation with a combination of Covishield and Covaxin was safe and the adverse effects were also found to be similar when compared to the same dose regimen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-gives-nod-to-study-on-mixing-covaxin-and-covishield-1018496.html
11-08-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 cases lowest in 140 days||India logged 38,353 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,20,36,511, while the active cases have declined to 3,86,351, the lowest in 140 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,29,179 with 497 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases comprise 1.21 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands 97.45 per cent, the ministry said.   A decrease of 2,157 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,77,962 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 48,50,56,507. The daily positivity rate was recorded 2.16 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 16 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at  2.34 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,12, 20,981 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively,  51.90 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 497 new fatalities include 152 from Kerala and 137 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,29,179 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,201 from Maharashtra, 36,848 from Karnataka, 34,367 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,775 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,252 from West Bengal and 18,004 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-140-days-1018497.html
11-08-2021||National||Covid-19: WHO chief scientist urges caution as states gear up to reopen schools||As states get ready to welcome students back for in-person classes from this month, the chief scientist of the World Health Organization has warned that children will face long-term impact to their mental, physical and cognitive wellbeing. "The impact on children's mental, physical and cognitive wellbeing will last a long time. School openings must be prioritized with distancing, masking, avoiding indoor singing and gatherings, hand hygiene & vaccination of all adults," WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan said, quoting a tweet that said that the education of 1.5 billion children around the world was affected due to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-who-chief-scientist-urges-caution-as-states-gear-up-to-reopen-schools-1018498.html
11-08-2021||National||Govt looking into issue of Covid-19 vaccine booster dose||Amid an increasing trend of reproduction number in some states, the national expert committee on Covid-19 vaccination has discussed the issue of giving booster vaccine dose and it is being looked into very deeply, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul said on Tuesday. He said it must be taken as a work in progress as science is still emerging in this area. At the same time, Paul also noted that the WHO has called for a moratorium on booster doses. Responding to a question on the need for giving booster Covid-19 vaccine dose, Paul said at a press briefing that the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) held a discussion on the booster dose issue at its last meeting. "I would say we are watching the science for the need for such imperative very carefully, global work as well as you may know that certain studies in the country are being instituted and we are looking at it very deeply. "As you know, WHO has called for a moratorium for booster doses so let us watch this and see how it can be taken forward," he said. He also stressed that people should get the second dose of the vaccine for complete protection. "Those with comorbidities or who are getting treatment for cancer, they should especially make sure that they are vaccinated," he said. Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said, "Even if we take the vaccine, we need to keep taking necessary precautions. " The central government on Tuesday said that 37 districts across nine states, including 11 districts in Kerala and seven in Tamil Nadu, are showing a rising trend in the average daily new Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks even as the corresponding nationwide figure continues to register a decline. At a press briefing on the pandemic, officials said the reproduction number or R number that indicates the speed at which Covid-19 is spreading is more than 1 in five states -- Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh -- which remains a cause for concern.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-looking-into-issue-of-covid-19-vaccine-booster-dose-1018506.html
11-08-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Balaji Tambe||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday paid tributes to Balaji Tambe, saying he will be remembered for his numerous efforts to make Ayurveda globally popular, especially among the youth.  Tambe, a well-known spiritual leader who was also an Ayurveda doctor and proponent of Yoga, died at a private hospital in Pune on Tuesday following a brief illness. He was 81. In a tweet, Modi said "Dr. Balaji Tambe will be remembered for his numerous efforts to make Ayurveda globally popular, especially among the youth. He was admired for his compassionate nature. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti." Dr. Balaji Tambe will be remembered for his numerous efforts to make Ayurveda globally popular, especially among the youth. He was admired for his compassionate nature. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-balaji-tambe-1018517.html
11-08-2021||National||India brings back citizens, officials from Mazar-e-Sharif as Taliban continues advance||India has brought back home about 50 of its officials and citizens living in and around Mazar-e-Sharif amid fierce fighting between the Afghan National Defence and Security Force and the rapidly advancing Taliban near the capital of the Balkh province in northern Afghanistan. A special aircraft landed in Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi early morning on Wednesday, bringing home the officials posted at the Consulate General of India in Mazar-e-Sharif and the security personnel deployed to guard it as well as the civilians living in and around the city. Though the aircraft was expected to take off from Mazar-e-Sharif late in the evening on Tuesday, its arrival in the besieged city and departure with evacuees onboard were delayed by a few hours as New Delhi had to work with Afghan Government in Kabul, local authorities and the Afghan National Security and Defence Force to ensure security. The aircraft also avoided the airspace of Pakistan while flying to Mazar-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan and returning to India. As the Taliban overran several major cities in northern Afghanistan over the past few days and continuing its blitzkrieg, the Embassy of India in Kabul on Tuesday “strongly advised” Indians living across the war torn country to immediately take flights back home before commercial air services get discontinued. “As violence in many parts of Afghanistan has escalated, commercial air travel services to many provinces and cities are getting discontinued,” the Embassy of India in Kabul noted in its latest security advisory issued on Tuesday. “All Indian nationals visiting, staying and working in Afghanistan are strongly advised to keep themselves updated on the availability of commercial flights from various parts of Afghanistan and make immediate travel arrangements to return to India before commercial air services are discontinued to their place of stay or visit in Afghanistan.” The Consulate General of India in Mazar-e-Sharif on Tuesday posted on Twitter that a special aircraft would leave the city for New Delhi late in the evening. It advised the Indian citizens living in and around the city to take the flight back to the country. The aircraft also brought back to the country the officials and security personnel deployed in the consulate. A source in New Delhi, however, clarified that the consulate would not be closed down and the local employees would continue to run it and issue visas to Afghans living in Balkh, Jawzjan, Faryab, Samangan and Sar-e-Pul and seeking to travel to India. The Taliban over the past few weeks continued its advances through Afghanistan taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies from the country. Its fighters reached closer to Mazar-e-Sharif on Monday, after overrunning Zaranj, Aybak, Taloqan, Jawzjan, Sheberghan and Sar-e-Pul – all provincial capitals. The ANSDF, however, launched a counter offensive to retake Kunduz after the Taliban occupied the provincial capital in northeastern Afghanistan last Sunday. If the Taliban can take over Mazar-e-Sharif, it is likely to pose a serious security threat to national capital Kabul, which is just about 425 kilometers away. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani arrived in Mazar-e-Sharif early on Wednesday, apparently to review the security situation in the northern part of the country and to raise the morale of the ANDSF soldiers fighting the Taliban. Afghanistan’s former Vice President Abdul Rashid Dostum also reached Mazar-e-Sharif late on Tuesday. Not only the Government of India, but the United Nations also moved to evacuate its officials from Mazar-e-Sharif.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-brings-back-citizens-officials-from-mazar-e-sharif-as-taliban-continues-advance-1018525.html
11-08-2021||National||Canada extends ban on direct passenger flights from India till September 21 due to Covid||Canada has again extended its ban on arriving passenger flights directly from India till September 21 due to the risks posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the federal transport ministry has said. In April, Canada banned all direct flights to and from India when the second Covid-19 wave hit India. The date of reopening has been postponed many times. "Protecting the health and safety of Canadians continues to be our top priority. After reviewing public health data, we have decided to extend the direct flight ban between Canada and India until September 21, 2021," Omar Alghabra, Minister of Transport of Canada, tweeted on Tuesday. "The Government of Canada has suspended flights from India until September 21, 2021. During that period, passengers who travel to Canada from India via an indirect route will need to obtain a pre-departure negative Covid-19 molecular test result from a third country before continuing their journey to Canada," Transport Canada said in a statement on Monday. "Travellers who have previously tested positive for Covid-19 must provide proof of a positive Covid-19 molecular test conducted between 14 and 90 days before departure, instead of a negative Covid-19 molecular test. This proof must be obtained in a third country before the continuation of the journey to Canada. You might need to seek entry and stay in a third country for at least 14 days," it said. Also, the Canadian government continues to closely monitor the epidemiological situation and will be working closely with the Government of India and aviation operators to ensure appropriate procedures are put in place to enable a safe return of direct flights as soon as conditions permit, the release said. "Based on the latest public health advice from the Public Health Agency of Canada, Transport Canada is extending the Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) that restricts all direct commercial and private passenger flights to Canada from India until September 21, 2021, at 23:59 EDT. All direct commercial and private passenger flights to Canada from India are subject to the NOTAM. Cargo-only operations, medical transfers or military flights are not included," it said. The ban, however, does not apply to cargo operations, medical transfers, or military flights. They are allowed to go directly between the two countries. All direct commercial and private passenger flights are only suspended. India saw a single day rise of 38,353 coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,20,36,511, while the active cases have declined to 3,86,351, the lowest in 140 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,29,179 with 497 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/canada-extends-ban-on-direct-passenger-flights-from-india-till-september-21-due-to-covid-1018530.html
11-08-2021||National||Over 53.24 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states, UTs: Centre||More than 53.24 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far and a further 72,40,250 doses are in the pipeline, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 51,56,11,035 doses. Over 2.25 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states, UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the ministry said. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-5324-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-centre-1018537.html
11-08-2021||National||Rajya Sabha proceedings adjourned till noon amid Opposition uproar||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 12 pm on Wednesday as Opposition parties raised slogans over various issues while Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu was making a remark on the conduct of some members in the House the day before. As the House assembled for the day, Naidu expressed deep anguish over some opposition MPs climbing on the Table in the House on Tuesday, saying he couldn't sleep because of the sacrilege of the temple of democracy. Referring to Tuesday's events, Naidu said Parliament, the apex legislature of the country, is regarded as the "temple of democracy". The Table area where officers and reporters of the House, the Secretary-General and the Presiding Officer sit is considered as the holy sanctum sanctorum of the House, he said. A certain degree of sacredness is attached to this place, Naidu said, and added in temples, devotees are allowed only up to this sanctum sanctorum and not beyond. Entering this sanctum sanctorum of the House in itself is an act of sacrilege and it has become a routine over the years, he said. "I am distressed by the way this sacredness has been destroyed yesterday. While some members sat on the Table, some others climbed on the Table of the House, perhaps to be more visible with acts of sacrilege. I have no words to convey my anguish and to condemn such acts," the Chairman said. Naidu further said he "spent a sleepless night last night". As he was making the remarks, several opposition party MPs trooped in the Well of the House and started sloganeering over various issues. The Chairman adjourned the proceedings till noon. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-proceedings-adjourned-till-noon-amid-opposition-uproar-1018538.html
11-08-2021||National||Spent sleepless night after 'sacrilege in temple of democracy': Naidu after Oppn ruckus in Rajya Sabha||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said he spent a "sleepless night" over the ruckus in the Upper House following what he described as "sacrilege" of "the temple of democracy" but the Opposition found fault with him, claiming that he was presenting a "totally one-sided picture". Breaking down while speaking during Zero Hour, Naidu said the disruption in the House is "propelled by a sense of competition among some sections" since the commencement of the Monsoon Session. "The choice before each one of you is very clear. It is either to be the best parliamentarian or the worst disruptor," he said. His remarks came a day after some MPs climbed the reporters' table when a short duration discussion on farmers' issue, waved black flags and one even threw a file at the Chair after the House was adjourned. Naidu said he "spent a sleepless night last night" and "struggled to find the provocation or reason for forcing the House to hit such a low yesterday". Opposition MPs protested his remarks which they thought were unfair to them as he said the House lost a "golden opportunity" to put their views on record but it was not done as the "sole intention seems to be to not allow the House to function". As Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien rose on his feet saying that 35 Bills were passed in din, Opposition MPs trooped to the Well of the House. Naidu adjourned the House till 12 noon after finishing his remarks. Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh tweeted without naming anyone, "presiding officers in Parliament are supposed to be neutral umpires, not partisan players. They cannot present a totally one-sided picture of goings on in the House and further aggravate the situation. Misplaced emotion leads to commotion." O'Brien said, "35-36 Bills were passed Bills. The government has provided the stimulus for the reaction (which one saw on Tuesday)." The Opposition has been protesting in Parliament after the government stonewalled the demands for a discussion on Pegasus issue first followed by one on repeal of farm laws and economy. On Tuesday, a short duration discussion on 'agriculture problems and solutions' was listed but the Opposition objected to it saying they wanted the subject to be changed as 'repeal of farm laws and farmers protest'. "I find it difficult to understand as to how the way the subject was listed in the List of Business for yesterday (Tuesday) would have prevented any member to raise any issue concerning the farm sector, including the three farm Bills that some members were keen to raise in the House and even demanding their withdrawal," Naidu said. "Yesterday was a golden opportunity for the concerned members to have gone on record with their positions on all issues relating to the plight of the famers. But it was not to be as the sole intention seems to be to not allow the House to function," he added. He said the Table area where the officers and reporters of the House, the Secretary-General and the Presiding Officer are seated is considered as the holy sanctum sanctorum of the House. "A certain degree of sacredness is attached to this place. In our temples, devotees are allowed only up to this sanctum sanctorum and not beyond. Entering this sanctum sanctorum of the House, in itself is an act of sacrilege and it has been happening as routine over the years," he said. "I am distressed by the way this sacredness has been destroyed yesterday. While some members sat on the Table, some others climbed on the Table of the House, perhaps to be more visible with such acts of sacrilege. I have no words to convey my anguish and to condemn such acts. As I spent a sleepless night last night, I struggled to find the provocation or reason for forcing this august House to hit such a low yesterday," he said. Naidu defended the wording of the short duration discussion saying the language to be used in the 'List of Business' is drafted in such a way that it is acceptable to all sections of the House without denting the thrust of the issue to be discussed. Unfortunately, he said, his caution to MPs that not taking up the discussion on farm sector would send out a negative message went unheeded and in the process, some sections of the House have "inflicted incalculable damage to the dignity and stature" of the Rajya Sabha. He also found fault with the MPs shooting the "sad moments of sacrilege" of the House and posting it on social media. "While doing so, they only ended up showing to the people the extent to which this august House can degenerate due to the new found competitive and aggressive disruptions by some sections. It was very sad indeed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spent-sleepless-night-after-sacrilege-in-temple-of-democracy-naidu-after-oppn-ruckus-in-rajya-sabha-1018546.html
11-08-2021||National||Pains me that Lok Sabha did not run smoothly: Om Birla||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Wednesday expressed pain that the House did not run smoothly during the Monsoon session. Addressing the media after the House was adjourned sine die (for an indefinite period), he said members holding placards, raising slogans in the Well of Lok Sabha was not in accordance with its traditions. Lok Sabha functioned only 21 hours during the entire Monsoon session and its productivity was at 22 per cent, Birla said. Lok Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, bringing an end to the stormy Monsoon session which was scheduled to conclude on August 13. Opposition protests over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and other issues had continuously marred the proceedings since the start of the session on July 19. The Question Hour witnessed disruptions on most of the days during this session, while the House managed to pass a raft of bills, including the Constitution amendment bill that will allow states to make their OBC lists. Birla also informed that the construction of new Parliament building is expected to be completed before August 15 next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pains-me-that-lok-sabha-did-not-run-smoothly-om-birla-1018558.html
11-08-2021||National||No early Assembly polls in Goa: CM Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday ruled out speculations about early Assembly elections in the coastal state. The state Assembly polls are due in February next year. Speculations were rife about early polls after the ruling BJP began its statewide campaign on Tuesday. Sawant and state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade will tour the state in the next fortnight. “There is no possibility of early elections. The polls will be held on time in February next year, not before that,” the chief minister told reporters in Panaji. In the 40-member state Assembly, the BJP currently has 27 MLAs, while the opposition Congress has five legislators. Besides, the Goa Forward Party (GFP) has three MLAs, the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party and NCP - one each, while there are also three Independents in the House. Meanwhile, Sawant congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the passage of the Constitution amendment bill to restore the power of states to make their own OBC lists in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, saying this shows the Centre's commitment towards social welfare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-early-assembly-polls-in-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-1018563.html
11-08-2021||National||Stringent punishment for harassing women for rejecting love proposal: Kerala CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday warned of stringent action against those indulging in atrocities on women for rejecting love proposals. He said the police would keep a tab on such people, who have the history of harassing and stalking women, and continue monitoring them to ensure that they were not planning anything extreme against them for rejecting the proposal. The Chief Minister's statement in the state Assembly assumes significance in the wake of a series of brutal murders of young women by spurned lovers or whose love proposals were rejected by them, reported in the state in recent times. The latest among them was the death of a 24-year-old dental college student, who was shot dead by a man who was her social media friend once, in Kothamangalam in Ernakulam district. He had shot the woman dead using a pistol before killing himself after barging into the house, where she was staying, in broad daylight on July 30. Bringing the incident to the notice of the House, Thrikkakara legislator P T Thomas (Congress) wanted the intelligence wing of the state police to be more vigilant to ensure the safety of girls and women in the society. Vijayan assured the House that the police would not take any soft stand towards those who harass women in the name of love. "Police are already taking stringent measures to ensure severe punishment to those who harass women for refusing love proposals," he said. The CM also wanted the investigators to take into account the psychological aspect of those attempting to trap women via cyber platforms. Congress legislator and former Home Minister Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan wanted the government to form an efficient investigation team of lady officers to probe the complaints of harassment and atrocities against women. He also pointed at the instances of brutal violence against women reported in the northern states and how the CRPC and IPC provisions had been changed in the country to ensure maximum punishment to the guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stringent-punishment-for-harassing-women-for-rejecting-love-proposal-kerala-cm-1018564.html
11-08-2021||National||Explained: How do states get back their power to define OBC lists||The Bill seeks to restore states' and union territories' powers to make their own OBC lists after the Supreme Court said the Constitution (102 Amendment) Act, 2018 took away the states' power to declare lists for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) for grant of quota in jobs and admissions. How will the Constitution (127th) Amendment Bill restore rights of states and UTs to make their own OBC lists? Read on to find out: What is a Constitutional amendment? A Constitutional amendment is, as the name suggests, a change introduced into the Constitution of India. According to Article 368, Parliament may, in exercise of its constituent power, amend by way of addition, variation or repeal any provision of the Constitution. What does it take to pass a Constitutional amendment? According to Article 368, an amendment of the Constitution may be initiated only by the introduction of a Bill for the purpose in either House of Parliament and passed only when the Bill is passed in each House by a majority of the total membership of that House present and voting. A Constitutional amendment, like regular Bills, requires the assent of the President before it can be enacted. Why was the amendment needed? How does the Bill help states define OBC lists? The Constitution (127th) Amendment, which allows for states to create their OBC and Socially and Educationally Backward Communities (SEBC) lists, creates consequential amendments in Articles 338B and 336 of the Constitution, which enables states to directly notify OBCs and SEBCs without having to refer to the National Commission for Backward Classes. Along with this, the state Assemblies will be enabled to notify state lists, as it will be taken out of the President's domain. However, states and UTs will remain bound to the 50 per cent ceiling imposed on reservations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-how-do-states-get-back-their-power-to-define-obc-lists-1018580.html
11-08-2021||National||Parliamentary panel not to push for lowering age limit to 16 years for juveniles involved in serious POCSO cases||A key parliamentary panel has decided not to push for lowering the age limit to 16 years from 18 years for juveniles involved in serious POCSO cases after the government asserted that existing laws are adequate to deal with heinous crimes committed by those in this age group. The government's response comes based on an observation of the parliamentary standing committee on Home Affairs led by Rajya Sabha MP and Congress leader Anand Sharma which noted that there have been a large number of cases under the POCSO Act where the age of the juveniles has been below the threshold age for applicability of the law. "The Committee believes that minor sexual offenders may commit more serious and heinous crimes if left untreated/uncounselled. "Therefore, it is very important to relook at these provisions because more and more juveniles are getting involved in such crimes. The Committee, therefore, recommends that the MHA may take up with MoW&CD to review the current age limit of 18 years and see if it can be reduced to 16 years for the applicability of the POCSO Act, 2012," the panel noted. In response, the Women and Child Development Ministry informed that the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, (JJ Act), 2015 which is the primary legislation for children in need of care and protection (CNCP) and children in conflict with law. "Child accused of crime under POCSO Act is protected under the provisions of JJ Act, 2015 based on the principle of restorative justice. The JJ Act, 2015 empowers Juvenile Justice Board to decide upon matters of children in conflict with law. Further, offences committed by the children have been categorised as petty, serious and heinous offences," the WCD Ministry said in its response. "The JJ Act, 2015 also includes a procedure to decide upon cases where children above the age of 16 years have been alleged to commit a heinous offence," the WCD ministry added. The parliamentary panel said it does not wish to pursue the matter in view of the government's reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-not-to-push-for-lowering-age-limit-to-16-years-for-juveniles-involved-in-serious-pocso-cases-1018586.html
11-08-2021||National||Rajya Sabha debates over restoring states' rights on OBC Bill||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday took up a Constitution amendment bill to restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs for reservation in jobs and educational institutions, ending a three-week deadlock between the government and the opposition in the House over various issues. Opposition parties disrupted proceedings in the Upper House of Parliament to press their demand for a discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy and the farmers' agitation ever since the Monsoon session started on July 19. Moving the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar said the bill will help restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs which was negated by the Supreme Court. He thanked the prime minister and various parties and their members for evolving a consensus to take up the important bill that seeks to create history by providing reservation to other backward classes in the country. The minister said this will help 671 communities, almost one-fifth of the total OBCs in the country, get reservation in jobs and educational institutions, he said. "I want to thank the parties and members of the House for building a consensus to discuss the bill that is in the interest and welfare of OBCs. With this consensus approach, we are moving towards creation of history in the future," Kumar said. He also thanked the prime minister for taking a number of measures for the welfare of other backward classes (OBCs) and for giving constitutional status to the central list of OBCs. The minister said the Constitution amendment bill is among the series of steps taken for the welfare of OBCs and for providing them reservation. "This amendment is necessary to restore the powers of states to have their own lists of OBCs for providing reservation. This reservation was removed by the Supreme Court while ascertaining the reservation criteria and for clarifying it, this Constitution amendment bill has been brought now," he said. "If the OBC lists of states were removed, nearly 671 communities which were included in the state lists would not get the benefit of reservation in educational institutions and appointment of jobs. It would have affected one-fifth of the OBC communities," Kumar said. This will help restore the federal structure to help towards the welfare of other backward classes, he said, claiming that the government had earlier made it clear during the earlier Constitution amendment that it will not affect the reservation for OBCs in states. He said the earlier Constitution amendment bill accorded constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) and gave it powers to look into complaints against OBCs. The reservation of 20 per cent to OBCs in medical and dental colleges will help provide almost 4,000 additional seats in medical and dental colleges, the minister said. This has helped instil confidence in OBC students, he said. Earlier, Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge urged deputy chairman Harivansh to increase the time for the debate on the bill from the prescribed three hours to more and leader of the House Piyush Goyal agreed to have the discussion for four hours. However, Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi urged the opposition members to allow the House to function beyond 6 PM for taking up all the agenda items listed for the day. The legislative business of the House includes a few more bills that have already been passed by the Lok Sabha. RJD's Manoj Jha and SAD member Naresh Gujral said members of smaller parties should get more time to speak on this all-important bill and urged the chair to consider giving them more time. The Lok Sabha had on Tuesday passed the bill ending the logjam by Opposition parties, who backed the legislation but demanded the removal of the 50 per cent cap on reservation and many of them also called for a caste-based census. The Supreme Court had dismissed the Centre's plea seeking a review of its May 5 majority verdict that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' powers to notify socially and economically backward classes (SEBCs) for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-debates-over-restoring-states-rights-on-obc-bill-1018588.html
11-08-2021||National||ISRO's Chandrayaan-2 instrument detects hydroxyl, water molecules on the Moon||The data was collected by the Imaging infrared spectrometer (IIRS), developed by Ahmedabad-based Space Applications Centre (SAC) of ISRO from the electromagnetic spectrum obtained from the lunar surface, further used to detect mineral composition.  Chandrayaan-2, launched in 2019, suffered a tragic crash in which the lander and rover were completely damaged, however, the orbiter remains active and is now used by scientists to make path-breaking discoveries from the lunar surface.  The instrument can operate between the wavelength of 0.8 to 5 micrometre, which enhances the ability to precisely distinguish between OH (hydroxyl) and H2O (water) molecules.  Chandrayaan-1 of 2008 too had similar equipment called Moon Mineralogy Mapper or M3. However, its wavelength was limited between 0.4 to 3 micrometre. Scientists then had questioned the accuracy of the data received from the instrument, saying it is harder to distinguish OH from H2O in its case. The paper, authored by scientists from IIRS in Dehradun, SAC in Ahmedabad, UR Rao Satellite Centre and ISRO headquarters in Bengaluru, reveals that the formation of hydroxyl or water molecules occurs due to a process called space weathering, which is when the solar winds blow over the lunar surface. Another reason could be small meteorites interacting with the surface that could result in chemical changes.  The find is also crucial for future planetary exploration for resource utilisation, the paper notes. “The proper interpretation of hydration feature through spectral analysis is significant as it provides important inputs regarding geology and geophysics of the mantle (of the moon) in terms of their mineralogy, chemical composition, rheology and solar–wind interaction."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isros-chandrayaan-2-instrument-detects-hydroxyl-water-molecules-on-the-moon-1018596.html
11-08-2021||National||Delhi HC seeks Ramani's stand on Akbar's appeal against her acquittal in defamation case||The Delhi High Court Wednesday sought journalist Priya Ramani's stand on former Union minister M J Akbar's appeal against a trial court order acquitting her in the criminal defamation case filed by him over her allegations of sexual harassment. Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice to Ramani in the appeal and listed it for further hearing on January 13. Senior advocates Rajiv Nayar and Geeta Luthra, appearing for Akbar, contended that the trial court erroneously acquitted Ramani in spite of concluding that her allegations were defamatory in nature. “He (trial court judge) says defamation is made out. Case is under Section 499 IPC. He finds it defamatory. Judgement should have concluded after this finding is returned,” Nayar submitted. The court responded that finding any content defamatory is the “first step” in the proceedings, after which the trial court has to consider the defense of the accused. “The trial court says per se they are defamatory and but in the context of which she made the allegations, there was a valid defense,” the judge stated. Senior counsel Luthra contended that the trial court handed out the verdict without considering any objections raised during the trial. “Nothing is decided. The (trial) court went on to decide about Ram and Ravan. Objections are not decided or looked into,” she said. Akbar has challenged the trial court's February 17 order acquitting Ramani in the case on grounds that a woman has the right to put grievances before any platform of her choice even after decades. The trial court had dismissed the complaint filed by Akbar, saying no charges were proved against Ramani. It had said it was of the considered view that the case of Akbar regarding commission of offence punishable under Section 500 (punishment for the offence of defamation) IPC against Ramani is not proved and she is acquitted for the same. The court had said it was shameful that crimes against women are taking place in a country where mega epics like Mahabharata and Ramayana were written about respecting them. The glass ceiling will not prevent Indian women as a roadblock in advancement in society of equal opportunities, it had said. In the wake of the #MeToo movement in 2018, Ramani had made allegations of sexual misconduct against Akbar when he was a journalist and she was working under him some 20 years ago. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018 for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago. He resigned as a Union minister on October 17, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-seeks-ramanis-stand-on-akbars-appeal-against-her-acquittal-in-defamation-case-1018603.html
11-08-2021||National||India in talks to buy 5 crore doses of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine||India is in talks to buy 5 crore doses of Pfizer Inc and German partner BioNTech SE's Covid-19 vaccine, the Wall Street Journal reported on Wednesday, citing people familiar with the matter. Pfizer and the Centre did not immediately respond to Reuters requests for comments. The drugmaker has not yet sought permission for use of its vaccine in India. The country, which rolled out one of the world's largest vaccination drives earlier this year, has been relying heavily on Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin, a home-grown shot produced by Bharat Biotech. Authorities are also in an advanced stage of negotiations with Johnson & Johnson, which has a deal with India-based Biological E. Ltd, to manufacture as many as 60 crore doses, starting as soon as this month, the Journal reported. Last week, the country approved J&J's one-shot vaccine for emergency use. It is the fifth jab to have been granted such approval after Covishield from AstraZeneca, Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, Sputnik V from Russia's Gamaleya Institute and the Covid-19 vaccine from Moderna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-talks-to-buy-5-crore-doses-of-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-1018605.html
11-08-2021||National||CM Kejriwal, Sisodia say truth has won after court discharges them in CS assault case||With a Delhi court discharging them in the chief secretary assault case, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said the truth has won. Sisodia also accused the BJP-led central government of hatching a conspiracy against Kejriwal. A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged Kejriwal, his deputy Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs in the case related to the alleged assault on the then chief secretary Anshu Prakash in 2018. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta, however, ordered framing of charges against two AAP MLAs - Amantullah and Prakash Jarwal - in the case. Kejirwal took to twitter saying "Satyamev jayate " (truth has won) following the court decision. "It is a day of victory of justice and truth. The court said that all allegations were false and baseless. CM has been acquitted today in that false case. We had been saying from day one that allegations re false," Sisodia said at an online press conference. "It was a conspiracy hatched by PM Modi and Centre government led by BJP and the fake case was lodged on their instructions," he charged. "This is the first incident when an elected PM has tried to derail the government of an elected chief minister in this manner. Public has elected both governments, you should not be busy in conspiracies and spying on opposition governments. PM and BJP should apologise to the countrymen for this," he added. The criminal case relates to the alleged assault on Prakash during a meeting at Kejriwal's official residence on February 19, 2018 and besides the chief minister and his deputy, 11 AAP MLAs were also made accused in the case. Kejriwal, Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs were granted bail in October 2018. Khan and Jarwal were granted bail earlier by the high court.  The alleged assault had triggered a bitter tussle between the Delhi government and its bureaucrats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-kejriwal-sisodia-say-truth-has-won-after-court-discharges-them-in-cs-assault-case-1018606.html
11-08-2021||National||Kinnaur landslide: Amit Shah speaks to Himachal CM, assures help from Centre||The home minister also directed the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) to provide all assistance to the Himachal Pradesh government in rescue and relief operations. Shah spoke to the Himachal Pradesh chief minister to enquire about the landslide in the state, an official from the ministry said. He assured him of all possible help from the central government to deal with the situation. Over 40 people are feared buried under the debris of a major landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district on Wednesday. Several vehicles, including a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus carrying over 40 passengers, are buried under the debris.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kinnaur-landslide-amit-shah-speaks-to-himachal-cm-assures-help-from-centre-1018609.html
11-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Is Kerala becoming India's new epicentre?||Although the nation is witnessing a significant decline in active Covid-19 cases, the rise in R-value in certain states has become a matter of concern. While the number of active cases came down to 3,86,351, the lowest in 140 days, concentration of over 50 per cent of India's new cases in one state is also raising alarm bells. To add to it - Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh - currently have Covid R-value above 1, which means one infected  person is spreading the virus to more than one person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-is-kerala-becoming-indias-new-epicentre-1018610.html
11-08-2021||National||West Bengal governor meets PM Modi||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and apprised him of the political situation in the state, sources said. Dhankhar is scheduled to meet Home Minister Amit Shah as well. "It was a courtesy call on the PM," said Dhankhar after meeting the PM. Earlier, he met Union Culture and Tourism Minister G Kishan Reddy and urged him to enhance the "efficacy" of the Victoria Memorial. "West Bengal is unparalleled repository of culture and heritage.To put @victoriamemkol @ezcckolkata @IndianMuseumKol @asiatic_society on incremental trajectory and secure more footfalls Shri @kishanreddybjp @MinOfCultureGoI assured all steps," tweeted Dhankhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-governor-meets-pm-modi-1018621.html
11-08-2021||National||Ajit Pawar seeks PM's intervention in Maharashtra-Karnataka border row||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention to resolve the state's long pending boundary dispute with neighbouring Karnataka. In the letter dated August 9, Pawar appealed to Modi to take the lead in stopping the Karnataka government's "atrocities" on Marathi-speaking people and include the disputed areas in Maharashtra. Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belgaum, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending the majority of population in these areas is Marathi-speaking. The dispute between the two states over Belgaum and other border areas is pending before the Supreme Court for many years. Pawar said it has been more than 60 years since the formation of Maharashtra state, with Mumbai as its capital, but, Belgaum, Karwar, Bidar, Bhalki, Nippani and other Marathi-speaking areas of Karnataka are still not in Maharashtra. "People of Maharashtra and those living in the Marathi-speaking areas of Karnataka bordering Maharashtra regret that the issue hasn't been resolved yet," the NCP leader said. Maharashtra will not rest till the dream of a "Sanyukta Maharashtra", including Marathi-speaking areas along the border, is realised, he said. "The fight through legal means will continue. We want you to take cognisance of wishes of the people of Maharashtra and ensure justice," Pawar said in his letter to the PM. Currently, the legal battle is on in the Supreme Court and "we are confident that Maharashtra will get justice", he said. "We seek your help in ensuring justice to Marathi people from border areas of Karnataka. I am sure you will do so," the deputy CM said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ajit-pawar-seeks-pms-intervention-in-maharashtra-karnataka-border-row-1018622.html
11-08-2021||National||Germany detains alleged Russian spy at UK embassy in Berlin||German prosecutors said Wednesday they have detained a British citizen who is accused of spying for Russia while working at the British Embassy in Berlin. Federal prosecutors said in a statement that the man was detained on Tuesday in Potsdam based on cooperative investigations by German and British authorities. In keeping with German privacy laws, he was only identified as Davis S. Prosecutors said he is suspected of having spied for the Russian intelligence service at least since November. Before his arrest, he worked as a local hire at the British Embassy in the German capital and allegedly passed on documents he received at work to the Russians, the prosecutors' statement said. He received an unknown amount of cash in return, the prosecutor's statement said. Investigators have searched his home and office, the statement said. During the Cold War, Berlin was often dubbed as “the capital of spies” because the city was on the frontlines of the confrontation between the Soviets in the East and the Americans and their western allies in the West. Intelligence agents were active on both sides of the divided city and sometimes — after some espionage agents were caught — there were infamous cloak-and-dagger exchanges of captured spies on the Glienicker Bridge. However, since the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, the unification of Germany a year later, and the end of the Cold War, espionage activities in Berlin have supposedly abated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/germany-detains-alleged-russian-spy-at-uk-embassy-in-berlin-1018627.html
11-08-2021||National||Priya Ramani's acquittal based on surmises, conjecture, MJ Akbar to Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court Wednesday sought journalist Priya Ramani's stand on former Union minister M J Akbar's appeal against a trial court verdict in his criminal defamation case against her over sexual harassment allegations on the grounds that it was "based on surmises and conjecture". The trial court decided the case as though it was a sexual harassment case instead of the defamation case he had filed against her, Akbar has told the high court in his appeal. “The impugned judgement, being based on surmises and conjecture, cannot stand muster even from a prima facie view, and therefore, is liable to be set aside,” Akbar has said. Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice to Ramani on the appeal and listed it for further hearing on January 13. Senior advocates Rajiv Nayar and Geeta Luthra, appearing for Akbar, contended that the trial court erroneously acquitted Ramani in spite of concluding that her allegations were defamatory in nature. “He (trial court judge) says defamation is made out. Case is under Section 499 IPC. He finds it defamatory. Judgement should have concluded after this finding is returned,” Nayar submitted. The court responded that finding any content defamatory is the “first step” in the proceedings, after which the trial court has to consider the defense of the accused. “The trial court says per se they are defamatory and but in context of which she made the allegations, there was a valid defense,” the judge stated. Senior counsel Luthra contended that the trial court handed out the verdict without considering any object ions raised during the trial. “Nothing is decided. The (trial) court went on to decide about Ram and Ravan. Objections are not decided or looked into,” she said. Akbar, in his plea field through Senior Partner, Karanjawala & Co – Sandeep Kapur, has contended that the trial court failed to appreciate the arguments and evidence on record. “Trial Court has erred in considering the instant case as a complaint for sexual harassment when it was in fact a complaint for defamation.. the Ld. Court ought to have considered the evidence presented by the Respondent (Ramani) herein from the perspective of a defamation case as the Respondent has presented no admissible corroboratory evidence, other than her own testimony,” the appeal reads. Akbar has also claimed that the trial court “gravely erred” in observing that he did not have a stellar reputation and has ignored the well-established principles of criminal jurisprudence. “The Ld. ACMM, while passing the impugned judgment, has erroneously relied upon the contention of the Respondent, that the Appellant herein is not a man of stellar and impeccable reputation, which speaks volumes about the non-application of mind, while passing the impugned judgment, rendering the same as bad in law and on facts,” Akbar has challenged the trial court's February 17 order acquitting Ramani in the case on grounds that a woman has the right to put grievances before any platform of her choice even after decades. The trial court had dismissed the complaint filed by Akbar, saying no charges were proved against Ramani. It had said it was of the considered view that the case of Akbar regarding commission of offence punishable under Section 500 (punishment for the offence of defamation) IPC against Ramani is not proved and she is acquitted for the same. The court had said it was shameful that crimes against women are taking place in a country where mega epics like Mahabharata and Ramayana were written about respecting them. The glass ceiling will not prevent Indian women as a roadblock in advancement in society of equal opportunities, it had said. Ramani had made allegations of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of the #MeToo movement in 2018. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018 for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago. He resigned as a Union minister on October 17, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priya-ramanis-acquittal-based-on-surmises-conjecture-mj-akbar-to-delhi-hc-1018633.html
11-08-2021||National||TRS demand OBC quota in Parliament, Assembly||TRS MP Banda Prakash on Wednesday demanded reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in Parliament and Assembly even as he demanded removing the 50 per cent cap on quota regime while questioning the Supreme Court rationale behind setting such a condition. Participating in the debate on the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill to empower states to identify OBCs in Rajya Sabha, Prakash also said that the Telangana government under K Chandrashekhar Rao had sent a resolution demanding 33 per cent reservation for OBCs in legislature but nobody knows its fate even after eight years. He said there is a need to check how many MPs from backward classes are there in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. "We want political reservation for the OBCs in the legislature. The Telangana government had sent a resolution to the Centre demanding a 33 per cent quota for backward classes eight years ago. Now we have to search for that. Are you bringing it to Parliament? What is your commitment to OBC reservation in Parliament?" he said. There is a need for Caste Census and an assurance was given in 2018 by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, who was Home Minister then, he said. Demanding removal of the 50 per cent cap on reservation, he asked what was the scientific evaluation on which the Supreme Court had put the cap. Finding fault with the Supreme Court, Prakash said the judiciary was giving several judgments, which had gone against the OBCs. "When it is backward classes, they will think of reservation cap. When it is economically weak sections (EWS), why not think of the cap. The Centre itself violated the 50 per cent cap. Why is the Supreme Court silent? In the case of backward classes, they will think of creamy layer, they will think of cap. Why is not that it is other issues?...Then I demand to bring creamy-layer in the general category also," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trs-demand-obc-quota-in-parliament-assembly-1018638.html
11-08-2021||National||Pakistan tries to infiltrate terrorists across LoC in garb of ceasefire||Undeniable proof has emerged which clearly demonstrates that Pakistans commitment to ceasefire is a farce. For the first time, a footage of a terror launch pad with active terrorists visible has been accessed. The proof shows that Pakistan is using the time to wage a proxy war against India. Intelligence sources said that in the garb of a ceasefire agreement, Pakistan has been increasing the number of terrorists in the launch pads near the Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB). These terrorists are waiting for an opportunity to sneak into the Indian side. The clear proof is in the form of visuals of one such terror launch pad opposite a BSF post on the International Border in Jammu region. The BSF has been keeping watch using hi-tech equipment on this terror launch pad and not letting the infiltrators succeed in their plans. The terror launch pad is located in the Pakistan side of the International Border. For the first time, a group of four to five infiltrators can be seen in the visuals near the International Border, probably trying to explore an opportunity to sneak into the Indian side. This is for the first time that a footage of a terror launch pad with active terrorists visible has been accessed.Security agencies have been kept on high alert as in the coming days, several infiltration attempts are likely to be made in the Jammu region. So far, the security forces have foiled two major infiltration attempts in the Jammu region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-tries-to-infiltrate-terrorists-across-loc-in-garb-of-ceasefire-1018639.html
11-08-2021||National||Congress leader Hariprasad slams K S Eshwarappa||Slamming Karnataka's Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa for using foul language against Congress leaders, senior Congress leader B K Hariprasad on Wednesday said the BJP leader should get treatment at NIMHANS. “Eshwrappa is known for using foul language against political opponents. Even he used similar words against former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa earlier. Since he repeatedly uses foul language and defends the same, first he should get himself tested at NIMHANS,” Hariprasad told reporters in Delhi. “While opposing the BJP leaders' suggestions to change Indira Canteen name, I have suggested the state government keep Prime Minister Narendra Modi's name on all public toilets. I will stand by what I said,” Hariprasad said. Taking exception to Eshwarappa's recent statements, former Minister H Vishwanath said the Minister should not make provocative statements. "The Minister should always mind his language while talking and I hope Eshwarappa knows this very well," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-hariprasad-slams-k-s-eshwarappa-1018640.html
11-08-2021||National||Success of the self-reliant India campaign lies on Indian industries: PM||Economy is picking up pace once again and there is a newfound confidence in make-in-India initiatives, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday asking the industry to up its risk-taking appetite to match with bold reforms undertaken by the government. “We have taken bold decisions. Reforms continued even during pandemic. The government is making reforms not out of compulsion but out of conviction," he said addressing the CII's annual meeting. Lauding the industry for its resilience during the pandemic, the Prime Minister said major responsibility for the success of the self-reliant India campaign lies on Indian industries. Assuring all support to the industry, Modi said that India is receiving record foreign direct investment (FDI) because of reforms done in the last few years. “Today there is a government in the country which is ready to take the biggest risk in the interest of the nation, previous governments could not muster up the courage to take political risks,” he said. The Prime Minister said that by rectifying the mistakes of the past, the government did away with the retrospective taxation. This government is able to undertake difficult reforms because for this government, reforms are a matter of “conviction not compulsion”, he said. Modi asked the Industry to take full advantage of the "atmosphere of trust" for India’s development and capabilities. Making a note of the changes in the approach of the current government and change in the ways of working of the current set-up, the Prime Minister stressed that the "new India" of today is ready to march with the new world. "India, which was apprehensive of foreign investment at one point of time, is welcoming investments of all types today. Similarly, while tax policies used to induce despondency among the investors, the same India can now boast of the world’s most competitive corporate tax and faceless tax system. Red-tapism of the past has been replaced by a significant rise in the ease of doing business index," he said. Similarly, rationalisation of the maze of labour laws into four labour codes; agriculture, which was treated as a mere means of livelihood, is being connected with the markets through reforms, resulted in India getting record FDI and FPI. Foreign exchange reserves are also at an all time high level, he said. "There was a time when foreign was synonymous with better. Industry big-wigs understand the consequences of such a psychology. Situation was so bad that even indigenous brands developed with great hard work were advertised with foreign names. Today the situation is changing rapidly," the PM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/success-of-the-self-reliant-india-campaign-lies-on-indian-industries-pm-1018641.html
11-08-2021||National||Wasting food equivalent to stealing from poor: Rahul Gandhi slams govt over grains 'wastage'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday slammed the government over media reports that India lost Rs 406 crore worth grains due to damage during storage in state-run granaries in the last three years, saying "wasting food is equivalent to stealing from the poor". In a post on Instagram, the former Congress chief shared a screen shot of a media report which stated that data cited in a parliamentary standing committee report has revealed that India lost Rs 406 crore worth of grains procured by the government due to damage during storage in state-run granaries in the past three years. "Wasting food is equivalent to stealing from the poor," Gandhi said in his post, using the hashtag 'GOIwastes'. In a report, the Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution stated that the government should ensure that food grains do not get damaged/spoiled by taking adequate scientific storage measures and fixing responsibilities on officials/officers for accrual of damaged food grains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wasting-food-equivalent-to-stealing-from-poor-rahul-gandhi-slams-govt-over-grains-wastage-1018657.html
11-08-2021||National||Supreme Court pulls up states for failing to fill up vacancies in consumer fora||The Supreme Court on Wednesday pulled up the states for "defeating the laws enacted for the benefits of people," as it directed them to fill up around 800 vacancies in consumer courts across the country within eight weeks.   “What do you all want? That people should not get redressal under the laws. This is not fair. This is unacceptable,” a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy told the counsel appearing for the Union government and States.   “Don't create hopes when you are unwilling to fulfil aspirations. If you raise hopes that consumers will get their disputes redressed, you have to have an adequate number of people to deal with the cases coming up... We can't let consumers and citizens to your mercy if you aren't willing to perform,” it added.  The bench has ordered that all vacancies in consumer courts at national, state and district levels must be filled up by the Centre, states and Union territories in eight weeks after duly notifying the rules of appointments, advertising the posts and setting up selection committees.   Taking exception to the “dilly dallying” by the Centre and states, the court directed that Secretary of the consumer affairs ministry at the Centre and Chief Secretaries of the state governments will have to remain present through video-conferencing on the next date of hearing if the order on filling up vacant posts is not complied with.  Senior counsel Gopal Sankaranarayanan and advocate Aditya Narain, acting as amicus curiae furnished a tabular chart showing the district consumer fora had 721 vacant posts that included 188 vacancies of presidents. Similarly, 72 posts were vacant across the state commissions and the number included eight vacancies of presidents. The national consumer commission has three vacancies.   The top court passed its order in a Suo Motu matter registered as “inaction of the government” in appointing members of the consumer courts and providing adequate infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-pulls-up-states-for-failing-to-fill-up-vacancies-in-consumer-fora-1018662.html
11-08-2021||National||Alliance Air announces morning flights for Hyderabad-Chennai, Hyderabad-Bengaluru routes||Alliance Air, state-owned Air India's regional arm, on Wednesday announced the commencement of its early-morning flight services from Hyderabad to Chennai, from August 29. Alliance Air will also operate similar flights from Hyderabad to Bengaluru from August 30, the airline said in a statement. It added that it will deploy its 70-seater ATR aircraft to connect these cities. The Hyderabad-Chennai flight will operate five days a week, the airline said. "Responding to the demand of passenger traffic in the early-morning hours, we are delighted to announce the launch of direct services between these cities. "This flight will cater to the business needs of the morning travellers saving a lot of time and enhancing productivity," the airline said. The flight 9I-893 will depart from Hyderabad at 6.25 am and arrive in Chennai at 8 am, while the return flight 9I-894 will depart from Chennai at 8.30 am and arrive in Hyderabad at 10.10 am. Effective August 30, the Hyderabad-Bengaluru flight will give the travellers from Hyderabad and Bengaluru multiple options for further connectivity in the early hours of the morning. Currently, Alliance Air is operating daily direct flights between the two cities in the evening, it said. The same-day return connectivity between these cities will allow better time management for flyers and give a boost to trade and commerce, the airline stated. According to Alliance Air, the light 9I-501 will depart from Hyderabad at 6.30 am and arrive in Bengaluru at 8.20 am. On its return leg, the Flight 9I-502 will depart from Bengaluru at 8.50 am and arrive in Hyderabad at 10.20 am, said the statement. Currently, Alliance Air connects 47 destinations across the country with 76 departures per day and 313 flights per week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alliance-air-announces-morning-flights-for-hyderabad-chennai-hyderabad-bengaluru-routes-1018664.html
11-08-2021||National||High drama in Rajya Sabha as Insurance Bill passed||Almost six hours of peaceful proceedings on the OBC Bill made way for high drama in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday evening when a controversial legislation on insurance sector was taken up, with an angry Opposition protesting against it attempting to climb the reporters' table which was thwarted by marshals. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge alleged that women MPs were "insulted" by marshals during their protest inside the House, a charge denied by Leader of the House Piyush Goyal who demanded that a proper enquiry should be conducted into the actions of Opposition MPs. Outside the House, NCP leader Sharad Pawar said, "in my 55 years of parliamentary career, I never saw the way the women MPs were attacked today (in Rajya Sabha). More than 40 men and women were brought into the House from outside. It is painful. It is an attack on democracy." Congress Chief Whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh tweeted, "Insurance Amendment Bill to privatise GIC was passed in RS with a large force of security personnel present. The government refused to send it to a Select Committee — a demand by all Opposition parties including those close to BJP. What happened this evening was worse than atrocious." The day saw the Opposition pausing their protest demanding immediate discussion on the Pegasus issue for the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill 2021 and the House witnessed peaceful proceedings between 12 noon and 6 PM. However, as Vice Chairperson Sasmit Patra took up the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill 2021, which seeks to enhance the role of private sector in public sector insurance companies, the Opposition erupted in protest and rushed to the Well of the House. The Opposition alleges that the Bill aims to give control of the general insurance companies in the public sector to the private sector and wanted it to be scrutinised by a Rajya Sabha Select Committee before its passage, a demand rejected by the government. As Patra called Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to move the Bill, CPI's Binoy Viswam attempted to climb the reporters' table in front of the Chair but was prevented by marshals. Patra went ahead with the Bill but as Viswam tried to climb the table, he first adjourned the House for 15 minutes. When the House re-convened at 6:26 PM, there were multiple rings of marshals who prevented the MPs like Viswam, Syed Nasir Husain and Ripun Bora from reaching the table, which led to MPs pushing the marshals. Women MPs also tried to breach the marshals' wall. The Bill was then passed leading to another adjournment till 7:04 PM. When the House re-convened, Kharge led an Opposition walk-out after saying that a human shield of marshals was deployed around the reporters' table and marshals were pushing MPs. "There was a war-like atmosphere in the House. There were more marshals than MPs. The marshals manhandled our women members. Women MPs were insulted. Even within the Parliament women are not safe. It is unfortunate," he said. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi immediately countered the charges saying that some women marshals had complained that some tried to manhandle them. "We have the mandate. We have to pass Bills. Let them go to people. On Tuesday, they climbed the table. That is highly condemnable. Strict action should be taken against those who have manhandled the marshals," Joshi said. As the Opposition walked out, Goyal alleged that the Opposition was hell bent on not allowing the smooth functioning of the House from the beginning. "This was pre-planned to disrupt the House," he said. Goyal demanded that the Opposition should apologise to the Chairman for insulting him. They should also apologise to the marshals, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-drama-in-rajya-sabha-as-insurance-bill-passed-1018673.html
11-08-2021||National||Parliament nod for Bills on Homoeopathy, National Commission for Indian System of Medicine||Parliament passed the National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021, and the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021, after the Rajya Sabha gave its approval on Wednesday. The two Bills were passed in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. As the House re-assembled at 7.04 pm after a brief adjournment due to disruption by opposition parties, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge protested the presence of marshals in the House, saying women MPs were not "safe". Amid sloganeering and protest by opposition parties, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the NDA government had the mandate to pass legislations and it was doing so. He also condemned "manhandling" of house marshals by opposition members and criticised Tuesday's events when certain opposition party members climbed on the official table. Ayush Minister Sarbananda Sonowal had moved the two Bills in the Rajya Sabha which were passed by voice votes after brief discussions. The National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021, proposes to amend the National Commission for Homoeopathy Act, 2020 to provide a medical education system that improves access to quality and affordable medical education. The National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (Amendment) Bill, 2021, seeks to repeal the Indian Medicine Central Council Act, 1970 and help make available the Indian system of medicine professionals across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-nod-for-bills-on-homoeopathy-national-commission-for-indian-system-of-medicine-1018696.html
11-08-2021||National||Turbulent Monsoon Session of Parliament ends two days early||A turbulent Monsoon Session of Parliament came to an end on Wednesday, two days ahead of schedule, and amid repeated disruptions that saw a sharp dip in productivity of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu expressed their “deep anguish” at the repeated disruptions of proceedings by the opposition during the four-week Session over issues ranging from price rise, Pegasus snooping allegations and the demand to roll back farm reforms. Rajya Sabha witnessed unruly scenes on Tuesday when opposition members climbed on the reporters' table, leading to adjournment and Congress member Partap Singh Bajwa throwing a file containing papers at the empty chair of the presiding officer. “I am distressed by the way this sacredness (of the House) has been destroyed yesterday (Tuesday),” Naidu said. The Lok Sabha functioned barely for 21 hours and 14 minutes, while 74 hours and 46 minutes of the total 96 hours slotted for transaction of business. The Rajya Sabha functioned for 28 hours and 21 minutes against the allotted 104 hours. “The productivity of the Lok Sabha was 22 per cent. I share people's pain that their issues could not be discussed in the House... crores of rupees are spent on functioning of Parliament,” Birla told reporters after the Lok Sabha adjourned sine die. While the government pushed its legislative agenda through the opposition disruptions, the Rajya Sabha discussed the Covid-19 situation but could not begin the discussion on farmers' issues. The Speaker said he would soon convene a meeting of the Rules Committee to explore possibilities of ensuring that the House functions. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress President Sonia Gandhi and floor leaders held a customary meeting with the Speaker, who hoped the next Session would be more productive. According to the Lok Sabha Secretariat, the Monsoon Session with 17 sittings was the most disrupted Session of the 17th Lok Sabha 76 hours and 46 minutes lost to interruptions and forced adjournments. As many as 13 bills were introduced in the Lok Sabha and 20 draft legislations, including the Constitution (127th)Amendment Bill and another to end retrospective tax, were passed. The Rajya Sabha also witnessed suspension of six Trinamool members for a day for unruly behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/turbulent-monsoon-session-of-parliament-ends-two-days-early-1018705.html
11-08-2021||National||CMC Vellore to conduct Covishield-Covaxin mix study||A top Indian hospital is set to launch a mix-and-match clinical trial involving Covishield and Covaxin in order to find out whether a single dose of two vaccines could be combined for an effective protection against the Covid-19 epidemic. To be conducted by scientists at the Christian Medical College, Vellore on 500 individuals, the trial would involve giving 200 persons with the first shot of Covishield followed by Covaxin and inoculating the two shots in reverse order to another 200 recipients. In both groups, the second shot will be administered two months after the first jab. The remaining 100 persons would be split into two groups of 50 each who would receive two doses each of Covishield and Covaxin. The scientists would subsequently analyse the immune responses in all the four groups to determine the best combination. "We should have the initial set of results before the end of 2021,” principal investigator Winsley Ross at the CMC told DH. The Drugs Controller General of India. has recently approved the study design which would be having a second arm focusing on the need to have a booster dose. In the boosting arm of the study, around 600 persons who have already received two doses of either Covishield or Covaxin, would be given a booster dose after six months to check if such a strategy improves the vaccine’s ability to protect the recipients from hospitalisation and serious disease. The plan is to create three groups of 200 volunteers each who would receive booster shots of (1) Covishield (2) Covaxin and (3) any new vaccine that may come to the market later this year. Each group would be followed up for six months. The exercise has been funded by the Azim Premzi foundation. "We will carry out immunogenicity studies in great details,” said Gagandeep Kang, eminent virologist and a professor at CMC. A common information sharing platform would be created using which other scientists working on the vaccines can measure their immune responses following the same standard for better assessment of the two vaccines. "The World Health Organisation has called for a moratorium on booster dose for the time being. We are closely watching the science on the need for such a dose. It is a work in progress,” V K Paul, NITI Ayog member and the government’s principal advisor on Covid-19 said on Tuesday. Earlier scientists at the Indian Council of Medical Research studied 18 individuals who by mistake received Covishild as the first dose and Covaxin as second. The ICMR study, even though conducted on a small sample, demonstrated the superiority of the Covishield-Covaxin combination as against the two doses of the same vaccine. "These findings have an important implication for the Covid-19 vaccination program wherein heterologous immunisation will pave the way for induction of improved and better protection against the variant strains of SARS-CoV-2. Such mixed regimens will also help to overcome the challenges of shortfall of particular vaccines,” the ICMR team reported. India has administered more than 52 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses so far, of which over 45 crore are Covishield and the rest is Covaxin. More than 40 crore individuals received the first dose whereas 11.53 crore got both the shots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cmc-vellore-to-conduct-covishield-covaxin-mix-study-1018708.html
11-08-2021||National||Chopper that India gifted Afghanistan falls in hand of advancing Taliban||An MI-24V attack helicopter gifted by India to the Afghan Air Force has now fallen into the hands of the Taliban as its fighters have taken over the airport in Kunduz in northern Afghanistan. The helicopter is one of the four India had gifted to the Afghan Air Force in 2019. A video shot after the Sunni Muslim militants took over the airport in Kunduz on Wednesday showed the helicopter on the tarmac, with its rotors and engine removed. The video was posted on Twitter by Joseph Dempsey of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, a think-tank with offices in London and Washington D.C. India on Wednesday brought back home about 50 of its officials and citizens living in and around Mazar-e-Sharif amid fierce fighting between the Afghan National Defence and Security Force (ANDSF) and the rapidly advancing Taliban near the capital of the Balkh province in northern Afghanistan. The Taliban took over the airport in Kunduz on Wednesday – three days after overrunning the key provincial capital in northern Afghanistan. The airport had within its premises the headquarters of the 217th corps of the Afghan National Army (ANA), a wing of the ANDSF. The ANA soldiers had retreated to the base after losing the city centre and much of the province to the Taliban. But the ANA’s last bastion in the province too fell to the militants by Wednesday. The Taliban’s spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid claimed that the hundreds of soldiers of the ANA surrendered to it and left the airport. He also confirmed in a tweet that the ‘mujahideens’ had ‘seized’ not only the helicopter New Delhi provided to the Afghan Air Force, but also weapons, ammunitions and other military hardware after the ANA soldiers had left the base and the airport. He tweeted videos that showed the unarmed ANA soldiers being allowed to return home after surrendering to the militants and some of the military gears the militants had ‘seized’. New Delhi had covered all expenses for procurement of the four MI-24V helicopters for the Afghan Air Force from Belarus in May and October 2019. They had in fact replaced four other choppers India had gifted Afghanistan in 2015 and 2016. India had also provided three ‘cheetal’ military utility helicopters to Afghanistan in 2018. A source in New Delhi said that the helicopter that had fallen in the hands of the Taliban in Kunduz might not be of any use to the militants as they would need specially trained pilots to fly it and use it against the ANA soldiers. The Taliban had on July 31 last alleged that an aircraft provided by India to Afghanistan had been used to bomb a hospital in Helmand Province of the country. Meanwhile, a special aircraft landed in Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi early on Wednesday, bringing home the officials posted at the Consulate General of India in Mazar-e-Sharif and the security personnel deployed to guard it as well as the civilians living in and around the city. As the Taliban overran several major cities in northern Afghanistan over the past few days and continuing its blitzkrieg, the Embassy of India in Kabul on Tuesday “strongly advised” Indians living across the war torn country to immediately take flights back home before commercial air services get discontinued. India had on July 10 evacuated its officials posted at its consulate in Kandahar in the southern part of Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-that-india-gifted-afghanistan-falls-in-hand-of-advancing-taliban-1018712.html
11-08-2021||National||Nadda steps up OBC outreach, asks party to look out for unrepresented communities||Ahead of Uttar Pradesh elections, BJP is pulling out all stops to OBC voters with BJP chief J P Nadda asking party leaders to look out for communities that have remained unrepresented. “We have to take everyone along. I would ask the activists of the OBC morcha to look out if any backward communities have been left out,” Nadda said addressing a felicitation function of OBC leaders in the council of ministers. After the recent expansion of the council of ministers, there are 27 ministers from OBC communities, 12 from scheduled castes, eight from scheduled tribes, besides 11 women. Nadda said 35 per cent of the council of ministers is made up of leaders from OBC communities. OBC communities form more that 50 per cent of the total voting population in Uttar Pradesh and leaders cutting across party lines are wooing the group ahead of elections next year. “It is for the first time India's council of ministers resembles a beautiful bouquet that has representation from diverse caste groups. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has tried to give representation to every caste group and every state in the council of ministers,” Nadda said. Nadda slammed the opposition parties for “ignoring” the rightful claims of the OBCs in government and accused them of pandering to various caste groups only at the time of elections. “Who had stopped the previous rulers from giving representation to all castes? They only believed in succession of leadership roles in their respective families,” Nadda said. The support of the non-Yadav OBCs is considered to have played a key role in BJP's massive victory in the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections and it is making every effort to keep them along. The BJP President asked the OBC morcha to redouble efforts to find out if any caste groups or communities have still remained unrepresented so that they can be brought ahead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nadda-steps-up-obc-outreach-asks-party-to-look-out-for-unrepresented-communities-1018717.html
11-08-2021||National||Bengaluru-Mysuru Economic Corridor to be completed by October 2022||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said the construction works of the 10-lane Bengaluru-Mysuru Economic Corridor will be completed by October 2022. "10-lane Bengaluru-Mysuru Economic Corridor is being constructed at record speed. Rs 8,172 crore economic corridor is likely to be completed by October 2022. It will reduce the travel time between the two cities from the current 3 hours to only 90 minutes," Gadkari tweeted. The road project between the two cities is being executed under Bharatmala Pariyojana Phase-I. The project is being executed under two packages- the first one runs from Bengaluru to Nidaghatta in Maddur taluk and the second Nidaghatta to Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengaluru-mysuru-economic-corridor-to-be-completed-by-october-2022-1018718.html
11-08-2021||National||WHO to decide on authorising Covaxin||A top vaccines official at the World Health Organisation says the agency expects to make a decision next month on an emergency authorisation for the Indian-made Covid-19 vaccine made by Bharat Biotech, a shot that has yet to be authorized by any Western regulatory authorities. Dr. Mariangela Simao, a WHO assistant director-general for vaccines, says the UN health agency's assessment of the Bharat Biotech vaccine was "quite advanced" and officials hoped for a decision by mid-September. Few studies have been published on the shot. Indian researchers have yet to share any advanced research about the vaccine, which has been authorised and used in India. Scientists in India say the vaccine is about 78 per cent effective, but there are some questions about how the vaccine performs in the real world, including against Covid-19 variants. Simao says WHO is also considering other versions of vaccines already licensed by the agency, including one made by Sinopharm. She expects they'll begin evaluating vaccines made by Sanofi Pasteur and Novavax in September. "There are many, many vaccines in the final stages of the pipeline,” Simao says. Last week, the US makers of Novavax said they would prioritise seeking authorization in developing countries and from WHO before getting the green light in the U.S. and European Union.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-to-decide-on-authorising-covaxin-1018719.html
11-08-2021||National||DRDO successfully tests 'Nirbhay' missile; engine designed by labs in Bengaluru||The Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) on Wednesday successfully tested the ‘Nirbhay’ Indigenous Technology Cruise Missile, powered by the Made-in-India ‘Manik’ Turbofan Engine. The missile was designed by the Aeronautical Development Establishment, a DRDO laboratory in Bengaluru. The engine was designed and developed by another DRDO laboratory, Gas Turbine Research Establishment (GTRE), which is also based in Bengaluru. The ‘Nirbhay’ subsonic missile, which has a range of 1000 kilometers, was fired from a military testing facility off the coast of Odisha at around 9:55 am on Wednesday and it flew for nearly 150 kilometers in 15 minutes. A source said that the primary objective of the test was to assess the performance of the ‘Manik’ Small Turbofan Engine (STFE) developed by the GTRE. The engine performed well during the short-range test, paving the way for further advancement to make it more powerful and faster, the source said in New Delhi. An earlier test on October 12 last year had to be aborted due to technical snags. The ‘Manik’ STFE is a bypass engine of 400 kgf thrust class designed and developed by the GTRE in Bengaluru to propel the Nirbhay Missiles. The engine has several advanced features, like state-of-the-art Control System (Digital Engine Control and Advanced Fuel Controls Systems, Pyro Systems), mid-air starting with pyro devices, wide chord fan, mixed flow compressor and slinger combustor, high speed alternator, uncooled high pressure turbine blades and BLISK LPT, shrouded low pressure turbine blades, according to the DRDO. The ‘Nirbhay’ is the first Indigenous Technology Cruise Missile developed in India. The Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE) based in Bengaluru led a consortium of DRDO laboratories for the indigenous design and development of the ‘Nirbhay’. The missile is presently launched from a mobile articulated launcher, but it is being adopted for launch from sea and air platforms too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-successfully-tests-nirbhay-missile-engine-designed-by-labs-in-bengaluru-1018720.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||'Sidhu's barbs don't augur well': Tension brewing within Punjab Congress again?||Amidst no end in sight to his row with Navjot Singh Sidhu, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday rushed to Delhi to meet Sonia Gandhi allegedly to complain about the new Punjab Congress chief's criticism of his government.  This comes days after Gandhi appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Congress chief despite the Chief Minister's opposition as part to the party bid to quell dissidence within Congress ahead of Assembly polls. Gandhi is said to have stressed Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu must work together.  The meeting took place ahead of an imminent Cabinet reshuffle in the state in which Sidhu is keen to accommodate people close to him. Singh is learnt to have also discussed potential candidates to be inducted after the reshuffle and also the political situation playing out in Punjab seven months before the polls. Hours before Singh's meeting with Gandhi, Sidhu tweeted "The Congress Worker - My Inspiration … The only Instrument of Triumph" sharing a video clip of his meeting with Congress workers in Moga and Faridkot on August 5." The Chief Minister is learnt to be unhappy about Sidhu's continued attacks on the government headed by him and hence, the issues of progress made on 18 issues pointed by Mallikarjun Kharge, are also believed to have been discussed. On Monday, Sidhu posted a series of tweets pointing out that he had held a press conference in 2018 asking the state government to immediately act upon the information shared by STF with the Punjab and Haryana High Court. "After 2.5 years of delay, how much more the People of Punjab should wait ? What investigation had Punjab Police done ? What action had Punjab government has taken ? Must be brought into public domain. Since submission of reports, what further action did the state take in 2.5 years ? Govt must make itself accountable to the Public with complete transparency !! Punishing culprits behind Drug trade is Congress’s priority under 18-Point Agenda... . If further delayed will bring resolution in Punjab Vidhan Sabha for making the Reports Public," Sidhu tweeted. The Chief Minister has been maintaining that his government has already implemented several steps from the 18-point agenda given by the Congress high command. Singh also says that his government had fulfilled 93 per cent of the party's promises made in the election manifesto.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sidhus-barbs-dont-augur-well-tension-brewing-within-punjab-congress-again-1018501.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Oppn leaders meet to evolve strategy on Pegasus, other issues||Opposition leaders from various parties, including the Congress, the DMK and the Trinamool Congress, met on Wednesday to evolve a joint strategy on the Pegasus snooping row and other issues. About 14 parties were represented at the meeting held in the chamber of the leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, opposition sources said. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also attended the discussions. The parties whose leaders were present at the meeting also included the Samajwadi Party, the Shiv Sena, the National Conference, the NCP, CPM, RJD, CPI,  IUML,  RSP, VCK,and  the LJD. Besides, Punjab MPs from the Congress and the Akali Dal staged a protest in the Parliament complex in support of farmers seeking a repeal of the new agri laws. The Lok Sabha functioned normally for the first time on Tuesday when members of the opposition participated in the discussion on the Constitution Amendment bill to allow states to have their own lists of OBCs. The opposition has been demanding a discussion in Parliament on the Pegasus snooping issue and have been disrupting the proceedings of the House for the past three weeks in support of their demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oppn-leaders-meet-to-evolve-strategy-on-pegasus-other-issues-1018539.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourns sine die, Monsoon Session ends||The Lok Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, bringing an end to the stormy Monsoon session two days ahead of the scheduled date of August 13.   Opposition protests over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and other issues had continuously marred the proceedings since the start of the session on July 19. The Question Hour witnessed disruptions on most of the days during this session while the House managed to pass 20 bills, including the Constitutional amendment bill that will allow states to make their OBC lists. Later addressing the media, Speaker Om Birla expressed anguish that the House did not run smoothly during the session which had 17 sittings. He said members holding placards and raising slogans in the Well of Lok Sabha was not in accordance with its traditions. The Lok Sabha functioned only 21 hours during the entire Monsoon session and its productivity was at 22 per cent, Birla said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was present in the House when it was adjourned sine die (adjourned for an indefinite period). Before adjourning, the House also paid tributes to four former members who passed away recently.  As a mark of respect to the departed souls, members present in the House also stood in silence for a brief while.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourns-sine-die-monsoon-session-ends-1018544.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Restore J&K statehood by year-end, demands Yashwant Sinha's Rashtra Manch||Rashtra Manch, a group of politicians and eminent citizens headed by former Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha, on Wednesday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi announce in his Independence Day speech restoration of full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir by this year-end. The faction urged the non-BJP parties to press for it followed by free and fair elections there. Sinha, who is currently a vice-president in Trinamool Congress and had led two delegation visits to Jammu and Kashmir in 2017 and 2019 in his independent capacity to assess the ground situation and suggest measures to bring normalcy in the state, also said that the Supreme Court should expedite hearing on revocation of Article 370, and its verdict should be binding as he maintained that Jammu and Kashmir is an integral and inseparable part of India and separatism, terrorism and communal politics are common enemies, which must be fought unitedly. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Sinha-headed Manch said it is "seriously concerned" over the situation following the "questionable actions" of the Union Government on August 5, 2019, when the government annulled Article 370 and Article 35A of the Constitution, which provided a special status to the state of Jammu and Kashmir and protected the rights and privileges of its "permanent residents". Simultaneously, the state itself was bifurcated into two parts, both of which — Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh — were downgraded into two Union Territories. "These actions, and the utterly undemocratic manner in which they were taken, have caused a deep sense of hurt, humiliation and betrayal in the minds of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The Modi government took these decisions without any consultation with the people, who are the principal stakeholders in a democracy, and with their elected representatives. It also denied them basic constitutional rights for a prolonged period of time," the Manch alleged. It also rued that all the leaders of political parties in Kashmir, who have repeatedly pledged their allegiance to India, were detained for a prolonged period as if they are anti-national and a threat to public safety. "Even today people and their representatives are unable to exercise their basic rights of holding meetings or expressing their views freely. We deem this situation to be unacceptable in a free and democratic India," the Manch said. The forum, which has Sudheendra Kulkarni and Shahid Siddiqui as convenors, also alleged that far from fulfilling the promise of attracting new investments and accelerating development, Modi government’s actions have "caused losses worth tens of thousands of crores to the economy of Jammu and Kashmir". "Lakhs of youth have lost employment and there has been a worrisome increase in death by suicides among young people''. It alleged that all the rationalisations given by the government to justify its drastic actions, and all the promises of ushering in a ‘Naya Jammu and Kashmir’ have proved to be "hollow". "The people of the rest of India — especially, leaders of the non-BJP political parties — cannot sit quietly when our sisters and brothers in Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral and inseparable part of India, are in pain," the Manch said, making a slew of demands. Flagging that Jammu and Kashmir is a border state, which directly bears the brunt of any deterioration in India’s relations with two large neighbours -- Pakistan and China -- the Manch felt that the ongoing developments in Afghanistan are also a matter of grave concern since these could have a negative effect on peace in Jammu and Kashmir. "Therefore, the government must act with extreme care and alacrity so as to prevent anti-India forces from exploiting the situation of ‘Dil ki Doori’ and ‘Dilli ki Doori’," it said. It also appealed to the leaders of all non-BJP parties to show solidarity with the legitimate democratic demands and aspirations of the people of Jammu and Kashmir both in and outside Parliament. Manch President Sinha had led a visit of a separate civil society panel to Jammu and Kashmir in October 2016 after which he had called for banning the use of pellet guns by security forces and later in a report in January 2017 after a second visit to the Valley, he suggested improving the human rights situation in the state and initiating talks with all including the separatist groups.  The delegation under the banner of 'Concerned Citizens Group’ again visited the Valley in November 2019, three months after the state lost its special status. The Manch, in its statement on Wednesday, flagged that more than two years have passed since the government took the decisions on Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/restore-jk-statehood-by-year-end-demands-yashwant-sinhas-rashtra-manch-1018556.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Anurag Thakur says Congress MP's conduct in RS shameful, likens his act to vandalism at Red Fort||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday likened the unruly behaviour of Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa in the Rajya Sabha to the January 26 vandalism at the Red Fort and said throwing a file at the Chair in the House was a “shameful” incident. He also lashed out at Congress and other opposition parties over the disruption of the proceedings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, saying those who have been sent to Parliament by people to raise their issues are resorting to unruly behaviour. Bajwa was on Tuesday seen throwing an official file at the Chair in the Rajya Sabha after climbing the table occupied by officials during the protest by opposition members when the House was to commence a discussion on farmers' issues. “Throwing a file at the Chair after climbing the table was a shameful incident,” Thakur told reporters. “If someone takes pride in resorting to such an act, I feel that the shameful incidents of January 26 are being repeated," he added. Bajwa on Tuesday said he had no regrets about creating ruckus in the Rajya Sabha and was ready to face any action for raising his voice against the farm laws. "I have no regrets. I will do this 100 times again if the government does not give us an opportunity to discuss the three black anti-agriculture laws," he had told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anurag-thakur-says-congress-mps-conduct-in-rs-shameful-likens-his-act-to-vandalism-at-red-fort-1018565.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Congress appoints MPs Syed Naseer Hussain and Chhaya Verma as whips in Rajya Sabha||The Congress on Wednesday appointed MPs Syed Naseer Hussain and Chhaya Verma as its whips in the Rajya Sabha, a party statement said. "Chairperson Sonia Gandhi has appointed MPs Syed Naseer Hussain and Chhaya Verma as whips of Congress Parliamentary Party in Rajya Sabha," the party statement by Congress chief whip in the Upper House Jairam Ramesh said. The Congress has Mallikarjun Kharge as leader of the Opposition and Anand Sharma as deputy leader of the Congress in the upper house and the move is seen as a measure to strengthen its floor management in the Rajya Sabha. The party now has the same number of whips and chief whips in the upper house as in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-appoints-mps-syed-naseer-hussain-and-chhaya-verma-as-whips-in-rajya-sabha-1018597.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Curtailing session not good for country and democracy: Congress||The Congress criticised the government on Wednesday for curtailing the Monsoon session of Parliament, saying a government that does not allow elected representatives from the opposition parties to raise issues of public importance is not good for the country and democracy. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the Opposition was not allowed to speak on issues like price rise, rising fuel prices, farmers agitation and the repeal of farm laws that concern the people of the country. He said the opposition from day one wanted a discussion on these issues but the government, which should have fulfilled its responsibility of ensuring that Parliament runs smoothly, acted on its own "whims and fancies". "It is not the task of the government to say who is right or wrong... or what demands are right or wrong. Such a government that focuses on its whims and fancies is not good for the country and is dangerous for democracy," the Congress leader told reporters. He also accused the government of creating a new record in passing bills in Lok Sabha within minutes, without any discussion. "First, we were told the House will run till August 13 but the government today suddenly decided 'no need to run the house further' and the house was suddenly adjourned," he said. Lok Sabha was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, bringing an end to the stormy Monsoon session two days ahead of the scheduled date of August 13. Opposition protests over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and other issues had continuously marred the proceedings since the start of the session on July 19. Chowdhury claimed the government and the ruling party did not miss any opportunity to complain against the opposition to show it in a bad light and "deflect the truth". The day parliament session began the united opposition after an all-party meeting presented demands of the opposition, he said. "We sought discussions on Covid-19, unbridled price rise, fuel price rise, farmers issues. "We wanted repeal of farm laws and when the Pegasus issue came up, we repeatedly tried to tell the government the issue is not small. It has put a question mark on national security. "Government should discuss the steps taken in respect of snooping allegations. The government kept escaping a discussion and till the end did not allow a debate on Pegasus," he said. The Congress leader said, "Israel is probing the issue, France is investigating and Hungary and Germany are reacting". He said Indian opposition leaders, activists, the judiciary have been potentially targeted by the Pegasus spyware and the issue affects every Indian. "We wanted a discussion on this issue. This was a genuine demand because the government gives separate statements in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha. Ministry of Defence, external affairs and IT give variant statements. People can't understand the issue," he claimed. He also alleged that the government made no attempt to resolve the Pegasus issue by inviting opposition parties for discussions, he alleged. He also lamented that the prime minister was seen for the "first time" in Parliament during the session on Wednesday. "This means that this government has no interest in running Parliament effectively. The government's interest is to run Parliament in its own way and pass all legislations and bills quickly, as it got them passed without any discussion. "We have seen that every bill is passed within five to seven minutes and the government has created a new record on this front," he alleged. Chowdhury said that parliament runs for the "opposition's sentiments", and ensuring the smooth functioning of Parliament is the responsibility of the government. "Our job is to highlight people's concerns and problems of common people in the country. We tried our very best to perform this role and duty," he said. Asserting that they are public representatives and have a responsibility towards the common people, he said, "We have our demands and the government should have given us an opportunity to air our views". "It is the job of the government to allow the Parliament to function and fulfill its responsibility," he noted. The Congress leader also alleged that the opposition was not shown on the Lok Sabha TV, of which they also were equal stakeholders. He said that the Opposition knows its responsibility and extended its support to the OBC reservation bill in Lok Sabha unconditionally. He also asserted that when Parliament is in session, the government should speak everything inside the house and not outside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/curtailing-session-not-good-for-country-and-democracy-congress-1018612.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Vice President Naidu completes four years in office||Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu completed four years in office on Wednesday. To mark the occasion, the Vice President’s Secretariat released a flip book presenting an overview of his engagements during the last one year, an official statement said. The e-book, released in multiple languages, notes that as Chairman of Rajya Sabha, Naidu has been constantly striving towards strengthening parliamentary democracy in the country. He, along with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, made special arrangements for the functioning of Parliament amid the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, the productivity of Rajya Sabha rose to 95.82 per cent during 2020-21 (till the Budget Session of 2021) from 48.17 per cent during 2017-18, the statement said. During 2020-21, 44 bills were passed by Rajya Sabha, the highest in the last four years and eight Rajya Sabha committees submitted 74 reports, again the highest in the last four years, it said. The vice president attended 133 events -- both virtual and physical -- across the country covering 10 states and two Union Territories. Twenty-two of these were inaugural events, it said. During the last one year, Naidu delivered 53 lectures, released 23 books, visited over 21 institutions, addressed seven convocations, attended four award ceremonies and laid foundation stones of three projects, the statement said. The year gone by has been a difficult one with the Covid pandemic disrupting lives and livelihoods across the world. Reflecting on this health crisis, the vice president spread a message of hope and resilience by writing Facebook posts and articles reassuring citizens amid the unprecedented health crisis, it said. He commended the contribution of all frontline Covid warriors in multiple articles and posts on various social media platforms and constantly appealed to the public to follow safety protocols, it said. Naidu was among the first to get himself vaccinated and also urged people to shed vaccine hesitancy, the statement said. During his visit to Bharat Biotech facility in Hyderabad, he hailed the efforts of the scientists on developing indigenous Covid vaccine, it said. Recollecting the inspirational tales of courage and confidence, the vice president wrote a series of Facebook posts on 26 unsung women freedom fighters and lesser known stories of 10 freedom fighters incarcerated in Cellular Jail in Andamans, the statement said. In April this year, he also addressed the closing ceremony of 25-day long commemorative Dandi Padayatra organised as part of ‘Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ at Dandi recalling the latent collective strength within the country, it said. "The vice president is known to be an ardent supporter of promoting Indian languages. Over the last one year, he used every platform to raise this important topic," the statement said. "On International Mother Language Day, he tweeted in 22 Indian languages, wrote articles in 24 vernacular newspapers on the importance of mother tongue and also sent letters to all MPs in their mother tongues urging them to work for its promotion and preservation," it said. In a new initiative, the vice president sent greetings to all MPs in their mother tongues on traditional Indian new year. When AICTE decided to offer professional courses in Indian languages, he lauded this decision and wrote articles in 33 vernacular newspapers in 24 Indian languages, highlighting the need for professional courses in Indian languages. Emphasising on the need for reconnecting India's innate strengths, the vice president underscored the importance of agriculture in the national economy and praised Indian farmers for achieving record food grain production despite the pandemic. He visited several scientific institutions and apprised himself of new developments in research and development. As part of his diplomatic engagements, the vice president chaired the 19th meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Council of Heads of Government which was held virtually in the national capital. He also met the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bahrain Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani and the President of Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU), Duarte Pacheco at Upa-Rashtrapati Nivas. The official channel of Rajya Sabha, RSTV touched new heights under the leadership of Naidu with its YouTube subscriber base increasing from five lakh to 59 lakh over the past four year, the statement said. Also, subsequent to a committee formed by Chairman Rajya Sabha, a new channel, Sansad TV is taking shape by merging RSTV and LSTV, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vice-president-naidu-completes-four-years-in-office-1018613.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Tamil Nadu moves Supreme Court against NGT order on Mekedatu||The Tamil Nadu government has approached the Supreme Court against the National Green Tribunal's order closing the proceedings on its plea to set up a committee on Karnataka's move on the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir and drinking water project with an estimated cost of Rs 5912 crores. Tamil Nadu was aggrieved with the order by the green tribunal passed on June 17, 2021. The tribunal at New Delhi had then allowed a review application by Karnataka against the southern bench's order forming a joint committee for inspection on a news report on preliminary works allegedly being undertaken for the project. In its plea, Tamil Nadu said, the tribunal failed to consider the environmental damage likely to be caused by the continuation of the construction works which involved a large extent of Reserve Forests and Wildlife Sanctuaries. It also contended that the tribunal erred in holding that the issue was sub-judice before the top court which, in fact, pertained to the grant of permission for conducting a feasibility report and the detailed project report.  "The issue involved in the NGT was regard to the alleged initiation of activities in the reserved forest without any clearances," it said. The state government further said the principal NGT bench proceeded to hear the review application, instead of relegating the applicant state of Karnataka to the southern bench which passed the order under review.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadu-moves-supreme-court-against-ngt-order-on-mekedatu-1018620.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Parliament passes constitution amendment Bill on OBC list||The Bill to amend the Constitution to empower states to identify Other Backward Classes (OBCs) on Wednesday crossed the Parliament hurdle with the Rajya Sabha passing it unanimously even as around a dozen parties demanded caste census and removing the 50% cap imposed on quota regime. The Bill, which was cleared by Lok Sabha on Tuesday, was passed 187-0 after nearly five-and-half hour-long debate during which demands for bringing private sector under the quota regime and reservation for OBCs in Parliament and Assemblies were also made. Replying to the debate, Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Virendra Kumar said it was a historic day as all parties unanimously passed the Bill. "The government understands the sentiment behind asking for removing the 50% cap and we will study that. This cap was put 30 years ago," he said. Referring to demand for Caste Census, Kumar did not directly answer whether the government would go ahead but said the Census 2011 did not have OBC data. However separately in a written reply, the Minister said on Friday that there are no plans for caste census at present. The debate was dominated by demands for the Caste Census and the removal of 50% cap, including from NDA allies like JD(U) and AIADMK. At least 10 parties -- Congress, Trinamool Congress, BJD, DMK, TRS, Samajwadi Party, JD(U), RJD, Muslim League and TDP -- demanded Caste Census while at least 13 parties -- Congress, BJD, DMK, TRS, CPI(M), CPI Samajwadi Party, RJD, Shiv Sena, AAP, JD(S), NCP and AIADMK -- demanded the removal of the 50% cap. Criticising the government for the amendment in 2018 that led to an adverse ruling from the Supreme Court, the Opposition MPs said if the Modi dispensation had listened to the advice of MPs and Select Committee which had warned that it could face trouble, the situation would not have arisen. Opening the debate, Congress MP Abhishek Singhvi said, "this brings us to an important issue -- a caste census. Why are you running away from a caste census? Your chief minister in Bihar, another chief minister in Odisha and your woman MP said you are going to do this. Why is the government keeping quiet today?" he asked. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge demanded quota in the private sector, saying the opportunities in the public sector is reducing following the government's policies. "Make preparations for bringing the private sector to provide quota to Dalits, OBCs and even economically deprived forward castes. Like we support you on this Bill, we will support in that too," he said. Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien said this Bill was necessitated due to the "incompetence" of the government though Opposition MPs had pointed the flaws in the 2018 Bill. "The best example is the GST legislation. We had warned them. So within 10 months of its implementation, they had to make 376 changes," he said. BJP's Sushil Kumar Modi accused the Congress of not doing enough for deprived sections and said it was only the governments of which the Jan Sangh or the BJP was a part that actually worked for the uplift of the deprived sections. "No one else except (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi will work for the SCs, STs and OBCs," he said. He said he wants to know why the Congress government did not set up a Backward Classes Commission under Article 340 of the Constitution and rejected the report of the Kaka Kalelkar Commission submitted in 1955. Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav said the states will get the right to amend the list of OBCs with the new amendment. "You will reap out the maximum benefit of this amendment, only when 50 per cent cap on the reservation is removed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-passes-constitution-amendment-bill-on-obc-list-1018645.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha too adjourned sine die, government seeks action against 'unruly' members||The Rajya Sabha was also adjourned sine die on Wednesday, two days before the scheduled end of the Monsoon Session, but not before a major faceoff between the opposition and the government with both blaming each other for the disruption of proceedings. The Lok Sabha was also adjourned sine die earlier in the day. In the upper house, Leader of the House Piyush Goyal demanded that the Chairman should constitute a special committee to enquire about the behaviour of the MPs, as done in Lok Sabha in the past, and "strict action should be taken... mere suspension will not work." He alleged that the opposition, right from the first day, had planned that it will not allow the house to function though the house passed 21 bills. Earlier after passing of the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty Seventh Amendment) Bill 2021, which aims to restore the states and Union Territories' power to make their own OBC lists, The National Commission for Homoeopathy (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 were passed amid the din. The opposition was against the last bill and walked out and tore papers in the house. Trinamool Congress member Derek O'Brien later tweeted: "#Censorship Modi-Shah Gujarat model now well and truly in Delhi 6.15 PM August 11. What @rajyasabhatv is not showing you. Now, there are more security guards than MPs in the House as the Govt tries to BULLDOZE Insurance Bill. "6.30pm FASCISM #Parliament CENSORSHIP RSTV Bad to worse. Modi-Shah's brutal government now using "GENDER SHIELDS" to foil MP protests inside Rajya Sabha. Male marshals for women MPs. Female marshals posted in front of male MPs. (Few Oppn MPs shooting videos for proof)." CENSORSHIP RSTVBad to worse. Modi-Shah’s brutal government now using “GENDER SHIELDS” to foil MP protests inside Rajya Sabha. Male marshals for women MPs. Female marshals posted in front of male MPs. (Few Oppn MPs shooting videos for proof) As proceedings opened, Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkiah Naidu, who completed 4 years in office got emotional over Tuesday's ruckus, breaking down as he spoke about how some opposition members climbed the tables and disrupted the House proceedings. Condemning the act of the members, he said that there are means and ways to raise voices but this is not the way and it is not permissible in the democracy and that "he could not sleep in the night." Naidu said the chair and the area around the parliamentary reporters and Secretary General's chair is considered the sanctum sanctorum of the House and "all sacredness of this House was destroyed yesterday when some members sat on the tables and some climbed on the tables in the House." On Tuesday, Aam Aadmi Party member Sanjay Singh and Congress' Pratap Singh Bajwa were seen standing on the table in the video that was circulated in the social media, and the Chairman has taken serious note of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-too-adjourned-sine-die-government-seeks-action-against-unruly-members-1018675.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Modi took radical steps to bring OBC Bill: Deve Gowda||Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Wednesday said the PM took radical steps to bring a constitution amendment bill to restore the powers of the states to make their own OBC lists. Participating in the debate in Rajya Sabha on the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021, Gowda said he will fully support the Bill and the legislation will benefit a large section of the society. “I will appreciate the Bill which will allow states to make their own OBC list,” he said. Recalling his tenure as the chief minister in Karnataka, he said he was the first to introduce 23 per cent reservation to OBCs which allowed backward class candidates to get reservation in jobs and professional courses. He said he had also introduced reservations for Muslims and Vokkaligas and Lingayats. Nobody had opposed this and nobody had gone to the court, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-took-radical-steps-to-bring-obc-bill-deve-gowda-1018709.html
11-08-2021||National Politics||Oppn party leaders to meet in Parliament on Thursday to chalk out future strategy||With the government seeking strict action against opposition members for their unruly behaviour in the Rajya Sabha, leaders of opposition parties will meet in Parliament on Thursday to chalk out their future strategy. Sources said an urgent meeting of floor leaders of opposition parties in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha is scheduled on August 12 in the chamber of Leader of Opposition, Upper House in Parliament House at 10 am. The leaders will discuss the incidents that occurred in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. Some women members of the Upper House belonging to the Congress have alleged that they were manhandled by male marshalls while they were protesting in the Well of the house. Congress's Chhaya Verma and Phulo Devi Netam alleged that male security personnel manhandled them and Netam fell in the melee. NCP leader Sharad Pawar said that in his 55 years of being in Parliament, he had never seen women MPs being attacked in Rajya Sabha unlike on Wednesday. He alleged that more than 40 men and women marshalls and security staff were deployed in the Upper House, including some who were brought from outside. "It is painful. It is an attack on democracy," Pawar alleged. Congress Chief Whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh said the insurance amendment bill to privatise GIC was passed in RS with a large force of security personnel present. "The government refused to send it to a select committee... a demand by all opposition parties including those close to the BJP. What happened this evening was worse than atrocious," he said on Twitter. "Presiding officers in Parliament are supposed to be neutral umpires, not partisan players. They cannot present a totally one-sided picture of goings on in the House and further aggravate the situation. Misplaced emotion leads to commotion," he also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oppn-party-leaders-to-meet-in-parliament-on-thursday-to-chalk-out-future-strategy-1018713.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||Stormy session expected in RS today over Bill regarding privatisation of insurance cos||After the discussion on farmers' issue in Rajya Sabha ending in a widened rift, the Opposition is gearing up for another fight with the government on Wednesday on a bill that proposes to enhance the private sector role in public sector insurance companies. The Opposition camp has demanded that the Bill, which has crossed the Lok Sabha hurdle, be sent to a Select Committee for further scrutiny. It has the support of YSR Congress which usually backs the Narendra Modi government in Parliament though it is not a BJP ally. BJD, another party not part of the Opposition group, was also of the view that if sending the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 to the Select Committee can lead to some thaw in relations between the Opposition and the government, they should go for it. Sources said the Opposition would be "more aggressive" in the House with the floor leaders leading from the front to ensure that the Bill is sent to a Select Committee. The proceedings of the House may start on a stormy note as the government is planning action against MPs who climbed the reporters' table during the discussion on the agriculture sector. Sources said the government wants the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021, which proposes to restore states' power to identify OBCs, to be taken up at 11 AM and conclude by 3 PM and then take up the bill on insurance. In a meeting of floor leaders called by Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh on Tuesday afternoon, Congress and other Opposition parties like Trinamool Congress and CPI(M) made it clear that they would not settle for anything other than a Select Committee. "All Opposition parties including those friendly to the BJP want it referred to a Select Committee. But the government is adamantly refusing," Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh, who attended the meeting, said. Sources said YSR Congress floor leader V Vijayasai Reddy told the meeting that the Bill has to go to a Select Committee as it goes against the Budget speech by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman earlier this year. Quoting from the speech, Reddy told the meeting that Sitharaman has said that the government proposes to take up privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in this fiscal. However, he said, the government now wants to privatise five banks, which is not acceptable. Reddy said he raised the issue in the meeting and his party is adamant that it should be sent for further scrutiny. BJD's Prasanna Acharya said that if sending the Bill could help in resolving the impasse, the government should give it a try. AIADMK's Navaneethakrishnan, however, said his party would support any decision taken by the government. CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem said, "the Bill on insurance is suicidal and will lead to complete privatisation. It goes against the latest Budget speech. This bill paves the way of giving up the controlling stakes to the private sector. If your purpose is to raise revenue, you can still do it without giving away the controlling stake. We want to remind the government that 74,000 workers protested recently against this Bill." Besides Ramesh, Reddy, Kareem and Acharya, others who participated in the meeting included Congress' Anand Sharma, Trinamool Congress' Sukhendu Shekhar Roy and DMK's Tiruchi Siva among others. Leader of the House Piyush Goyal, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan and Vice Chairperson Bhubaneswar Kalita also attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stormy-session-expected-in-rs-today-over-bill-regarding-privatisation-of-insurance-cos-1018405.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||Militant launch pads again become active across Line of Control||Amid specific inputs that 250 to 300 militants were waiting along the launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) as well as International Border (IB), Army and BSF have further stepped up patrolling to foil any such attempts. Sources said in the last one month, four to five groups of militants infiltrated into Rajouri-Poonch sector of Jammu region while another group managed to cross the LoC from Gurez sector of north Kashmir’s Bandipora district. Pakistan has also activated more than two dozen new launch pads along the LoC and a good number of them are opposite Rajouri-Poonch belt, they said. After infiltrating through Rajouri and Poonch, the militants find it easier to reach the Shopian district of south Kashmir via Mughal Road. After India and Pakistan agreed in February this year to restore peace on the LoC, the infiltration had almost dried up. “However, as Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan in May said that his country would not hold talks with India until New Delhi reverses its decision of scrapping the special status of J&K, the neighboring country has once again decided to import terror,” sources said and added in coming months with melting of snow, infiltration attempts may increase. They said Pakistani spy agency ISI has identified eight new routes along the LoC through which they plan to infiltrate militant groups into J&K. “Some terrorists may have infiltrated already from these routes. But now Indian security agencies have stepped up the vigil and in coming weeks more encounters are expected along the LoC,” they revealed. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh agrees that the training camps and launch pads being run by Pakistani army are full to their capacity. “We generally assume the number of terrorists at such camps remains between 250 and 300 who are trained and ready for launching into Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. However, he said the security forces are fully alert to the threat and the border grid is working satisfactorily which led to the foiling of four infiltration attempts since July. A senior army officer told DH that the commanders of Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad outfits were under pressure from their mentors across the border to force infiltration of militants into J&K to carry out attacks on vital installations to make their presence felt. “As security forces have succeeded in eliminating most of the terrorist commanders in the last two years, the ISI wants to push as many ultras as possible before the winter sets in to compensate for ever depleting strength of the militants,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-launch-pads-again-become-active-across-line-of-control-1018509.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||Three men sentenced to 20 years in prison for raping woman||A local court here has sentenced three men to 20-year imprisonment for raping a 25-year-old married woman in Subhash Nagar area of the district in 2014. The Additional Sessions Judge also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on each of the convicts, and ordered that the amount be paid to the survivor. The woman had gone to cut grass in the jungle when the three raped her at gunpoint on October 28, 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-men-sentenced-to-20-years-in-prison-for-raping-woman-1018547.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||Scindia writes to Vaishnaw over deplorable condition of Railway Hockey Stadium in Gwalior||Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has written to Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw drawing his attention towards the deplorable condition of the Railway Hockey Stadium in Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh and requested him to make necessary renovations. In the letter posted on Twitter, Scindia said, "I would like to bring your kind attention towards deplorable condition of Railway Hockey Stadium at Tansen Road, Gwalior. In the absence of proper maintenance, the Astro-Turf has depleted resulting in unplayable condition. The Astro-Turf requires to be replaced along with renovation of other facilities such as changing room/wash room." Renovation started recently …will be completed in next few months. "You are requested to instruct the concerned to examine and initiate necessary steps in the matter," Scindia wrote to Vaishnaw. The railway minister responded to Scindia on Twitter and said that renovations of the stadium have started recently and will be completed in the next few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scindia-writes-to-vaishnaw-over-deplorable-condition-of-railway-hockey-stadium-in-gwalior-1018562.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||10 dead, several feared buried as landslide hits Himachal’s Kinnaur||Ten people were killed, 13 rescued and several others feared buried under debris after a landslide trapped a bus and other vehicles in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district on Wednesday, officials said. Deputy Commissioner, Kinnaur, Abid Hussain Sadiq said 10 bodies have been recovered from under the rubble so far. He said the rescue operation is underway to locate several other people trapped under the debris. State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said the landslide and shooting stones occurred at Chaura village on National Highway-5 in Nigulsari area of Nichar tehsil in Kinnaur district at around noon. One passenger vehicle, a Tata Sumo, was located under the debris and eight persons were found dead in it, he said. The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, which was on its way from Reckong Peo to Haridwar via Shimla when the accident took place, is still buried under the debris along with the passengers, Mokhta said. A car was partially damaged, while another fully damaged and rescue teams are trying to pull them out from the debris with the help of a crane, officials said. A truck rolled down towards a riverside due to shooting stones and the driver's body has been recovered, they added. Earlier, Station House Officer of Bhawanagar said around 25 to 30 were trapped under the debris. Among the dead are five women and a child, a state official spokesperson said. Of the deceased, two have been identified as Rohit Kumar (25) of Kaiya village in Rampur in Shimla district and Vijay Kumar (32) of Jhol village in Sujanpur in Hamirpur district, Mokhta said. The State Disaster Management Authority has requisitioned the NDRF from Nurpur for conducting the search and rescue operation, the SHO said. District administration officials, search and rescue team comprising members of local police, homeguards, NDRF, ITBP, Quick Response Team (Police) and Medical Team are at the incident site, he said. Ten ambulances, four earth removers, 52 personnel of the ITBP’s 17th Battalion, 30 personnel of police and 27 NDRF personnel are carrying out the rescue operation, he added. Earlier, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur told the state assembly that there are reports that 50-60 people were feared trapped under the debris, but the exact number was not known. He said Union Home Minister Amit Shah has talked to him and the topmost priority as of now is to rescue those trapped under the debris and provide them the best possible treatment. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also spoke to Thakur over the incident. "PM @narendramodi spoke to Himachal Pradesh CM @jairamthakurbjp regarding the situation in the wake of the landslide in Kinnaur. PM assured all possible support in the ongoing rescue operations," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. Union Home Minister Shah also spoke to Thakur to take stock of the situation arising due to the landslide The home minister also directed the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) to provide all assistance to the Himachal Pradesh government in rescue and relief operations. Thakur also told the assembly that an Army official called him and extended help. A helicopter is also being arranged for the rescue operation, the chief minister said. He said the landslide occurred when there was no rainfall in the area at that time. The officials identified the injured as Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus driver Mahinder Pal of Bilaspur, bus conductor Gulab Singh of Mandi, Prashant, Varun Menon (both from Una), Rajender of Hamirpur, Daulat of Kinnaur, Shorang Project driver Charan Jeet Singh of Naleenakal in Punjab's Fatehgarh Sahib, Saveen Sharma of Nepal, Japti Devi (60) of Rampur in Shimla, Chander Gyan of Pooh in Kinnaur, Arun (33) of Rampur, Anil Kumar (19) and Kaizang Negi of Skibba in Moorang in Kinnaur. They have been shifted to Bhawanagar community health centre (CHC), the officials added. They said the bodies have been sent for post-mortem Earlier in the day, Deputy Commissioner Sadiq told PTI that several vehicles, including the HRTC bus carrying over 40 passengers, were buried under the debris. Several people have been killed in landslides in the state this monsoon season. Earlier on July 25, nine people were killed and three others injured in multiple landslides near Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district. Similarly on July 27, at least eight people died, two were injured and two went missing in flash floods triggered by a cloudburst over the Tozing Nullah in Udaipur of Lahaul-Spiti district. Jal Shakti Minister Mahender Singh Thakur had informed the state assembly on August 4 that a total of 218 people have died and 12 were missing in Himachal Pradesh this monsoon season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10-dead-several-feared-buried-as-landslide-hits-himachal-s-kinnaur-1018573.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||Nine properties of Kashmiri Pandits in Kashmir restored to original owners: Centre ||The government is taking steps to restore ancestral properties of Kashmiri Hindu migrants who had to run away from Kashmir in the wake of terrorist violence there and so far nine properties have been given back to the rightful and original owners, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said under the Jammu and Kashmir Migrant Immovable Property (Preservation, Protection and Restraint on Distress Sales) Act, 1997, District Magistrates (DMs) of concerned districts in Jammu and Kashmir are the legal custodians of the immovable properties of the migrants, who take suo motto action on eviction proceedings in cases of encroachment, while the migrants can also request DMs in such cases. “Regarding restoration of properties to its rightful and original owner, nine properties have been restored, as per the information provided by the government of Jammu and Kashmir,” he said in a written reply to a question. Rai said as per the information provided by the government of Jammu and Kashmir, after the abrogation of Article 370, a total of 520 migrants have returned to Kashmir for taking up the jobs under the Prime Minister's Development Package-2015. Replying to another question, the minister said after the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, all provisions of the Constitution have been made applicable to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which necessitated changes in existing laws in J-K by Adaptation Orders so as to conform with the provisions of the Constitution. He said as per the adapted land laws of Jammu and Kashmir, the government may, by notification in the official gazette, allow transfer of land for public purposes such as education, healthcare and charitable purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nine-properties-of-kashmiri-pandits-in-kashmir-restored-to-original-owners-centre-1018578.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi court discharges Arvind Kejriwal, Manish Sisodia, others in chief secretary assault case||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs in a case related to the alleged assault on the then chief secretary Anshu Prakash in 2018. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta, however, ordered framing of charges against two AAP MLAs - Amantullah and Prakash Jarwal - in the case. The criminal case relates to the alleged assault on Prakash during a meeting at Kejriwal's official residence on February 19, 2018 and besides the chief minister and his deputy, 11 AAP MLAs were also made accused in the case. Kejriwal, Sisodia and nine other AAP MLAs were granted bail in October 2018. Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal were granted bail earlier by the High Court. The alleged assault had triggered a bitter tussle between the Delhi government and its bureaucrats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-discharges-arvind-kejriwal-manish-sisodia-others-in-chief-secretary-assault-case-1018595.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||Dalit girl rape case: Delhi HC to hear on September 27 PIL for FIR against Rahul Gandhi for disclosing identity of minor||The Delhi High Court Wednesday said it will hear on September 27 the plea seeking registration of FIR against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for allegedly revealing the identity of a 9-year-old Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi, by publishing a photograph with her parents on Twitter. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh refused to issue notice on the public interest litigation (PIL) by Makarand Suresh Mhadlekar at this stage and asked the parties to “keep 1-2 pages of submissions ready on next date”. Senior advocate Sajan Poovayya, representing Twitter, told the court that the tweet in question has been removed as it was found to be in violation of the platform's own policy.  “The account has been locked and the tweet is not available,” Poovayya said. Counsel for Mhadlekar, advocate Gautam Jha, however, responded that he disputed Twitter's stand and urged the court to call for an affidavit. “If this is the attitude, we are not issuing notice,” the court remarked as it proceeded to adjourn hearing. Senior advocate R S Cheema appeared for Rahul Gandhi. In his petition, Mhadlekar, a social activist, said that by posting the photograph with the parents of the child victim, Gandhi violated the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which prohibit the disclosure of identity of minor victims of sexual offences. It is alleged that Gandhi was “attempting to take political mileage out of the unfortunate incident”. The plea also seeks initiation of appropriate legal action against Gandhi by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The minor Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped, murdered and cremated by a crematorium's priest in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-girl-rape-case-delhi-hc-to-hear-on-september-27-pil-for-fir-against-rahul-gandhi-for-disclosing-identity-of-minor-1018601.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||E-court vans to be deployed in hill districts of Uttarakhand||The Uttarakhand High Court is going to start mobile e-courts for speedy disposal of cases in remote hill areas of the state which do not have easy access to courts. Chief Justice R S Chauhan will flag off five mobile e-court vans equipped with internet connectivity and computers for Pithoragarh, Champawat, Uttarkashi, Tehri and Chamoli districts on August 12, PRO High Court Mahendra Singh Jalal said. The initiative was conceived by the chief justice who believes that extreme and varied geographical conditions of the hill districts of Uttarakhand often cause a delay in serving justice to the litigants, he said. In cases of rape, molestation and dowry harassment, it takes years to get justice because of practical constraints and difficulties faced by the victims or witnesses in reaching the courts, Jalal said quoting the chief justice. Mobile e-courts are being introduced to make the principle of speedy justice a reality, court officials involved in the initiative said. Each of the mobile e-court vans will be fully equipped with court-related equipment including a computer with a printer, internet connection other necessary equipment as required for the functioning of these vans, the PRO said. These vans will aim to provide for full court proceedings in the form of e-courts. The district and sessions judges of the districts will be responsible for their operation, he said. It will be the decision of the district judge to deploy the vans to various locations for disposal of cases in order of priority, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/e-court-vans-to-be-deployed-in-hill-districts-of-uttarakhand-1018616.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||Swollen rivers wreak havoc in Uttar Pradesh, Varanasi worst affected||Swollen rivers flooded several towns and inundated large tracts of lands in different parts of Uttar Pradesh forcing thousands of people to leave their villages and take shelter elsewhere. Varanasi, the Lok Sabha constituency of prime minister Narendra Modi, was one of the worst affected towns in the state with waters from the rising Ganga entering residential localities. According to the official sources here, Modi spoke to Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma on Wednesday and inquired about the situation in the district and relief works being carried out by the administration. Reports said that several localities in the city were submerged as Ganga flowed over the danger mark. ''People are facing difficulties in cremating the dead bodies as the cremation ghats were completely submerged under the water,'' said a resident of the town. The situation in Prayagraj was no better as there also the waters of the rising Ganga have entered the residential localities and several low lying areas were submerged in water. According to the reports, floodwaters from several other rivers, including Yamuna, Betwa and others, have inundated many villages in Banda, Farrukhabad, Hamirpur, Jalaun, Auraiya and Etawah and others. A state government official here said that relief operations were being undertaken on a war footing in the flood-affected region. Boats have been pressed into service to ferry the people to safer places. The weather office has predicted more rains in the next 48-hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/swollen-rivers-wreak-havoc-in-uttar-pradesh-varanasi-worst-affected-1018646.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||Communal sloganeering at Jantar Mantar: Delhi court grants bail to former BJP spokesperson||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, arrested in connection with the communal slogans allegedly raised during a protest at the Jantar Mantar here. Metropolitan Magistrate Udbhav Kumar Jain granted relief to Upadhyay, who is an advocate, on a bond of Rs 50,000. The accused was sent to judicial custody yesterday by a court here, considering that his bail application was pending. A video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar here was widely circulated on social media, following which Delhi Police registered a case in connection with the matter on Monday. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by ‘Bharat Jodo Aandolan’ at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, had said the protest was held under the leadership of Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. Upadhyay too denied any involvement in the anti-Muslim slogan-shouting incident. The video shows a group of people shouting inflammatory slogans and threatening Muslims during the protest at Jantar Mantar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/communal-sloganeering-at-jantar-mantar-delhi-court-grants-bail-to-former-bjp-spokesperson-1018652.html
11-08-2021||North and Central||Separatist elements still giving oxygen to terror outfits in J&K, says DGP||Asserting that hundreds of properties linked to separatists supporting terrorists have been seized in Jammu and Kashmir, DGP Dilbag Singh on Wednesday said such elements are still "giving oxygen" to terror outfits in the Union Territory. The Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police warned that those involved in supporting and sustaining militancy would not be spared. During his visit to Kishtwar district where he reviewed the security situation ahead of Independence Day, Singh told the media that the recent multiple raids conducted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on members of the banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) in 14 districts of Jammu and Kashmir were successful. "Jamaat, Hurriyat and other separatist elements have been very active in Jammu and Kashmir. In fact, they have been responsible for sustaining the terror machinery for a pretty long time. They are still resorting to certain activities to give oxygen to terror outfits and to support the terror structure in J&K," the police chief said. He said police and other security agencies are keeping a close eye on all such elements, and the NIA in coordination with police has carried out a very large number of raids at various places in this connection. The NIA along with police and CRPF carried out 61 raids on August 8 and 9 on JeI members in all 10 districts of Kashmir, and Kishtwar, Ramban, Doda and Rajouri districts in the Jammu region in connection with a terror funding case. The raids on the premises of office-bearers of the proscribed association, its members and also the offices of trusts purportedly run by the JeI were conducted more than two years after the socio-political and religious group was banned by the Centre under anti-terror laws. In February 2019, the Centre banned the JeI for five years on the grounds that it was "in close touch" with militant outfits and was expected to "escalate secessionist movement" in the erstwhile state. Hundreds of JeI activists were arrested in a major crackdown across Jammu and Kashmir following the ban, which came just months ahead of the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, and its bifurcation into the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh in August 2019. The NIA said a case was registered on February 5, 2021 in pursuance of an order from the Ministry of Home Affairs relating to separatist and secessionist activities of JeI, an unlawful association under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, even after its proscription on February 28, 2019. It said the members of the organisation have been collecting funds domestically and abroad through donations, particularly in the form of 'Zakat, Mowda and Bait-ul-Mal' purportedly to further charity and other welfare activities but these funds are instead being used for violent and secessionist activities. "The funds raised by JeI are also being channelised to proscribed terrorist organisations such as Hizbul Mujahideen (HM), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and others through well-organised networks of JeI cadres. The JeI has also been motivating impressionable youth of Kashmir and recruiting new members (Rukuns) in J&K to participate in disruptive secessionist activities," an NIA spokesperson said on Sunday. "Those raids have been very successful and we have been able to lay our hands on valuable devices and inputs which will be very helpful for our investigation," the DGP said, adding more such actions are likely to follow in teh future. Asked about PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti describing the NIA raids against JeI as "self-goal" for the Centre, he said, "Irresponsible statements from some people do not mean that the police and other security agencies are there to harass people." "We are actually there to support and help people and create better security environment but those who are involved in supporting and sustaining militancy will not be spared," the DGP said. Responding to a question about any plan to confiscate the properties of JeI members, Singh said "this has already happened as a very large number of properties has been confiscated after Jamaat was banned". "More such properties, when we establish that these were being used for supporting terror structure and terrorism, will face the same action… Hundreds of such properties have already been seized so far," the DGP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/separatist-elements-still-giving-oxygen-to-terror-outfits-in-jk-says-dgp-1018692.html
11-08-2021||Opinion||75th Independence Day: The unhealing wounds within||Set against the backdrop of a newly independent India, Vikram Seth’s epic novel, A Suitable Boy, is a narrative of many things: familial pulls and tensions, conventional and subversive love, joy and heartbreak. Binding the different strands and running through them are the fault lines of a post-colonial society. Together they delineate the unresolved conflicts around religion, class, caste and patriarchy that defined India in the period leading up to the country’s first post-independent national elections in 1952. A Suitable Boy is as much a story of India’s past as it is of the present. The novel lays bare the dynamic of the country, which, even as it aspired to the trappings of modernity, staunchly defended conservative and feudal norms and practices. Here patriarchy thrived, and violence by the state, communities, and individuals was accepted—even endorsed—as a way of life. Nearly three decades since its publication and over seven after the period in which the novel was set, these fundamentals of Indian reality have not changed. As we approach the 75th Independence Day, we may turn our attention to the fractures within Indian society that Seth chronicled in his magnum opus to ask how far, if at all, these fractures have healed? How far have we as a people progressed in recognising each others’ humanity? The answers throw up disquieting questions about the state of our democracy, drawing attention to rapid erosion in our basic collective values. We can now, more than before, sense a precarious vulnerability in Indian democracy that can no longer be hidden, ignored, or dressed up. Now more than ever, personal and political freedoms teeter on the brink of extinction. Shrill calls of nationalism sent out by the mighty and powerful, rather than reinforce Constitutional commitments, dismiss them with airy regard for its makers. Their names are dutifully taken, their philosophies ritualistically summoned without any real comprehension of the responsibility the words place on the country’s powerful political leaders and institutional custodians. This is, then, a moment whether the concerns of the period A Suitable Boy is set in (the 1950s) or the time of its publication (the 1990s) have changed? And if so, whether they have changed for the better or for worse? Less than a fortnight prior to the 15th August celebrations, we learnt that a middle-class neighbourhood in Western Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad district was up in arms against sharing the locality with Muslims. According to media reports, the neighbourhood’s Hindu residents, protesting the sale of the property to Muslims, threatened mass exodus from the area. There was no reason, the recalcitrant residents told the media, to disrupt the decades-old practice of segregated living. In that same week, media reported that Tara, a nine-year-old Dalit girl, was allegedly gang-raped, murdered and hastily cremated at Delhi’s Cantt crematorium. One of the four men arrested by the police was a priest at the crematorium. Since then, the disarray in the Republic has travelled to Parliament and its Monsoon session. Day after day, the Opposition demands a discussion on the massive revelations surrounding the Pegasus spyware while the government shuts them down. The list of people from all spheres of life who were potential targets for snooping or whose phones were tracked continues to lengthen. But the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) refuses to even accept the truth of the allegations, much less entertain a mere discussion in Parliament. Such incidents have become a part of everyday life in India. Violence against and ostracisation of marginal groups and minority communities is embedded in the life of post-independent India. Yet, the sense of foreboding is now tinged with new urgency. The fear of loss is more palpable. One may wonder whether such anxiety is fuelled by the suffering and deaths wrought by Covid. Or could it be because of an indifferent ruling class who have done little to assuage the hurt and helplessness of the people? Medical emergencies are not the only emergency staring India in the face. There is an existential crisis in the country. The very idea and practice of freedom are in jeopardy. This independence day conjures disturbing images before us. That of the frail, bespectacled, ailing Father Stan Swamy will haunt us for months and years to come. The 84-year-old Adivasi rights activist and Jesuit priest died in police custody last month after being charged by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for allegedly participating in a conspiracy to stir caste violence in Bhima Koregaon. At the time he was arrested, Father Stan Swamy was suffering from Parkinson’s disease as well as cancer. His tragedy is just one of the many unfolding all around. Over a dozen people—university professors, cultural and tribal rights activists, human rights lawyers—continue to languish in prison. Implicated in the Bhima Koregaon case, they, like the Jesuit priest, face outlandish, implausible charges.  Another cluster of images floats into vision from the lethal second wave of Covid that has only recently subsided. Images of distraught people imploring for Oxygen cylinders, inert bodies floating in the waters in Ganga, blazing funeral pyres, many of them set up on pavements outside designated crematoriums.  The dread generated by these images and experiences deepens as one mulls that even after 75 years of freedom from the British, countless people are thrown into prison under laws put in place by the colonisers, not least of which is the law against sedition—routinely used in independent India to shutdown democratic discussion and dissent. A legal section brought by the British to punish freedom fighters without due process of law, the law persists in a ghastly and ironic fashion, deployed to imprison Indian citizens, in the same way it once was to jail those who wanted to free India from tyrannical rule. The rapid increase in the number of political prisoners held for sedition or under the draconian Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), the continued denial of bail to seriously ill prisoners, the spirit of vengeance driving such persecutions, and our continued tolerance of this state of affairs raise disturbing questions about how genuine our commitment to freedom truly is and how much injustice we are willing to tolerate. (Monobina Gupta is the author of Left Politics in Bengal and Didi: A Political Biography) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/75th-independence-day-the-unhealing-wounds-within-1018524.html
11-08-2021||Opinion||A medal that united, a speech that divided||August is a special month, not just because one of our two most important national occasions fall in it, but also because on the ninth of this month in 1942, the final call to Quit India was given to the British colonisers by the Mahatma Gandhi-led freedom movement. But that's not what the prime minister remembered about August in his recent address, which made headlines. August 5 was the day our hockey team won the bronze in Tokyo. It was also the day Narendra Modi chose to launch his party's campaign for next year's UP polls by interacting online with select beneficiaries of the free ration scheme launched during the lockdown last year and revived this year. Not only is the scheme called the Pradhan Mantri Yojana, but this year, the ration is being distributed in bags with the PM's and the Uttar Pradesh CM's faces on them, in case the poor forget who they should be grateful to by the time the elections come around. Choosing August 5 to start his campaign made perfect sense for Modi: as he reminded his audience, that was the day two years ago when Article 370 had been abrogated, thereby "strengthening the feeling of One India, Best India, and making every citizen of Jammu and Kashmir a stakeholder in all rights and facilities." It was also the day when, a year ago, he had laid the foundation stone of the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya, something that he said "crores of Indians" had wanted for "hundreds of years." And it was on August 5 that after four decades, the nation was gifted an Olympic medal for the sport by which India was known, he concluded. Modi's election speeches have always been meticulously planned. This one, too, revealed his mindset. For one, it showed that for him, nothing is above politics, not even Olympic victories. He contrasted the hockey team's achievement with the Opposition "scoring self-goals" by disrupting Parliament. But more important was the insight the speech gave us about his vision of Indians.  While recalling how "the feeling of One India, Best India" had been strengthened on August 5, 2019, did the PM forget those affected directly, the residents of Jammu and Kashmir? If indeed the intention of removing Article 370 was to make these citizens "stakeholders in all rights and facilities", why did the Centre impose a total communications lockdown on the state, which was completely lifted only 17 months later, after the Supreme Court's prodding? The reaction of these "stakeholders" to their new status could be gauged by the 23 petitions filed in the Supreme Court against the Centre's decision, not only by politicians, all of whom were under arrest, but also by editors, traders, and ordinary students deprived of basic communication facilities. For three months after August 5, the Valley observed a voluntary "people's curfew." Indeed, deserted streets behind barbed wire became the defining photograph of "Naya Kashmir." If Kashmiris don't make the cut for the PM, do Muslims in the rest of India? Not really, going by his August 5 speech. Surely he knew that the "crores of Indians" who had waited "hundreds of years" for this temple didn't include Muslims? The temple was being built on the very site where stood the Babri Masjid, demolished by members of the Sangh Parivar, of whom the PM remains a part. Leave aside Muslims, even the majority of Hindus aren't ardent supporters of this temple, as evident from a post-2019 general election Lokniti survey, which found that only 36.7 per cent wanted a temple at the site. It was an important issue for just 0.4 per cent. For the thousands of Hindus and Muslims who lost family members in the riots caused by the Ayodhya campaign, what meaning would this temple have?  Both the events that, according to the PM, made August 5 "special" have divided the country. August 5, 2019, increased the chasm between the rest of us and those in Jammu and Kashmir. August 5, 2020, was a triumphalist launch of a place of worship built on a foundation of killings and hate. In contrast, our athletes in the Tokyo Olympics unified the country as no one else has in recent times. One cannot expect a prime minister belonging to an organisation that never participated in the freedom movement to link August to Independence Day and the Quit India anniversary. But certainly, one cannot accept a prime minister linking an event that filled all Indians with hope and pride with events that humiliated and divided Indians. (The writer is a journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-medal-that-united-a-speech-that-divided-1018635.html
11-08-2021||Panorama||As 2022 approaches, goal of doubling farm incomes remains elusive||In 2016, the Narendra Modi government declared that farmers’ incomes would be doubled by 2022. It was meant to convey an ambitious target. It was also a departure from targeting production to income. To this end, a committee was set up in April 2016 under the chairmanship of Ashok Dalwai, an IAS officer who was Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. That committee submitted its massive 14-volume report in September 2018. Popularly known as the DFI (doubling farm income) report, the entire report and related documents can be accessed at https://agricoop.nic.in/en/ doubling-farmers-income. The aim was to double income for farmers’ households by 2023. We are still 18 months away from that date. Some of the metrics are not defined well. For instance, will it be double the income in nominal terms, or in real terms, i.e., adjusted for inflation? Secondly, what is the base year? Will it be 2015-16? Will it be doubling the average income for all farm households? That wouldn’t be necessary, since a tiny fraction, especially those with large land holdings already have income far above the national average. So, presumably, those households are not in dire straits, and their income does not need to double. But more than 80 per cent of the estimated 140 million farmer households are small and marginal farmers. Their incomes are far below the national average. They also constitute the bulk of India’s poor. It is their income that must double. A farm household earns income through three sources. These are cultivation, wages and other allied activities. This is as per the All-India Rural Financial Inclusion Survey of 2016-17, conducted by NABARD. Cultivation brings in only 43 per cent of the monthly income, and wages bring 30 per cent. This is the average for all households. If you focus on small and marginal farmers, who constitute 82 per cent of the agricultural rural households, then their main source is wages and other allied activities. So, it is important to remember that small and marginal farmers, along with landless workers, depend on wage labour for their income. Not surprisingly, two-fifths of agricultural output comes from those who cultivate land that does not belong to them i.e., from either tenant farmers or landless workers. This category of cultivators finds it difficult to get farm loans from institutional sources like banks. Also, these are workers who depend on MNREGS for supplementary income. During Covid, the demand for MNREGS employment has significantly shot up. The PM-KISAN scheme, which gives Rs 6,000 of supplemental income to farm households does not cover all small and marginal farmers, and certainly not landless workers. Thus, out of an estimated 140 million farm households, the scheme is able to reach 80-90 million households. This is an important supplement, but not enough. As per the NABARD survey, the average farm household income is about Rs 9,000 per month, and for non-farm rural households, it is Rs 8,000. The monthly consumption expenditure is about Rs 7,000. More than half of all farming households are in debt, with an average outstanding loan size of Rs 1 lakh. The source of the loan could be banks, moneylenders or friends and family. With meagre savings, there is simply no way that the farm household can hope to service the loan, and eventually repay it fully. Hence the cycle of taking new loans to repay old loans continues, with often usurious interest rates. One health episode, during a pandemic or due to a natural calamity like flooding, can wipe out whatever financial resilience the household might have. Last year, agriculture GDP grew by 3.4 per cent, though the economy was in deep recession. In fact, this was India’s first non-agriculture-led recession. Agriculture and allied activities constitute only 15 per cent of aggregate income. For sustained increase in farm household incomes, the DFI committee identified a seven-pronged strategy. The first six were about farming: increasing productivity of crop, of livestock; increasing efficiency and reducing cost; increasing cropping intensity; increasing crop diversification toward cash crops, and improving prices received. The last measure depends on the market, or on the Minimum Support Price regime followed by the government. Thankfully, for the farmer producer, the global agricultural price index is at a decadal high. How much these global price increases help the Indian farmer is yet to be seen. This year, India has broken into the ranks of the top 10 agricultural exporters of the world. The main exports are cotton, rice, soya and meat. If the government keeps export prices deregulated, then this can certainly prove beneficial. It is important to note that the livestock economy, i.e., milk, eggs, poultry and meat, constitutes one third of agricultural GDP. It is here that much more policy focus is required to increase farmers’ incomes. As for the seventh strategy, that calls for making conditions easier for farmers to leave and migrate to non-farming activity. Many years ago, a national survey of farmers had revealed that 40 per cent of the sample said that they would gladly leave farming if only there were good quality jobs available in industry or services. This is the crux of solving the agricultural income challenge. The big part of the solution lies outside of agriculture. With a robust growth in manufacturing, in employment intensive sectors such as construction, agro-processing, textiles and garments, leather industries, and even in services such as tourism and retail, that will make a large impact on the incomes of farm households. The farmers’ protest against the three national laws passed by Parliament in September 2020, is now in its ninth month, and shows no sign of relenting. Clearly, the main concern is what happens to MSP when the compulsory procurement of food grains from the northern states gets diluted. There is also concern about the relative bargaining and contracting power of the small farmer vis-a-vis the large private purchaser. In an economy still reeling from Covid, and industrial investment and employment still not vigorously picking up, the high inflation in agriculture will not be enough to raise farmers’ incomes by much. The goal of doubling the income of farmers by 2022-23 is still elusive. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/as-2022-approaches-goal-of-doubling-farm-incomes-remains-elusive-1018426.html
11-08-2021||Panorama||Empower youth through global citizenship education||With life disrupted due to the pandemic, it is only apt that the International Youth Day (IYD), which is observed on August 12, has its focus on transforming food systems: Youth Innovation for human and planetary health. Designated by the United Nations in 1999, IYD is being observed since the year 2000 to involve youth in global development and ensure the attention of the States to the wellbeing of their youth and their participation in the collective progress of humanity. Though the younger generation remains active and volatile, responding to social and economic developments not only in their own locales or regions but much beyond and express solidarity when it comes to movements against racial discrimination, it is important to provide platforms for them to voice their opinion in a peaceful manner and register their response. This calls for an academic engagement with the ideas that are global in nature and need policy architecture through which education can unify the youth and involve them in the global development process.  Global Citizenship Education (GCED) holds hope in this direction. Unesco’s GCED is a form of civic learning, which aims to impart knowledge, skills, values, and attitudes necessary to help promote tolerance, equity and peace in the world. This idea of global citizenship is aimed at creating global consciousness, interconnections among local, national and global aspirations and focusing on social, political, economic and cultural interdependence. It is based on the three domains of learning as defined in GCED (Unesco 2015): Cognitive: Acquiring knowledge with critical thinking about global issues and the interconnectedness/interdependency of countries and different populations. Socio-emotional: To have a sense of belonging to common humanity, sharing values, responsibilities, empathy, solidarity and respect for differences and diversity Behavioural: To act responsibly at the very local, national and global levels for a more peaceful and sustainable world.  These well-articulated ideas are planned for implementation from the school level to tertiary levels of education. However, the inclusion of these ideas into the education framework needs a vision at both the national and institutional levels. It is not the same as internationalising higher education, though that can also be one of the means to achieve global citizenship attributes for participating students.  Despite all debates, international education remains accessible only to 1-3% of the student population thus making it elitist. However, there are options of including GCED in the curriculum thus making it accessible to a larger number of students. Nevertheless, a careful examination of the idea is needed. It has also clearly defined attributes in graduates in terms of them being informed and critically literate (cognitive dimension) by knowing about local, national and global issues. It also speaks in terms of students emerging as socially connected and respectful of diversity (socio-emotional dimension) by cultivating and managing identities, relationships and feelings of belongingness and sharing values and responsibilities based on human rights apart from developing attitudes to appreciate and respect differences and diversity. It now depends on how these attributes are achieved through a carefully planned curriculum. Those designing curricula at university levels must examine these and infuse them into their respective curriculum while ensuring the local aspirations and expectations from education are met alongside.  On IYD it is pertinent to examine how to inculcate these values and attributes in our youngsters to build a better world. It needs policy interventions and interestingly, we had two major initiatives in India in 2020; National Education Policy (NEP) and draft Science Technology and Innovation Policy (STIP). Compared to NEP, there is a lot more discussion on global competitiveness in the STIP document and India’s possible response and participation within it. Though these recent policies reflect global aspirations and alignments with GCED, it is important to note that outcomes would largely depend on the institutional responses. It is only then that the ideas would percolate down to students. Let us be hopeful that these ideas of global citizenship make the youth of the country more cosmopolitan, more tolerant of differences of others, of challenges that lay ahead which is possible only if the larger environment around and the society, in general, resonate with similar ideals. (The writer is a Jean Monnet Professor and Head of Manipal Centre for European Studies, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, Manipal)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/empower-youth-through-global-citizenship-education-1018428.html
11-08-2021||Panorama||Climate change is a ‘hammer hitting us on the head’: Developing nations||By Lisa Friedman, Hiroko Tabuchi and Winston Choi-Schagrin When some 200 scientists convened by the United Nations all but demanded on Monday that the nations immediately band together to cut emissions, they portrayed it as a brief window to avert the most catastrophic impacts of climate change. But as their call ricocheted around the planet, it only underscored the challenge ahead: Getting the world’s biggest polluters and its most vulnerable countries to cooperate against a grave global threat. In unequivocal terms, the new UN report said that the world has been so slow to cut emissions, it was certain to miss one of its basic goals to limit warming. It said atmospheric levels of carbon dioxide had not been this high in at least 2 million years, and the past decade is likely the hottest the planet has been in 1,25,000 years. And in unusually direct terms, it said that human activity — burning oil, gas and coal — was squarely to blame. The report prompted outrage among some of the world’s most vulnerable countries, whose leaders demanded that rich, industrialised powers immediately reduce their planet-warming pollution, compensate poor countries for the damage caused and help fund their preparations for a perilous future. “What science is now saying is actually happening in front of our eyes,” said Malik Amin Aslam, special assistant on climate change to the prime minister of Pakistan, where temperatures exceeded 50 degrees Celsius last year. “It’s like a hammer hitting us on the head every day.” Tensions over the report’s findings are likely to course through negotiations taking place ahead of a major UN climate conference set for November in Glasgow. The report concluded that essentially all of the rise in global average temperatures since the 19th century has been driven by humans burning fossil fuels, clearing forests and loading the atmosphere with greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide and methane that trap heat. Environmental groups said those findings will bolster international legal strategies to try to hold fossil fuel companies and governments accountable. The report may prove particularly valuable because, unlike previous reports, it focuses extensively on regional effects of climate change. That may allow environmental groups to fashion stronger, more specific legal arguments. “It’s like a turbocharge” for some of the legal strategies that Greenpeace and other organisations have been pursuing in courts for years, said Jennifer Morgan, the executive director of Greenpeace International. Earlier this year, Greenpeace successfully sued Royal Dutch Shell in a Dutch court using evidence from an earlier UN report. The report shows that if emissions of greenhouse gases continue at the same levels or are only slightly reduced, the outcome will be continued warming and worsening effects for at least the rest of the century. But if governments make immediate, drastic cuts in emissions, they can stabilize the climate at about 1.5 degrees Celsius of warming compared to preindustrial levels. The Earth has already warmed by about 1.1 degrees Celsius. Despite the jolt the report sent through world capitals, it was clear that some of the biggest polluters, including China and the United States, were unlikely to make the kind of immediate pivot away from fossil fuels that scientists say is needed to hold the rise in global average temperatures to 1.5 or even 2 degrees Celsius, the higher limit set by the 2015 Paris climate accord, an agreement among nations to fight global warming. Nearly every nation that signed the accord is far off track to meet its commitment. At this point, every fraction of a degree of warming would bring ever more destructive floods, deadlier heat waves and worsening droughts as well as accelerating sea-level rise that could threaten the existence of some island nations, the report said. The United States, which historically has pumped more carbon dioxide into the atmosphere than any other country, in April pledged to roughly halve its greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. While that is an ambitious goal, it is slightly below the target enshrined in law by the European Union and significantly below that of Britain. John Kerry, President Joe Biden’s climate envoy, said the UN report showed that “we need all countries to take the bold steps required” to limit global warming to relatively safe levels. Unmentioned was the fact that current US laws and regulations are insufficient to meet its own climate goals. China, the world’s biggest current producer of greenhouse gases, is still increasing its emissions from power plants, transportation and industry. It plans to hit peak emissions by 2030 before starting to cut back until it no longer produces a net increase of carbon dioxide by 2060. And in India, where emissions per capita are a fraction of those of wealthy nations yet growing at a rapid pace, the government said the UN findings point to the need for industrialised nations to do more. India also has been resistant to new language demanding all nations take stronger action to hold global temperatures to a 1.5 degree Celsius increase, arguing wealthy countries have not yet made good on their own targets. “Developed countries have usurped far more than their fair share of the global carbon budget,” Bhupender Yadav, India’s environment minister, said in a statement. The report “vindicates India’s position that historical cumulative emissions are the source of the climate crisis that the world faces today,” he said. Referring to the report as “a code red for humanity,” UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres renewed his call for an end to the construction of new coal-burning plants as well as an end to fossil fuel subsidies by governments. “This report must sound a death knell for coal and fossil fuels, before they destroy our planet,” he said in a statement. For the most vulnerable countries, the report may have given new life to a fight that they have waged with mixed success in recent years to persuade wealthy nations to pay for the climate-change-related damages they are suffering. “What’s happening in the science affects us immediately,” said Tina Stege, a climate envoy for the Republic of the Marshall Islands, a nation of coral atolls in the Pacific Ocean, much of which is only about 6 feet above sea level. Wealthier polluting countries need to step up their assistance “not just to protect our future generations, but current generations,” she said. Vulnerable island nations said they require financial assistance for relocation efforts, early warning systems and other critical steps to adapt to a changing climate. Wealthy nations agreed in 2009 to deliver $100 billion annually by 2020 in public and private finance to help developing countries adapt to climate change and transition to clean, renewable energy like wind and solar. That promise hasn’t been met. At the same time, poor countries have sought money to address the climate-fueled disasters happening now. “People are suffering and somebody needs to pay for this,” said Saleemul Huq, director of the International Centre for Climate Change and Development at the Independent University, Bangladesh. Noting that Germany’s Cabinet recently approved $472 million to help its citizens recover from recent devastating floods, he questioned why nations could not find money for disasters being suffered by the countries that did the least to cause climate change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/climate-change-is-a-hammer-hitting-us-on-the-head-developing-nations-1018440.html
11-08-2021||Panorama||Jumbo problem: A collective responsibility||Every year in India, anywhere between 100 to 500 people are killed by elephants (Ministry of Environment and Forests, 2020), and many more lose part of their crops or have their property damaged. Some lodge a complaint and receive compensation from the government, others tolerate the pachyderms' visit. On the other hand, as many elephants are killed in retaliation or due to human activities ( poaching, collisions with trucks or trains, falls in wells, trenches or canals, etc.) Over the years, a number of solutions for the conflict have been implemented singly or in concert with various degrees of success. Still, fatalities occur. The Forest Department has spent enormous funds and efforts in miles of trenches and fences, which are often damaged by people who want to gain access to the forest to collect wood or to graze livestock. The problem is twofold. It's not just about keeping elephants in the forest, it's also about keeping people out. In addition, many families—including non-tribal— live permanently inside forests, on small farms or encroachments, monopolising the best grasslands and water sources, thus depriving the elephants of essential resources. To protect their crops, they use firecrackers or throw kerosene torches at the elephants, thus driving them away from the interior of the forest towards the outskirts. Meanwhile, these families live in unconceivable conditions. These families deserve to be allocated an alternative land outside the forest with the necessary facilities. But surprisingly, when they have managed to encroach a large area, some of these families refuse to move out, in hope that the land will one day be granted to them and the situation comes to a deadlock. This example, which is quite common, shows that the first constructive step is to accept that the problem is a collective responsibility. On the other hand, elephants come out of the forest in search of food when the forest is degraded, attracted by the crops or transit towards a disconnected forest area. With the Aane Mane Foundation, we have studied the movements of free-ranging elephants and experimented with methods to entice them to remain on their own within the perimeter of the forest by using positive reinforcement with a high success rate over the years.  In 2018-19, the Karnataka Forest Department had used the same monitoring system in Kodagu and Hassan districts to track wild elephants, map their movements and warn the public. The PCCF (CWLW) reported that due to this method, from 18 deaths in 2017, the fatalities came down to one during the course of the program. (DH, May 19, 2019) This foreshadows the outline of a strategy that would improve the provisions already in place: Designate reserves according to coherent geography based on elephant movements, equipped with adequate boundary protections where public funds can be concentrated instead of being spread over a multitude of areas.  Remove encroachments from these reserves and allocate land to the families concerned. Secure corridors in key locations, most of which have already been identified. Create a Special Elephant Unit of Forest Officers to coordinate strategy with authority regardless of administrative boundaries. Capture, relocate and monitor elephants with GPS collars by specialised teams. Allow researchers to collar elephants and study their movements, considering that if elephant biology is well researched, there is a vast scope to explore behaviour that can be of a huge benefit to the species and its management. The capable officers are already in the ranks of the Department. The researchers of experience are available in our state. The techniques are known, affordable and at hand. The adequate legislation to implement such a project is already in place. All it takes is one conductor to coordinate the effort, which can only be the government that should take to heart that people and elephants do not continue to kill each other. (The writer is managing trustee, Aane Mane Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/jumbo-problem-a-collective-responsibility-1018680.html
11-08-2021||Panorama||Saudi Arabia’s social revolution arrives at Riyadh dining tables||David Burke’s staff are busy putting up blue and green balloons. The places are set, glasses polished and candles lit. Music from The Godfather plays in the background. If this were Dubai, London or Singapore, it might barely raise an eyebrow. But this is Riyadh, traditionally the most conservative of Saudi Arabia’s big cities and gastronomically what arguably used to be its dullest. A few years ago, it would have been inconceivable that the American celebrity chef would open a restaurant here, let alone his second one in less than a year. “Being part of something unique and new is more interesting than being in a chic city like Dubai,” Burke, 59, said on August 4 as he opened his doors with a launch party—replete with DJ and percussionist—followed by two days of five-course gala dinners. It gives him the ability to grow without much international competition, he said. “We’re on the ground floor.” Saudi Arabia’s transformation under Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is well documented, as is his increasingly authoritarian leadership that’s at times drawn international condemnation. But a social revolution that promotes going out to concerts and movies and allows gender mixing is now playing out at the dining table in Riyadh, albeit without alcohol. The city was used to Lebanese and the occasional Italian fare complemented by “Saudi champagne”—fizzy water and apple juice. It’s now an array of colourful mocktails and imported meats, pomegranate studded cakes and specialty coffees. There’s even briskets and babkas. As one café manager put it: Most people don’t know they’re part of traditional Jewish cuisine, and even if they did, many won’t care in the new Saudi Arabia. At a café farther north, Afra, a 28-year-old who works in customer care, was eager to try her first babka, a chocolate one laced with a mix of dried thyme and sesame that a friend had recommended with her flat white coffee. “There’s so much choice these days we’re at a loss where to go,” she said. Burke’s second restaurant is the latest addition to a wide variety of eateries at The Zone, a large walkway off a busy Riyadh highway with a dancing fountain. The menu includes baby octopus, Mediterranean branzino and lamb chops. This expansion of tastes is crucial to building the kingdom’s entertainment industry in a nation where about 70 per cent of the population is under 40. It was almost non-existent when Prince Mohammed, 35, launched his plan to diversify the economy away from oil in 2016. The de-facto ruler’s “Vision 2030” aims to increase household spending on cultural and entertainment activities to 6 per cent by that year from 2.9 per cent when the project was unveiled. Local coffee brands, as well as fast, casual outlets are helping drive the change, said Alexis Marcoux-Varvatsoulis, who leads JLL’s food service consulting division for the region. More than 90 per cent of Riyadh’s 7.8 million population eats out at least once a week, according to research by the firm, which specialises in real estate and investment management. At the moment, the average monthly spend on eating out in a restaurant or ordering for delivery is 1,330 Saudi riyals ($355), it found. And it’s not just new food, but who is serving it. Women now work as hostesses, waitresses and baristas, a huge change from the days restaurants were required to post a sign saying female diners were not allowed in without a male guardian. “I love working in this industry,” said Noura, a 29-year-old Saudi waitress who’s finishing up a degree in psychology. Dressed in a white shirt and a blue apron over black leggings, with her black hair pulled into a bun, she admits she’s heard a couple of negative remarks from diners who disapprove of her attire and job. “May Allah guide you,” one said. Indeed, bringing more variety to Riyadh also meant curbing the power of the muttawa, religious police officers who made eating out a stressful experience. Agents raided restaurants to ensure screens shielded individual tables from other guests. Music was banned, no food was served during prayer time five times a day, and unmarried couples were detained. Adhering to the sheikhs has been displaced by staying on message with the government. Most Saudis interviewed for this article were reluctant to give their full names, even if speaking in support of the changes. “We would gobble up our food and leave,” said Laila, a 26-year-old receptionist. “Eating out was not fun.” Now it’s all different, she said. Her latte was prepared by a female barista who quit her job as a make-up artist to take a job that until a few years ago was not open to women. “We’re much more relaxed and really enjoying this new culture of meeting for coffee and celebrating birthdays and promotions in public,” said Laila. The expansion is attracting local talents to the food and beverage sector, introducing expatriates to Saudi delicacies. One of them is Meshari Almogbel, 32, who has adapted his grandmother’s recipes to serve a more modern take on Saudi cuisine, including the popular kabsa rice dish. Instead of cooking it with lamb, he offers it with brisket at his fast-food outlet, Grandma’s. “I want to give full justice to local food,” he said as his staff packed meals in green and red boxes. Back at Burke’s restaurant, a board with lit-up images of parrots hangs over royal blue and emerald green chairs. Black plates are stacked over white plates at the buffet. Male and female staffers mix freely. As waiters fluffed up cushions on the terrace, 33-year-old fashion designer Anfal stopped by to check it out. Although she prefers Japanese food, she is happy Riyadh is becoming a destination for global cuisine. “I used to drive a long way to find a Japanese restaurant,” she said. “Now you can find a couple in many neighborhoods.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/saudi-arabia-s-social-revolution-arrives-at-riyadh-dining-tables-1018687.html
11-08-2021||Panorama||A political churning is on in Maharashtra||A sort of ‘samudra manthan’ seems to be taking place in Maharashtra politics— with the state getting into election-mode already, perhaps preparing for polls as early as next year.  Over the past few months, contradictions within the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA)— the alliance of Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress— have intensified.  Besides, while the Shiv Sena and NCP are coming together electorally, the Congress is singing the ekla chalo re tune. For Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, who cobbled up the MVA, the days ahead are going to be tough politically. Meanwhile, the Opposition BJP is sending feelers to smaller parties, including the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS). In February 2022, more than a dozen municipal corporations of the state, including Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Amravati, are expected to go to polls. That would be a sort of mini-Assembly polls, during which the parties will test the political waters. It will also mark the beginning of the run-up to the 2024 Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. As far as the road ahead is concerned, the Congress is not on the same page as the Shiv Sena and NCP, the two larger allies in the MVA, which came into existence in October-November 2019 after a fractured mandate in the Assembly polls led to the breakdown of the Sena-BJP alliance. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole and his Mumbai counterpart Bhai Jagtap have conveyed to the party high command that the party workers desire to go it alone in future polls at all levels, from local body elections to Assembly and Lok Sabha polls.  Following Patole’s aggressive stance, Congress AICC in-charge of Maharashtra H K Patil and Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge had to rush to Mumbai and hold parleys with the state leadership and speak to the alliance partners. In fact, recently, Patole was called to New Delhi, where he met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, after which he toned down his ‘going solo’ talk for the civic polls, including for the Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), one of the richest civic bodies of Asia. All this is happening at a time when Rahul Gandhi is trying to build up Opposition unity and take on the BJP. Even other Congress leaders, including three former chief ministers— Ashok Chavan, who is the Public Works Minister in the MVA government, Prithviraj Chavan and Sushilkumar Shinde, besides the state’s Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, feel that the party needs to expand in the state. Thackeray and Pawar, who often meet in Mumbai, are clear on a Shiv Sena-NCP tie-up for future polls, although they are yet to work out the modalities. “It is good that the BJP and the Congress are preparing to go it alone in the polls. That leaves two parties, Shiv Sena and NCP… (They) will have to come together in the interest of the state. Statements to this effect have been made by Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar,” said an editorial in Saamna, the Shiv Sena mouthpiece. Patole had also been publicly slammed by the two architects of the MVA. While Pawar said, “They are small people, why should I comment on them? If Sonia Gandhi had said something, then I would have commented on it,” Thackeray warned that "…people who only talk about contesting elections alone without really resolving people's woes will be beaten with footwear...” The BJP, on the other hand, has managed to keep the MVA on tenterhooks. Recently, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly and former CM Devendra Fadnavis has intensified attacks on Thackeray and Shiv Sena. Besides, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil met Raj, the estranged cousin of Uddhav. The meeting raised eyebrows for several reasons as Raj is an ardent admirer-turned-critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, besides being in the suspect list of the significant chunk of North Indian communities in the Mumbai-Pune-Nashik belt and other urban conglomerates of the state. In fact, in 2019, Raj’s party did not contest the Lok Sabha polls, but he addressed rallies targeting Modi and Amit Shah. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, political gatherings and rallies are banned. However, once the threat of the third wave is over, a flood of political meetings and activities are expected. The state Congress unit is planning to hold a rally on December 28, the Congress’ foundation day, at which party Sonia and Rahul Gandhi would be present. Meanwhile, Pawar has invited Amit Shah, now also the Union Cooperation Minister, to visit Vasantdada Sugar Institute in Pune, which is being run by the cooperative sugar industry of the state.  Even as the MVA has managed to keep the flock together, it is facing issues with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. “The Raj Bhavan has become the hub of politics, and it is functioning like a BJP office,” Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut often says. Fadnavis and his counterpart in the Legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, and other BJP leaders often call on the Governor. It may be mentioned that on November 6 last year, a ministerial delegation comprising Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab of Shiv Sena, Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik of NCP and Medical Education and Cultural Affairs Minister Amit Deshmukh of Congress called on Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan and submitted a list of 12 nominees for membership in the Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota. It has not been cleared till date. “Since the names have not been cleared, there is tremendous unrest within MVA. It will likely be kept open-ended, in case there are defections from the treasury benches to BJP, so that they can be accommodated,” a senior political observer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/a-political-churning-is-on-in-maharashtra-1018691.html
11-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Tea chronicles||The resounding slurp of tea from the rim of a cup or a saucer into which it has been poured audibly proclaims the status of tea as a beverage. How the tea outdid coffee as a popular drink dates back to when Thomas Garway first sold tea at Exchange Alley in England in 1657 and it caught on in such a way that Thomas Twining’s Coffee House in the Strand switched over to tea, catering to generations of royalty. With the merchants of East India Company proffering monarchs with substantial quantities of tea, sipping the beverage elegantly became an indispensable part of courtly pastimes. Great poets and prose writers have thought it worthy to celebrate this beverage in verse and prose. Alexander Pope, in his encomium to Queen Anne of the triple domain, writes: "Hear thou great Anna! whom three realms obey, does sometimes counsel take... And sometimes tea!" And if the Wren and Martin has chosen to classify this as an anticlimax in its section on figures of speech, that for sure is not how Pope meant it to be. Anytime was tea time for the renowned Dr Samuel Johnson whom Boswell described as a “hardened and shameless tea drinker, whose kettle had scarcely time to cool" and who with tea, “amused the evening, solaced the midnight and welcomed the morning." Little doubt that Boswell, too, enjoyed the tea sessions with Dr Johnson. In the 1780s, tea parties were Lollapalooza. Among the nobility that spruced up tea time was the wife of the seventh Duke of Bedford, whose lavish afternoon teas were served in fabulous silver and porcelain. Samuel Pepys was so exhilarated by his first sip of this beverage that he deemed it merited an entry in his immortal work. That these high teas, though graced by the prim and proper, were laced with juicy gossip. This is testified to in a line from Samuel Rogers: “Her tea she sweetens, as she sips, with scandal.” Mark Twain’s introduction to tea turned out to be an unsavoury episode. It was at Nebraska Railway station that he had his first cup, which he described as “slumgullion” and which tasted “too much of dish-rag and sand to deceive the intelligent traveller.” The Chinese with their repository of sententious double-speak declared that “Tea is better than wine for it leadeth not to intoxication, neither does it cause a man to say foolish things and repent thereof in his sober moments.” Rev. Sydney Smith, clergyman, writer and noted wit, who no doubt preached that one should not use the name of God in vain, slipped up on one occasion. The tribute that he came out with after his first cup of Tea: “Thank God for tea. What would the world do without tea? How did it exist? I am glad I was not born before tea.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/tea-chronicles-1018430.html
11-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Freedom from fear||Since March 2020, the term 'lockdown' has become common in our lives. Until then, we were only familiar with 'lock-outs' that happened in factories. I remember the ‘lock-out’ in HMT, Hyderabad, where my father used to work, in the late 1960s. That 'lock-out' was for just a fortnight. But the latest trend, lockdown, seems never-ending. During the first wave, after the lockdown was eased, I had to get my passport renewed. “What is the need to renew the passport right now?  Can’t it wait?” was the question from all well-wishers. My US Visa was about to expire and I could get that renewed without a personal interview only if I applied before the expiry. But when will I be brave enough to travel to the US? God knows.  However, I thought I will have my passport and visa ready, anyway.   We fixed up an appointment with the Passport Office and I had to go there physically. I had not stepped out of my house for 4-5 months, except to buy vegetables and groceries at the stores just 150-200 metre away, once in a week. That itself was like a great outing and needed a lot of planning to ensure that I could carry out all my other chores and duties like exercising, washing, cleaning, cooking, etc. We would take all precautionary measures that all those WhatsApp messages suggested. Now, I had to go to the passport office. I started feeling tense 4-5 days before the D-day. I could not sleep well. "Was I going to commit a blunder and get myself and my husband into trouble?"  I asked my husband to get the face shield. On the interview day, I felt like a goat being dragged by the butcher. I wore the mask, the face shield and the gloves and ensured that my husband, who had to wait outside, also wore all that. I took my friend along to take care of my husband.  When we arrived at the passport office, we were surprised. Our car was the only car in the parking area. I had imagined a jostling queue outside the gate. There was nobody. When I showed my appointment message, I was led inside. The arrangements were very well made.  So, I had to spend hardly fifteen minutes inside and was never nearer than 10 feet to any human being. I was so engrossed in securing myself from the virus, that I had forgotten to take cash with me for some fees that I had to pay. I had to go out and get it from my husband. All the while, my heart was beating loud and I was feeling imprisoned inside a tight cubicle because my vision was getting blurred with my breath causing a mist on the plastic shield. After such a tortuous exercise of 20 minutes in all, when I came back to my car, I felt I was released after life imprisonment. When will I get freedom from this fear?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/freedom-from-fear-1018679.html
11-08-2021||Second Edit||A milestone for Indian Navy, defence industry||The start of sea trials of India’s Indigenous Aircraft Carrier 1 last week was an important milestone in the progress of the country’s indigenous defence industry. It carries the name of the Indian Navy’s first aircraft carrier, INS Vikrant, which did distinguished service from 1961 to 1997, and played a crucial role during the Bangladesh liberation war of 1971. The new INS Vikrant is especially important for the Navy and the nation because it is the country’s first largely indigenously designed and built carrier. Its predecessor INS Vikrant, and INS Virat which was inducted into the Navy in 1982, were British-made ships. INS Vikramaditya, which is in service now, is of Russian origin. The new INS Vikrant was built at the Cochin shipyard and is said to be 75 per cent indigenous. The building of the aircraft carrier marks the country's entry into the club of six countries — the US, the UK, Spain, Russia, France and China — which have the capability to design and build an aircraft carrier.  The Navy has announced that the performance of the key systems was satisfactory after the carrier successfully completed its maiden sea voyage. The 40,000-tonne ship will host MiG-29K fighters, Kamov 31 helicopters and the Seahawk copters to be acquired from the US. It was built at a cost of Rs 23,000 crore. It is equipped with the most modern technology and will have a crew of about 1,300 personnel, including women officers. The aircraft carrier project was approved in 1999 and went through a long design phase; the keel was laid in 2009 and the ship was initially planned to be commissioned in 2014, but has been plagued by delays. The Navy has been demanding one more aircraft carrier ever since work on INS Vikrant started. If the plan had been approved, it would now have been time for the second carrier to sail into the sea.  The carrier will need more trials and is now expected to join the Navy only by August 2022. It will give a major boost to the country’s defence capabilities as it can project India’s power far outside its territorial wars. Such projection becomes important in view of the changing geostrategic situation, with China becoming more assertive both in the Pacific Ocean and in the Indian Ocean. India’s participation in the Quad grouping of four countries, in which others are all naval powers, makes the rise of Indian Navy's profile more imperative. There are reports that China plans to have five aircraft carriers in its naval fleet by 2030. India will need greater capabilities on land, sea and air to protect its interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-milestone-for-indian-navy-defence-industry-1018436.html
11-08-2021||Second Edit||Welcome move: An unfair tax is gone||The government has done well to amend the Income Tax Act, 1961, to do away with the controversial 2012 provision that empowered it to impose a tax retrospectively, which has earned the country much infamy. It had also raised the prospect of humiliation in the international arena with the seizure of Indian assets by courts to pay off the country’s liability to foreign companies. The amendment will put an end to 17 cases in which such demands have been raised, including the disputes with Vodafone and Cairn Energy. Cairn has started enforcing the international award in its favour on its claim of $1.75 billion from the Indian government. The amendment retains the original intent of making the sale of holding companies abroad, whose value arises from economic activity in India, liable to capital gains tax in India, but makes it prospective with effective from May 28, 2012, when the 2012 amendment came into force.  This should have been done long ago, especially because the BJP had itself called the 2012 amendment “tax terrorism’’. Unfortunately, it stuck with it when it came to power in 2014 and has since defended it in public and in courts and arbitration forums. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government was waiting for the cases to reach their logical conclusion. But the conclusion was clear many months ago, and it is only now that the government has found that the amendment was “bad in law and bad for investors’ sentiments”. It is likely that the government finally retracted because the Cairn case put at risk the Air India divestment and may have led to the seizure of Indian assets in France. This can be inferred from the statement of Finance Secretary TV Somanathan that India was only choosing to end the tax disputes and not giving up its right to tax. Even now, the government has said that it will pay back the capital gains tax collected but will not entertain any demand for penalty or interest. It is to be seen whether Cairn will agree to forgo the interest and damages awarded to it. But there may be scope for compromise now. Vodafone, which is in deep financial trouble, might welcome the move, but it will not be enough to rescue it. The unfair idea of retrospective tax, which should not have had a place in the tax system, has rightly been put to rest. It had badly affected the country’s business-friendly image. Sitharaman has hoped that the government’s decision will give a boost to foreign investment. But the government will have to prove more convincingly and over a period of time that it is committed to stability and consistency of policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/welcome-move-an-unfair-tax-is-gone-1018437.html
11-08-2021||Second Edit||Code Red: Time to act on climate change||The United Nations’ Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has sounded yet another dire warning to the world about the consequences of unchecked global warming. Much of the data and evidence collected in its report, the observations that it has made, and the conclusions it has arrived at are all known. They have been noted for decades and have been seriously discussed in the last few years in various fora, but the warnings continue to be made. Regular reports from the IPCC and other agencies have kept updating the situation. The latest report is the first instalment of the sixth assessment of the state of climate change science and it has raised the pitch to new levels. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has termed the report as “code red for humanity’’ and described the alarm bells that it has sounded as deafening.  The report says that the average global temperature rise is likely to reach or exceed the 1.5 degrees Celsius benchmark, and may even go to 2 degrees Celsius, in the next 20 years if immediate action is not taken to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions across the globe. Extreme climate events which have become more intense and frequent now are symptoms and results of climate change. The world has seen unprecedentedly strong cyclones, excessive rains, droughts and wildfires in recent years. Arctic ice is melting and the snow cover over the mountains is disappearing, triggering phenomena like more destructive floods and a rise in sea levels. The consequences of all this on plant, animal and human life will be catastrophic. When the balance between life and nature, which has evolved through centuries, is upset, the impact will be unpredictable. Life may not even have the time to find a new balance. The report has been released ahead of the UN climate conference in Glasgow, Scotland, in November, which is intended to evolve a more effective global action plan. But five years after the Paris Agreement, there is hardly any progress. Promises made there are not being kept, and there is no consensus on the further course of action. While the entire world has to work together to reduce emissions, the greater responsibility rests with the developed world to make deeper cuts in emissions, transfer technology to developing countries, and finance the cost of mitigation and adaptation. But the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, which was accepted many years ago, is not practised, pushing the developing world to bear an unequal burden. The impact of climate change will be more on the poorer countries and the poorer communities. Hopefully, the warnings, as the one the IPCC has given, will be taken more seriously than before.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/code-red-time-to-act-on-climate-change-1018684.html
11-08-2021||South||No Onam gatherings to be allowed in Kerala; positivity rate crosses 15%||Kerala government will not allow any gatherings during the upcoming Onam festival season and will insist on Covid vaccination certificates or negative test reports for Sabarimala pilgrims. Tightened restrictions come as Covid-19 positivity rate of the state again crossed the 15-per cent mark and reached 15.91 per cent on Tuesday. As Onam is approaching, experts have cautioned against chances of a further surge in Covid cases. A review meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to strictly avoid gatherings during Onam which is less than ten days away. The earlier norm that either a vaccination certificate or Covid negative report was required even to go to shops was relaxed in view of resentment. As Sabarimala temple opens for the monthly pooja on August 15, only the fully vaccinted or those with a Covid negative report would be allowed darshan through the virtual queue system. With 21,119 fresh cases being reported on Tuesday, the number of active cases in the state reached 1.71 lakh. To enhance the vaccination drive, 20 lakh doses of vaccines would be procured for private hospitals in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-onam-gatherings-to-be-allowed-in-kerala-positivity-rate-crosses-15-1018409.html
11-08-2021||South||Catch snails in this Kerala village and stand a chance to win Rs 12 crore||In a bid to get rid of the Giant African Snail menace that has been causing extensive damage to crops, a village in the Alappuzha district of Kerala has launched a year-long campaign to catch the snails. To motivate the participants, even an Onam bumper lottery ticket with prize money of Rs 12 crore is also being offered to those who catch the highest number of snails. The 12th ward of Muhamma panchayat has launched the campaign after the vegetable farmers of the region were fed up with the African snail menace, like many other regions. Ward member Latheesh B Chandran, who made the initiative, told DH that already over 10,000 African Snails were caught and destroyed by the people. Onam bumper tickets of the Kerala lottery were given as prizes to ten persons who caught the highest number of snails in the five-day drive held from August 1 to 5. Chandra said that the severity of the issue came to notice after he launched an initiative to make the ward self-sufficient in vegetables. Most farmers said that the self-sufficiency mission was almost impossible due to the African Snail menace. Even saplings of chilly could not be grown in the region due to the snail menace. This situation led to the novel initiative of a campaign to catch African snails as there was no other option to destroy the snails. With the help of agriculture experts, training was given to the local people on methods to catch the African snails, especially by attracting snails using leaves of cabbage and papaya during the night and destroying it by depositing them in saltwater. A one-year-long campaign was initiated in June. A five-day drive to catch snails is being carried out during the first five days of every alternate month and the first two phases went off successfully. It was just to motivate the people that lottery tickets costing Rs 300 were offered as prizes to those catching the highest number of snails. The winners caught up to 1,500 snails in five days. The winners were decided by counting the shells. Chandra said that the initiative was already showing results with many farmers now able to grow vegetables. The village hopes to be self-sufficient in meeting the vegetable requirements for this Onam festival to a large extent, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/catch-snails-in-this-kerala-village-and-stand-a-chance-to-win-rs-12-crore-1018567.html
11-08-2021||South||Centre asks Kerala to review gap between Covid-19 vaccine doses: Report||The district has reported 14,974 infections after the first dose and 5,042 after the second dose, and it is using more Covishield injections. Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, said, "This is being further reviewed with the state. We need to know when did the person test positive after taking the second dose and if he/she had a mild or severe infection and required hospitalisation. We have sought this information from other districts too."  Kerala reported more than half of the total Covid-19 cases in the country in the past seven days, the central government said on Tuesday. The state has a higher rate of vaccine coverage with around 54% of people have received the first dose and more than 23% of people have received both doses. But cases of re-infection are high in the state despite two doses of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centre-asks-kerala-to-review-gap-between-covid-19-vaccine-doses-report-1018581.html
11-08-2021||South||Unvaccinated allowed to go out for essentials under certain cases, Kerala tells High Court||Those yet to receive Covid-19 vaccination or unable to take it due to drug allergy or any other ailment, can move out of their houses for essential activities like purchase of food items, including grocery, if there is no one in their household who has been vaccinated or has a negative RT-PCR report, the state government told the Kerala High Court on Wednesday. The Kerala government told Justice P B Suresh Kumar that according to the latest Covid-19 guidelines issued on August 10, people living alone, not vaccinated and do not have a negative RT-PCR report can move out for essential activities and such persons shall be given priority service by the traders and local self government institutions. The submission was made in response to a man's plea claiming that not allowing people, who do not have at least one dose of vaccine or a negative RT-PCR test, to go to shops amounted to putting them under house arrest.  The lawyer for the petitioner, who suffers from drug allergies, contended that he cannot get vaccinated till a test dose of the vaccine is administered to him to check for any allergic reaction. The lawyer also claimed that the district medical officials and even private hospitals were refusing to administer the test dose saying they have no instructions regarding the same. The Kerala government lawyer said if the petitioner approaches the authorities, they will take care of his grievance. In view of the submissions by the Kerala government counsel, the court said it will dispose of the plea seeking quashing of a clause in the August 4 guidelines which stipulated that only a person who has taken at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, before two weeks, or who has a RT-PCR negative certificate not older than 72 hours or has a Covid-19 positive result more than a month old, would be allowed in shops, markets, banks, public and private offices, etc. He had also claimed, in his plea, that he had requested health authorities here to give him a test dose of the vaccine to check for any allergic reactions. But they declined to do so stating they did not have any instructions to deal with the particular situation which he was facing and as a result he is still unvaccinated. He had contended that the delay in administering him a test dose of the vaccine was illegal and unjustified and violated his right to health which is part of the right to life guaranteed under the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/unvaccinated-allowed-to-go-out-for-essentials-under-certain-cases-kerala-tells-high-court-1018591.html
11-08-2021||South||Embarrassments to Pinarayi Vijayan government over gold smuggling row||The Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala on Wednesday faced back to back setbacks in the gold smuggling row involving UAE consulate officials. While the Kerala High Court stayed a judicial probe ordered by the Kerala government against the Enforcement Directorate officials, a statement of the gold smuggling accused and former UAE consulate employee that a packet containing currency was taken to UAE as per the Chief Minister's instruction came out. The Kerala High Court stayed the Kerala government notification issued in March constituting a judicial commission to probe into the allegations that ED officials were conspiring to implicate the Chief Minister and other prominent persons in the government in the gold and dollar smuggling case. The stay was granted considering a petition of the ED. The court issued notice to the state government. A police case registered against the Enforcement Directorate officials for allegedly pressuring the accused in the gold smuggling case to give statements against Vijayan and others in the government was earlier quashed by the court. Meanwhile, in a related development, a show-cause notice issued by Customs to the accused in the gold smuggling case on July 29 stated that key accused Swapna Suresh said in her statement to the customs that another accused in the case Sarith told her about collecting a packet containing currency as directed by the CM's then principal secretary M Sivasankar and it was sent to Chief Minister, who was then on a tour to UAE, through an official of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. According to the customs notice quoting Swapna's statement, Sivasankar informed her that an important packet needed to the send to the Chief Minister who had by then reached UAE. She spoke to the Consul General about the matter and he agreed to send it through consulate official Ahmed Al Doukhi. Sarith, who was also an employee of the consulate, collected the packet and handed it over to Doukhi. Sarith later said that on screening with the x-ray unit at the consulate it was found that the packet contained currency. Swapna also stated that a packet containing currency was handed over to her by former Kerala speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and it was also handed over to the Consul General. The show-cause notice was issued as part of the probe into the smuggling of 1,90,000 US dollars by UAE consulate employee Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/embarrassments-to-pinarayi-vijayan-government-over-gold-smuggling-row-1018642.html
11-08-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan urges politicians to keep off from dowry marriages||After Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also made a call to political leaders to keep off from marriages involving dowry. Replying to questions in the state Assembly on Wednesday on dowry deaths and crimes against women, the Chief Minister said that families that are involved in giving and taking dowry should be socially isolated. It would give women the courage to take a stand against dowry. Awareness needs to be created against dowry so that men would also keep off from demanding dowry for marriages. Vijayan also warned of stringent action against jilted lovers and stalkers who attack women. Of late Kerala has witnessed a series of incidents of dowry deaths and young women being killed by jilted lovers. The opposition Congress MLAs who raised the issue in the house urged that the police need to be vigilant against such incidents and ensure stringent action in crimes against women. The Governor, who recently took part in a fasting organised by various Gandhian outfits to condemn dowry deaths and harassments, had urged public representatives to keep off from marriages in which dowry was involved. He mooted a provision for cancelling educational certificates of those implicated in dowry-related cases as well as to insist on a bond from students while awarding the certificates that they would neither give nor take dowry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-urges-politicians-to-keep-off-from-dowry-marriages-1018667.html
11-08-2021||South||Student leader is TRS's candidate against former minister Eatala||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to nominate Gellu Srinivas Yadav, state president of the TRS student wing, as the party’s candidate for the Huzurabad by-elections. The seat which was held by former health minister Eatala Rajender fell vacant in June after he resigned from the ruling party and also the Telangana assembly membership. Eatala, a prominent leader, has later joined the BJP and is expected to be the saffron party's candidate, challenging the KCR-TRS might. While it is unclear as to when the poll notification would be issued by the Election Commission of India, TRS and BJP have intensified their efforts to woo the voters. Eatala has set out on a padayatra in the constituency, while CM Rao, who is taking special interest in the polls, announced the launch of a Dalit empowerment programme from Huzurabad, which has a considerable number of Scheduled Caste voters. “Gellu has been a committed worker with the TRS since its inception. Gellu, who was the president of the TRS Vidyarthi wing Osmania University unit, was arrested and jailed several times during the Telangana statehood movement. Recognizing his services and determination, KCR has finalized his candidature for the Huzurabad by-elections,” the CM's office said in a statement on Wednesday. Eatala reacted by saying that “regardless of who the TRS candidate is, he will be a slave to KCR.” “Voters will have to decide between such a slave and a person who can fight for their rights, self-respect,” Eatala said, expressing confidence about his victory “despite the TRS spending hundreds of crores of rupees to defeat him.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/student-leader-is-trss-candidate-against-former-minister-eatala-1018704.html
11-08-2021||South||Kerala health official allay concerns over breakthrough infection||While the Centre has maintained that Kerala was having a higher number of Covid breakthrough infections, state health department sources maintain that those suffering breakthrough infections were not facing any major health issues. According to a member of the state government's expert committee on Covid, the higher number of breakthrough infections is due to the high number of vaccination in Kerala, compared to other states. Also, those suffering breakthrough infections are having negligible health issues and hence there was no need for concern.  The reports of high breakthrough infection in Kerala may only lead the state to further lockdown. So far about 44.41 per cent of the state's population received at least one dose of Covid vaccination. The high level of vaccination and lockdown indeed helped the state to keep the impact of the second wave of Covid to the maximum lowest levels. The low death rate and a low number of hospitalisation vindicate this, said the official. Meanwhile, the TPR of the state slightly came down to 14.49 per cent on Wednesday with 23,500 more fresh cases. The TPR was 15.91 on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-health-official-allay-concerns-over-breakthrough-infection-1018707.html
11-08-2021||South||Breakthrough infections scare: Andhra Pradesh to study the coronavirus effect on vaccinated persons||The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to carry out a study on the vaccinated persons in the state to understand the breakthrough Covid-19 infections. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy took the decision even as the number of infection cases after vaccination are rising in the country, a vast majority of them in Kerala. The virus resurgence in the southern state, now topping the Covid-19 infection charts in the country, has raised concerns about the emergence of a virus mutation that could be evading the vaccine-induced antibodies protection. While reviewing the Covid-19 situation on Wednesday, Reddy directed the state health authorities to conduct a scientific analysis on the virus effect on vaccinated persons and the reasons SARS-CoV-2 is being transmitted even after vaccination. Reddy instructed the officials to study the situation in other states as well, as it could help Andhra Pradesh to adopt more stringent measures to fight such further threats of Covid-19. While AP has prioritized vaccinating all the teachers and other staff of the schools as the educational institutions are set to reopen on 16 August, Reddy has now instructed the officials to also focus on vaccinating all the employees in jobs requiring public interaction. The Chief Minister suggested a vaccination drive taking villages as a unit to avoid wastage. Health department officials stated that they are “well prepared for the third wave of Covid-19,” by keeping enough drugs, injections, and medical equipment in stock. This includes 27,311 D-Type Oxygen Cylinders and 20,464 Oxygen Concentrators. By 10 September, oxygen pipelines will be built in all the private hospitals with more than 50 beds. Pressure Swing Absorption Oxygen generation plants are being set up at 140 locations, 104 of them expected to be completed by August end and the remaining by mid-September. Meanwhile, officials have claimed a sharp decline in the Covid-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh. There are over 18 thousand active cases at present, with daily positivity rate of 2.29 percent and recovery rate 98.37 percent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/breakthrough-infections-scare-andhra-pradesh-to-study-the-coronavirus-effect-on-vaccinated-persons-1018715.html
11-08-2021||South||Rs 2 crore and promotion for Hockey star Sreejesh||The Kerala government has announced a reward of Rs 2 crore and a promotion in government service to Indian hockey goal-keeper P R Sreejesh in view of the bronze medal won in the Olympics. Sreejesh, who is now working in Kerala government's general education department as deputy director, will be promoted as joint director, said Kerala general education minister V Sivankutty. Various forums in Kerala already announced rewards for Sreejesh, including Rs 1 crore by a NRI businessman. He was given a rousing reception in his home town Kochi on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rs-2-crore-and-promotion-for-hockey-star-sreejesh-1018726.html
11-08-2021||State||Person washed away in Krishna while saving child||A person got washed away in river Krishna while attempting to save a child who had been drowning at Manjri village in Chikkodi taluk on Tuesday. A child identified as Omkar (12) had ventured into the river for a bath and was getting drowned due to the water current. Sharif Khandaji, resident of Hukkeri, rescued Omkar from drowning but was washed away.  Efforts to find him had not yielded results until late. Ankali police visited the river bank and are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/person-washed-away-in-krishna-while-saving-child-1018407.html
11-08-2021||State||Mad dog bites five children in Kalaburagi||As many as five children were injured after they were bitten by a mad dog at Mominpur area of the city on Monday and Tuesday.  Four were injured on Monday evening, one was bitten on Tuesday, of whom two sustained grievous injuries and they were being treated at GIMS. They are now out of danger.  The dog pounced on Rihan (3) and Nabila (6) when they were playing in front of their house on Monday evening. The dog bit the head of the children and dragged them. The children were immediately admitted to a private hospital at Santraswadi. The same dog bit two more children in the same area, injuring their hands, leg and a shoulder. Upon hearing the children screaming, people rushed out of their homes and chased away the dog. However, the dog returned on Tuesday morning and bit another child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mad-dog-bites-five-children-in-kalaburagi-1018408.html
11-08-2021||State||SC grants bail to ex-Karnataka Minister Vinay Kulkarni in murder case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed a plea for bail by Karnataka Congress leader and former minister Vinay Kulkarni in a case related to the 2016 murder of a BJP worker in Dharwad. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi provided relief to Kulkarni, who was arrested on November 5, 2020. The court restrained Kulkarni from entering Dharwad. It also directed him not to impede in the process of investigation in the case. The top court said Kulkarni would be produced before the trial court within three days which would pass the order, imposing necessary conditions for his bail. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Kulkarni, picked up holes in the CBI's charges. He claimed that there were discrepancies with what Dharwad police earlier claimed in its initial investigation report. Yogeshgouda Goudar, 26, a member of district Panchayat, was hacked to death on June 15, 2016, at his gym in Saptapur in Dharwad on being immobilised with chilli powder, thrown on his face. The victim's family members suspected the role of former Minister and Congress leader Kulkarni in the murder. The previous B S Yeddyurappa government had on September 6, 2019, ordered the CBI probe, within a couple of months of assuming the charge. The top court had earlier on February 21, 2020, stayed the Karnataka High Court's order of November 21, 2019, that suspended the probe by the central agency into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-grants-bail-to-ex-karnataka-minister-vinay-kulkarni-in-murder-case-1018575.html
11-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Unhappy ministers: Bommai to head to Delhi again?||Even before Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai settles in, he might have to head to New Delhi once again due to disgruntlement over portfolios allocated to his Cabinet colleagues.  Bommai has said that he would visit Delhi in the coming week over the Mekedatu issue. However, insiders say that he would meet the party leadership to apprise them of the portfolio situation. While a few ministers are unhappy over the portfolios allocated to them and have sought a quick redressal, several legislators are unhappy and some have travelled to Delhi to meet party leaders. The four positions vacant in Bommai’s Cabinet could be used to quell some dissidence, with BJP sources indicating that some reshuffle could be required to please all the parties concerned. Meanwhile, first-time minister Muniratna has suggested that ministers from the migrant camp -- those that quit the Congress-JD(S) coalition -- should exchange portfolios among themselves rather than demanding plum ones from the party, as a measure to quell dissidence. Differences over allocation of portfolios, and accusations that native BJP leaders were sidelined, emerged ever since new ministers were sworn in a week ago. Bommai also met ministers Anand Singh and M T B Nagaraj last Sunday, and assured legislators such as Satish Reddy of opportunities in the Cabinet in the future. However, the list of disgruntled legislators has remained long. Prominent among them are the Jarkiholi brothers -- Ramesh and Balachandra.  Transport and ST Welfare Minister B Sriramulu is also displeased with his portfolios. MLC C P Yogeeshwar is in Delhi, unhappy that he was dropped. Shrimanth Patil and R Shankar and Athani MLA Mahesh Kumatahalli, who was not made minister both under Yediyurappa and Bommai, are also sulking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unhappy-ministers-bommai-to-head-to-delhi-again-1018411.html
11-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka has tested the 3rd highest number of Covid-19 samples in country, says K Sudhakar||Karnataka has tested the third highest number of Covid-19 samples in the country,and has crossed the mark of over 4 Crore tests in the battle against the pandemic. "Karnataka crossed 4 Crore Covid-19 tests marking yet another milestone in the battle against pandemic," Dr K Sudhakar tweeted. He said, "More than 80 per cent of the tests conducted in the state are RT-PCR tests and Karnataka has tested the third highest number of samples in the entire country." Karnataka crossed 4 Crore Covid-19 tests marking yet another milestone in the battle against pandemic. According to the data shared by the Minister, there are 3,338 swab collection centres in the state, 252 Covid-19 testing labs and 81.45 per cent tests are RT-PCR tests. According to the state health department's Covid-19 bulletin last evening, a total of 4,01,04,915 samples have been tested in the state, of which 1,26,400 were tested on Tuesday alone. Out of over four crore tests till last evening 3,26,68,585 are RT-PCR tests and 74,36,330 are rapid-antigen detection tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-has-tested-the-3rd-highest-number-of-covid-19-samples-in-country-says-k-sudhakar-1018653.html
11-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka urges Centre to allow development of KGF land into industrial township||Karnataka plans to develop an industrial township in KGF, Heavy Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said on Wednesday. Nirani, who met Union Minister for Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi in Delhi, told reporters that he had requested Joshi to hand over Bharat Gold Mines Limited's unused land to the Karnataka government for this purpose. "BGML has around 3,212 acres of land, which was found not fit for excavating gold. Since the land is not used, the state government requested the Union Minister to hand over this land to set up an industrial park," he said. "The area is suitable for setting up an industrial township as it is 100 km from Bengaluru and has good connectivity to Bengaluru international airport and railway line. Since the proposed Chennai-Bengaluru Expressway is also passing through the area, setting up an industrial park would help to attract a lot of industries," he said. "Joshi has responded positively and assured to send a high-level team to KGF to study the current situation. Based on the team's report, the Mines Ministry will take suitable steps to hand over this land to Karnataka," Nirani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-urges-centre-to-allow-development-of-kgf-land-into-industrial-township-1018665.html
11-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Countdown begins for Bommai govt as BJP is nothing without BSY: S R Patil||The countdown has begun for Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government as the saffron party is nothing without B S Yediyurappa, said Legislative Council Opposition Leader S R Patil. Speaking at a press conference here on Wednesday, he stated that "The BJP leaders had created hue and cry when I told this about six months ago. My statement became true now". The BJP is a divided house now and the validity of Bommai government is about to expire soon, Patil predicted. The leaders are fighting for the chair and the ministers are upset over the allocation of portfolios and some ministers are demanding cash-rich portfolios. Hence, this government will not last long and the Congress will definitely come to power in the next assembly polls, he told.  On returning of the MLAs who migrated to the BJP, Patil said we have formed a committee led by senior Congress leader Allam Veerabhadrappa. Those who wish to join the party should first submit their applications and the committee and the high command will take a final call, he told. Reacting to Rural Development and Panchayat Raj minister K S Eshwarappa's remarks, the leader said there is no connection between brain and tongue of the minister and it shows the BJP's culture, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/countdown-begins-for-bommai-govt-as-bjp-is-nothing-without-bsy-s-r-patil-1018666.html
11-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre releases Rs 300 crore to Karnataka under PMKSY||Union Minister of State for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje on Wednesday said the Centre has released Rs 300 crore to Karnataka to take up under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY). The funds were released under the Per Drop More Crop component of PMKSY to encourage farmers to adopt drip irrigation in agriculture. The scheme emphasises enhancing water efficiency at the farm level through micro-irrigation technologies. The scheme envisaged giving subsidies to farmers to adopt drip irrigation systems in farms and related activities. Under the subsidy scheme, 60 per cent of the share of the money will be borne by the Ministry of Agriculture while the remaining 40 per cent paid by the state government, she said She also said the Centre has taken a number of steps to encourage farmers, particularly in Karnataka to grow millet like bajra and ragi. Since the United Nations accepted India's proposal that millets can be an integral part of food habits, farmers in Karnataka should focus on growing more millets. At present, a large quantity of millets grown in Uttarakhand is being exported. If farmers in Karnataka produce more millets, they can also get exposure in the export market,  she said. Since millets can be grown in dry and less water available areas, the state government should encourage farmers to grow the same, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-releases-rs-300-crore-to-karnataka-under-pmksy-1018688.html
11-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,826 new Covid-19 cases, 33 deaths||The Dakshina Kannada district bordering Kerala, continues to top the daily Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, as the state reported 1,826 new cases and 33 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,22,875 and death toll to 36,881, the health department said on Wednesday. The day also saw 1,618 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 28,63,117. With 422 new cases, Dakshina Kannada outnumbered the state capital Bengaluru Urban which reported 377 cases today. On Tuesday too Dakshina Kannada recorded the highest 378 daily cases, while in Bengaluru Urban it was 315. Active cases now stood at 22,851. While the positivity rate for the day was at 1.09 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.80 per cent. Out of 33 deaths reported today, 5 are from Bengaluru Urban and Dakshina Kannada; Belagavi, Hassan, Kolar and Mysuru (3), Chitradurga, Kodagu, Mandya and Uttara Kannada (2), followed by others. Hassan logged 175 fresh cases, Udupi 130, Mysuru 118, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,31,474, followed by Mysuru 1,74,199 and Tumakuru 1,18,431. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,07,260, followed by Mysuru 1,70,694 and Tumakuru 1,16,469. A total of 4,02,72,152 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,67,237 were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1826-new-covid-19-cases-33-deaths-1018693.html
11-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai says no to 100% occupancy in theatres||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday shot down a plea by a Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC) delegation seeking 100 per cent occupancy in theatres.  "I told them clearly that until we review the Covid-19 situation again with experts, the existing 50 per cent occupancy would continue," Bommai told reporters.  Last month, the state government allowed theatres and multiplexes to resume operations with 50 per cent capacity.  A delegation of KFCC comprising its president DR Jayaraj, former president Sa Ra Govindu, producer K Manju, actor-turned-politician Tara Anuradha among others met Bommai at his home office Krishna.  "They also sought power tariff concessions among others. I asked them to submit data for further examination," Bommai added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-says-no-to-100-occupancy-in-theatres-1018706.html
11-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hubballi-Dharwad, six other civic body polls on Sept 3||The Karnataka State Election Commission (SEC) has fixed September 3 as poll day for the city corporations of Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi along with bypolls to a few other urban local bodies.  The model code of conduct will stay into effect from August 16 till September 6, the SEC said Wednesday.  The decision of the SEC to hold the polls comes despite a Cabinet decision that no elections should be held in the state till December owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Elections are being held as the term of some of these local bodies has ended and due to orders of the High Court, the SEC said.   Elections will be held for a total of 252 wards across seven urban local bodies.  The city corporations of Belagavi (58 wards), Hubballi-Dharwad (82), Kalaburagi (55) will go to polls along with the Doddaballapur City Municipal Council (31), Tarikere Town Municipal Council (23), Bidar City Municipal Council (2) and Bhadravathi City Municipal Council (1).   The last date for candidates to file their nomination papers is August 23. The last date for them to withdraw is August 26. Votes will be counted on September 6.  There are 14.01 lakh eligible voters and the highest are in Hubballi-Dharwad (8.11 lakh), according to the SEC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hubballi-dharwad-six-other-civic-body-polls-on-sept-3-1018724.html
11-08-2021||West||Mumbai: For fully vaccinated, train passes to be issued from August 11||The process to issue passes for travel by local trains in the Mumbai region for those who have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccines will begin at railway stations from Wednesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. The passes will be issued after verification of the vaccination status, the BMC said in a release on Tuesday. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday announced that any person who has completed 14 days after getting the second dose of coronavirus vaccines will be allowed to board suburban trains from August 15. The BMC release said those who want to purchase a pass are required to carry a hard copy of Covid-19 vaccination final certificate and a photo ID for verification. "Those eligible after verification will be allowed to travel from August 15, 2021 onwards," the release said, adding a total of 358 help desks will be set up at 53 railway stations falling under the BMC's jurisdiction. Besides, help desks will be set up at 56 suburban stations falling in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (outside BMC limits) by the respective authorities, it said. The civic body said the help desks will be operational in two consecutive sessions from 7 am to 11 pm. "Citizens can approach the station nearest to their house for verification and should avoid crowding," it said. The BMC warned that strict legal action will be taken if fake vaccination certificates are produced to obtain passes. As to making the facility available online, the process of creating an app for it was going on, the BMC said. "The process of making this facility available online is underway. But it may take a little more time," it said. The BMC also said that it has appointed nodal officers for smooth implementation of the entire process and necessary training is being given to the staff. "The offline process of issuing monthly season passes will continue on all seven days of the week till further orders and therefore people need not rush to the railway stations," the civic body said. If a person does not have even one of the two documents -- vaccination certificate and photo ID -- she or he will be denied entry at the railway station, it added. The civic staff at a help desk will check the validity of the Final Vaccination Certificate (Second Dose) on the CoWin app. "Once the verification is completed and both the documents are found to be valid, the certificate and the identification proof will be stamped in the prescribed format," the BMC said. The stamped Covid certificate will have to be presented at the ticket window to get a pass. "Strict police action under the Epidemic Control Act / Disaster Management Act Indian Penal Code, will be taken if a citizen tries to produce lake/ bogus Cavid Vaccination Certificate," it warned. Government employees and other essential services staff will continue to be allowed to travel by local trains, irrespective of whether they have been vaccinated. Central Railway and Western Railway officials said the number of ticketing windows will be increased. WR spokesperson said it has opened 276 windows across the stations between Churchgate and Dahanu, whereas the CR said it will operate 341 ticket windows. According to the BMC, so far it has administered 76,56,487 vaccine doses. As many as 19,14,771 people have received both doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-for-fully-vaccinated-train-passes-to-be-issued-from-august-11-1018454.html
11-08-2021||West||Goa's disappearing Portuguese legacy||As Lorraine Alberto begins her Portuguese class at Goa University, students from the former colony are in short supply. Across Goa, once administered by Lisbon, there is little appetite for the territory's 450 years of European heritage after a few short generations of Indian rule. Ramshackle colonial homes and Bollywood's increasing cultural dominance portend the disappearance of local history in a place where speaking Portuguese was once a passport to status and power. "My children don't speak it at all," Alberto told AFP. "They just don't see the point of learning it." Those alive in 1961, when Indian troops marched into Goa and incorporated it into the rest of the country, recall an overnight transformation. India's exit from the British empire in 1947 spurred many Goans to demand an end to Portuguese rule, but few expected so much to change so quickly. "It was a very strange feeling... The changes came so fast," said Honorato Velho, a retired school principal. The 78-year-old once lived next to the grandfather of Antonio Costa, Portugal's current prime minister, and he fondly remembers a childhood peppered with European and local influences. But his enthusiasm has not been inherited by the next generation. "My wife and I still speak Portuguese out of habit, but never with our children," Velho told AFP. Across the state, homes influenced by old Portuguese design trends are falling into disrepair or being pulled down to make way for apartment blocks. The gradual disappearance of covered terraces and mother-of-pearl shell windows -- built to diffuse harsh sunlight -- is not just a loss to architecture, said author Heta Pandit. "These houses are evidence of Goan history, they are capsules of our culture," she said. Only a handful of traditional homes have been earmarked for protection from development or destruction, Pandit added. Some Goans have nonetheless found themselves drawn into a relationship with their heritage, even against their own early inclinations. At a recent outdoor concert in a coastal village, dozens of people gathered to listen to Goan singer Sonia Shirsat, an accomplished performer of traditional Portuguese fado music. The 40-year-old specialises in the melancholy, guitar-driven genre, which was born at the turn of the 19th century and was in recent years recognised by UNESCO for its "intangible cultural heritage". Shirsat paused between songs to patiently explain the meaning behind each track, knowing many in the enraptured audience spoke little if any Portuguese. It's a role she is well-suited to play, tracing her own journey from a teenager who refused to learn Portuguese to a fado evangelist who is now training others to follow in her footsteps. "My mother tried to teach me the language, but I just wasn't interested," she told AFP. That changed when Shirsat met a Portuguese guitarist who told her that her rich, velvety voice was ideal for the genre. She decided to move to Lisbon for training, becoming the first Indian to stage a solo fado concert there in 2008. Shirsat has since performed all over the world, sometimes incorporating a cross-cultural element with the use of Indian instruments like the sitar. All fado songs are infused with a sense of yearning for the past, but in Goa, they also serve as a bridge between two eras. "Fado doesn't just talk about what is lost, it also talks about what is to come," she said. "It has lived in Goa for over 100 years. If we don't preserve it, it is as if we are killing a part of ourselves."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goas-disappearing-portuguese-legacy-1018495.html
11-08-2021||West||Gujarat sees deficient rainfall; water in dams depleted||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday said the rainfall in Gujarat remains deficient, with a departure of -45 per cent from the normal rains recorded so far. Even as water levels in more than 200 dams and reservoirs in the state remain less than half of their total storage capacities, the state government has decided to supply water from dams to irrigate around 5 lakh hectares of land to prevent damage to standing crops. According to the IMD report, Gujarat has reported a departure of -45 per cent from the normal rainfall between June 1 and August 10. As against the normal rainfall of 458.8 mm for the period, the state has received only 252.7 mm rainfall, the weather department stated. Of 33 districts of Gujarat, Arvalli and Gandhinagar have reported “large deficient” rainfall so far this season, while the remaining 31 have reported “deficient” rainfall, the IMD report stated. A deficient rainfall is when the percentage departure of realised rainfall from long period average (LPA) is between -20 to -59 per cent, and a “large deficient” rainfall is when the percentage departure is -60 to -90 per cent. According to the zone-wise data provided by the State Emergency Operation Centre, South Gujarat has received 36.39 per cent of average annual rainfall, followed by east-central regions with 34.72 per cent, Saurashtra with 33.80 per cent, Kutch with 31.74 per cent and the northern part of the state with 31.20 per cent. Meanwhile, below normal rainfall has also depleted water stored in 207 dams and reservoirs in the state. Water levels in the dams are at 47.54 per cent of their total gross storage capacities, as per the storage position provided by the Narmada and Water Resources, Water Supply and Kalpsar Department on Wednesday. Only five out of 207 dams are filled to the brim, and four of these are in Saurashtra region and one in south Gujarat, it was stated. As sowing has been completed on 75,73,106 hectares of land in the current Kharif season, the state government has decided to supply water from dams to the standing crops on 5 lakh hectares of land after securing drinking water supply till September 30, a state government release stated on Tuesday. "Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has instructed the Water Resources Department to reserve the amount of drinking water in the reservoirs of the state till September 30 and release the remaining for immediate irrigation to save the standing crops,” a release from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-sees-deficient-rainfall-water-in-dams-depleted-1018608.html
11-08-2021||West||Prosecution justified in invoking stringent anti-drug law provisions against Deepika Padukone's manager, says Court||The prosecution was "justified" in invoking stringent provisions of the NDPS Act pertaining to illicit trafficking of drugs against Karishma Prakash, a special court here observed while denying pre-arrest bail to the manager of Bollywood actress Deepika Padukone in a drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The special NDPS court rejected Prakash's anticipatory bail plea on August 5 and a detailed copy of the order was made available on Wednesday. Her lawyer had pleaded that no prima facie material was brought before the court to show provisions under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act Section 27A are attracted in the case. Section 27(A) of NDPS Act provides a stringent framework for punishing offences related to illicit traffic of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances through imprisonment and forfeiture of property. Her lawyer had argued that the prosecution has also not shown any material or evidence on which it wants to rely upon to justify the addition of the section during hearing of her anticipatory bail application. However, special judge V V Vidwans said, "Considering the prima facie material and evidence on record, I am of the view that the prosecution was justified in invoking provisions of Section 27A of the NDPS Act during the pendency of this application." The defence had vehemently argued that the only evidence against the applicant was statements of co-accused persons in the case. The same would not be admissible in view of a law laid by the Supreme Court, Prakash's lawyer had submitted. But, the court said, "Though statements of co-accused would not be admissible as evidence during the trial of the case, it can be considered by the court while deciding anticipatory bail application at the stage of investigation as prima facie circumstance on record and material against the applicant." During hearing of the application, Prakash's lawyer had placed before that court a mobile phone recording to show "malafides" on part of the prosecution while adding section 27(A) of the anti-drug law. However, the court held it was not sufficient for accepting the contention about malafides made by the defence. It is only prima facie material and would require evidence to be laid for proving such malafides in the case on behalf the prosecution, the court said. "I am of the considered view that, assuming for the sake of arguments that there exist malafides on part of the prosecution, it cannot over-ride the merits of the case...therefore, anticipatory bail cannot be granted to the applicant merely on the ground that malafides exist, as has been tried to be demonstrated in the course of arguments by counsel for the applicant," the judge said. Fearing arrest in the drug-related probe into the death of Rajput, Prakash filed an anticipatory bail application before the NDPS court in October last year. After hearing extensive submissions made by both the defence and prosecution, the judge last week rejected her plea. The court, however, stayed the order till August 25 to allow Prakash to approach the Bombay High Court. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has been probing alleged nexus between drug peddlers and Bollywood celebrities which came to light after Rajput's death in June last year. The CBI is separately probing the case of Rajput's death. Prakash's name cropped up during interrogation of one of the arrested drug peddlers. The central agency has so far arrested more than 20 people as part of its investigation into the drug case. Most of the accused, including the late actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, are out on bail currently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/prosecution-justified-in-invoking-stringent-anti-drug-law-provisions-against-deepika-padukones-manager-says-court-1018644.html
11-08-2021||West||Rape accused stripped, ragged in Goa prison; probe ordered||A day after a video showing three rape accused being forced to do sit-ups in the nude at the Aguada central jail in North Goa, prison authorities on Wednesday directed a probe into the incident. Speaking to reporters, Inspector General of Prisons, Goa, Venancio Furtado, said that that the central jail superintendent has been directed to submit a report within 24 hours."I have asked the jail superintendent to submit the inquiry report within 24 hours. If other inmates are found to be involved, we will take action as per the prison rules," Furtado told reporters. Terming the incident as deplorable, Furtado said, "A message needs to go that such incidents will not be tolerated," adding that the enquiry would also probe whether such "ragging" rituals are common in the prison complex. The three accused were arrested last month in connection with the alleged rape of three persons at Colva beach in South Goa. In the video, the three naked inmates can be seen made to do sit-ups, while other other inmates can be heard cheering in the backdrop. In all, four persons, namely Asif Hateli, 21, Rajesh Mane, 33, Gajanand Chinchankar, 31, and Nitin Yabbal, 19, have been arrested in connection with the alleged rape incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rape-accused-stripped-ragged-in-goa-prison-probe-ordered-1018648.html
11-08-2021||West||Gujarat: BJP MP's purported sleaze video goes viral; cops detain 2 for questioning||Police in Gujarat have registered an FIR against two persons and detained them after a video purportedly showing BJP MP Parbatbhai Patel in a compromising position with a woman went viral on social media even as the parliamentarian claimed the clip was doctored, said an official on Wednesday. The FIR was lodged on Tuesday at the Tharad police station of Banaskantha district on a complaint given by the MP's son, Shailesh Patel, said Deputy Superintendent of Police P H Chaudhary, adding the Local Crime Branch (LCB) is probing the case. Parbatbhai Patel (72), the Lok Sabha MP from Banaskantha, denied any wrongdoing and claimed the video has been doctored and his face superimposed on the person seen in the clip, while his family alleged a conspiracy to extort money and defame them. "In his complaint, Shailesh Patel has alleged that his father's edited video was made viral on social media by the two accused - Magha Patel and Mukesh Rajput (both detained) as part of a pre-planned conspiracy. "We have lodged an FIR under sections 389 (extortion), 500 (defamation), criminal conspiracy (120-B) of the IPC and under relevant sections of the IT Act," he said. Evidence collected so far suggests there was a conspiracy to malign the MP's image and extort money from him through the video, said the DySP. In the one-minute video, a man resembling Parbatbhai Patel can be seen hugging a woman on a sofa and getting intimate. It appears they were aware about the presence of some other persons in the room, including the one who was shooting the video. According to Chaudhary, Magha Patel had earlier threatened on his Facebook page that he will "publish a video of Banaskantha's top politician on August 15". Then on Tuesday, the same video, purportedly featuring Parbatbhai Patel, was shared in a WhatsApp group by Mukesh Rajput, he said. "Both (Magha Patel and Rajput) were shown as accused in the FIR. They were detained for questioning by the LCB. Evidence given by the complainant and collected from the social media by police primarily establish that there was a conspiracy to malign the MP's image and extort money from him through this video," said the DySP. He added that the video will be sent for forensic analysis to find out its authenticity. Shailesh Patel told reporters that the video has been used for defaming his father and to extort money. "Magha Patel has been threatening to release the video for some time. This is an edited video created only to defame my father. This is a conspiracy and the accused had earlier demanded money in exchange for not releasing the video," said Shailesh Patel. Parbatbhai Patel, who had previously served as a minister in the BJP government in Gujarat, claimed the video has been edited by superimposing his face on the person seen in the clip. "Everyone knows about my character. I never indulged in any wrongdoings in my entire life. It is possible that my photo was used for making such an edited video. "People have been trying to extort money from me since 2016 for this video. I had challenged them to release it if they want to," said the Lok Sabha MP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-bjp-mps-purported-sleaze-video-goes-viral-cops-detain-2-for-questioning-1018669.html
11-08-2021||West||Will scrap rail, road, power projects along Goa-Karnataka border if voted to power: Goa Congress||In a major pre-poll announcement, the main opposition party in Goa, the Congress, has said that it would scrap the three controversial rail, road and power projects along the forested Goa-Karnataka border if the party comes to power in the 2022 state assembly polls. State Congress president Girish Chodankar, on Wednesday, said, that the three projects were detrimental to the environment interests in the state. "This is our firm commitment to the people," Chodankar told reporters here. The three projects include rail track expansion by the South Western Railway from Castlerock railway station in Karnataka to Tinaighat railway station in Goa, the National Highway - 4 four-laning and drawing of a power line. All the three projects run through the protected forest areas in both Goa and Karnataka territories which are a part of the UNESCO-endorsed Western Ghat region. 50,000 trees in and around Mollem, a village located along the Goa-Karnataka border, have been slotted for felling to make way for the three government projects, which have been cleared by the state and the central government's Ministry for Environment and Forests.   Activists as well as opposition politicians in Goa have been demanding a review of the three projects, claiming that they were hurriedly granted permission during the pandemic, without due diligence. Opponents of the projects had alleged that the doubling tracking of railway tracks and expansion of the National Highway 4 would lead to increased transportation of coal imported to the Mormugao Port Trust in South Goa to steel mills in Karnataka's Bellary region. "It is the duty of the Congress party to protect the identity of Goa and we will live up to the expectations of the people. Our state is blessed with nature and it is our responsibility to preserve our land," Chodankar also said. Chodankar also placed two other promises by his party in the public domain, one of which included ensuring fresh, formalin-free fish to the residents of Goa. The promise comes three years after fish imported into the state from Karnataka, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, were found to have traces of formalin, a carcinogenic chemical used to preserve cadavers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-scrap-rail-road-power-projects-along-goa-karnataka-border-if-voted-to-power-goa-congress-1018702.html
11-08-2021||West||Maharashtra allows restaurants, malls to operate till 10 pm with 50% capacity||Further relaxing the Covid-19 curbs, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to allow shopping malls and restaurants to remain open till 10 pm with a 50 per cent capacity from August 15 onwards, provided the entire staff is fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Shops are also allowed to operate till 10 pm. Talking to reporters after the weekly cabinet meeting, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said spas and gymnasiums will also be allowed to function till 10 pm at a 50 per cent capacity on the condition that the entire staff at these establishments has taken both doses of the vaccine. Meanwhile, as per the fresh orders issued by the government, those visiting the shopping malls will also have to carry the final vaccination certificate. Yoga centres and salons will also be allowed to remain open till 10 pm. Indoor sports activity will be allowed but cinema halls and places of worship will continue to remain shut until further orders, the minister said. Weddings in open spaces will be allowed with 200 people, while events can take place in closed halls with 100 people or at a 50 per cent capacity of the venue or whichever is less, he said. "Shopping malls, hotels, gyms, spas and shops will be permitted to operate till 10 pm, on the condition that the entire staff at these establishments has taken both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine," Tope said, adding these places will function at 50 per cent capacity. The state task force on Covid-19 is not in favour of opening schools and colleges from August 17. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is scheduled to meet members of the task force to take a final decision. As per the orders issued on Wednesday night by the state government effective from August 15, holders of the final vaccination certificate approved by the designated authority will be given a railway pass to travel in local trains in Mumbai. Railway ticket-checkers have been authorised to demand the verified copy of the final vaccination certificate and identity card from passengers. "Those seeking entry to shopping malls will be mandated to carry their final vaccination certificate and display it before entry. Private offices whose employees are fully vaccinated have been allowed to keep their offices functional at a full capacity but they have to stagger the work hours and keep 25 per cent strength at one time," the orders said. This is the third time in this month that the state government has relaxed various curbs, including allowing common people to board local trains, provided they are fully vaccinated against C-19. On August 2, the government extended the timings of all shops and other establishments from 4 pm till 8 pm and till 3 pm on Saturdays in 25 districts with a low Covid-19 positivity rate. Shopping malls were also allowed to function. On August 8, CM Thackeray announced that fully vaccinated citizens of Mumbai can travel in local trains from August 15, but a gap of 14 days from the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine is necessary to avail of the facility. Thackeray had said that his government was considering granting relaxations to shops, malls, restaurants and places of religious worship. The Covid-19 scenario in parts of Maharashtra has improved compared to previous months. As of August 11, the case recovery rate in the state stands at 96.82 per cent. Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 5,560 new coronavirus positive cases and 163 fatalities, taking the caseload in the state to 63,69,002, while the death toll reached 1,34,364, a health official said. The number of recoveries now stands at 61,66,620, leaving the state with 64,570 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-allows-restaurants-malls-to-operate-till-10-pm-with-50-capacity-1018703.html
