12-08-2021||Comment||Can dinner diplomacy lead to Opposition unity?||It is somewhat odd that a galaxy of Opposition leaders who want the Congress to be a part of a united Opposition formation for the 2024 General Election should meet at the residence of dissident Congress leader Kapil Sibal. It is even stranger that some of them criticised the Gandhi family and the Congress as if they had come prepared to bury Caesar, not to praise him. One might be forgiven, therefore, for disagreeing with reports that celebrated the event as a great show of Opposition unity, preparing for 2024. Formally a celebration of Sibal’s birthday, it was attended not only by anti-BJP Opposition leaders but also by representatives of parties not averse to supporting the BJP-the Biju Janata Dal (BJD), the Telugu Desam Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). These parties and the YSR Congress, also represented at the dinner, have not been part of the Opposition’s coordination effort in Parliament. The dinner meeting took place exactly a year after 23 Congress leaders (G-23) had written a letter of dissent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in August 2020. A year later, many of them have been accommodated by the party. Ghulam Nabi Azad was made chief of the party’s Covid19 relief task force. Ashok Chavan was given charge of evaluating the Kerala, Assam, Puducherry and West Bengal state assembly election results. Manish Tiwari was also made a member of the election evaluation committee. Mukul Wasnik was nominated to a special committee to assist the Congress president in organisational and operational matters. Anand Sharma and Shashi Tharoor were nominated to the committee on foreign affairs, and Azad and Verappa Moily to the committee on national security. Manish Tiwari is a likely candidate for the post of Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha if the present incumbent is removed. While the accommodation process has slowed down in the last two months, nothing suggests it is over. Apparently, it may be temporarily stalled till party deliberations over the possible induction of poll strategist Prashant Kishor are completed. That could necessitate changes in the party structure. Although Sibal has not yet been accommodated, it may not be correct to view the dinner he hosted as expressing disgruntlement with the Gandhi family. More likely, his birthday was a moment for the dissidents to signal their unhappiness at the slow pace of party reform. An ostensible attempt at forging the Opposition only showcased their considerable political skills. Still, Opposition coordination has not lagged for their absence. It was evidenced not only in the meeting of Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi with Mamata Banerjee and the breakfast meeting hosted by Rahul Gandhi but also in parliamentary coordination meetings organised by Deputy Leader of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge. At least three such well-attended coordination meetings have been held with Opposition leaders in the Monsoon Session with Rahul Gandhi’s participation. Those who attended these meetings remark on the eagerness of an energised Opposition for coordinated action. They also note the new found respect amongst the attendees for the courageous stand taken by Rahul Gandhi on issues ranging from the disastrous mishandling of the pandemic, the dire state of the economy, growing unemployment, deliberately ignoring the farmers’ protest and his unequivocal stand on the use of Pegasus spyware. There is little substance to the argument that dissident leaders needed to push the party towards joint Opposition action. Moreover, there were a few false notes struck by some political representatives. Naresh Gujral of the SAD suggested that the Congress and the Opposition would be better off without the Gandhis. Not much else could have been expected from the representative of a Sikh party at loggerheads with the Congress in Punjab. Nor was it appropriate for him to criticise dynastic politics as his own Rajya Sabha seat is thanks to the political capital inherited from his illustrious father, IK Gujral, once an Indira Gandhi acolyte. Similarly hollow were BJD leader Pinaki Mishra’s claims that the Congress was not in a dialogue with his party. The BJD has yet to earn its anti-BJP spurs at a national level, as opposing it in Odisha is an electoral compulsion. Perhaps the host should have countered such accusatory views. Despite underlining their unity efforts, the Opposition leaders got their optics slightly wrong. A parallel process seemingly initiated by Congress dissidents is unlikely to achieve Opposition unity. Even inadvertently, a Sharad Pawar or a Lalu Yadav cannot be seen as part of the internal factionalism of the Congress. However, it is more ominous if the Congress dissidents were demonstrating their political acceptability among the wider political class. That may be read as a sign of where they may be forced to go in the post-2024 scenario unless their ambitions are accommodated in the Congress. (The writer is a journalist based in Delhi) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/can-dinner-diplomacy-lead-to-opposition-unity-1018889.html
12-08-2021||First Edit||Parliament diminished||Parliament’s monsoon session went the way of many past sessions that saw all parliamentary business drowned by ruckus and disruptions. Both Houses were prorogued two days ahead of schedule as it was clear that the remaining two days of the session would only be lost to din. From the time the session began on July 19, no normal business took place in either House on most days as the Opposition disrupted the proceedings over the government’s unwillingness to allow discussion on various issues, including the Pegasus snooping and hacking scandal, the farmers’ protest and the rise in prices, mainly fuel prices. There was some cooperation between the two sides only during a discussion of the Constitution amendment bill on reservation for OBCs. Twenty other bills were passed within minutes without discussion, and the last day saw a controversial bill on insurance being passed amidst stormy scenes. Both the government and the Opposition have blamed each other for the barracking and paralysis of the Houses. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu expressed anguish over the disruptions and the government side, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has faulted the Opposition. The Opposition has criticised the government for not showing the spirit of accommodation and for adopting autocratic methods. Disruption has become the norm, and confrontation has replaced conversation. The monsoon session had a productivity of just 21 per cent for the Lok Sabha and 28 per cent for the Rajya Sabha. The percentages do not fully show the rancour, the ill-will and the deterioration of standards that the highest forum of democracy has witnessed. The damage to Parliament is obvious, and it is a reflection of the damage other institutions of democracy have suffered and of the wider impairment of democratic ethos as such in the country. It is the government and the ruling party which have the greater responsibility to ensure the normal functioning of Parliament and to see that its legislative business and deliberations are conducted democratically and efficiently. The Opposition has the right to ask questions and the government has to give answers. What most contributed to the stalling of Parliament was the Pegasus issue, on which the government was not ready to concede an inch on the Opposition parties’ demand for a discussion. The reasons for the government’s refusal to talk about it are unconvincing, and the circumstances relating to it remain unclear even as there are discussions on the matter in various forums, including the Supreme Court. In the melee, the government managed to get away with much of its business and without a discussion on the Pegasus affair and its role in it. The resulting deadlock has further diminished Parliament and our democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/parliament-diminished-1019106.html
12-08-2021||In Perspective||Gandhiji and the grammar of his ideas||Gandhiji found in the Sabarmati Ashram the diction for a new grammar he had invented. He had found the spellings and grammar, as it were, of a new way of life with his experiments on himself in England and the struggles he had in South Africa. The spellings and the grammar went into the making of a new language that he articulated at the ashram sprawled on the banks of the Sabarmati in Ahmedabad. The government now seems to want to polish the language, brighten it up and edit it, to make it a “world class” expression of Gandhiji’s idea. What is lost in meaning may be gained in money, and the man who hardly wore clothes may be given a makeover with monogrammed suits and Maybach glasses. Many are worried about the impending changes at Sabarmati Ashram. But this is about the spellings and grammar in another place which is also associated with Gandhiji. That is the house in Porbandar where he was born. It is now part of a museum that is thronged by thousands of visitors. At the entrance to the house and inside it, there are display boards that give information about Gandhiji and the house. There are photographs of events and persons associated with his life, and captions are provided for them. It is the spellings and the grammar of these descriptions that worry me: Some samples: 1) “Gandhiji and Kasturba with follow settlers at Phoenix, Natal’’ (follow settlers or fellow settlers?); 2) “Gandhiji, (Third from left) outside of his office at JohannesVburg with his colleagues’’ (What is the V doing in the middle of Johannesburg? And “outside of”?); 3) Then there is a complicated sentence that challenges the reader with its spellings, grammar, punctuations, spacing between words and missing words. Lest it be forgotten, it also reminds the reader that Gandhiji was born in the Christian era, and not before Christ. “‘The house where the Mahatma Gandhiji was born’ was purchased in 1777 A.D. by his great grand father Harjivanji Rahidasji Gandhi from local lady Manbai-Gandhiji grand father Uttamchandji carried out some changes and made it a two storey building course of time one more storey was added to the main building and by the time Gandhiji was born (2nd.October 1869 A.D.) T was a three floor building now consists of 22 rooms including passage the walls of some of the rooms are decorate whith paintings’’’ (All in Capital letters). Generations of Gandhiji’s followers and admirers, students and statesmen and tourists and travellers may have seen these descriptions, and many may have smiled to themselves. Gandhiji, who had a high sense of humour and wrote good English, may also smile at them if he sees them. But can’t we keep the knowing smiles for better things and keep the language correct at the most iconic of the nation’s heritage buildings? The descriptions are given in Hindi and Gujarati, too. Even the little Hindi that I know tells me that there are mistakes in the Hindi version, errors related to spelling, punctuations and spacing. I have counted at least five of them and leave it to those who know Hindi better to find them and others. I do not know Gujarati and so do not have any comment on the Gujarati text. I lost some photographs, and so I am not sure that these three make up the full complement of errors. Sarojini Nadu famously said that it cost the nation a lot to keep Gandhiji in poverty. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), which maintains Gandhiji’s house, is spending a lot to keep the house, not in poverty, but in the state in which it was when he grew up there. It is perhaps doing a good job of it as far as the brick and mortar and paint are concerned, but it is certainly keeping the state of language there poor. Spellings and grammar make the language, and clothe the meaning. It is the spellings and grammar at Porbandar, not at Sabarmati, that need urgent change. The place where Sudama, arguably the most famous poor man in the Puranas, lived is a stone’s throw from Gandhiji’s house. On a visit there in 2018, I wondered whether Gandhiji was inspired by his illustrious predecessor in town and borrowed his language of poverty from him. But he never miswrote his language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/gandhiji-and-the-grammar-of-his-ideas-1019092.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Large gatherings will be curbed until Dasara: Dakshina Kannada DC||Following a threat of the Covid-19 third wave, no large gatherings will be permitted in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district until Dasara festival, DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V stressed on Wednesday. The DC was addressing a gathering on the third wave of Covid-19 organised by DK district Working Journalists Association at Patrika Bhavan. He said there will be no offering of special poojas, sevas, by devotees during Nagara Panchami celebrations — one of Tulu Nadu's biggest festivals. The priests will perform religious rituals in a traditional manner, he said.   Panchayat Development Officers (PDOs) were entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring the pooja rituals in 'Nagabana' (sacred grove) and ancestral houses will be held without any mass gathering. Many festivals including Nagara Panchami, Krishna Janmashtami, Ganesh Chaturthi and many more are lined up for the next month. "Processions and installation of idols in public places during Ganesh Chaturthi are restricted and celebrations are restricted to a day," DC said. Even Independence Day celebrations will be observed by officials and elected representatives without involving the public. There will be weekend lockdowns this week and students who have examinations can travel to the examination halls, by displaying their hall ticket, DC informed. As the positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada district is high, reopening of schools and colleges is also likely to be delayed, the DC added. Autonomous colleges and Deemed to be Universities had been asked to inform the nodal officer in the collegiate education department about the precautionary measures taken before starting classes for students. The 32-bedded hi-tech ICU at Wenlock Hospital will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Basaraj Bommai on Thursday. The district administration is ready to tackle Covid-19 third wave. About 9,000 beds including from private hospitals have been readied to face the situation. A separate 75 oxygen-supported beds for children have been readied. In addition, 50 per cent of the beds in hi-tech ICU at Wenlock Hospital will be reserved for children. DC said they will appeal to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai for additional one lakh doses of vaccines in addition to the district's existing quota. The positivity rate in neighbouring Kasargod district is high and the positivity rate in DK is 4.75 per cent. In such a scenario, the district administration’s decision on restrictions along border areas is justifiable. There is a need to give priority to vaccination in the villages bordering Kerala, DC said. The positivity rate in the DK district might be high as the district shares its borders with Kasargod where cases are on the rise. People from Kasargod depend on the district for health care facilities. The testing rates in the district have also increased. On Tuesday, 9,900 tests had been conducted in the district. Thus, there is no need for any lockdown after August 15, he said while brushing aside rumours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/large-gatherings-will-be-curbed-until-dasara-dakshina-kannada-dc-1018749.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four-year-old boy contracts Japanese encephalitis||A four-year-old boy of Jayapura village in the taluk was found to be infected with Japanese Encephalitis (JE), called brain fever, and is undergoing treatment. The boy, who was suffering from a high fever was shifted to JSS hospital in the city. The health department authorities visited the village and collected blood samples of the people, who suffered from fever recently. District Vector-borne Diseases Control Officer Dr S Chidambara confirmed the case and said there is no need for anxiety. The district has reported a total of 23 brain fever cases this year. Mosquito-borne Japanese encephalitis was first found in Kellahalli in the district, according to sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-year-old-boy-contracts-japanese-encephalitis-1018775.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||SSLC board gets unusually high no. of requests to reject results||Post-results, some SSLC students are now demanding that they be given the option to reject the results and reappear for the examinations scheduled to be held in September. Several students are approaching the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) seeking a provision to reject the results and reappear for the exams for better or improved scores. The board is getting at least five to six calls a day in this regard. This year, considering that all examinees were declared pass, the Board has cancelled the option to reject the results. Options for revaluation, availing photocopies of answer scripts and retotalling have been cancelled. But students feel this is an injustice to those who really want to improve their scores. “I had secured 72 per cent, but I am confident of scoring more if I take the exams again,” said one of the students. “I am not satisfied with the marks awarded to me. I want to reject the results and write the exams again. It is the duty of the department concerned to listen to our grievances,” said Abhijith, a student. The Board says that this year, answer scripts were evaluated digitally and so, there is no room for human error. Hence, there is no option for revaluation and taking photocopies of answer scripts. “All these years, when we have provided the opportunity to reject the results and reappear for the exams, only 10 to 15 students would make use of it. This year, since all students are declared pass, there is no question of rejecting the results,” said a KSEEB official. According to Board officials, normally students who have secured above 70 per cent used to reject the results. “This year, we are getting calls from students who have scored below 50 per cent in the exams,” the official said. Data shows that 1,13,610 candidates scored between 35 per cent to 59 per cent this year. All these years, there was also an option for students to retain the earlier score or to go with the new marks secured, after reappearing for the exams. “We are getting requests from students to reject the results and reappear for the exams to be conducted in September third week. We will discuss the same with higher officials and decide,” said a senior official from the KSEEB.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sslc-board-gets-unusually-high-no-of-requests-to-reject-results-1018777.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Eco-friendly tricolour badges give green hue to Independence Day celebrations||The Paper Seed, a social enterprise based in Pakshikere, has come out with tricolour seed badges, made from areca sheath, which grows into a plant when planted in soil. To observe 75th year of Independence (Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsava), the Paper Seed has come out with the tricolour badges prepared using naturally available areca sheath. The badges are inserted with seeds of brinjal, tomato and tulsi. The badges can be planted in pots or in the garden, explains Nithin Vas, founder of Paper Seed Co. During the celebrations, the badge can be pinned on the dress as it has a safety pin. In addition, the Paper Seed has also launched eco-friendly Seed Rakhi, made from areca sheath and embedded with seeds, for this year’s Raksha Bandhan. “We have made 600 badges and 3,000 Rakhis this year,” said Vas. But the restrictions imposed to check spread of Covid-19 in districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra has proved to be a big dampener. “We are finding it difficult to dispatch our consignments to different places.  We have demands from many places, including Ranchi, Bengaluru, Rajasthan and Gujarat,” says Vas. During the previous Independence Day celebrations, Paper Seed had made eco-friendly paper flags. During the previous Raksha Bandhan it had come out with Rakhi made from paper pulp and terracotta and embedded with seeds of passion fruit. “This year we had planned to embedded them with Amla seeds. But we could not procure the required quality of seeds for it,” Vas said. “When eco-friendly flags were prepared in the past, there was huge demand and we had sold over 15,000 flags. With the closure of schools and colleges due to Covid-19 pandemic, the demand has declined. Last year, various organisations had placed demand for eco-friendly flags,” he said. Paper seed village The work on Paper Seed village has begun in Pakshikere. “We want to transform the lives of poor families in the village. The poor families will be trained in different eco-friendly products, and make them self-employed. We want to create a sustainable model for youth through self-employment by training them to prepare various useful products like eco-friendly jewellery, baskets from locally available creepers and organic agarbattis,” Vas added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/eco-friendly-tricolour-badges-give-green-hue-to-independence-day-celebrations-1018795.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Quota for Panchamasalis: C C Patil assures positive step by Karnataka government||PWD Minister C C Patil on Thursday stated that the government would take a positive step in the matter of Panchamasali community's demand for 2A category status. "The government is aware of the demand and struggle. Suitable steps would be taken after getting the details of the OBC Bill passed in the Parliament," he said. After meeting Basavajayamrutyanjaya Swamiji of Koodalasangam, who is leading the agitation seeking 2A status for Panchamasali community, Patil stated he would arrange a meeting of the seer and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai after August 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/quota-for-panchamasalis-c-c-patil-assures-positive-step-by-karnataka-government-1018890.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bye-election for Mysuru ward to be held on September 3||The state election commission has announced the dates of an urban body bye-election to Mysuru's ward number 36. The bypolls were necessitated as the membership of Rukmini Madegowda, formerly a Mayor, was disqualified by the Court. As per the notification, the election is scheduled for September 3. The last date to file nomination is August 23. The nominations will be scrutinised on August 24 and August 26 is the last date to withdraw the papers. The election will be held on September 3, if required. However, vote counting will be on September 6. It has to be noted that the trial court in the city had disqualified Rukmini of JD(S), also Mayor, as corporator for not disclosing the details of assets in the affidavit filed with nomination papers in 2018. Rajani Annaiah of Congress, who lost to Rukmini Madegowda in the 2018 Corporation polls, filed a petition in the District Court questioning the election of Rukmini, alleging a false affidavit regarding her assets. The lower court annulled the election. Later, Rukmini had filed an appeal in the high court, which upheld the disqualification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bye-election-for-mysuru-ward-to-be-held-on-september-3-1018894.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||'One stop service centre' opened at women’s police station in Mysuru||A 'one stop service centre' has been opened at the Women’s Police Station, in the building of Laskhar Police Station, in Mysuru. As per an order of the state government, issued on October 20, 2018, women police stations should be upgraded to one stop service centres, to avoid inconvenience to women in distress, seeking the help of police and other agencies. When a woman approaches a police station in her locality, the police personnel direct her to a women’s police station, depending on the case. If the case is related to family or husband, the woman is directed to a counselling centre. If the woman’s problem is not solved there, she has to return to the police station. If the woman is suffering from a health problem or is injured in a mishap or an assault, she has to be referred to a hospital. If she has been expelled from her house and if she needs shelter for some other reason, she has to be sent to a swadhar centre, short stay home or santhwana centre. The present form of the women police station, one stop service centre, will help a woman to get solace, shelter, care and solution to her problems at one place. There is basic infrastructure and amenities in the centre for a woman to stay for a short period, even with her children, to solve her problems and become independent. Counselling, medical care and legal aid will be provided to women at the centre. Chandragupta, who inaugurated the centre on Wednesday, said, five rooms of the women police station have been renovated with required furniture, computer and other needs. Deputy Commissioner of Police Geetha Prasanna, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Devaraja division, Shashidhar and Inspector V D Mamatha were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-stop-service-centre-opened-at-women-s-police-station-in-mysuru-1018941.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police van topples while chasing bus; 3 injured||Three police personnel were injured while chasing a private bus, near Pandithahalli, in Malavalli taluk, Mandya district, on Wednesday night. The town police were checking the vehicles near the Tourists bungalow, and stopped a lorry. A private bus was coming behind the lorry. The driver, who presumed that the police will stop his vehicle, tried to flee and hit the police van, injuring a personnel, Srinivas. The rural police chased the bus for around 7 km, when the driver lost balance and the vehicle toppled. ASI Huchchaiah, driver Nagaiah were injured and have been admitted to the taluk hospital. Srinivas, is being treated at a private hospital in Mysuru. The bus driver abandoned the bus on the roadside and escaped. Police suspect that a cleaner of the private bus had stolen the vehicle, and tried to evade the police, when the incident occurred. Town and Rural police have filed separate cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-van-topples-while-chasing-bus-3-injured-1018962.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Charaka Samsthe to reject Rs 33 lakh grant as a mark of protest||As part of protest against apathy of officials of Handlooms & Textile Department, Bheemanakone-based Charaka Samsthe in Sagar taluk has decided to reject grant of Rs 33 lakh released by the state government for Pavitra Vastra campaign. Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, Charaka Women's Multi-purpose Industrial Co-operative Society Marketing Head Padmashri said though the grant was released to the samsthe three years ago, the officials concerned are not keen to handover cheque and they are deliberately delaying it. Condemning their attitude, it has been decided to reject the grant. She said considering the achievements of Charaka Samsthe in handlooms sector, the then-state government was keen to involve the samsthe in Pavitra Vastra campaign in 2009. It had promised to lend a helping hand to export handloom products to consumers across the country and overseas, and also for generation of employment. So, the samsthe had arranged Rs 55 lakh and the government had promised to release grant of Rs 33 lakh. The government had released the grant three years ago. But it is in a private bank and the officials are yet to issue cheque of Rs 33 lakh to the samsthe. They are making members of the samsthe to run from pillar to post to get the aid. "They are making beneficiaries to become corrupt. But we are not corrupt. So they are also not keen to issue cheque," she alleged. She also stated that this is the best example for how the projects of the government are moving on wrong path. "We are returning the government's grant with disappointment. We still have physical strength to earn money. We will ask people to buy our products. We are hopeful that people would respond positively to our products." Charaka Samsthe President Gowramma said "we will suffer financially. But we are helpless in this regard. The timely release of grant by the government would have helped for generation of employment for some more women coming from humble background." Charaka Samsthe Directors Mahalakshmi, Chandrakala were present in press conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/charaka-samsthe-to-reject-rs-33-lakh-grant-as-a-mark-of-protest-1019055.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Promising futsal player from Mysuru drowns in Italy||A promising futsal player from the city, who was plying his trade with a Serie B side in Italy, died due to drowning in a waterfall near Rome on August 6. Yashwanth Kumar (24), of N R Mohalla in the city was the first Indian to feature in the Serie B futsal League.  According to Kumar’s family members, he was pursuing Masters in Marketing at a Business School in Rome. Kumar was passionate about futsal, a lesser known sport in India. He shifted to Italy four months ago to pursue his career in futsal leagues, along with the studies. He was playing as a goalkeeper for Calcio C 5 Club in the Italian League. Before his Italian stint, Yashwanth had played for Kerala state side and made the cut into the Indian team in 2017.  According to the family members, the final rites were conducted in Italy by a few Kannadiga compatriots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/promising-futsal-player-from-mysuru-drowns-in-italy-1019114.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai has to come out of Yediyurappa's shadow: Yatnal||BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Thursday stated that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai must come out of B S Yediyurappa's influence, and said that the circumstances would make him do so. "Bommai has become the chief minister due to continuous pressure by Yediyurappa. But, Bommai should work independently, and let us wait for a few months. Changing chief minister's advisers and some officials shows that changes are taking place in this regard," he said. Continuing his criticism against former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, Yatnal said, "Yediyurappa announced Rs 5 lakh compensation for house collapse, but only Rs 1 lakh was given. His son Vijayendra's interference has still continued from Cauvery". Our demand was to change the chief minister, and that has happened. I did not engage in cheap politics to become a minister. I was not made a minister due to my opposition to Yediyurappa, and the party high-command probably decided that to avoid embarrassment. I do not repent the decision as I have become hero to zero and vice versa also, the Vijayapur City MLA noted. All should co-operate with the new chief minister, and I pray that his government completes the term. When people are in trouble due to floods and other situations, it is not correct for MLAs to lobby for a ministerial berth and for a minister to get some other portfolio, Yatnal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-has-to-come-out-of-yediyurappas-shadow-yatnal-1018999.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress should start 'Nehru Hookah Bar', says C T Ravi||BJP national general secretary C T Ravi on Thursday suggested that the Congress should start a hookah bar named after former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. “Indira Gandhi was assassinated in 1984. Canteens in her name were started in 2017. Was it out of love? No, it was pure politics,” Ravi said, and asked why Congress governments did not open the Indira Canteens in the early 90s or 2000s. “They wanted to make money by keeping Indira Gandhi's name. Should we accept that? Our opposition is because this canteen is political. Let them open an Indira Canteen or a Nehru Bar, a Nehru Hookah Bar in the Congress office. Nobody will object,” Ravi said. Ravi argued that ‘Annapoorneshwari’ was not a political name. “She’s the goddess of food. We pray to her as part of our culture,” he said. Maintaining that the BJP had no prejudice towards Nehru or Indira, Ravi said he had a problem with the claim that only the Gandhi family had contributed to the nation. “We accept the good decisions Nehru made. His misadventures need rectification. There’s no prejudice against Indira as well. Both Nehru and Indira have contributed to the nation. But to say only they contributed is foolish and servile,” Ravi said, adding that 217 schemes were named after them. “Aren’t there others?” Reacting to this, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah asked Ravi why a stadium was named after PM Modi in Gujarat. “Why is something named after Arun Jaitley in Delhi? In Yeshwanthpur, why is a flyover named after Deenadayal Upadhayay? And Sarvarkar’s name has been used in Yelahanka,” he said. “Do we speak lightly about Vajpayee or Advani? C T Ravi doesn’t know history. They are the ones who say they’d rewrite the Constitution,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-should-start-nehru-hookah-bar-says-c-t-ravi-1019000.html
12-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Confident of getting Karnataka cabinet berth soon: Renukacharya||Former Minister M P Renukacharya, who was camping in Delhi for the past few days, said on Thursday that he is confident that soon he will get a place in the Karnataka Cabinet headed by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. “I met many top leaders including BJP National General Secretary (Organisation) B L Santosh and General Secretary incharge Karnataka Arun Singh. Now I am confident that I will get a chance to become cabinet minister in the coming days,” he told reporters. "Since the BJP government still has 19 months' tenure, before that I may get an opportunity. I also met former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel and discussed this issue. Total 13 districts did not get an opportunity. Since Davangere is a major district, the party will reward the leaders from this region," he said. An MLA from Honnali-Nyamathi and a confidant of Yediyurappa, Renukacharyahas been lobbying for ministership. In the previous Yediyurappa headed government, he served as Chief Minister's political secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/confident-of-getting-karnataka-cabinet-berth-soon-renukacharya-1019074.html
12-08-2021||Main Article||The Dalai Lama question||Communist China’s founding father, Mao Zedong, called Tibet China’s right palm, and described its ‘five fingers’ as being Nepal, Sikkim, Ladakh, Bhutan and Arunachal Pradesh, all to be ‘liberated’. Decades later, none of the so-called ‘fingers’ are part of modern China, while the legitimacy of Tibet itself remains testy and irksome for the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), which just celebrated its 100th anniversary. The public face of that ‘questioning’ over Tibet is the manifestation of Avalokiteshvara or Chenrezig, the Bodhisattva of Compassion and the patron saint of Tibet, the 14th Dalai Lama. He is connected to the foundational intrigues surrounding Tibet’s forcible occupation by China when, as a 14-year-old, he escaped to India in 1959. Much before his escape, Mao had cavalierly played down the prospect of any threat, “Shall I feel aggrieved at the desertion of one Dalai? Not at all...What harm will his departure do to us? None whatsoever. He can’t do more than curse us.” But the 86-year-old Dalai Lama has disproved Mao’s nonchalance as he remains committed and relevant to Tibet’s unsettled status and consciousness. President Xi Jinping is often bandied about as the ‘new Mao Zedong’ for his authoritarian, expansionist and hegemonic instincts that drive him to routinely bare his fangs, especially to aggressively assert China’s legitimacy and ownership of credentials on Tibet. Threatening the Chinese narrative on Tibet is the globally popular cry of ‘Free Tibet’, championed by the Dalai Lama’s Tibetan Government-in-Exile in Dharamshala, India— internationally recognised as an Unrepresented Nations and Peoples’ Organisation (UNPO). Though it is not recognised by any nation officially, countries like the United States support it financially and allow for private donations to it. Time, distance, and multiple Chinese manipulations notwithstanding, the reverence for the Dalai Lama in the Tibetan imagination, both in Tibet and within the global diaspora, remains undiminished. The ‘Free Tibet’ sentiment, delegitimising Chinese control over it, has survived decades of continuous attempts to diminish the Dalai Lama’s appeal by using sectarianism, the brutal ‘cultural revolution’ of the 1960s and 70s, by forcing demographic changes, persecutions (an estimated 260,000 Tibetans died in prison/labour camps between 1954 and 1984), and by constantly interfering in the Tibetan religious-cultural practices, for instance, the abduction of the 11th Panchen Lama (second most important figure in Tibetan Buddhism) duly appointed by the Dalai Lama, and his forced replacement by a Beijing appointee. Now, amidst the ensuing Indo-Sino border tensions, as also the US-Sino dissonance across the board, the consequential conflation of Indo-US efforts to contain China is gaining currency. The conceptualisation of strategic platforms like the Quad (entailing the four Sino-wary nations US, India, Japan, and Australia), the exchange of military wherewithal, interoperability exercises and cooperation in multilateral forums are shaping the aligned responses of Delhi and Washington towards checkmating Chinese belligerence. Expectedly, lending a favourable ear and voice to the cause of the beleaguered Tibetans is a natural tactic that upsets the Chinese efforts to stitch the Tibetan narrative in its favour. On Tibet, the Chinese are routinely on the defensive as it remains a sensitive, unsettled and polarising reality in its so-called Tibet/Xizang Autonomous Region, as also internationally. Arousing Beijing’s latest concerns was the significant meeting of US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken with the representative of the Dalai Lama, Ngodup Dongchung of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), while Blinken was recently on a visit to Delhi. Seen in the backdrop of the continuing Indo-Sino stand-off and the recent passing of the Tibet Policy and Support Act by the US Congress, the implied message of calling the Chinese bluff on Tibet is unmistakable. China is rattled by the deliberately curated optics and the CCP’s mouthpiece, Global Times, reported Blinken’s move as ‘playing the Tibet card’ and alluded to the same as, “a mechanism to contain China in the Indo-Pacific region.” For a country struggling to project a benign façade with its combination of ‘cheque-book diplomacy’ and charm offensives, such as the Belt and Road Initiative, the reality of the Covid pandemic, tensions over Hong Kong and Taiwan, along with the historically weak storyline in Tibet, remain eyesores to the Chinese narrative. The Chinese have upped the ante with Xi himself making a historic ‘first’ visit to Tibet as President, raising a new un-uniformed Tibetan youth militia (separate from the already existing Special Tibetan Army Unit of the PLA) as a possible counter to the Indian Special Frontier Force (SFF), which did exceptionally well in the recent border tensions, much to the discomfiture of the Chinese. The Indian side, too, did its own bit of posturing, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi making it public for the first time that he had spoken to the Dalai Lama and making sure that the latter’s birthday was celebrated with gusto in Ladakhi villages, just across from the Chinese-held territories. But the Dalai Lama’s ripe age is a key determinant, as the appointment of his successor i.e., the 15th Dalai Lama, is expected to be contentious. As China did  by propping up its own Panchen Lama, it is expected to similarly prop up a puppet 15th Dalai Lama while the current Dalai Lama may choose a different person! Whoever succeeds him, however, will certainly not have the same emotional resonance on the Tibetan issue as the current Dalai Lama, given the formative umbilical cord of his existence and relationship with the Tibetan movement. The ability to invoke Tibet for naming-and-shaming the Chinese regime may weaken post the 14th Dalai Lama, with two claimants to his position. With the recently passed Act, the US has already mandated sanctions against China if it meddles with the appointment of the next Dalai Lama. Since the entire Tibetan movement is predicated on one man, the sitting Dalai Lama has consciously posited appointment reforms that may facilitate the leadership transition, to the detriment of China. Ironically, the Dalai Lama remains a moderating, pacifist and only the moral face of the Tibetan struggle, which could take more violent expressions after him. For now, the battle for Tibetan credentials between China and the ‘Free World’ will only ratchet up.  (The writer is a former Lt-Gov of Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Puducherry)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-dalai-lama-question-1019105.html
12-08-2021||National||Passage of OBC bill landmark moment for nation: PM Modi||Hailing the passage of a bill that restores states' rights to identify Other Backward Classes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that it underscores his government's commitment to ensuring dignity, opportunity and justice to the marginalised sections. The constitutional amendment bill to restore the powers of the states to make their own OBC lists was passed by Parliament on Wednesday, with the Opposition and treasury benches joining hands in the Rajya Sabha to approve the legislation. The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed by the Lok Sabha, a day before. In a tweet, Modi said, "Passage of the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, 2021 in both Houses is a landmark moment for our nation. This Bill furthers social empowerment. It also reflects our Government's commitment to ensuring dignity, opportunity and justice to the marginalised sections."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passage-of-obc-bill-landmark-moment-for-nation-pm-modi-1018790.html
12-08-2021||National||Want to live in hearts of people, not in posters: Vasundhara Raje||Amid a row over posters of the BJP not carrying party leader Vasundhara Raje's photo, the former Rajasthan chief minister on Wednesday said she did not believe in politics of posters but wanted to "live in hearts" of the people. Raje, also BJP's national vice president, was speaking to the media in her home constituency of Jhalawar after her two-day visit to flood affected areas in Jhalawar–Baran. "When I came in politics, Rajmataji (Vijaya Raje Scindia) told me that five fingers of hand are never equal and when you visit the villages, you need to unite people into a family with love for each other, despite them being of various kinds," Raje said. When people are in pain, in sorrow, they needed to be given a healing touch, she said. On the poster row in the state BJP, the former CM reminded of her first tour to state capital Jaipur after winning the election and becoming the chief minister on the first as well as the second time and said there were several large-sized posters of her all around the city but she instantly demanded that the posters be removed. "All of you do know it very well that even at that time I had asked to take down those posters," she said. "I am to rule hearts of the people and carry out such work that the people can bear it in mind and when the people bear me in mind, they would love me and I would be able to make way to their hearts," Raje said, claiming the biggest thing for her is that the people remember her. "What bigger fortune other than this would be for me and what these posters would do (against it)," Raje said. "I am to rule the hearts, not in the posters and this is what I have been trying and this has been my only aim," Raje said. A war of words erupted between Rajasthan BJP workers and Raje's supporters after her photos were removed from the state's party posters in Jaipur around two months ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/want-to-live-in-hearts-of-people-not-in-posters-vasundhara-raje-1018805.html
12-08-2021||National||Congress alleges Twitter handles of five senior leaders, including Randeep Surjewala, locked||Close on the heels of temporary suspension of Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account, the Congress on late Wednesday claimed that similar action was taken against the handles of five senior leaders, including media head Randeep Surjewala. The Twitter accounts of AICC general secretary and former minister Ajay Maken, party's whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Assam in-charge and former Union minister Jitendra Singh and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev have been locked, the party said. "So! After Shri @RahulGandhi, the Lord @narendramodi Ji and Vassal @Jack & @twitter have locked @rssurjewala, @ajaymaken & @sushmitadevinc. @INCIndia registers its protest and promises to continue the fight for each and all being wronged! We shall hold on @AshwiniVaishnaw Ji," tweeted AICC secretary in-charge of party's Communication Department. "The list goes on. @Twitter locks @JitendraSAlwar and @manickamtagore and many more. Doesn't Modi Ji understand that we @INCindia'ns have a legacy of fighting even from behind the locks of kaala paani," he asked in another tweet. "He thinks the virtual locks of Twitter will deter us from fighting for India,"he asked. The Congress has accused Twitter of acting against Gandhi's account under pressure from the government. Gandhi had tweeted pictures with the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi last week. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) took cognisance of Gandhi's tweet and directed Twitter to act against the Congress leader's account for violating the privacy of a minor victim, mandated by the laws of the land.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-alleges-twitter-handles-of-five-senior-leaders-including-randeep-surjewala-locked-1018806.html
12-08-2021||National||Opposition MPs manhandled marshals, strict action should be taken: Parliamentary affairs minister||Opposition members manhandled marshals amid ruckus in the Rajya Sabha, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi alleged on Wednesday while demanding stringent action against the lawmakers. Joshi termed "totally false" the opposition's allegations that marshals manhandled their MPs and said one can check facts from CCTV footage. "The opposition is spreading lies. Marshals can't dare to touch MPs, they can't even think about it. CCTV footage will establish that they are lying," he told reporters outside the Parliament building. Joshi said the government demands that the Rajya Sabha chairman constitute a special committee to probe the misbehaviour and indiscipline by opposition members, and strict action should be taken against them.  He said he has never seen such behaviour by MPs in his parliamentary career. Leader of the House and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal alleged that an MP tried to "strangulate" a lady security officer. The Rajya Sabha chamber witnessed ugly scenes of opposition members jostling with marshals as they tore papers, entered the Well of the house and attempted to go near the presiding officer's chair. After a peaceful debate and the smooth passage of a bill to restore the states' powers to identify and notify their own lists of OBCs, all hell broke loose when the insurance amendment bill to privatise the state-run general insurance companies was taken up. Calling it a sell-off, the opposition MPs stormed into the Well of the House shouting anti-government slogans. They were, however, prevented from going anywhere near the table of the House or the chair by a wall of about 50 security staff that sort of cordoned off what Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu referred to as the "sanctum sanctorum". A cross-gender staff deployment -- female officers where male MPs were protesting and male officers where female MPs were protesting -- was made. But this did not deter the MPs belonging to a cross-section of opposition parties -- from the Congress to the Left to the TMC and to the DMK. They tore papers, believed to be copies of the bill, and lofted those towards the chair and the House officers. Some tried to break the cordon and jostled with the security staff. During the melee, the House passed the insurance bill by a voice vote, with Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman not even replying to the limited debate that could take place. The ruckus forced two adjournments and later, when two separate bills on homeopathy and the Indian system of medicine were taken up, the opposition MPs staged a walkout. During the ruckus, the MPs carried placards and shouted slogans. Dola Sen of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) held a string tied around the neck of a fellow MP, who had a placard hung around her neck saying "Democracy Killed". Ripun Bora of the Congress made unsuccessful attempts to climb over the marshals to reach the chair. Some of the MPs whistled and a few others stood up on their seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-mps-manhandled-marshals-strict-action-should-be-taken-parliamentary-affairs-minister-1018809.html
12-08-2021||National||DH Toon | FinMin vetoes Rs 4K cr breakfast at school plan||The Finance Ministry vetoed the breakfast at school plan in the new National Education Policy. The policy which was approved by the Union Cabinet noted that morning hours after a nutritious breakfast can be particularly productive for the study of cognitively more demanding subjects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-finmin-vetoes-rs-4k-cr-breakfast-at-school-plan-1018811.html
12-08-2021||National||GSLV-F10 carrying earth observation satellite EOS-03 lifts off from Sriharikota||The GSLV-F10 rocket carrying earth observation satellite EOS-03 successfully blasted off from the spaceport, Indian Space Research Organisation said on Thursday. The launching event is the second one this year for the Bengaluru-headquartered space agency after the launch of Brazil's earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 and 18 co-passenger satellites in February this year. As the 26-hour countdown for Thursday's launch concluded, the 51.70-metre tall rocket lifted off majestically at 05.43 am from the second launch pad at this spaceport. The earth observation satellite would provide real-time images of the country and also be able to quickly monitor natural disasters. The objective of the mission was to provide near real-time imaging of large areas at frequent intervals, for quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic events and obtaining spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, water bodies as well as for disaster warning, cyclone monitoring, cloud burst and thunderstorm monitoring. The mission life is 10 years, ISRO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gslv-f10-carrying-earth-observation-satellite-eos-03-lifts-off-from-sriharikota-1018814.html
12-08-2021||National||GSLV-F10/EOS-03 mission could not be accomplished fully due to performance anomaly in cryogenic stage: ISRO||Indian Space Research Organisation's second mission of the year to place an earth observation satellite by a GSLV rocket faced a setback as the mission could not be accomplished fully due to performance anomaly in the cryogenic stage of the rocket, the space agency said on Thursday. The 51.70-metre tall rocket GSLV-F10/EOS-03 successfully lifted off from the second launch pad at the spaceport as planned at 05.43 hrs soon after the 26-hour countdown concluded. Ahead of the lift-off, the Launch Authorisation Board cleared the decks for a normal lift-off as planned. The performance of the rocket in the first and second stages of the rocket was normal, scientists at the Mission Control Centre said. However, minutes later the scientists were seen in discussion and it was announced in the Mission Control Centre by the Range Operations Director "mission could not be accomplished fully due to performance anomaly". "Performance anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage. The mission could not be accomplished fully," the range operations director announced in the Mission Control Centre. Later, ISRO Chairman K Sivan said, "(The mission) could not be fully accomplished mainly because there is a technical anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage. This I wanted to tell to all my friends." After the countdown commenced, scientists were engaged in the filling of propellants for the four-stage rocket at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota about 100 kms from Chennai. The objective of Thursday's mission was to provide near real-time imaging of large area regions at frequent intervals, for quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic events and obtain spectral signatures for agriculture, forestry, water bodies as well as for disaster warning, cyclone monitoring, cloud burst and thunderstorm monitoring. Before today's launch, ISRO had launched Brazil's earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 and 18 co-passenger satellites in February this year. Thursday's rocket launch was also planned to be held in April or May however, the outbreak pushed the scientists to resume it in August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gslv-f10/eos-03-mission-could-not-be-accomplished-fully-due-to-performance-anomaly-in-cryogenic-stage-isro-1018819.html
12-08-2021||National||Covid-19 numbers in South-East Asia plateaued over past month mainly due to cases in India remaining stable: WHO||The Covid-19 numbers in the South-East Asia region peaked in early May and has since largely plateaued over the past month mainly due to cases in India remaining stable and consistent decreases in Indonesia and Myanmar over the past month, the WHO has said. The Covid-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update, released by the World Health Organization on August 10, said that the South-East Asia Region reported over 799,000 new cases, a five per cent decrease as compared to the previous week, however, several countries in the Region continue to report increasing trends, including Sri Lanka and Thailand (26 per cent and 20 per cent increases, respectively). “Case incidences in the region peaked in early May and have since largely plateaued over the past month. This is largely due to cases in India remaining stable, and consistent decreases in Indonesia and Myanmar over the past month,” the update said. It added that following a steep increase in the mortality rate in the region, this is the first time in seven weeks that a decline in the number of new weekly deaths has been reported; a trend largely driven by declines in the Maldives and Myanmar this week. Large increases in weekly deaths were reported in several countries including Sri Lanka (47 per cent increase), Nepal (35 per cent) and Thailand (30 per cent). The highest number of new cases were reported from India (278,631 new cases; 20.2 new cases per 100,000; 2 per cent decrease), Indonesia (225,635 new cases; 82.5 new cases per 100,000; 18 per cent decrease), and Thailand (141,191 new cases; 202.3 new cases per 100 000; 20 per cent increase). In the region, the highest numbers of new deaths were reported from Indonesia (11,373 new deaths; 4.2 new deaths per 100,000; 9 per cent decrease), India (3511 new deaths; 0.3 new deaths per 100,000; 8 per cent decrease), and Myanmar (2045 new deaths; 3.8 new deaths per 100,000; 22 per cent decrease). Globally, cases of the Alpha variant have been reported in 185 countries, territories or areas, while 142 countries reported cases of the Delta variant, 136 countries reported cases of the Beta variant and 81 countries reported cases of the Gamma variant. The update said that on August 5, the cumulative number of Covid-19 cases globally surpassed 200 million, just six months after reaching 100 million cases.  This week alone, over 4.2 million new cases and over 65,000 new deaths were reported, a slight increase as compared to the previous week. The largest proportionate increases in new cases were reported by the Region of the Americas (14 per cent) and Western Pacific Region (19 per cent), with 1.3 million and over 375 000 new cases reported, respectively. Of the 228 member states and territories, 38 (17 per cent) reported more than a 50 per cent increase in new cases as compared to the previous week and 34 (15 per cent) reported a more than a 50 per cent increase in new deaths. At the country level, the highest numbers of new cases were reported from the United States at 734,354 new cases, a 35 per cent increase, India with 278,631 new cases; a two per cent decrease), Iran (248,102 new cases; 20 per cent increase), Brazil (228,473 new cases; 8 per cent decrease), and Indonesia (225,635 new cases; 18 per cent decrease). The update said that eight recent studies have assessed the impact of the Delta variant on Covid-19 vaccine performance. It cited a study from India that has not yet been peer-reviewed and which assessed the effectiveness of the AstraZeneca-Vaxzevria vaccine at preventing SARS-CoV-2 infection and severe Covid-19 disease in a setting with a high prevalence of the Delta variant. The study from India found that two doses of the AstraZeneca-Vaxzevria vaccine were 63.1 per cent and 81.5 per cent effective at preventing infection and moderate-severe disease, respectively.  Single-dose VE against infection (46.2 per cent) was lower than two doses VE, while single-dose VE against moderate-severe disease (79.2 per cent) was similar to that of 2 doses.   It said while this study was conducted during a time of high transmission of the Delta variant, it is noteworthy that viral sequencing and lineage determination were available from only a small subset of positive cases (4.4%); of these samples 90% were the Delta variant. A report on the first local transmission of the Delta SARS-CoV-2 variant in China described viral infection and transmission dynamics of 167 cases that were traced back to the index case. Daily sequential PCR testing of the quarantined subjects indicated that among those who became infected, the viral load of the first positive test of Delta infections was approximately 1000 times higher than that of the original non-Variant Of Concern strain, suggesting the potential for faster viral replication and increased infectiousness of the Delta variant during early stages of infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-numbers-in-south-east-asia-plateaued-over-past-month-mainly-due-to-cases-in-india-remaining-stable-who-1018850.html
12-08-2021||National||Mission can be rescheduled again: MoS Jitendra Singh after GSLV fails to inject EOS-03 satellite in orbit||After ISRO's GSLV rocket on Thursday failed to inject earth observation satellite EOS-03 into the orbit, Union minister Jitendra Singh said the mission can be rescheduled again. Singh, the Minister of State in the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) and in-charge of the Department of Space, said he had a detailed discussion with Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) Chairman K Sivan over the mission. He said the first two stages of the launch went off fine and only after that there was a difficulty in cryogenic upper stage ignition. “Spoke to Chairman #ISRO, Dr K Sivan and discussed in detail. The first two stages went off fine, only after that there was a difficulty in cryogenic upper stage ignition. The mission can be re-scheduled some time again,” Singh tweeted.   The GSLV rocket, launched in the early hours of Thursday, failed to inject into the orbit the country's latest earth observation satellite EOS-03 due to a failure to ignite the cryogenic stage of the launch vehicle, prompting the premier space agency to declare the mission could not be achieved as intended. According to the ISRO, the cryogenic upper stage ignition was scheduled to take place 4.56 minutes after the lift-off. A formal announcement was also made at the Mission Control Centre by the range operations director, stating, "Performance anomaly observed in the cryogenic stage. The mission could not be accomplished fully.” The EOS-03 was intended to provide real-time images of large area region of interest at frequent intervals with capability to provide vital information for application in different sectors including agriculture, forestry, water bodies as well as for disaster warning, cyclone monitoring, cloudburst or thunderstorm monitoring.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mission-can-be-rescheduled-again-mos-jitendra-singh-after-gslv-fails-to-inject-eos-03-satellite-in-orbit-1018854.html
12-08-2021||National||Explained | What is Indian Independence Act?||Based on the Mountbatten Plan, the Independence Act of India partitioned British India into two new independent dominions of India and Pakistan. As India celebrates its 74th year of Independence, we take a look at why this Act was adopted and some of its salient features. In February 1947, when the then British Prime Minister declared that the British rule in India would end by June 30, 1948, the Muslim League agitated demanding a partition.Following this, on June 3, 1947, the Viceroy of India, Lord Mountbatten, put forth the partition plan, widely known as the Mountbatten Plan. After the proposed plan was accepted by both the Congress and the Muslim League, the British Parliament passed the Independence Act of India, 1947, thereby, dividing the nation into two parts. What are the salient features of the Independence Act of India, 1947? The enactment of the Act officially ended the British rule in India and the nation was declared as an independent and sovereign state from August 15, 1947. Under the Act, two independent dominions of India and Pakistan came into being, freeing the British government of any responsibility with respect to the governments of the two nations. The dominions were also given the right to secede from the British Commonwealth.  The Act abolished the Office of Viceroy as well as the Office of the Secretary of State. However, the British King, on the advice of the dominion cabinet, appointed a governor-general for each dominion as the constitutional (nominal) heads of the states. The title of Emperor of India was also dropped from the royal titles of the King of England. The Constituent Assembly of India was formed in 1946. The Act allowed the Assemblies of both India and Pakistan to frame and adopt laws for their territories and to repeal any Act passed by the British Parliament, including the Independence Act itself. Therefore, no law that was passed by the British government after August 15, 1947, would extend to either of the dominions unless individually passed in the respective Assemblies. The Indian princely states were freed of the ‘British paramountcy’ under the Act, giving them the right to either join Pakistan or India or to remain independent. Treaty relations with tribal areas also lapsed under the Act. Till new constitutions were framed, the Act provided for the governance of the new dominions and provinces by the Government of India Act, 1935. However, the dominions held the authority to make any changes in the Act. The appointment to civil services and reservation of posts by the Secretary of State for India was also discontinued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-what-is-indian-independence-act-1018856.html
12-08-2021||National||DCGI nod to Bharat Biotech for study on mixing Covaxin and its nasal vaccine: Report||“A phase 2/3 randomised, multi-centric, clinical trial of heterologous prime boost combination of SARS-CoV-2 vaccines BBV 152 (Covaxin) with BBV154 (adenoviral intranasal vaccine) has been granted by the drug regulatory body,” a government official aware of the development told the news agency. The subject expert committee of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) recommended that Bharat Biotech use both drops and spray for clinical trials, the publication reported. DH could not independently verify the report. The study, if conducted, will be the first of its kind involving the mixing of an injectible and a nasal vaccine. An expert panel of CDSCO had July 29 recommended giving approval to Bharat Biotech for carrying out a study on interchangeability of its Covaxin and the under-trial adenoviral intranasal vaccine candidate BBV154, but asked the Hyderabad-based firm to remove the word "interchangeability" from the study title and submit a revised protocol for approval.  The CDSCO had granted permission to conduct of phase-I clinical trial of intranasal adenoviral vector Covid-19 vaccine (BBV154) -- in the age group of 18 years and above – to Bharat Biotech on February 12. Most vaccines are administered by injection through intramuscular or subcutaneous route. But, intranasal vaccines are administered as a nasal spray and offer a needle-free approach for vaccine administration On Wednesday, the DCGI gave its approval for a study on the mixing of Covishield and Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dcgi-nod-to-bharat-biotech-for-study-on-mixing-covaxin-and-its-nasal-vaccine-report-1018859.html
12-08-2021||National||Farmers will unitedly vote against BJP in next Uttar Pradesh polls: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday took a swipe at the BJP for its plan to hold a programme to connect with farmers in Uttar Pradesh, saying the BJP is remembering them as elections are near. Farmers, he said, will vote unitedly against the BJP in the next state polls. "It is heard that the BJP, which cultivates talks, will hold a 'Kisan Sammelan' in Uttar Pradesh. When the time has come for the 'Annadata' to become a voter, the BJP remembered farmers.  Farmers are not going to fall in the trap of BJP. In 2022, farmers will vote unitedly against the BJP," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said. सुना है बातों की खेती करनेवाली भाजपा यूपी में ‘किसान सम्मेलन’ करेगी। अन्नदाता का मतदाता बनने का समय जब निकट आया तब जाकर भाजपा को किसानों की याद आयी। किसान भाजपाइयों के बहकावे-फुसलावे में नहीं आनेवाले। State BJP Kisan Morcha chief Kameshwar Singh said the party would reach out to the farmers and hear their issues and concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-will-unitedly-vote-against-bjp-in-next-uttar-pradesh-polls-akhilesh-yadav-1018865.html
12-08-2021||National||Independence Day: India's journey across the decades||As India celebrates its 75th Independence Day, we take a look at the decades that have gone by, highlighting some of the major events that helped shape the nation. Over the years after attaining independence, India has had to face many challenges - from wars with Pakistan and China to a major terror attack in its financial captial, Mumbai, a high-profile plane hijacking, a nationwide Emergency, assassinations of two of its prime ministers - and more. During this time, India earned accolades in sports like cricket, grew as more states were added, and started to look to - and aim for - the stars. The country also introduced a nationwide common identification card called Aadhaar, landed its first Mars oribter, underwent a drastic economic change with demonetisation, and introduced GST, one indirect tax to replace most others. We take a look at some events that shaped India in the decades that followed the night of August 15, 1947.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-indias-journey-across-the-decades-1018867.html
12-08-2021||National||At least 15 crore children, youths out of formal education system: Dharmendra Pradhan||At least 15 crore children and youths are out of the country's formal education system, and roughly about 25 crore population is below the primary definition of literacy, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said Thursday. He was addressing a session on "Job creation and entrepreneurship" organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) during its annual meeting. "If we take into account the numbers of children and youths between the age of 3-22 years who are enrolled in government, private and charitable schools, anganwadis, Higher Education Institutions and in the entire skilling ecosystem, the cumulative figure from all the verticals is around 35 crore while (the country's) population in the particular age group is around 50 crore," Pradhan said. "This means that at least 15 crore children and youth are out of the formal education system. We want to bring them into the education system as it is necessary to ensure a productive workforce in the economy" he added. The Education Minister said that a census following the independence of the country had found that 19 per cent of the population was literate then. "After 75 years of independence day, the statistics of literate population has reached 80 per cent. Which means 20 per cent population or roughly around 25 crore are still below the primary definition of literacy," he said. Elaborating on the various provisions in the new National Education Policy (NEP), Pradhan said it is not just a document, but a roadmap for the next 25 years to achieve "certain targets by the time we complete 100 years of independence". Pradhan, who is also the Minister for Skill Development, said that for the first time the government has combined education and skill departments. "The move has created a new approach for good livelihoods. Covid-19 pandemic has necessitated a shift towards digital medium of education. A vibrant digital ecosystem in education will expand learning opportunities and spur innovation and entrepreneurship in the education sector," he said. The minister informed that educational institutions and skill development centres have been affected during the pandemic but the government ensured the continuity of education by developing digital content at a large scale. Pradhan further informed that in the near future every village will be connected with high-speed internet. These mass-scale digitisation efforts are creating new education, skilling, and entrepreneurial ecosystems, he said. "Teachers play an important role in building society and technology is reshaping society. With the greater advent of technology and changing society, our teachers need to be re-skilled and up-skilled," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-15-crore-children-youths-out-of-formal-education-system-dharmendra-pradhan-1018868.html
12-08-2021||National||152 police officers awarded Home Minister's medal for excellence in investigation||As many as 152 police officers in the country have been conferred with the 'Union Home Minister's Medal for Excellence in Investigation' for 2021 for their high professional standards of investigation of crime. The Union Home Ministry, in a statement, said the awardees include 28 women police officials from across the country. This medal was constituted in 2018 with the objective to promote high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognise such excellence in investigation by investigating officers. The 'Union Home Minister's Medal for Excellence in Investigation' for 2021 has been awarded to 152 police personnel, the statement said on Thursday. Among the personnel receiving these awards, 15 are from the CBI, 11 each from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Police, 10 from Uttar Pradesh, nine from Kerala and Rajasthan, eight from Tamil Nadu, seven from Bihar, six each from Gujarat, Karnataka and Delhi Police. Five police officers are Telangana, four each from Assam, Haryana, Odisha and West Bengal while the remaining are from the other states and UTs, as per the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/152-police-officers-awarded-home-ministers-medal-for-excellence-in-investigation-1018872.html
12-08-2021||National||'Marshals used unacceptable force': Opposition leaders apprise Naidu of ruckus in Rajya Sabha||Senior Opposition leaders on Thursday met Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to present their side on the ruckus in the Upper House and urged him to look into the deployment of large number of marshals, manhandling of MPs and the circumstances that led to the developments rather than unilaterally finding fault with them. As Opposition leaders raised doubts about the presence of "outsiders" among marshals, the Rajya Sabha officials later informed Naidu that only marshals from Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha, as permitted, were deployed and their maximum number was 42. Fourteen leaders from 10 parties led by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge told the Chairman that the "authoritarian attitude and undemocratic actions" of the government led to the trouble in the Upper House and that they remained committed to continue their "struggle against the assault on Parliamentary democracy" and protest on issues of national interest and people's concern. The meeting came a day after Rajya Sabha witnessed Opposition MPs entering into a scuffle with marshals during the passing of a bill to enhance private sector participation in public sector general insurance companies, which the Opposition demanded be sent to a Select Committee.  On Tuesday, some MPs had climbed the reporters' table and one of them threw a file at the empty Chair, which Naidu had described as "sacrilege". Opposition leaders told Naidu there was no consensus on bringing the insurance bill and took exception to the way in which it was passed. Sources said Naidu told the Opposition leaders that the issue was "not pardonable" and "serious action" needed to be taken against erring MPs. While he expressed concern  over even the Chairman not being allowed to make some important observations, Naidu assured the leaders that he would look into the incidents involving some MPs and marshals. In a note submitted to Naidu on behalf of the leaders, sources said Kharge said that he was putting their "strongest possible condemnation" on how the House was conducted on Wednesday evening.   "A very large number of security personnel, who were not part of the regular part of the watch and ward staff of Rajya Sabha Secretariat were deployed. They used unacceptable force and physically manhandled MPs, including women," the note said, adding that what happened was a "shocking, unprecedented insult" to democracy. It said the Opposition MPs were prevented from registering their protest on the insurance bill on which there was a "wide consensus" that it should be sent to a Select Committee for further Parliamentary scrutiny. Sources said Pawar told the meeting that he has been in Parliament for around five decades, spending time in both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha as well as in Treasury and Opposition benches. He said he had never witnessed the way the Opposition was handled. Congress Deputy Leader Anand Sharma said there were a number of people whom they did not recognise among marshals and expressed doubt that there could be "outsiders". CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem said the MPs were outnumbered by the marshals and one should understand the circumstances that led to the Opposition protest. Following this, sources said, Naidu asked Rajya Sabha officials about the claim after which they said no outsiders were deployed as marshals. The watch and ward staff of the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha Secretariats were deployed, which is permitted.  Only 14 marshals were deployed to start with and was gradually scaled up to 42, based on the situation in the House and in view of the incidents in the House on previous days, they said. Besides Kharge, Pawar, Sharma, Ramesh and Kareem, leaders like RJD's Manoj K Jha, Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut and Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh also spoke during the meeting. The meeting was also attended by Ramgopal Yadav (Samajwadi Party, Tiruchi Siva (DMK), Binoy Viswam (CPI), Abdul Wahab (Muslim League) and M V Shreyams Kumar (LJD). Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal, Dharmendra Pradhan, Mukthar Abbas Naqvi, Anurag Thakur, Bhupender Yadav, V Muralidharan and Arjun Singh Meghwal also met Naidu separately and took took "serious objection" to what they called "pre-determined strategy of not allowing the House to function come what may" and the conduct of some MPs. Naidu also held two meetings with Rajya Sabha officials during which he sought details about the turn of events in the House over the last few days, including the issue of deployment of marshals. The officials provided a detailed account of the events during the first meeting and were asked by the Chairman to report back to him on the manner and scale of deployment later in the day. Amid a demand from the government that strict action should be taken, Naidu also enquired about the unruly incidents in the Parliament in the past, committees constituted on the same by the Presiding Officers and Houses, reports submitted and actions taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/marshals-used-unacceptable-force-opposition-leaders-apprise-naidu-of-ruckus-in-rajya-sabha-1018874.html
12-08-2021||National||SC stays Gujarat HC order granting 2-week furlough to Narayan Sai||The Supreme Court Thursday stayed a Gujarat High Court order granting two-week furlough to rape convict Narayan Sai, son of self-styled godman Asaram Bapu. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah issued a notice to Narayan Sai on the plea of the Gujarat government challenging the order of the single-judge bench of the High Court. The top court posted the matter for further hearing after two weeks. On June 24, the single-judge bench of the Gujarat High Court had granted furlough to Narayan Sai. Earlier, in December 2020, he was granted furlough by the High Court owing to the ill-health of his mother. On April 26, 2019, Narayan Sai was convicted under the Indian Penal Code sections 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences), 323 (assault), 506-2 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (conspiracy) by a Surat court and sentenced to life imprisonment. Sai, also a self-styled godman is serving life sentence in a rape case filed by one of his and his father Asaram’s former devotees. The sister of the victim had filed a rape complaint against Asaram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-gujarat-hc-order-granting-2-week-furlough-to-narayan-sai-1018877.html
12-08-2021||National||IAF sacks staffer for refusing to get vaccinated against Covid-19||The Indian Air Force has sacked one of its personnel from service for refusing to get vaccinated against Covid-19, which has been made a service condition, the central government has told the Gujarat High Court. Additional Solicitor General Devang Vyas, in his submission on Wednesday in the HC on a plea moved by IAF corporal Yogendra Kumar at Jamnagar in Gujarat, told a division bench of Justices A J Desai and A P Thaker that across India, nine personnel had refused to get vaccinated and they were given show-cause notices. One of them, who did not respond to the notice, was terminated from service, Vyas told the high court. He, however, did not give the name or any other details of the staffer against whom the action was taken. “Across India, only nine personnel have refused to take the vaccine. All of them were given show cause notice...one did not respond, so in view of the lack of response, his service is already terminated,” Vyas told the court. He said as far as the vaccine, in general, is concerned, it is optional, but so far as the Air Force is concerned, it is now made a service condition, which is in continuation of the oath taken at the time of enrollment in the service. Also, it is imperative to see to it that the Force is not put in a vulnerable state, and it is required for personnel to mandatorily get vaccinated, he told the court. Vyas also said since corporal Yogendra Kumar has responded to the show cause notice, he can either appear before a proper authority or the Armed Forces Tribunal, under provisions of the Armed Forces Tribunal Act. On the plea of Kumar, challenging the notice after his unwillingness to get vaccinated against Covid-19, the HC on Wednesday directed the IAF to consider his case afresh. The court disposed of his plea after ordering that the interim relief granted to the petitioner unwilling to get vaccinated shall continue until his case is decided by the IAF, and the same shall not be implemented for a period of two weeks from the date of service of the order to the petitioner. Kumar had approached the court, seeking quashing of the show cause notice, dated May 10, 2021, issued to him by the IAF after he declined to get vaccinated against Covid-19. The IAF had asked him to show cause why he should not be dismissed for not taking Covid-19 vaccine. He had also sought the court's direction to direct the IAF to not take coercive action against him in furtherance of the show cause notice. Kumar also requested the court to direct the IAF to follow the central government's order that the vaccine is purely voluntary and not mandatory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-sacks-staffer-for-refusing-to-get-vaccinated-against-covid-19-1018878.html
12-08-2021||National||Court orders probe into 'fake degree' charge against UP Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya||A court in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj town has ordered a probe into the charges that some of the educational degrees of the state deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya were 'fake'. Additional chief judicial magistrate Namrata Singh directed the police to launch a preliminary probe into the charges and submit a report to the court within a week. She posted the matter for further hearing on August 25. The court's directive came on an application of BJP leader and RTI activist Diwakar Nath Tripathi on Wednesday. Tripathi has alleged that some of the degrees of Maurya were 'fake' as they were obtained from the institution which was not recognised by the government. He claimed that  Maurya had submitted degrees like 'Pratahama, Madhyama' from Hindi Sahitya Sammelan, Prayagraj while contesting elections on several occasions and also for obtaining license for a petrol pump. He also alleged that he had approached the local police for launching a probe into Maurya's degrees but they refused to do so forcing him to file an application in the court. The court had earlier reserved its judgement on the matter. The court's directive comes at a time when the next assembly polls in UP are barely seven months away. Maurya, who was considered to be an influential OBC leader of the saffron party, was the top contender in the race for the post of chief minister after the BJP was swept to power in the state in 2017. The BJP high command, however, chose Yogi Adityanath for the top post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-orders-probe-into-fake-degree-charge-against-up-deputy-cm-keshav-prasad-maurya-1018888.html
12-08-2021||National||Justice Nariman, a lion who guarded judicial institution: CJI on judge's retirement||"I feel like I am losing one of the lions that guarded the judicial institution; one of the strong pillars of the contemporary judicial system," Chief Justice N V Ramana said on Thursday on last working date of Justice R F Nariman. Justice Nariman, who was the only fifth lawyer to be directly elevated to the bench, retired on Thursday after leaving several landmark judgements to his credit. Bidding farewell to him, the CJI said Justice Nariman's judgments reflected erudition, clarity of thought, and scholarly approach.  "Personally, I am a little overwhelmed and I am finding it difficult to express my thoughts in words," he said. CJI Ramana said with judgements like Shreya Singhal (declaring Section 66A of IT Act as unconstitutional), his opinions in Puttaswamy (right to privacy) and Shayara Bano (triple talaq), he (Justice Nariman) has left an indelible mark on the jurisprudence of the country.” The CJI described Justice Nariman as a man of principles and is committed to what is right.   "Retirement of luminaries such as brother Nariman, who are repositories of legal acumen, makes one wonder if a person’s age is the appropriate yardstick to decide the tenure and time of retirement,” he said. Son of eminent jurist Fali S Nariman, Justice Nariman practised law for nearly 35 years before being elevated as a judge of the Supreme Court directly from the Bar on July 7, 2014, and he disposed of nearly 13,565 cases.  During the farewell function in Chief justice’s courtroom, many senior advocates and other expressed their views but Justice Nariman preferred to remain silent. At the age of 12, Justice Nariman was trained to be Parsi priest. However, he grew up as one of the most successful lawyers.  In 1993, then Chief Justice of India M N Venkatachaliah amended the rules to designate him as a senior advocate at the age of 37 against the mandatory 45.  He was also appointed Solicitor General of India in July 2011 and served till February 2013 when he resigned from the post reportedly due to difference of opinion between him and then Union law minister, Ashwani Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-nariman-a-lion-who-guarded-judicial-institution-cji-on-judges-retirement-1018895.html
12-08-2021||National||Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla gets one-year extension||Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla was given a one year extension on Thursday, beyond his present tenure that was to end next week, according to an official order from the Personnel Ministry. Bhalla, a 1984 batch IAS officer of Assam-Meghalaya cadre, was appointed as the Home Secretary in August 2019. "The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved extension in service to Bhalla as Home Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs for a period of one year beyond the present tenure i.e. 22.08.2021," the order stated. His tenure was extended till August 22 in October last year. Bhalla was scheduled to retire in November 2020 after completing 60 years of superannuation. "The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved the extension in service of Bhalla as the Home Secretary beyond the date of his superannuation i.e. November 30, 2020 up to August 22, 2021," stated the ministry's order issued in October last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-home-secretary-ajay-kumar-bhalla-gets-one-year-extension-1018899.html
12-08-2021||National||Amit Shah worships at Srisailam temple||Union Home Minister Amit Shah arrived in Srisailam in Andhra Pradesh on Thursday to offer prayers at the Sri Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy temple. Shah arrived in a helicopter from Hyderabad and proceeded to the temple. He was accorded a warm welcome at the Sunnipenta helipad by state Endowments Minister V Srinivasa Rao, MP P Brahmananda Reddy, Kurnool district Collector P Koteswara Rao and senior officials. After the puja at the temple, the Union Home Minister will fly back to Hyderabad in the afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-worships-at-srisailam-temple-1018902.html
12-08-2021||National||Goa's Independence day is not on August 15, 1947, here's why||While most Indian territories were declared independent from colonial and other powers on August 15, 1947, the state of Goa would remain under Portuguese power for over a decade after that.  Even after Indian became a sovereign nation, the Portuguese refused to accede power to the Union. After a series of failed negotiations, under Jawaharlal Nehru as Prime Minister, India decided that military intervention was necessary to unite the coastal state with the rest of the country.  While sporadic revolts were prevalent, Goa Liberation Movement became a war cry to oust the European powers out of the state.  On December 19, 1961, a 36-hour military operation, code-named 'Operation Vijay', by the Indian forces that included the Indian Army, the Navy and the Air Force cornered the Portuguese forces with little resistance. The deposed governor general Manuel António Vassalo-e Silva agreed to surrender, effectively ending 450 years of colonial rule in Goa.  India's seven young gallant sailors and other personnel were killed in the operation on the day, which is marked as Goa Liberation Day.  “The War Memorial at Indian Naval Ship Gomantak was constructed in memory of seven young gallant sailors and other personnel who laid down their lives on 19 Dec 1961 in the “Operation Vijay” undertaken by the Indian Navy for the liberation of Anjadip Island and Territories of Goa, Daman and Diu,” Indian Navy says on its website.  December 19 is of great significance across the state and is celebrated grandly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goas-independence-day-is-not-on-august-15-1947-heres-why-1018908.html
12-08-2021||National||India cannot become next factory of world by copying China: Amitabh Kant||India cannot become the next factory of the world by copying China, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Thursday, and stressed that the country needs to get into sunrise areas of growth if it wants to be a global leader. Addressing a virtual event organised by industry body CII, Kant said India's private sector has to set ambitious targets for itself and focus on green hydrogen, high-end batteries, advanced solar panels to become competitive. "India cannot become the next factory of the world by copying China...We have always got into sunset areas of growth, this is the time to get into sunrise areas of growth," he said. According to Kant, India should not get into areas where China is already a leader. "India has the strongest global companies in the renewal sector...these (hydrogen, high-end batteries, advanced solar panels) are areas of technology of growth, if you want to be a global leader," he noted. The Niti Aayog CEO said Indian Industry needs to strive to become lean, digital and invest in skills, steep increase in corporate R&D and cutting edge product innovations to be competitive. "The new technology has to be shared, connected and electric," he said. Noting that disruption caused by Covid-19 pandemic must be used by the private sector to become globally competitive, Kant said, "The world is moving towards green technology. The old technology will die, the green technology is the future." He said India is looking at innovative projects for reducing costs in green energy projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-cannot-become-next-factory-of-world-by-copying-china-amitabh-kant-1018925.html
12-08-2021||National||Remembering the brave women who fought for India’s freedom||Indian women who were freedom fighters not only challenged imperialism and colonialism but also the social norms of the era, which severely restricted their agency. As India celebrates its 74th year of independence let us take a look at some of the brave women who were not only freedom fighters but also social reformers.  Here are a few such women: Basanti Devi (1880 - 1974) - Devi jumped into the freedom struggle in 1921, after the arrest of her husband Chittaranjan Das. She participated in movements like the Khilafat movement and the civil disobedience movement. She was also one of the founding members of the Nari Karma Mandira, a centre aimed at educating women. She collected gold coins for the Tilak Swaraj Fund and shortly went to prison for selling Khadi in Kolkata. Her arrest resulted in nationwide outrage. She ran the weekly publication, Bangalar Katha, after the arrest of her husband. She headed the Bengal Provincial Congress as its President and was awarded the Padma Vibhushan in 1973.  Ashalata Sen (1894 - 1986) -  Sen was born in Noakhali, modern Bangladesh. Her first nationalistic poem was published when she was as young as 10 years old. She also wrote the books Uchchhvas, Utsa, Vidyut and Chhotoder Chhada. She was highly inspired by Mahatma Gandhi and the non-cooperation movement.  Aruna Asaf Ali (1909 - 96)  - She was born to a restaurant owner. She studied at Lahore’s Sacred Heart Convent. Aruna Asaf married a lawyer by the name of Asaf Ali, who was 23 years her senior and belonged to a different religion. After she married Asaf Ali, she was rejected by much of her family. It was her husband who defended Batukeshwar Dutt and Bhagat Singh in the Lahore Conspiracy Case. She was jailed for actively engaging during the salt satyagraha movement and remained there till 1931. She was jailed several times over the course of her lifetime. On August 9, she unfurled the Indian flag following which the British announced a reward to identify her; she had to go underground. She served as Delhi’s first mayor.  In her last days, she was associated with the Communist Party of India.  Sarojini Naidu (1879 - 1949)  - Naidu wrote her first piece of work at the age of 12 titled Maher Muneer. She helped establish the Women's Indian Association  (WIA) with other social reformers of her age and travelled the length and breadth of the country giving speeches to invigorate women. In 1925, she became the president of the Indian National Congress and by the 1930s, had already become a known figure recognised for fighting for the cause of freedom. She also served as the Governor of Agra and Awadh from 1947- 49.  Annie Besant (1847 - 1933)  - Annie Besant was a British citizen who first visited India in 1893 and soon became involved in its Independence movement. She established the Indian Home Rule League and later served as the president of the same. She died in India in 1933.  Bhikaiji Cama (1861 - 1936) - She unfurled the first Indian tricolour on foreign land whilst in Germany. While residing in London, she became acquainted with Dadabhai Naoroji and joined the Indian National Congress. Fearing deportation, she moved from London to Paris and helped revolutionary activities from there. She helped publish the newspaper, Bande Mataram, copies of which were smuggled back into India. She was imprisoned for three years during the First World War. She was finally allowed to return to India in 1935. She died after one year of returning back to her homeland.  Lakshmi Sahgal (1914 - 2012)  - The young doctor enrolled in the INA and played a key role in convincing Subhash Chandra Bose to set up an all women regiment. The regiment, called Rani Lakshmi Bai regiment, was eventually headed by Sahgal. Later, she married Colonel Prem Sahgal, who was also part of the INA and relocated to Kanpur, where she set up her medical practice. She worked actively during the Partition riots, the anti-Sikh riots, the Bhopal gas tragedy and more. By the 1970s, Sahgal had joined the CPI(M). She said, “My way of thinking was already communist, and I never wanted to earn a lot of money, or acquire a lot of property or wealth.”  Begum Hazrat Mahal (1820 - 1879 approximately)  -  The Begum of Oudh ruled over the city of Nawabs. After her husband, Nawab Wajid Ali was exiled to Calcutta, the reins of the city fell into the hands of the begum. She declared her son as the next Nawab and took charge of affairs, ruling as the regent for nearly 10 months. She is an iconic figure, remembered for her spirit and zeal, who put up a strong fight against the British during the 1857 revolt. She breathed her last in Nepal, where she spent her days after the revolt was crushed.  Ramadevi Choudhary (1899 - 1958) - She joined the independence movement in 1921. Highly influenced by Mahatma Gandhi, she went door to door to convince people to join the non-cooperation movement. She actively took part in the salt satyagraha and was imprisoned several times during her struggle for freedom. Even after independence, she continued to work for social causes. She set up training centres for tribals, worked for famine relief, actively protested against the emergency, and much more during the course of her lifetime.  Malati Choudhury(1904 - 98) - She studied at Rabindranath Tagore’s Visva Bharati and was deeply influenced by his ideas. She started adult-education programs with her husband, Nabakrushna Choudhury, and together the couple engaged in social activities. They actively participated in the salt satyagraha movement. Choudhury was arrested several times in her lifetimes, in 1926, 1931 and 1942. After independence, she served as a member of the Constituent Assembly of India. While her husband served as the Chief Minister of Orissa, she continued to pursue a lifetime of activism and social work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remembering-the-brave-women-who-fought-for-india-s-freedom-1018938.html
12-08-2021||National||Why is there no discussion on women's safety in country, asks DCW chief Maliwal||Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) chief Swati Maliwal on Thursday lamented that there is no discussion on women's safety in the country after a six-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted in east Delhi's Mayur Vihar area. The minor was sexually assaulted by a 34-year-old man in her neigbourhood in the Trilokpuri area on Wednesday, police said. The accused has been arrested in the case, they said. "A 6-year-old innocent girl was raped by a predator in Mayur Vihar area. Our team is present with the girl since yesterday. The police have now arrested the accused. For how long will minor girls continue to be victims of brutality? Why is there no discussion on women's safety in the country?" Maliwal said in a tweet in Hindi. The Mayur Vihar incident happened days after a Dalit girl was allegedly raped and killed in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal area. The cremation of the girl's remaining human tissue and feet was conducted on Wednesday by her parents, police said. The girl had died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped and forcibly cremated by a crematorium's priest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-is-there-no-discussion-on-womens-safety-in-country-asks-dcw-chief-maliwal-1018939.html
12-08-2021||National||Delhi minister Gopal Rai back after month-long treatment in Mumbai, takes charge of his portfolios||Delhi minister Gopal Rai, who returned from Mumbai after a month-long stay due to medical reasons, Thursday took charge of the Environment, Development and General Administration Departments, officials said here. Rai had gone to Mumbai last month for a follow-up treatment for a spinal injury. The portfolios he held before going to Mumbai were temporarily allocated to Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. "In exercise of powers conferred under Rule 6 of GNCTD (Allocation of Business) Rules 1993, the Lt Governor, in consultation of the Chief Minister, is pleased to allocate portfolios of Development, General Administration Department, and Environment, Forest and Wildlife to Gopal Rai, Minister," said a Delhi government notification issued Wednesday. Three-and-a-half years ago, Rai had undergone treatment for his injury at Apollo Hospitals. In December last year, he went to Mumbai after he felt weakness in his muscles and was finding it difficult to work. His follow-up last month was supposed to take place earlier but he had to delay the visit due to the second wave of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-minister-gopal-rai-back-after-month-long-treatment-in-mumbai-takes-charge-of-his-portfolios-1018947.html
12-08-2021||National||Centre ready to do everything required to revive economy: FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday assured India Inc that the government is ready to do everything required to revive and support economic growth. There are indicators which suggest that the economy is buoyant and recovery is taking place post lifting of Covid-19 restrictions by states, she said while addressing the CII Annual Meeting 2021. She further said foreign direct investment has seen a growth of 37 per cent so far this fiscal, while forex reserves increased to $620 billion as of July. The Narendra Modi government has shown commitment to reforms even during the pandemic, she said, adding last year the Centre announced farm laws and labour reforms, among others. She also exhorted the industry to come forward and invest in the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-ready-to-do-everything-required-to-revive-economy-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-1018963.html
12-08-2021||National||PM hails work done by women self-help groups, releases over Rs 1,600 cr as capitalisation support fund||Faulting previous governments for not taking adequate measures to economically empower women in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said his government was constantly creating an environment in which women self-help groups can connect villages with prosperity as he released Rs 1,625 crore as capitalisation support fund to over four lakh such groups. In a virtual interaction with the women self-help groups (SHGs) under the "Aatmanirbhar Narishakti se Samvad" (dialogue with self-reliant women) initiative, Modi said in a changing India, opportunities are increasing for women to move forward. The movement of woman SHGs has intensified in the last 6-7 years with over 70 lakh of them working across the country, a figure over three times more than earlier, he said, adding over eight crore women are connected with these groups. In addition, Modi also released Rs 25 crore as seed money for 7,500 SHG members under the PMFME (PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises) scheme of the Ministry of Food Processing Industries and Rs 4.13 crore as funds to 75 FPOs (farmer producer organisations) being promoted under the mission. These SHGs are promoted under the Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM) via video-conferencing. In his remarks, the Prime Minister said the government is working with "full sensitivity towards the education, health, nutrition, vaccination and other needs of"our sisters and daughters". The way the women served the people of the country through the SHGs during the coronavirus crisis was unprecedented, the Pime Minister noted. "Be it manufacturing masks and sanitiser or delivering food to the needy and spreading awareness, the contribution of your 'Sakhi groups' has been incomparable in every way," he said. Criticising previous governments, Modi said for years, the amount of effort that should have been put in to economically empower women was not made. "When our government came, we saw that there were crores of sisters of the country who did not even have bank accounts, who were far detached from the banking system. That is why we first started a huge campaign to open Jan Dhan accounts," he pointed out. There are now more than 42 crore Jan Dhan accounts of which close to 55 per cent are held by women. He said bank accounts were opened to make it easier for them to take loans from banks.  Noting that unsecured loan of about Rs 4 lakh crore has been made available to these self-help groups, the Prime Minister lauded their honesty saying the NPA (non performing assets) has come down from nine per cent to anywhere between two-three per cent. An important decision has been taken to raise the loan amount for SHGs from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh without any guarantee, Modi said. As the country marks 75 years of independence, it is time to set new goals and move forward with new energy, he added. "The government is constantly creating an environment in which all of you sisters can connect our villages with prosperity," Modi asserted. A collection of success stories of women SHG members from across the country, along with a handbook on universalisation of farm livelihoods, was also released by the Prime Minister during the event.  He said not only our farmers would benefit from the new agricultural reforms but a lot of possibilities has also been created for these SHGs. They can directly purchase from the farmers and direct home delivery of produce like pulses can also be done, he added.  He also referred to his government's programmes to provide facilities like house, toilet, electricity, water and gas to households. This has boosted dignity and confidence, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-hails-work-done-by-women-self-help-groups-releases-over-rs-1600-cr-as-capitalisation-support-fund-1018964.html
12-08-2021||National||Olympic star Lovlina arrives in Assam to warm welcome, to be felicitated on Thursday||Olympic bronze medallist Lovlina Borgohain arrived here on Thursday to a warm welcome as Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma received her at the airport. Borgohain, who clinched the welterweight (69kg) bronze, is scheduled to be felicitated by the state government in the afternoon. As she glided down the steps of the aircraft, Sarma patted Borgohain on the back, before presenting her with the traditional Assamese 'gamosa' (hand towel), 'japi' (head gear) and a bouquet. “With pride and glory, I welcomed our star Olympian medallist Lovlina Borgohain at Guwahati airport. Lovlina has ignited a billion dreams with her success at the Tokyo Olympics, and set an example for budding sports talents in rural areas to aspire to achieve big at the world stage,” he said. Sarma was accompanied by Sports Minister Bimal Borah. The 23-year-old boxer then boarded a bus, customised with huge cut-outs of her, and headed to a city hotel where she will rest before being felicitated by the Assam government at the Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra here later in the day. Borgohain is also slated to meet Governor Jagadish Mukhi in the evening. She will, however, not visit her village Baromukhiya in Golaghat during this visit, but return to Delhi to attend the Independence Day event where Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet Olympic medallists. Borgohain became only the third Indian boxer to finish on the Olympic podium, joining two of the biggest icons in Indian boxing -- six-time world champion M C Mary Kom and the very-decorated Vijender Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/olympic-star-lovlina-arrives-in-assam-to-warm-welcome-to-be-felicitated-on-thursday-1018966.html
12-08-2021||National||Aviation ministry increases cap on India-UK flights to 60 per week||The Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) has increased the cap on special flights that operate between India and the UK from 30 to 60 flights per week from August 16 onwards. The ministry's decision has come five days after Sanjeev Gupta, Secretary, Inter-State Council Secretariat, Union home ministry, had complained on Twitter that an economy-class ticket on Delhi-London flights of British Airways, Air India and Vistara for August 26 was priced between Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 3.95 lakh. After Gupta's post, Vistara had said on Sunday that pricing is always a function of supply and demand. "There are only 15 flights a week allowed currently on India-UK route for Indian carriers and when there is relaxation and more capacity allowed, it will automatically bring down prices," the carrier had said. Currently, the two groups of airlines -- Indian carriers and British carriers -- are each allowed to operate 15 flights per week on the India-UK route. This will be doubled from August 16 onwards. On Thursday, the MoCA said the increase in the cap "will be effective from August 16, 2021, and will remain valid till further orders or till the resumption of scheduled international commercial passenger services, whichever is earlier". "Out of the 30 frequencies per week available to Indian carriers, 26 frequencies have been allotted to Air India and the remaining 4 frequencies have been allotted to Vistara Airlines," it mentioned. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 23 last year amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, limited special international passenger flights have been operating since July 2020 under the air bubble arrangements formed with 28 countries, including the UK. While there have been lower and upper limits on all domestic airfares in India since May 25 last year, no such limits have been imposed on international airfares. After Gupta's Twitter post on Saturday, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) asked the airlines that operate India-UK flights currently to submit details about their fares.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-ministry-increases-cap-on-india-uk-flights-to-60-per-week-1018974.html
12-08-2021||National||Public participation, local knowledge necessary for addressing man-animal conflict: Environment minister||Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav Thursday said public participation and local knowledge are necessary tools for animal conservation and addressing man-animal conflicts. "We need to identify areas where man-animal conflicts exist. We will have to visit local areas while framing a policy to address these issues," the minister said at an event where he released the all-India synchronised methodology for elephant and tiger population estimation. Yadav said that after the issue of lion conservation came up, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had camped in Gir for six-seven days as the then chief minister of Gujarat. "If the Asiatic lion is safe anywhere, it's in Gir (Gujarat) and the credit goes to Prime Minister Modi because he worked on the ground," he said. Animal conservation cannot happen without being on the ground as only technology cannot do it, the minister said, adding public participation and local knowledge are necessary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/public-participation-local-knowledge-necessary-for-addressing-man-animal-conflict-environment-minister-1018977.html
12-08-2021||National||India supporting all peace initiatives in Afghanistan; no immediate plan to close Kabul embassy: MEA||India on Thursday said it does not have any immediate plan to shut down its embassy in Kabul and pressed for a comprehensive ceasefire to end the violent conflict in Afghanistan, noting that it is in touch with all the key stakeholders and regional players over the situation there. The comments by Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson, Arindam Bagchi, came on a day India joined a regional meet in the Qatari capital Doha that is aimed at exploring ways to end violence in Afghanistan. "It (situation in Afghanistan) is of concern. It is a rapidly evolving situation. We continue to hope that there will be an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire. We are supporting all peace initiatives in Afghanistan," Bagchi said at a media briefing. To a specific question on whether India is holding talks with the Taliban, Bagchi said "we are in touch with various stakeholders." The MEA spokesperson said notwithstanding the deteriorating security situation, India is not going to close its embassy in Kabul. "There were some stories that we are shutting it down. It is not correct. It is speculation. We are monitoring the situation very carefully but there are no plans as such of the nature that you mentioned," he said when asked whether India was planning to shut down its mission in Kabul in view of a rapidly worsening security situation in the war-torn country. People familiar with the developments relating to Afghanistan said contingency plans are being readied to evacuate Indians from the country if the situation deteriorates further. "We are closely monitoring developments in this regard. We are concerned about the deteriorating security situation. Our mission issued an advisory for Indian nationals earlier this week advising them to return by commercial flights," he said when asked about the safety of Indians living in that country. To a question on circulation of a video on social media purportedly showing the Taliban seizing a military helicopter in Kunduz airport, believed to be donated by India to Afghanistan, Bagchi said it is an internal matter of that country. "We are seeing different reports. The ground situation is difficult to understand what is the actual accurate report. There was a talk about a helicopter which we had given. This is not something for us to comment on...All I can say is that this is an internal matter of Afghanistan and I would not like to comment on that aspect," he said. "Last year our mission in Kabul facilitated the return of more than 383 members of the Hindu and Sikh community from Afghanistan to India and the mission continues to remain in touch with Afghan Hindu and Sikh community members and we will ensure the provision of all necessary assistance to them," he said. Asked about reports of Pakistan continuing to support the Taliban and the influx of hundreds of terrorists into Afghanistan from that country, he said,"the world know's what kind of role is being played and the kind of concerns they (the countries) have over what the terror elements from there have done in Afghanistan. "The whole world knows it; We do not have to tell. The issue figures in our conversations," Bagchi added. As the Taliban continues its offensive to capture new territories in Afghanistan, Pakistan has been under increasing international criticism over continuing to provide logistical and tactical support to the militant outfit. He said India's primary concern is to ensure peace and stability in Afghanistan. "We hope that all stakeholders come and find a peace process. Our conversation with our partners is directed at that. We have been saying that for the peace in Afghanistan, we need to ensure that the external malign influences do not happen," he said, in an oblique reference to Pakistan. "We clearly are aware of how it is happening and we will certainly hope that all parties including the regional countries understand this and work towards a situation where Afghans can have a process that is owned by them, controlled by them and led by them as we have been saying," he said. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. India has been engaged with a number of stakeholders and leading powers on the latest developments in Afghanistan. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. It has also been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in the country, including those from the minority communities, for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-supporting-all-peace-initiatives-in-afghanistan-no-immediate-plan-to-close-kabul-embassy-mea-1018986.html
12-08-2021||National||India's industrial production grows 13.6% in June||India's industrial production rose by 13.6 per cent in June, official data released on Thursday showed. According to the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), the manufacturing sector's output surged by 13 per cent in June 2021. The mining output climbed 23.1 per cent and power generation increased by 8.3 per cent in June. The IIP had contracted 16.6 per cent in June 2020. During April-June this year, the IIP grew by 45 per cent against a contraction of 35.6 per cent in the same quarter last year. Industrial production has been hit due to the coronavirus pandemic since March last year when it had contracted 18.7 per cent. It shrank 57.3 per cent in April 2020 due to a decline in economic activities in the wake of the lockdown to curb the spread of coronavirus infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-industrial-production-grows-136-in-june-1018989.html
12-08-2021||National||Deve Gowda hails PM Modi for giving representation to women, SCs, STs in Union Cabinet||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Thursday hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying the PM gave representation to the maximum number of women, SC and ST MPs in his cabinet.  I appreciate Modi for making the maximum number of women, SC and ST as ministers in his cabinet. It is a bold step,” Deve Gowda told reporters here. “I don’t know what was the intention of Modi giving maximum representation to socially and economically backward class whether to maintain social justice or eyeing on upcoming elections. But I appreciate his decision,” Gowda said, adding that for the first time 12 women and 8 SC and 12 ST leaders became ministers in the Union cabinet. “When I was the Prime Minister, I also tried to give maximum representation to socially and economically backward class communities in the cabinet, “ he said. Expressing unhappiness over washing out of the entire Monsoon Session of Parliament without transacting much business, Gowda said the government and opposition parties should sit and resolve the issues. “I hope in the coming Parliament session it will run normally without any disruptions,” he said. Gowda, during a debate on the OBC bill in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, also hailed the Prime Minister saying it was a radical step to bring such an important bill. The Parliament passed the Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty-Seventh Amendment) Bill, 2021, which aimed at restoring the powers of the states to make their own OBC lists. On Karnataka politics, Gowda said he would not comment on the internal affairs of the BJP, but said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai would be able to resolve any crises in the government. “We as one of the Opposition parties in Karnataka will not give trouble to the Government. I suggested to the CM to run the government smoothly taking the advice of former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deve-gowda-hails-pm-modi-for-giving-representation-to-women-scs-sts-in-union-cabinet-1018991.html
12-08-2021||National||Mandaviya meets WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan, discusses approval for Covaxin||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday met WHO Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan and held discussions over the global health body's approval for Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. “Held a meeting with Dr Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist of @WHO. We had a productive discussion on WHO’s approval of @BharatBiotech’s COVAXIN. @DoctorSoumya also appreciated India’s efforts for the containment of #COVID19,” Mandaviya tweeted. All documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) have been submitted by Bharat Biotech for Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to the World Health Organization (WHO) as of July 9 and the review process by the global health body has commenced, the Rajya Sabha was told last month. Responding to question on whether it has come to the notice of the government that Covaxin used in India as Covid vaccine is not recognised by many countries, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar in a written reply said, “The Government of India is aware that Covaxin at present is not part of WHO Emergency Use Listing (EUL).” Elaborating on efforts that have been made by the government to resolve this issue, Pawar said, "All documents required for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) have been submitted by Bharat Biotech International Ltd. to WHO as of 9th July 2021. The review process by WHO has commenced. WHO usually takes up to six weeks to decide on Emergency Use Listing (EUL) submissions." Developed by Bharat Biotech in partnership with National Institute of Virology and the Indian Council of Medical Research, Covaxin was approved for emergency use on January 3. Trial results later showed the vaccine has an efficacy of 78 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-meets-who-chief-scientist-soumya-swaminathan-discusses-approval-for-covaxin-1018995.html
12-08-2021||National||Switch over to prepaid smart meters on priority: Power ministry to central govt offices||The power ministry has advised all central ministries and departments to switch to pre-paid smart electricity meters. "The Ministry of Power has issued an advisory to all central ministries of the government to direct organisations under their administrative control to ensure switch over to prepaid smart meters on priority," a power ministry statement said. As part of the same process, the ministries have also been asked to issue all enabling orders in this regard. This follows a clarification issued by the Ministry of Finance enabling all central ministries and central departments to make advance payments for pre-paid metered electricity without insisting on any bank guarantees, while at the same time ensuring proper accounting arrangements, it stated. Prepaid smart metering in all government departments would not only go a long way in ensuring the commitment of the government in bringing DISCOMs back on the path of financial sustainability, promotion of energy efficiency but would also serve as a model for emulation by states for defining similar such mechanisms that support prepayment of the electricity dues by their own departments, it stated. The Government of India is committed towards providing uninterrupted, reliable and quality power supply to all the consumers, for which an operationally efficient and financially sustainable power sector is a must. DISCOMs are often termed as the most important, but the weakest link in the power sector value chain, as their poor financial health at the bottom of the value chain has far reaching negative impacts upstream. Apart from the operational inefficiencies that cause financial losses, mounting electricity dues of the government departments, including the central and state governments; urban and rural local bodies; and government boards and corporations due to delayed and inadequate payments for electricity usage also causes cash flow distress in DISCOMs. The interest burden on the additional working capital availed by DISCOMs to tide over the shortfalls further creates an inflationary pressure on their costs, thereby placing further stress on their viability. Estimates obtained from the States suggest the outstanding government department dues to be Rs 48,664 crore at the end of 2020-21, a value that is a colossal 9 per cent of the annual power sector turnover, it stated. To improve the operational efficiency and financial sustainability of the distribution sector, the Government of India has approved the Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme - A Reforms-Based and Results-Linked Scheme. The Scheme seeks to transform the existing DISCOMs into making them operationally efficient and financially sustainable. One of the path breaking interventions under the scheme is the plan to install prepaid smart meters to all electricity consumers except agricultural consumers in a phased manner for which almost half of the Ssheme outlay has been committed. Priority has been accorded to the prepaid smart meter installation in all the government departments including those of the central and state governments; urban and rural local bodies; and government boards and corporations with a view to ensure that the government departments properly budget and pay for the electricity services as and when used.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/switch-over-to-prepaid-smart-meters-on-priority-power-ministry-to-central-govt-offices-1019002.html
12-08-2021||National||CBI opposes plea by Gali Janardan Reddy to remove restrictions on visit to Ballari||The CBI on Thursday opposed before the Supreme Court a plea by former Karnataka Minister Gali Janardhana Reddy to relax bail condition restraining him to visit Ballari, saying this would instil fear in the mind of people as out of approximately 300 witnesses, 47 are from the district. Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan submitted before a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari contended that this was a very dangerous trial. The fact that he will stay in Bellary would result in fear in minds of people, she said. She claimed that most of the accused in the mining scam case were high-profile and acted in tandem to get the trial delayed in the case. She said the CBI never opposed his plea to visit Ballari on several occasions due to any exigency. The top court sought to know from her if the CBI would file further charge sheet in the matter. To this, she said she would take instructions. The court would continue to hear the application filed by Reddy on Friday. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Reddy, in his arguments, contended that he had never violated any bail conditions. It has been six years and the trial had yet not commenced.   He has been resident of Ballari and should be allowed to reside or visit there without any restriction. Reddy cannot visit Ballari as per the conditions of bail granted on January 21, 2015 by the top court. The top court had then enlarged Reddy on the bail in a case of illegal mining with a condition that he would not visit Ballari, Ananthpuram and Cuddapah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-opposes-plea-by-gali-janardan-reddy-to-remove-restrictions-on-visit-to-ballari-1019010.html
12-08-2021||National||Received 120 grievances, actioned 167 URLs from June 26 to July 25: Twitter India||US-based microblogging platform Twitter has said it received 120 grievances and "actioned" 167 URLs between June 26 and July 25. The company in its latest monthly compliance report as mandated by the IT rules also said it had suspended 31,637 accounts via proactive data monitoring in the said period. These complaints were received via Twitter's Grievance Officer - India channel and included content on Twitter. This includes complaints received from individual users with accompanying court orders, the report said. Twitter said the majority of complaints received via Grievance Officer channel during the reporting period fell into categories like abuse/harassment, followed by misinformation/synthetic and manipulated media, defamation and IP-related infringement, hateful conduct and impersonation. The company said in India, Twitter users can report grievances via the Grievance mechanism by using the contact details available on the Grievance Officer - India page. Twitter does not require such reporters to be registered with Twitter, or have a Twitter user ID in order to file a grievance, it added. Earlier, Twitter had faced flak for various actions taken on tweets and accounts of high-profile users and delay in compliance with the IT rules that came into effect in May this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/received-120-grievances-actioned-167-urls-from-june-26-to-july-25-twitter-india-1019016.html
12-08-2021||National||Merit must be predominant factor in appointment of judges: R F Nariman||Justice R F Nariman, who retired from the Supreme Court on Thursday, said merit must be the predominant factor, which should be considered while making judicial appointments as people had legitimate expectation to get certain quality of justice from this final court. He said seven years as a judge for him has been most gruelling period of his life, it was not a cakewalk. He said he could not say that he enjoyed every minute being a judge, but certainly enjoyed writing judgments. Speaking at the farewell function organized by Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), Justice Nariman said it is very clear that merit must predominate in judges appointment, subject of course to other factors. But merit always comes first. Justice Nariman, an ordained Parsi priest, also called for more direct appointments from the bar to the bench. In his speech, he referred to senior BJP leader and former Union Minister Arun Jaitley as "his dearest friend". “Arun, again was such a darling of a human being. Such a great man. And, he was such a dignified lawyer…..I have seen his rise from zero. I have seen him as a Tis Hazari lawyer…..as a lawyer he was always exceptionally well prepared and exceptionally dignified," he said. After becoming a judge, when senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi appeared before him, he recalled to have remarked, “I have beaten you hollow. You have 25 briefs, I have 65”. He concurred with the views expressed by senior advocate and president SCBA Vikas Singh said "it is time more direct appointees were elevated to this bench". Justice Nariman was part of many path-breaking judgments delivered by the top court, be it the scrapping of Section 377 which criminalised homosexual acts, decriminalised adultery, triple talaq ban, Sabarimala woman entry issue, Assam NRC, Section 66A, Babri demolition case. Recently, he forced the UP government to ban Kanwad yatra, and also came down heavily on Kerala government for lockdown relaxations ahead of Bakrid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/merit-must-be-predominant-factor-in-appointment-of-judges-r-f-nariman-1019027.html
12-08-2021||National||Govt accommodation meant for serving officials, not retirees as benevolence: SC||Government accommodation is meant for serving officials and not retirees as a "benevolence" and distribution of largesse, the Supreme Court has said while setting aside an order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court allowing a retired public servant to retain such premises. Right to shelter does not mean right to government accommodation, the apex court said, observing that direction to allow a retired public servant to retain such premises for an indefinite period is distribution of state largesse without any policy. While allowing the appeal filed by the Centre, a bench of justices Hemant Gupta and A S Bopanna set aside the high court order and directed the retired Intelligence Bureau officer, a Kashmiri migrant, to hand over vacant physical possession of the premises on or before October 31, 2021. The bench also directed the Centre to submit a report of action taken against retired public servants, who are in government accommodation post their retirement by virtue of orders of the high courts, by November 15, 2021. The officer, who was transferred to Faridabad where he was allotted a government accommodation, had attained the age of superannuation from service on October 31, 2006. “The right to shelter does not mean right to government accommodation. The government accommodation is meant for serving officers and officials and not to the retirees as a benevolence and distribution of largesse,” the bench said in its judgement passed last week. The top court was hearing a plea against the July 2011 order of a division bench of the high court which had dismissed a petition against its single judge order. The single judge had said it was not possible for the retired officer to return to his own state due to which the order of eviction shall be kept in abeyance. The high court had also said the authorities were at liberty to provide alternative accommodation to him on nominal licence fee in Faridabad. The officer had earlier given representation to the concerned authority to allow him to retain the government accommodation and he was allowed to retain the house for another one year. Later, he submitted another representation in June 2007 to allow him to retain the house allotted to him on a nominal licence fee till the circumstances prevailing in Jammu and Kashmir improve and the government makes it possible for him to return to his native place. He was served with a notice under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupant) Act, 1971 and later, an order for eviction was passed but it was stayed by a district court in Delhi. When an objection was raised about territorial jurisdiction of Delhi court, he withdrew his appeal and filed it in Faridabad court which dismissed it in August 2009. Later, the matter reached the high court. In its verdict, the apex court referred to several judgements delivered earlier and said it was held that government accommodation is only meant for in-service officers and not for the retirees or those who have demitted office. “The compassion howsoever genuine does not give a right to a retired person from continuing to occupy a government accommodation,” it said. It noted that according to a policy framed by the government, a displaced person is to be lodged in a transit accommodation and if it is not available, then cash compensation is to be provided. “There is no policy of the central government or the state government to provide accommodation to displaced persons on account of terrorism in the state of Jammu and Kashmir,” it said. “The hardship faced by them does not lead to a corresponding duty of the state to provide them alternative government accommodation.” It noted that a section of society, more so retired public servants who have earned pension and drawn retirement benefits, cannot be said to be in such condition where the government should provide government accommodation for an unlimited period. “A section of the migrants cannot be treated as preferential citizens to give them the right to shelter at the cost of millions of other citizens who do not have a roof over their heads,” it said. The bench said right of shelter to a displaced person is satisfied when accommodation had been provided in the transit accommodation. The bench said in terms of the policy, which was considered in an earlier verdict of the apex court, Kashmiri migrants are entitled to transit accommodation and if transit accommodation could not be provided then money for residence and expenses. It said the retired officer in the matter and such persons are not from the poorest section of migrants and have worked in the higher echelons of the bureaucracy. “To say that they are enforcing their right to shelter only till such time the conditions are conducive for their safe return is wholly illusory. No one is sure that at what point of time the condition will be conducive to the satisfaction of the migrants. Such benevolence and preferential right to section of the citizens is unfair to the serving officers,” it said. It set aside the high court’s order and restored the writ petition challenging the order under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupant) Act, 1971.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-accommodation-meant-for-serving-officials-not-retirees-as-benevolence-sc-1019029.html
12-08-2021||National||Vice President Naidu, Birla review unruly scenes in Parliament||With the Monsoon Session witnessing large-scale disruption and ruckus, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday reviewed "unfortunate sequence of events in Parliament" and decided to examine in detail unruly scenes in the past and action taken for deciding future course of action. The Vice President's official Twitter handle shared a picture of their meeting and said both "reviewed the unfortunate sequence of events in the Parliament, during the recent session". They expressed deep concern at the disruptive behaviour of some parliamentarians. They strongly felt that such unruly behaviour should not be tolerated and appropriate action should be taken. "They expressed deep concern at the disruptive behaviour of some parliamentarians. They strongly felt that such unruly behaviour should not be tolerated and appropriate action should be taken," the tweet said. Birla met Naidu at the Vice President's official residence and discussed the "persistent disruptions that severely dented the productivity" of both the Houses during the session that ended on Wednesday, sources said. Both felt that such "persistent disruptions in defiance of repeated appeals" from the Chair and in "violation" of the rules have "dented the dignity and stature" of Parliament. They both said that these vents need to taken a "serious view of". Sources said both the presiding officers decided to undertake a detailed examination of such unruly scenes in the past and action taken for deciding on the future course of action in such cases. Disruptions by a few are severely impacting the opportunities of large sections of the Houses to take up issues of public importance under available instruments besides making quality contribution to law making, both Naidu and Birla opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-naidu-birla-review-unruly-scenes-in-parliament-1019031.html
12-08-2021||National||False narrative of easy life of judges difficult to swallow: CJI ||Chief Justice N V Ramana on Thursday said there are a number of sacrifices one must make when one decides to become a judge --  monetary, reduced role in society, and amount of work -- yet misconception exists that they stay in big bungalows and enjoy holidays.  Justice Ramana was delivering the farewell address at the function organised by Supreme Court Bar Association on the retirement of Justice R F Nariman.  He said, for a judge, it is not easy to prepare for more than 100 cases every week, listen to novel arguments, do independent research, and author judgements, while also deal with the various administrative duties of a judge -- particularly of a senior judge.  “We continue to work even during the court holidays, do research and author pending judgements. Therefore, when false narratives are created about the supposed easy life led by judges, it is difficult to swallow," he said.     He said it was the duty of the Bar to refute these false narratives and to educate the public about the work put in by judges with the limited resources given to them. He also said that he does not believe that judges must completely seclude themselves, as it is important to stay in touch with society and the profession even as a judge. "It is undeniable fact that our engagement with society undergoes a drastic change after taking up judgeship," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/false-narrative-of-easy-life-of-judges-difficult-to-swallow-cji-1019034.html
12-08-2021||National||Bandodkar worked behind the scenes to ensure Goa did not merge with Maharashtra: Former DyCM||The country's only referendum, the Opinion Poll conducted in 1967, was subtly engineered by Goa's first Chief Minister Dayanand Bandodkar to ensure that Goa remains independent and does not merge with Maharashtra, according to Sudin Dhavalikar, a former deputy chief minister and an MLA of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), which was founded by Bandodkar himself. Speaking on Thursday at an event in Panaji organised to mark the release of a biography of Goa's first chief minister, Dhavalikar, who has been at the helm of the party's affairs since the late 1990s, said despite showing overt support to his own political party which had demanded the newly liberated region's merger with neighbouring Maharashtra, Bandodkar had ensured that the pro-merger group lost, to ensure that Goa retained its distinct identity and held its own among other Indian states and union territories. "...Bandodkar summoned his party workers from every village when the opinion poll was scheduled just eight days away... He told them 'do anything, but the state has to remain ours," Dhavalikar said. "This message was sent to all states within eight days. There were no telephones, no mobiles at the time. My father told me this. When this message reached villages, many eminent people took this message to every home. And for this very reason, Goa was saved from being merged into Maharashtra. Everyone should know this. Many people give this a different colour," Dhavalikar said. The referendum, the first and the only such event in the country, was announced in Goa in 1967, with two options offered by the Central government to the people of the newly liberated region; either to remain as an independent union territory or merge with Maharashtra. In the opinion poll held six years after the liberation of Goa from Portuguese yoke, in January of 1967, 54.20% of the state's population voted for Goa being recognised as a separate territory, while 43.50% had voted for merging the newly liberated region into the neighbouring state of Maharashtra. The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party, led by Bandodkar, had backed the merger, while a rival political party, United Goans, led by late opposition leader Jack Sequeira had batted for Goa being recognised as an independent region in the Indian Union. Dhavalikar said Bandodkar was under pressure, both from Congress politicians in Karnataka as well as Maharashtra as well as the then prime minister Indira Gandhi in the lead-up to the opinion poll. "Nehru had not conducted the opinion poll. Indira Gandhi too allowed an election to be conducted without the opinion poll. But when in 1963, our government was formed at that time, she pressurised Bhausaheb to either conduct an opinion poll or join the Congress. He did not listen to her and opted for the opinion poll," Bandodkar said. "(After Liberation) politicians started visiting Goa from Maharashtra and Karnataka. Everyone had one thing on their minds, to ensure that the first government in Goa had to be formed by the Congress party," Dhavalikar said, adding that Bandodkar was under immense pressure to join the Congress party at the time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bandodkar-worked-behind-the-scenes-to-ensure-goa-did-not-merge-with-maharashtra-former-dycm-1019047.html
12-08-2021||National||Birsa Munda: Spearhead of tribal fight against British||Jharkhand’s Birsa Munda is known for his immense contribution to India’s struggle for independence from the British and is associated with names like ‘Dharti Abba’ or 'Father of the Earth'. In his contribution to India’s freedom fight, Munda mobilised the tribals against the Britishers. He held the fort against them in the Chhotanagpur Plateau area and forced them to enact a law on protecting the land rights of the tribals. Munda, born on November 15, 1875, in Ulihatu village of Kunti district in Jharkhand, fought for the rights of tribal people, and to protect water, land and forest, the elements that are deep-rooted and hold significance in tribal traditions.  The tribal leader, who was also a key force behind Jharkhand's struggle for statehood, spearheaded the movement to abolish the feudal system that plagued the Adivasi lands in Jharkhand and Bihar.  In one of his biggest fights against the Britisher’s tax system, Munda gathered tribal people and marched for the remission of tax collected by the Zamindars from the tribes in October 1894. To suppress this movement, the British started firing on the local tribal community and hundreds of tribals lost their lives. A few months after the movement, Birsa was imprisoned by the British. He took his last breath in Ranchi Jail on June 9, 1900, at the age of 25.  Even though he had no symptoms of the disease, the British authorities claimed that he died of cholera. Several tribal leaders speculated that jail authorities might have poisoned him. However, eight years after his demise, the British enacted the Chota Nagpur Tenancy Act, which restricted the sale of Adivasi land to non-Adivasis. The young revolutionist continues to be celebrated through literature and mass media for his remarkable and brave movement against the British to ensure the land rights of tribals. In his childhood, Munda was surrounded by Christian missionaries. He attended a missionary school, where his teacher Jaipal Nag encouraged him to enrol in the German Mission School. Later he converted to Christianity to get admission.  But that did not last long. As soon as he realised that the Britishers were there to colonise them and the missionaries were trying to convert tribals to Christianity, he dropped out of the German Mission School, gave up the religion and returned to his traditional faith. Munda always stressed upon the need for tribals to know their rights, culture and fight against the injustice done to them. He also worked towards rationalising his community and getting rid of their superstitious beliefs, animal sacrifice and alcoholism. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/birsa-munda-spearhead-of-tribal-fight-against-british-1019049.html
12-08-2021||National||Rajya Sabha passed one Bill per day on an average despite disruptions: Centre||On an average, more than one Bil per day was passed by Rajya Sabha during the just-concluded Monsoon Session despite "highest disruption" since 2014, the government said on Thursday. The Upper House passed 19 Bills, including a constitutional amendment Bil on OBC reservation, which was the second highest since 2014, the government said, underlining that this reflects its "commitment”, “productivity” and “ability" to drive legislative agenda in parliament. The time lost due to interruptions or adjournments till August 11 was 76 hours and 26 minutes, and the highest average time per day lost due to interruptions/adjournments since the 231st session of Rajya Sabha in 2014 was four hours and 30 minutes. "Despite highest disruption since 2014, 1.1 Bills was passed per day by Rajya Sabha. The number of Bills passed per day during this session in Rajya Sabha was the second highest since 2014," the government said in a statement. "Despite all the chaos and disruption, 19 Bills passed in Rajya Sabha, including constitutional amendment on OBC reservation, which are in the national interest and will benefit the poor, OBCs, workers, entrepreneurs and all sections of our society," it added. The government said it "successfully" carried out the government business during the Monsoon Session and the Bills passed by the Rajya Sabha will "shape the future of our country". "This reflects the commitment, productivity and ability of the government to drive legislative agenda in the Parliament, which aims to fulfill the aspirations of its citizens," it added. During the session, the government said, 22 Bills were passed by both the Houses of Parliament which include two appropriation Bills relating to Supplementary Demands for Grants for 2021-22 and the Demands for Excess Grants for 2017-2018. The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bil, 2021, The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bil, 2021, The National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management Bil, 2021, The Central Universities (Amendment) Bil, 2021 and The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bil were among the key Bills passed during the session. Both of the Houses considered and passed four Bills to replace the ordinances promulgated by the President before Monsoon Session. They were The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, The Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2021 and The Essential Defence Services Ordinance, 2021. The Monsoon Session of Parliament, which commenced on July 19, was adjourned sine die on Wednesday. The session provided 17 sittings spread over a period of 24 days. "The session, which was originally scheduled to have 19 sittings from July 19 till August 13, was curtailed due to continuous disruptions in both the Houses and completion of essential government business," the government said. On opposition charge that Bills were passed amid din without any debate, a government functionary cited media reports to say that the then United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government had passed 18 Bills, including the Andhra Pradesh (Reorganisation) Bil, 2014 and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation in the Posts and Services) Bil, 2008 "in a hasty manner" between 2006 and 2014. "UPA passed 17 Bills in 72 minutes, one Bil passed in approximately every four minutes," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-passed-one-bill-per-day-on-an-average-despite-disruptions-centre-1019059.html
12-08-2021||National||Covid-19: 1,857 new cases, 30 deaths in Karnataka||The Dakshina Kannada district bordering Kerala, continues to top the daily Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, as the state reported 1,857 fresh infections and 30 deaths, taking the tally to 29.24 lakh and the toll to 36,911, the health department said on Thursday. The day also saw 1,950 discharges, outnumbering fresh cases, pushing the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,65,067. With 475 new cases, Dakshina Kannada outnumbered the state capital Bengaluru Urban that reported 321 cases on Thursday. This is for the third consecutive day that Dakshina Kannada district has recorded the highest daily cases in the state. Total number of active cases in the state is at 22,728. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.15 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.61 per cent. Out of 30 deaths reported on Thursday, 5 are from Bengaluru Urban and Dakshina Kannada; Kolar 3, Belagavi, Chitradurga, Hassan, Shivamogga and Tumakuru 2, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 475, Bengaluru Urban 321, Udupi 191, Hassan 123, Mysuru 116, Chikkamagaluru 107, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,31,795, followed by Mysuru 1,74,315 and Tumakuru 1,18,465. Cumulatively a total of 4.04 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,61,275 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-1857-new-cases-30-deaths-in-karnataka-1019061.html
12-08-2021||National||Widowed daughter entitled to dependent pension under freedom fighter pension scheme: Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has set aside a Central government order which stated that a widowed or divorced daughter of a deceased freedom fighter was not eligible for dependent pension under its Swatantrata Sainik Samman Pension Scheme. Justice V Kameswar Rao, who was hearing a challenge to the order filed by a widowed daughter of a deceased freedom fighter, asked the Centre to consider within eight weeks the case for grant of dependent pension to her if she satisfied the other conditions as contemplated under the scheme. The judge said that he concurred with the view taken by the other high courts in the country, which have extended the benefit of pension under the scheme to divorced and widowed daughters who are dependent.   “The present writ petition is allowed. The impugned order dated February 12, 2020 is set aside. The respondents shall consider the case of the petitioner for grant of dependent pension under the Pension Scheme to the petitioner, if she satisfies the other conditions as contemplated under the Scheme,” the court ordered. Referring to a decision passed by the Punjab & Haryana High Court, the court noted that daughters were not excluded altogether from the ambit of the scheme as an unmarried daughter was mentioned in the list of eligible dependents and thus it would be a travesty to exclude a divorced daughter who is a dependent. “The Division Bench (of P&H HC) was of the view that both the liberalized/special family pension and Swatantarta Sainik Samman Pension Scheme are intended to honour the valour of the uniformed people who laid down their lives or suffered for the cause of the country and thus, would not place any demeaning interpretation on the Scheme to deprive the unsung heroes of the country of benefits meant to ensure a life of dignity to their dependents,” the court said. In the present case, the deceased freedom fighter, who was receiving the benefits of the scheme, passed away in November 2019 and left behind his widowed daughter who was physically handicapped, mentally challenged, unemployed and bed ridden. In February 2020, the Centre sent her a communication saying that her request for dependent had been rejected as the revised policy guidelines did not consider a widowed/divorced daughter to be eligible.   The widowed daughter then moved the high court through her lawyer Mahesh Kumar Tiwari, saying that denial of the benefit of the Pension Scheme to her was contrary to the settled position of law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/widowed-daughter-entitled-to-dependent-pension-under-freedom-fighter-pension-scheme-delhi-hc-1019066.html
12-08-2021||National||Coal India to pump in Rs 14,000 crore in first-mile connectivity projects||Coal India will be infusing Rs 14,000 crore till FY25 in first-mile connectivity infrastructure in two phases, officials said on Thursday. CIL said it has taken steps to upgrade the mechanised coal transportation and loading system under 'First Mile Connectivity' projects. In phase-I, 35 projects had been tendered out of which four projects of 30 MTPA have been commissioned. Total capacity involved in this is 414.5 MTPA. In phase-II, 14 projects with total capacity 100 MTPA will be taken up which will require an investment of Rs 3,500 crore, the miner said. Meanwhile, Coal India plans to clear 18 mining projects having a capacity of 144 million tonne to be approved in FY22. Out of this, two mining projects had been approved by CIL and its subsidiaries in the first quarter of FY22 with a rated capacity of 36 MTPA and sanctioned capital of Rs 3,389.95 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-india-to-pump-in-rs-14000-crore-in-first-mile-connectivity-projects-1019072.html
12-08-2021||National||India's installed renewable energy capacity crosses 100 GW; Singh says 'landmark day'||India's total installed renewable energy generation capacity crossed 100 GW mark on Thursday and the country is fourth in the world in terms of installed renewable energy capacity. The country has set an ambitious target to have 175 GW or 1,75,000 MW of renewable energy capacity by 2022. "The total installed renewable energy capacity in India, excluding large hydro, has crossed the mile-stone of 100 GW. Today, India stands at 4th position in the world in terms of installed RE capacity, 5th in solar and 4th in wind in terms of installed capacity," an official release said. While 100 GW has been installed, 50 GW is under installation and 27 GW is under tendering. If large hydro is included the installed renewable energy capacity increases to 146 GW, the release said. "Another landmark day in the history of the Indian Power Sector. Our installed Renewable Energy capacity (excluding large Hydro) has crossed 1,00,000 Megawatts," Power and New & Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh said in a tweet. Besides, the country aims to have 450 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-installed-renewable-energy-capacity-crosses-100-gw-singh-says-landmark-day-1019073.html
12-08-2021||National||Home Secretary Bhalla gets one-year extension in service||Government on Thursday extended the tenure of Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla by one year. Bhalla, a 1984-batch IAS officer, was to complete his two-year tenure as Home Secretary on August 22. Though the post of Home Secretary has a fixed tenure of two years, the same was not mentioned while appointing Bhalla to the post on August 22, 2019. Government had extended Bhalla's tenure till August 22, 2021 in October last year to ensure that he continued in the post beyond November 30, 2020, the date of his superannuation after attainment of the retirement age of 60 years. On Thursday, the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved extension in service to Bhalla as Home Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs for a period of one year beyond the present tenure till August 22, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-secretary-bhalla-gets-one-year-extension-in-service-1019075.html
12-08-2021||National||15 CBI officers awarded 'Union Home Minister's Medal for Excellence in Investigation'||CBI officer V K Shukla, who is probing the death of Jharkhand Judge Uttam Anand, is among 15 officers of the agency awarded the 'Union Home Minister's Medal for Excellence in Investigation' for the year 2021, officials said Thursday. Vijay Kumar Shukla, Additional Superintendent of Police of Special Crime Unit of the agency, who is investigating the judge's death, had probed other sensational cases like the custodial killing of a father and son in Sathankulam police station. Deputy SPs, Sham Datt who probed the death of Neha Kumari, wife of a Jammu and Kashmir police officer, Kaushal Kishore Singh, who probed bank fraud cases, Rajender Singh Gosain, who probed disproportionate assets case of a Surat development commissioner Ananda Krishanan T P who probed the death of violinist Balabhaskar Chandran were among those chosen for the coveted medal awarded by the Home Ministry. Dy SPs, Atul Hajela who led the probe in the case of missing Pardi community woman, Maharshi Ray Hajong who booked IRS officer Swetabh Suman in Rs 40 lakh bribery case and Ashutosh Kumar who probed kidnapping of a minor girl from Bhind district were also awarded. Inspectors Sardar Singh Chauhan whose probe unearthed Thiruvananthapuram gold bar smuggling, Ravinder Kumar who arrested an ex-CBI officer in a bribery case, A Bama who unraveled fraudulent tax refund case, Rakesh Kumar Srivastava who probed one of the Vyapam cases, Deepak who is investigating murder of a St Stephen's hospital doctor, Pachaiammal Sampath Kumar who investigated Pollachi sexual assault case and Tarun Gaur who probed online fraud in a scheme named on Deen Dayal Upadhyay also received the coveted prize. "The Ministry of Home Affairs (Government of India) has initiated this scheme for award of medals to the members of Central Investigating Agencies and State/UT Police Investigating Agencies for excellence in investigation. "The objective for institution of the medals for police investigators is to promote high professional standards of investigation of crime in the State Police and Central Investigating Agencies in the country and to recognize such excellence in investigation by investigating officers of police organisations," CBI Spokesperson RC Joshi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-cbi-officers-awarded-union-home-ministers-medal-for-excellence-in-investigation-1019100.html
12-08-2021||National||Modi may attend 'Summit for Democracy' hosted by Biden||Prime Minister Narendra Modi may participate in the virtual “Summit for Democracy”, which President Joe Biden will host on December 9 and 10, notwithstanding unease over recent subtle attempts by the United States Government to nudge New Delhi to arrest the alleged backsliding in freedom of speech and religion in India. New Delhi, however, is likely to make it clear to the Biden Administration that it would take part in the new initiative only if is not turned into another tool for assessing the state of democracy in India. Arindam Bagchi, the official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), on Thursday refrained from making any comment on the United States President’s plan to host the virtual summit for democracy. A source in New Delhi, however, said that Modi would participate in the summit if the Biden Administration extend an invitation to him. “India shares with the United States a deep commitment to the democratic values, freedom and liberty and will always remain open to sharing its experience with others,” the source told the DH, but indicated that the Modi Government would stonewall any attempt by the Biden Administration to goad New Delhi on issues like human rights, freedom of expression and religion. “Ours is the largest democracy in the world and we do not need anyone else to tell us how we should manage our democracy.” Biden on Wednesday announced his plan to “bring together leaders from a diverse group of the world’s democracies at a virtual Summit for Democracy, to be followed in roughly a year’s time by a second, in-person Summit”. The virtual summit will take place on December 9 and 10 and the US expects that it will galvanize commitments and initiatives across three principal themes – defending against authoritarianism, fighting corruption, and promoting respect for human rights. “Following a year of consultation (after December 8-9 virtual summit), coordination, and action, President Biden will then invite world leaders to gather once more to showcase progress made against their commitments,” the White House stated. Biden’s Secretary of State Antony Blinken during his recent visit to New Delhi subtly nudged the Modi Government to support media, judiciary and civil society to freely uphold democratic principles in India, even as he noted that all democracies, including the one in the US, were works in progress and not perfect. With the US lawmakers expressing concerns over the state of freedom of expression and religion in India, the Biden Administration of late started taking up issues related to democracy and human rights with the Modi Government. The International Press Institute (IPI), a global network of editors, journalists and media executives, too had urged the US Secretary of State ahead of his visit to express concern over “the stifling press freedom environment in which independent media is operating in India, amidst threats and legal harassment by the government at the Centre and in the States ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party”. The Modi Government was recently at loggerheads with Twitter and WhatsApp over implementation of the new Information Technology rules. The social media companies had reservations about the new IT rules and they argued that some sections of it might be in conflict with the right of privacy and freedom of speech of the users.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-may-attend-summit-for-democracy-hosted-by-biden-1019102.html
12-08-2021||National||Drop mandatory RT-PCR clause for fully vaccinated tourists, Ministry of Tourism urges states||The Union Ministry of Tourism has urged all state governments to drop the provision of mandatory RT-PCR tests for visitors who have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. In a letter to all states, the ministry said the matter was discussed at a virtual meeting with all state and union territory Tourism department principal secretaries and the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH) under the chairpersonship of the Union tourism secretary on August 5. Currently, only some states like Maharashtra and Sikkim allow entry to fully vaccinated travellers without negative RT-PCR reports. States such as West Bengal (for travellers from Mumbai, Pune and Chennai), Karnataka, Goa and Chhattisgarh still ask for negative RT-PCR reports, irrespective of double vaccination status. The ministry said that the removal of the provision would help build confidence among travellers and boost tourism. Sources indicate that the ministry took this step after various tourism stakeholders complained that such provisions seriously affected their businesses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drop-mandatory-rt-pcr-clause-for-fully-vaccinated-tourists-ministry-of-tourism-urges-states-1019118.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||Why is Mamata targeting Centre over Ghatal Master Plan?||The picture of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee standing in ankle-deep flood waters in Ghatal area of West Midnapore district and claiming that it is because of the delay caused by the Centre in releasing funds under the Ghatal Master Plan that the area is flooded went viral on Tuesday. While many looked at the declaration as 'political', the proposal (for Ghatal Master Plan) is indeed pending for many years now. The area has been witnessing massive floods owing to consistent heavy rainfall in the region and also because the catchment of the rivers in the upstream areas is bringing down additional flood waters for at least 8-10 days now. However, this is not the first time that the Trinamool Congress has raised this demand. In June 2018, the Trinamool had claimed this to be "yet another example of the neglect shown by the Centre towards the state". The party had also claimed that earlier, the Centre and the state shared the cost ratio at 75:25, which after the Narendra Modi government came to power, was changed to 50:50. "But in case of the Ghatal Master Plan, the Centre has not even allocated funds from its own share of 50 per cent," the party had said then. The Trinamool had then said that the master plan was drawn up to provide relief to the people. The plan includes construction of a 6-metre dam over Shilabati river and installation of a pump (with 5000 cusec capacity) in Ghatal. This apart, desiltation work will be carried out at Old Kosi, New Kosi, Durgachoti and other rivers to increase navigability, under the master plan. Repair work would also be carried out for several canals, it had claimed. Not just Ghatal, the entire area is generally inundated most years as there are multiple rivers criss-crossing the landscape. Damodar Mundeshwar, Dwarkeshwari, Rup Narayan, Ghatal and Shilabati rivers cause floods in East Bardhaman, West Bardhaman, West Midnapore, Hooghly, Howrah and South 24 Parganas districts. As per official documents, the Ghatal Master Plan scheme is proposed to protect an area of 65,700 hectares with a population of approximately 8.5 lakh from Kangsabati, Silabati, Dwarkeswar and Rupnarayan rivers in West Midnapore and East Midnapore districts. The proposed scheme envisages re-excavation of drainage rivers/channels and improvement of appurtenant embankments, construction of pump houses in the Ghatal municipal area, provision of regulators/major outfall sluices, construction of retaining wall like structure from the Vidyasagar Setu to 2 km downstream to protect the Ghatal municipal area on the left bank of Silabati river from flood spill, widening of waterways of existing bridges and construction of new bridges. The dredging and de-silting work in five river channels was alone to cost Rs 400 crore that the state government had then decided to go ahead with, but it never took off. In 2018, the Central Water Commission (CWC), an agency under the Ministry of Jal Shakti, pegged the cost of the total Ghatal management plan at Rs 1238.95 crore. During a meeting at the CWC, the project authorities had claimed that only 20 hectares of land was to be acquired and that "there seems to be no problem in this regard". The minutes of the meeting that accepted the proposal, subject to West Bengal's concurrence, clearly mentioned: "However, the acceptance of the proposal by the Advisory Committee of MoWR, RD & GR does not guarantee any eligibility towards release of fund under any existing scheme of MoWR, RD & GR such as PMKSY, RRR, FMP etc." RD and GR are River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, while PMKSY and FMP are acronyms for the various schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana and Flood Management Programme. "The scheme was cleared techno-economically by our ministry, but then there was no investment clearance," said CWC Director Sharad Chandra. Banerjee has now again claimed that it is the Centre that is delaying the Plan. Repeated attempts to seek response through text/WhatsApp messages from Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien went unanswered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-mamata-targeting-centre-over-ghatal-master-plan-1018818.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||Naidu spoke on sacrilege of House but silent on manhandling of women MPs: Mallikarjun Kharge||The Opposition on Thursday targeted Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, accusing him of bias in the running of the House with Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge saying that the silence on the alleged attack on women MPs by marshals "spoke volumes on the duplicitous manner" in which the proceedings were held. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien also criticised the Chairman, and referred to the latter breaking down in the House while asking the media to report the correct picture. The Opposition attack came against the backdrop of Naidu's remarks in the House on Wednesday morning while he found fault with them for the ruckus created during the discussion on farmers' issues as some MPs climbed the reporters' table and one of them threw a file at the Chair. Later in the evening, Opposition MPs entered into a scuffle with marshals when they tried to protest against the passing of a bill that enhances private sector role in public sector general insurance companies. Opposition had alleged that women MPs were manhandled. "While M Venkaiah Naidu-ji speaks of sacrilege in Rajya Sabha, his silence on how marshals manhandled women MPs speaks volumes on the duplicitous manner in which the House is run. Is this how the temple of democracy runs? New India?" Kharge tweeted on Thursday morning. O'Brien tweeted without naming Naidu, "Someone cried. Someone had a sleepless night. Cut out the... from your front pages. Report the critical truth and the deep crisis from the floor of Parliament. All those media houses who are complicit in the murder of our parliamentary democracy. Show some spine." On Wednesday, Naidu said he spent a "sleepless night" over the ruckus in the Upper House following what he described as "sacrilege" of "the temple of democracy". While the Opposition was unhappy with the wording of the subject for discussion, Naidu said the MPs lost a "golden opportunity" to discuss all issues and the trouble was "propelled by a sense of competition among some sections" since the commencement of the Monsoon Session. Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh had countered Naidu on Wednesday itself by tweeting, "Presiding officers in Parliament are supposed to be neutral umpires, not partisan players. They cannot present a totally one-sided picture of goings on in the House and further aggravate the situation. Misplaced emotion leads to commotion." Just before the House adjourned sine die, Leader of House Piyush Goyal rose in defence of the Chairman and Deputy Chairman Harivansh, saying the Opposition created trouble for the presiding officers and indulged in ruckus. He demanded an apology from the Opposition besides a thorough probe by a committee to look into the actions of the Opposition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/naidu-spoke-on-sacrilege-of-house-but-silent-on-manhandling-of-women-mps-mallikarjun-kharge-1018832.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||Twitter locks Congress's official handle, party claims govt pressure||Congress on Thursday claimed that its official Twitter account as well as that of a number of its leaders have been blocked with the party claiming that the micro-blogging site was acting under Narendra Modi government's pressure and Rahul Gandhi saying that he is guilty if showing compassion and empathy is a crime. Soon after, the Congress started a concerted campaign with supporters changing their handles to "I am Rahul Gandhi". Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi changed her profile picture with that of her brother Rahul. Twitter's action of blocking former Congress president Rahul's account after he shared pictures of the family of a nine-year-old girl, who was sexually assaulted and murdered. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had written to Twitter India seeking action against Rahul's account after he posted the pictures of the interaction he had with the girl's family. As Congress picked up the campaign, Twitter also locked the party's handle. "If showing compassion and empathy is a crime, then I am guilty," Rahul posted on Instagram. Priyanka targeted Twitter saying, "is Twitter following its own policy for the suspension of Congress leaders' accounts or the Modi government's? Why hadn't it locked the account of the SC commission that had tweeted similar photos before any of our leaders did? By locking Congress leaders' accounts en masse, Twitter is blatantly colluding with the stifling of democracy by the BJP government in India."  Congress social media department head Rohan Gupta claimed the Congress account and around 5,000 accounts of its leaders and workers have been blocked. The Twitter accounts of Congress General Secretaries Randeep Surjewala, K C Venugopal, Ajay Maken, party's Whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Assam in-charge and former Union minister Jitendra Singh and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev have also been locked among others. Responding to the charges, a Twitter spokesperson said the company's rules are enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone in its service. "We have taken proactive action on several hundred Tweets that posted an image that violated our Rules and may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options. Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and our aim is always to protect individuals’ privacy and safety," the spokesperson said. In an Instagram post, the Congress said, "The official Twitter account of the Congress party has been locked by Twitter India. Modiji, just how afraid are you? Reminder: The Congress party fought for our nation's independence, equipped only with truth, non-violence and the will of the people. We won then, we'll win again." "Twitter is clearly acting under government's pressure, as it did not remove the same pictures shared by the Twitter accounts of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes for a few days," Gupta said. Trinamool Congress Rajya Sabha floor leader Derek O'Brien came out in support of Congress and said they strongly condemned the blocking of accounts of the party and its leaders. "What’s going on @Twitter, @TwitterIndia, @jack? What’s going on ? We strongly condemn the blocking of the accounts of @INCIndia and senior leaders of the Congress party," he tweeted. Congress Social Media Coordinator Nitin Agarwal said, "to support our leader who is raising voice and asking for justice for the victim, we have started a campaign and changed our handles to 'I am Rahul Gandhi'." Congress Secretary in-charge of the party's Communications Department Pranav Jha, tweeted before his account was blocked on Wednesday night, ""So! After Rahul Gandhi, the Lord @narendramodi Ji and Vassal @Jack & @twitter have locked @rssurjewala, @ajaymaken & @sushmitadevinc. @INCIndia registers its protest and promises to continue the fight for each and all being wronged! We shall hold on @AshwiniVaishnaw-ji," "The list goes on. @Twitter locks @JitendraSAlwar and @manickamtagore and many more. Doesn't Modi Ji understand that we @INCindia'ns have a legacy of fighting even from behind the locks of kaala paani...He thinks the virtual locks of Twitter will deter us from fighting for India," he tweeted. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/twitter-locks-congresss-official-handle-party-claims-govt-pressure-1018842.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||'Murder of democracy': Opposition leaders protest Centre's move to curtail Monsoon Session, handling of disruptions in Houses||Opposition parties on Thursday upped the ante against the government, taking a joint march from Parliament and accusing it of "murdering democracy" and bringing in a sort of "martial law" to push through bills in Parliament, whose Monsoon session was adjourned sine die on Wednesday — two days before schedule — amid vociferous protests on Pegasus and farmers' protest issues. Scaling up the united Opposition protest, Congress President Sonia Gandhi has also called a meeting of Opposition Chief Ministers on August 20, where the strategy for a joint Opposition campaign against the government at the state level will be finalised. After a meeting in the Parliament office of Rajya Sabha Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge on Thursday, leaders of 11 parties including former Congress President Rahul Gandhi marched from Parliament to Vijay Chowk and issued a joint statement, accusing the government of "authoritarian attitude and undemocratic actions" and alleged that opposition MPs, including women members, were "manhandled" by outsiders who were not part of Parliament security. The joint statement issued by Opposition leaders said, "the Government stonewalled the Opposition demand for discussion. The present Government does not believe in Parliamentary accountability and was running away from debate on Pegasus which resulted in a deadlock. The Monsoon session of Parliament was deliberately derailed by the Government which has scant respect for the institution of Parliamentary democracy." The statement signed by Gandhi, Kharge, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Congress' Deputy Leader in the Upper House Anand Sharma, NCP's Sharad Pawar, DMK's T R Balu and T Siva, Samajwadi Party's Ramgopal Yadav, Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut, RJD's Manoj Jha, CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem, IUML's ET Mohd. Basheer, CPI's Binoy Viswam, RSP's N K Premachandran, Kerala Congress (M)'s Thomas Chazhikadan, also accused the government of remaining "arrogant, insincere and obdurate" even as "the Opposition had been repeatedly requesting the Government to sincerely engage with the Opposition parties to break the impasse." "It is the Government, which is squarely responsible for the stalemate, has refused to accept the opposition’s demand for an informed debate in both the houses. The Government used its brute majority to push through its legislative agenda in violation of established procedures, conventions and spirit of Parliamentary democracy," it said. The Opposition parties alleged the government used its brute majority to push through its legislative agenda in violation of established procedures, conventions and the spirit of Parliamentary democracy. "To divert attention from its own conduct and actions, the Government has unleashed a state-sponsored, malicious and misleading campaign by blaming the combined Opposition for the disruption of Parliament," the Opposition statement said, hours before a battery of Union Ministers addressed a press conference that laid the blame at the ruckus in Parliament at the Opposition's door. Kharge tweeted against the government saying "inside Parliament, they manhandle & suspend MPs and refuse to have debates on any issue of national importance. Outside Parliament, they arrest journalists & activists, lock SM accounts of the Opposition and unleash violent mobs. Why is PM Narendra Modi not fearful of debates?" Inside Parliament, they manhandle & suspend MPs and refuse to have debates on any issue of national importance. Outside Parliament, they arrest journalists & activists, lock SM accounts of Opposition and unleash violent mobs. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut alleged that the security marshals were called in on Wednesday during the passage of the Insurance Amendment Bill to privatise general insurance companies in the Rajya Sabha. "I felt we were standing on Pakistan's border. It was not as if Marshals were brought in but martial law was being brought in," he said, ruling that even women MPs were mishandled. DMK's T Siva said he had not witnessed in the last few decades what he saw happening in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday with the government calling in the Marshals. "Literally two women MPs were dragged. Rajya Sabha TV blacked out all that happened in the House. All Opposition parties are now united against this authoritarian government as democracy is in peril today." Praful Patel of NCP said "Opposition's voice was not heard at all in this session. It is very shameful. Sharad Pawar is very saddened about it." Manoj Jha of RJD, alleged "we were not allowed to speak in Parliament. Yesterday what we saw in Parliament was Martial law. The Insurance Bill was not passed by Parliament but Marital law. It's time to hit the streets."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/murder-of-democracy-opposition-leaders-protest-centres-move-to-curtail-monsoon-session-handling-of-disruptions-in-houses-1018846.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||TMC condemns 'blocking' of Congress's Twitter accounts||The Trinamool Congress on Thursday condemned the alleged blocking of the Congress's official Twitter account, questioning whether it was linked to opposing the politics and policies of the BJP. The Congress alleged that the party's official Twitter account and those of a large number of its leaders were blocked by the microblogging site. "What's going on @Twitter @TwitterIndia @jack What's going on? We strongly condemn the blocking of the accounts of @INCIndia and senior leaders of the Congress party," TMC Rajya Sabha party leader Derek O'Brien tweeted. The TMC's West Bengal unit general secretary Kunal Ghosh said it was a dangerous trend. "It means the BJP henceforth will control the social media platforms as well. They will control the narrative and will also decide who can tweet and who cannot. It has to be looked into whether this blocking of Congress's Twitter handle is linked with its opposition to the policies and politics of the BJP," he said. Congress social media department head Rohan Gupta said the party's official Twitter account and around 5,000 accounts of its top leaders and workers had been blocked by Twitter. The Twitter accounts of AICC general secretaries Randeep Surjewala, KC Venugopal, Ajay Maken, party's whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Assam in-charge and former Union minister Jitendra Singh and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev have also been locked, the party said. This comes close on the heels of the blocking of party leader Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account after he shared pictures of the family of the nine-year-old alleged rape and murder victim last week in violation of the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-condemns-blocking-of-congresss-twitter-accounts-1018866.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||No Parliament session for 60% of country as voice of people crushed: Rahul Gandhi||Leaders of several opposition parties on Thursday marched in protest against the government on several issues, including Pegasus, farm laws and alleged manhandling of their MPs in Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was crushed in Parliament and democracy was "murdered". Top leaders of several opposition parties met in the chamber of Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and then walked in protest from Parliament House to Vijay Chowk. Those who attended the meeting included Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Kharge, Sanjay Raut, Tiruchi Siva, Manoj Jha and other opposition leaders. They met Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and complained against the alleged heckling of MPs including some women. Some union ministers also met Naidu and complained against the alleged unruly behaviour of some opposition members in the House on Wednesday. The protest comes a day after the passage of bills in Rajya Sabha amid charges of manhandling of opposition leaders including some women MPs. The protesting MPs carried placards and banners against the government that read 'Stop murder of democracy' and 'we demand Repeal of anti farmers laws'. "The Parliament session is over. Frankly, as far as 60 per cent of the country is concerned, there has been no Parliament session because the voice of 60 per cent of this country has been crushed, humiliated and yesterday in the Rajya Sabha (the MPs were) physically beaten," Gandhi charged. He said the opposition was not allowed to speak inside Parliament and "this is nothing short of murder of democracy". The former Congress chief said the opposition raised the issue of Pegasus, farmers' issues and price rise but were not allowed to speak inside Parliament. "This is nothing short of the murder of democracy in this country," he alleged. Gandhi also trained his guns on the prime minister, accusing him of "selling the country to big businessmen". "For the first time in Rajya Sabha MPs were beaten up, after bringing people from outside," he alleged and added that "It is the Chairman's and Speaker's responsibility to run the House". "Who is stopping the opposition in the House. I will tell you, India's prime minister is doing the work of selling this country. He is selling the soul of India to two-three industrialists and that is why the opposition is not allowed to speak inside Parliament," Gandhi alleged. Echoing Gandhi, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut alleged that no Parliament session was held as the opposition was not allowed to raise issues of public importance. "The way people were brought and deployed as marshals in Rajya Sabha. I felt like marshal law was imposed and I felt like I was standing at Pakistan border as I was stopped from going inside," Raut said. Tiruchi Siva said one has never witnessed such behaviour in Parliament in more than two decades. Praful Patel said his leader Sharad Pawar has stated that he has never seen such shameful incidents in Parliament in his long political career. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi had termed as "totally false" the opposition's allegations that marshals manhandled their MPs and said one can check facts from CCTV footage. The tumultuous Monsoon session of Parliament was on Wednesday curtailed by two days even as an anguished Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu broke down over the huge ruckus in the House equating the act of some opposition MPs to "sacrilege in temple of democracy" and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla saying he was "extremely hurt" by continuous disruptions.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-parliament-session-for-60-of-country-as-voice-of-people-crushed-rahul-gandhi-1018882.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha ruckus pre-planned, Opposition threatened with disastrous things: Govt||The government on Thursday claimed that the disruptions in Parliament were pre-planned by the opposition leaders, who had even threatened union ministers with “disastrous things” if certain bills were pushed in the Rajya Sabha. The government also rejected the opposition allegations that outsiders were brought into the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday to rein in unruly members and demanded an apology from opposition leaders for the “unprecedented” scenes in the Upper House. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Leader of the Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal led a delegation of ministers to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and sought a “thorough investigation” into the turn of events in the Upper House and strict action against those found guilty of “such harmful activity”. The Rajya Sabha had witnessed unruly scenes when opposition members climbed the reporter's table and flung books at the presiding officer's chair. Goyal said 30 marshals — 18 male and 12 women — had to be deployed in the Rajya Sabha to protect the secretary general's table. “Opposition behaviour in the Rajya Sabha touched a new low on Wednesday. A lady marshal was manhandled by members and injured,” Goyal told a press conference, flanked by six ministerial colleagues. I&B Minister Anurag Thakur said the opposition members had brought “anarchy of streets” to Parliament during the monsoon session. Joshi said the Opposition leaders had decided on the first day of the monsoon session itself that the entire session would be a washout. He said the government was ready to extend the monsoon session by a day had the opposition agreed for debate on issues such as farmers’ issues and the state of the economy. “But, we were threatened by the opposition with more disastrous things if the government tried to pass any other bills other than the OBC bill. It was told to us in no unambiguous terms,” Joshi said narrating his interaction with the Opposition leaders. Goyal was dismissive of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s claims that the opposition was not allowed to speak in Parliament, pointing out that the House had discussed the Covid-19 situation and the OBC bill. “When it suits them, they will allow the house to function, else they will hold it hostage,” Goyal said. Goyal rejected NCP leader Sharad Pawar’s claim that he had never seen a woman member attacked in Parliament. “The contrary is true. A lady marshal was attacked by opposition members. Does Mr Pawar condone the Parliament Security Staff being strangled,” Goyal asked. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-ruckus-pre-planned-opposition-threatened-with-disastrous-things-govt-1018910.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||RTI activist Saket Gokhale joins Trinamool Congress||Gokhale, a well known Right to Information (RTI) activist, joined the Trinamool Congress in the presence of the party’s vice president Yashwant Sinha and the Lok Sabha MP Sougata Ray. He has been known to be a staunch critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and parent organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. He said that he had joined the Trinamool Congress because the second-largest opposition party was his obvious choice as it had taken an aggressive stand on issues of national importance. He lauded the way Trinamool Congress supremo and the Chief Minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee. “The fight to safeguard our democracy & its institutions needs all hands on deck. I hope to contribute in the best way I can,” he tweeted. The fight to safeguard our democracy & its institutions needs all hands on deck. I hope to contribute in the best way I can. Gokhale filed RTIs on issues of national importance for several years. Most recently, he filed queries on bank loans and budgetary allocation for Pegasus, stated the Trinamool Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rti-activist-saket-gokhale-joins-trinamool-congress-1018930.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||Twitter says Rahul Gandhi, Congress accounts blocked for violating rules||Twitter handles of Gandhi and several Congress leaders have been locked by the US firm for posting pictures of the family of the nine-year-old Dalit rape and murder victim last week in the national capital. When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson on Thursday said the company's rules are enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone in its service. "We have taken proactive action on several hundred Tweets that posted an image that violated our Rules and may continue to do so in line with our range of enforcement options. Certain types of private information carry higher risks than others, and our aim is always to protect individuals’ privacy and safety," the spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that Twitter strongly encourages everyone on the service to familiarise themselves with the Twitter Rules and report anything they believe is in violation. According to Twitter, if a tweet was found to be in violation of its rules and isn't deleted by the account holder, the microblogging platform hides it behind a notice and the account remains locked until the said tweet is removed or the appeal is successfully processed. The US-based company said it was alerted by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) about specific content on the platform that allegedly revealed the identity of an alleged sexual assault victim's (and a minor’s) parents. The said content was reviewed against Twitter's rules and policies as well as the concerns expressed as a matter of Indian law. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/twitter-says-rahul-gandhi-congress-accounts-blocked-for-violating-rules-1018940.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||'Storm' created by voices of Dalits, farmers will throw Modi out of power, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, claiming he will be "thrown" out of power by a "storm" created by the voices of poor, Dalits, farmers and workers in the country. He said that the people of the country understood the current situation in the country and the Congress and its frontal organisations have a job to remind them that they need not fear any force but challenge it. "A voice of poor, Dalits, farmers and workers will be heard in the country. It will gather momentum gradually and turn into a storm that will throw Narendra Modi out of Prime Minister's residence," Gandhi said addressing partymen at the 'Halla Bol' protest at Jantar Mantar. The SC/ST department of the Congress organised the protest against alleged atrocities on Dalits. "Our job is to remind people of India what Baba Saheb and Mahatma Gandhi said. They said - do not be afraid of anyone. These cowards and hollow people will run away, the day country starts fighting them. "It's job of Congress, SC/ST department, Youth Congress and NSUI to remind people of India that they can challenge any force without fearing it," Gandhi said. He claimed that the Constitution is under attack from all sides in the country. "We are not allowed to speak in Parliament if we raise the issues of farmers, Dalits, backward classes and women," he alleged. "For the first time in the history of the country, parliamentarians were beaten and shoved in the Rajya Sabha," he alleged further. The Congress leader attacked the prime minister, alleging he committed "atrocities" on farmers and destroyed the small and medium businesses in the country by demonetisation and GST. "During the coronavirus pandemic, we demanded that people should be directly provided money and small and medium businesses needed to be helped. But, Narendra Modi gave money to his 4-5 industrialist friends and others got nothing," he alleged. The protest was also attended by many senior Congress leaders including P Chidambaram, KC Venugopal, Nitin Raut, Sushmita Dev and Delhi unit president Anil Kumar. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/storm-created-by-voices-of-dalits-farmers-will-throw-modi-out-of-power-says-rahul-gandhi-1018969.html
12-08-2021||National Politics||Atrocities on Tripura TMC workers to have repercussions in Delhi: Mamata||Asserting that the Trinamool Congress will overcome opposition from the BJP and win the assembly elections in Tripura, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday warned of repercussions in Delhi if there are atrocities against TMC workers in the northeastern state. At least 14 leaders and workers of the TMC, including those injured in an alleged attack by BJP workers, were arrested in Tripura's Khowai district on August 8 for "violating Covid norms". Senior TMC leaders from West Bengal are of late visiting the Northeast state where the assembly election is due in 2023. Claiming that around 2 lakh people owing allegiance to the BJP had come to West Bengal from outside the state and even from abroad during the assembly election held earlier this year, Banerjee wondered why TMC leaders cannot go to Tripura which is ruled by the saffron party. "We will certainly go and win the election in Tripura. The fight in Tripura will continue," Banerjee, also the TMC supremo, said. "If there are atrocities in Tripura, its repercussions will be felt in Delhi," she said without elaborating. Banerjee was talking to reporters after visiting injured TMC workers, who had been flown to Kolkata for treatment from Tripura, at a state-run hospital in Kolkata. Accusing the BJP of running an anarchic government in the Northeast state, she claimed that the Biplab Deb dispensation does not allow any voice of opposition to it. In a not so veiled threat of a tit for tat against the BJP, the chief minister said, "If they think that by registering an FIR, they will arrest them (TMC leaders) when they land there, they (BJP government) must remember that we also have the law in our hands here. We don't want to apply it and hope that charity begins at home." A committee formed by the National Human Rights Commission on the instruction of the Calcutta High Court had visited West Bengal last month to probe allegations of violations of human rights during post-poll violence in the state. Those who went to talk to officials at the police station were arrested as if they are criminals while those who attacked TMC workers in Tripura are roaming freely, the chief minister claimed. To a question on the Election Commission seeking views of political parties on holding assembly by-polls in Covid time, she said, "We will inform (the EC)". Seven assembly seats are lying vacant in West Bengal due to deaths of candidates or resignation of MLAs. A TMC parliamentary party delegation met the EC in Delhi last month to press for its demand for holding by-polls to the vacant assembly seats in the state at the earliest. The TMC is keen on the by-elections as Banerjee, who lost the assembly election from Nandigram, will have to get elected within six months to continue as the chief minister. In that case, the by-polls must be conducted by November 5. The by-elections are due in the constituencies of Khardah, Gosaba, Shantipur, Jangipur, Samserganj, Dinhata and Bhabanipur. Banerjee is expected to file nomination from Bhabanipur in Kolkata, which was vacated by winning TMC candidate Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, days after the results were declared. Banerjee said that she will get a CT scan done of her leg which was injured during campaigning for the West Bengal assembly elections in March. The chief minister also visited her ailing sister at the state-run hospital. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/atrocities-on-tripura-tmc-workers-to-have-repercussions-in-delhi-mamata-1019054.html
12-08-2021||North and Central||Himachal landslide death toll rises to 14; rescue ops still under way||Four more bodies were recovered from the landslide site in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district where the search and rescue operation resumed early on Thursday, raising the death toll to 14, officials said. Four more bodies were recovered from the spot after the rescue operation resumed, Kinnaur Deputy Commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq told PTI. He said 14 bodies have been recovered so far. The Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) bus, which, along with other vehicles, was buried under the debris after the landslide, has been found in a badly damaged condition, State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said. However, a Bolero car still could not be traced, he added. The HRTC bus was on its way from Reckong Peo to Haridwar via Shimla when it was hit by boulders after the landslide around Wednesday noon near Chaura village on national highway-5 in Nigulsari area of Nichar tehsil. A video of the rescue workers at the site near the mangled remains of the bus has gone viral whereby a rescuer is heard saying that the bus was found by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) 17th Battalion personnel. Another rescuer states that gloves should be brought for further carrying the operation. The rescue operation, being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), the ITBP and the members of local police and home guards, resumed at 6 am on Thursday, Mokhta said. The authorities had suspended the operation on Wednesday at around 10 pm. Ten bodies were recovered on Wednesday, while 13 others were rescued with injuries. Several others are still feared buried under the debris. However the exact number was not known. On Wednesday, the Bhawanagar station house officer (SHO) had said around 25 to 30 people were trapped under the debris. When the initial reports came, Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had told the state assembly that 50-60 people were feared trapped under the debris but the exact number was not known. The Kinnaur deputy commissioner had also told PTI that over 40 passengers were in the bus. Eight of the dead were found trapped in a Tata Sumo taxi during the search and rescue operation on Wednesday. A truck rolled down towards a riverside due to shooting stones and the driver's body has been recovered, officials said. A car had also been found in the damaged condition on Wednesday but no one was found in it, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-landslide-death-toll-rises-to-14-rescue-ops-still-under-way-1018826.html
12-08-2021||North and Central||India reports 41,195 new Covid-19 cases, 490 deaths||India logged 41,195 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,20,77,706, while the active cases increased to 3,87,987, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,29,669 with 490 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases increased after registering a decrease for five consecutive days. They now comprise 1.21 per cent of the total infections, the ministry said, adding the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.45 per cent.  An increase of 1,636 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 21,24,953  tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 48,73,70,196. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 17 days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at  2.23 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,12, 60,050, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 52.36 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 490 new fatalities include 163 from Maharashtra and 116 from Kerala. A total of 4,29,669 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,364 from Maharashtra, 36,881 from Karnataka, 34,395 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,776 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,258 from West Bengal and 18,120 from Kerala. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-reports-41195-new-covid-19-cases-490-deaths-1018833.html
12-08-2021||North and Central||Difficult to ascertain oxygen shortage-related deaths without probe: Sisodia tells Union Health Minister||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia Thursday said he has written to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya saying that without a proper probe, it is difficult to ascertain if any oxygen-related death happened during the second wave of coronavirus. Sisodia said the Delhi government had formed a committee to probe the deaths and prepare a report so that the affected families can be given a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each. "But through the LG (Delhi's Lieutenant Governor), the Centre did not allow that committee to be formed. We are sending the file again to the Delhi LG for approval. We will carry out the probe with full responsibility and even punish those who were guilty," he told the media in an online briefing. Delhi has recorded over 25,000 fatalities due to the infection, he said, adding it will have to be probed how many of these were linked to the oxygen crisis during April and May. "We cannot say that there was no oxygen crisis. The families of patients, hospitals were sending out SOS messages for help at that time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/difficult-to-ascertain-oxygen-shortage-related-deaths-without-probe-sisodia-tells-union-health-minister-1018905.html
12-08-2021||North and Central||More than 1,200 villages in Uttar Pradesh hit by floods, rescue efforts under way||Over five lakh people in 1,243 villages of Uttar Pradesh have been affected with floods, and relief and rescue teams have been deployed to assist the people, officials said here on Wednesday. In the past 24 hours, an average of 13.1 mm rainfall was recorded in the state which is 154 per cent more than normal. "Eleven districts including Prayagraj, Chitrakoot, Kaushambi, Pratapgarh, Basti, Gonda, Sultanpur, Shrawasti, Lucknow, Raebareli and Fatehpur received rainfall of over 25 mm or more in the past 24 hours", they said. A report from the Relief Commissioner office said a "population of 5,46,049 in 1,243 villages in 23 districts is affected by floods". Similarly, River Betwa is above the danger mark in Hamipur and Sharda river in Pallia Kalan (Kheri) and Quano river in Chandradeep ghat (Gonda), it said. Relief works have been initiated and 20,768 rations kits and 167213 lunch packets have been distributed among the flood-affected people. NDRF, SDRF and state PAC have been deployed to help the people and 59 rescue teams pre-deployed in 43 districts. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-than-1200-villages-in-uttar-pradesh-hit-by-floods-rescue-efforts-under-way-1018906.html
12-08-2021||North and Central||Terrorists attack BSF convoy in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam; gunfight underway||An encounter broke out between terrorists and security personnel on Thursday after the ultras opened fired at a Border Security Force (BSF) convoy in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district, officials said. The convoy was headed for Srinagar from Jammu when it was attacked, they said. "Terrorists opened fire at a BSF convoy on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway at Malpora in the Qazigund area of Kulgam district," an official said. A police spokesperson said there were no reports of any injuries in the attack but the assailants were trapped. "Terrorists fired upon BSF convey at NHW #Kulgam. No injury reported. However, terrorists trapped," the Kashmir zone police quoted IGP, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar as saying. The spokesperson said reinforcements have reached the spot and senior officers of the police, CRPF and the Army were also present there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorists-attack-bsf-convoy-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kulgam-gunfight-underway-1018946.html
12-08-2021||North and Central||Muslim man thrashed, asked to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' in Kanpur||A Muslim man was assaulted in the public and allegedly asked to chant "Jai Shri Ram" even as his minor daughter tried to save him, said police here on Thursday. A one-minute video of the incident surfaced on social media on Wednesday. The 45-year-old man is seen being assaulted by some men, who ask him to chant "Jai Shri Ram". The victim's daughter is seen trying to save her father, crying and asking the attackers not to beat him. Later, some policemen took the man to their Jeep. The footage also shows the man being hit while in police custody. Deputy Police Commissioner (South) Raveena Tyagi said the matter came to the fore at the Kacchi Basti locality near the Ram Gopal crossing in the Barra area of Kanpur on Wednesday. "On the complaint of the victim, we have lodged an FIR and legal action is under way," she said. Police, however, did not mention the name of the organisation involved in the act. The victim, an e-rickshaw driver, said around 3 pm, some people started abusing and assaulting him. They threatened to kill his family. He said he was saved by police. The man is a relative of a Muslim family, which is involved in a dispute with their Hindu neighbours in the Kanpur locality. Police statement says in July, the two families filed cases against each other at the local police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslim-man-thrashed-asked-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-in-kanpur-1019050.html
12-08-2021||North and Central||Doctors deliver baby girl grown inside abdominal cavity instead of uterus||In a rare occurrence, doctors at a private facility here delivered a baby girl who had grown inside abdominal cavity instead of uterus. In most pregnancies, a fertilised egg grows inside the uterus with the placenta, which provides nutrients and oxygen to the growing baby, attached to the uterus wall, but in this case it was attached to the bowel. "In cases where the fertilised egg grows inside the abdominal cavity, it does not survive beyond four or five months, but in this case, it was a full-term pregnancy and the baby was delivered through a caesarean surgery performed on Monday morning. The baby's weight was 2.65 kg," Anjali Chaudhary, obstetrics and gynaecology, Aarogya Hospital said. What made the situation complex was that the condition was not detected during the six ultrasounds the woman underwent during her pregnancy. "The woman came to us during her seventh month of pregnancy and the earlier ultrasounds that she had undergone in her hometown did not detect the issue. The baby was on the right side and was putting pressure on her right ureter. She was passing pus in the urine due to that condition and we had to put a stent in her ureter to manage the condition," Chaudhary said. The doctors had carried out a full ultrasound of the stomach at the time of putting the stent, but were not able to detect the condition. However, the scans revealed that the baby was lying bottom first instead of in the usual head first position, the doctor said. "The decision was taken to deliver the baby through a C-section. When we did the incision, we found that the baby was in the abdominal cavity and we knew it was going to be a serious surgery," she said. After the baby was taken out, the placenta was found attached to the bowel and there was "torrential bleeding" while the doctors tried to remove it. The woman was given four units of fresh frozen plasma and three units of blood to make up for the blood loss, she added. The baby was handed over to the attendants after being in the ICU for 12 hours, while the woman was shifted to a ward after 24 hours. The mother and the baby are doing fine now, Chaudhary said, adding that they will be discharged on Friday. This was the woman's second baby. She had a baby boy via C-section.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctors-deliver-baby-girl-grown-inside-abdominal-cavity-instead-of-uterus-1019062.html
12-08-2021||North and Central||Decades after anti-Sikh riots, UP cops examine crime scene again||A special investigation team is re-examining the scene of a crime decades after two men were allegedly murdered and their bodies set on fire in their house here during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. Crucial evidence, including blood samples, has been lifted this week from a locked house in city’s Govind Nagar, attacked by a mob during the anti-Sikh riots that followed the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi. The SIT, formed by the Yogi Adityanath government on the orders of the Supreme Court, entered the locked house with a forensic team on Tuesday, Superintendent of Police (SIT), Balendu Bhushan said. After Delhi, Kanpur was among the worse-hit by the violence. Teja Singh (45) and his son Satpal Singh (22) were killed on November 1, 1984. The SIT has got the statement of Teja Singh's surviving son, Charanjeet Singh -- now 61 and a resident of Delhi -- recorded before a special magistrate. The witness narrated the horrific episode and disclosed the identities of those allegedly involved in the murders. The surviving members of Teja Singh’s family had sold off the Kanpur house and moved first to Punjab and then Delhi. A Kanpur sub-inspector filed the FIR. SP Bhushan said the crime scene was undisturbed as the new occupants stayed on the first floor. The ground floor rooms where the murders took place remained locked. The SIT entered the house in the presence of an eyewitness to the attack who lived in the same area. Bhushan said the forensic science laboratory determined that the blood samples collected were of human beings, which confirmed that killings had taken place there. Earlier this year, the SIT had collected blood samples from a house in Kanpur’s Naubasta area. It too had been locked up after a similar attack. The Uttar Pradesh SIT was formed to revisit cases filed after the 1984 riots. The Kanpur SSP provided the SIT with a list of 40 cases of serious nature. Of them, the Kanpur Police had filed charge sheets in 11 cases and final reports in the remaining 29, which lacked substantial evidence. But the accused were acquitted in all 11 cases with the trial court citing lack of evidence. “We have sought permission from the state government to file an appeal against the judgment of lower courts in five cases,” Bhushan said. “We are still waiting for the government nod.” The SIT also started further investigations in the 29 cases closed by Kanpur Police and hopes to file charge-sheet in some of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/decades-after-anti-sikh-riots-up-cops-examine-crime-scene-again-1019080.html
12-08-2021||North and Central||MP police launch e-FIR registration service for select cases||The Madhya Pradesh police on Thursday launched an initiative on an experimental basis to allow people to get FIRs registered online regarding thefts of vehicles or theft of cash and items up to Rs 1 lakh, an official said. “Any aggrieved person who has suffered a vehicle theft (up to Rs 15 lakh) and simple (monetary) theft which can be of any thing like cash, jewellery, mobile, equipment (up to Rs one lakh) was free to lodge an e-FIR”, Additional Director General of Police of State Crime Records Bureau (SCRB) Chanchal Shekhar told PTI. Nearly, 50,000 such cases are reported every year, he added. The mediums through which online complaints can be lodged are, and by logging in through a mobile app (MPECOP), the senior officer said. Such online complaints can be lodged only if the accused is unidentified and there has been no use of force in committing the crime, Shekhar said. Under the initiative, citizens will be able to register FIRs without going to the police station. Necessary instructions have been given to all police stations in this regard across the state, the ADGP said. The e-FIR registration facility will be available round the clock. "Action will be taken immediately on a complaint and the matter can be resolved within a specific time-frame," Shekhar said, adding the measure will reduce the time taken to get insurance amount in cases of vehicle theft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-police-launch-e-fir-registration-service-for-select-cases-1019121.html
12-08-2021||Opinion||How TMC may galvanise an anti-BJP front in Tripura||Team Narendra Modi started its initial forays in Bengal about a year before the Assembly elections in March-April 2021 and irritated the Trinamool Congress (TMC) significantly. But factors not under their control, like strategic voting by the Muslims, soured the grapes for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Interestingly, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has now embraced the BJP's Bengal strategy for its foray into Tripura, the small North-Eastern state dominated by Bengalis. The Assembly election is due there at the beginning of 2022. The TMC is a marginal force there, just like the BJP was in Bengal before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. But led by Young Turk Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC has started its thrust into the state with a declared aim of dislodging the saffron party from Tripura. That it has made the BJP jittery is evident from the fact that Abhishek Banerjee's car was attacked in Agartala, TMC placards torn, and later some of the TMC men were even arrested, tempting him to go to the state again within a few days. Bengal BJP leaders are happy that its Tripura party welcomed the TMC brigade the same way as the TMC welcomed JP Nadda and others in Bengal. But the TMC did it as it was nervous, and now the Tripura BJP is betraying the same nerves. There are reasons for the BJP's over-reaction. It is a new force in the state. Traditionally, the state was politically divided between the Left and the Congress, and the Left dominated in recent decades. But, as the people of Bengal chose TMC instead of the Congress to fight back the Left, the people of Tripura chose the BJP. The saffron brigade rose suddenly and defeated the Left in the 2018 Assembly elections in Tripura. Along with its partner, the Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPTF), the BJP secured nearly nine per cent more votes than the Left. The BJP-led alliance won 44 seats in an assembly of 60. In 2019, it won both the Lok Sabha seats of the state, securing 49 per cent votes. The Left slipped to the third position with a 17.3 per cent vote share, whereas the Congress came up as the second force with 25.34 per cent votes. Till now, the BJP was assured of sailing through the next assembly election thanks to the divided opposition. But the sudden entry of Abhishek Banerjee, who enjoys the guidance of both Mamata Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor, the scenario may change. The TMC has the potential of unifying the opposition before the next assembly election. Keeping in mind that it is a tiny state, the TMC may emerge as a force to reckon with in the coming months, and then it may have some authority to arbitrate an alliance. Meanwhile, Manik Sarkar, the last Left chief minister who led the government till the beginning of 2018, recently dropped a hint that an alliance with TMC may be considered in the future. Abhishek Banerjee, too, has stated that any political party willing to fight the BJP is welcome to join hands with the TMC. The Congress surely will have no objection to joining such a broad alliance. But is an alliance of the Left and TMC possible? Well, if ten years ago anyone asked a similar question about the alliance of the Left and the Congress in Bengal, the answer would have been an emphatic "no." But they started coming closer in 2016. The Left in Bengal is still allergic to the TMC, but the communists forge state-based alliances to stay relevant. In the recent Assembly election in Kerala, they fought the Congress but were in alliance with them in Bengal. As the BJP has usurped the entire opposition space in Bengal, a debate on its stand vis-a-vis TMC has started in the Bengal CPI(M). The veteran leader Biman Bose, who still holds the post of chairman of the Left Front, said a couple of weeks ago that the party was ready to join hands with the TMC at the national level. Meanwhile, the Bengal party has also decided against equating the TMC with the BJP even in the state. In a recent note sent to its party study circles, the state leadership of Bengal CPI(M) has asserted that in the party's future campaigns, slogans like "BJ-Mul" (BJP plus Trinamool) should not be used. The BJP, the communist leadership has clarified, is a "force backed by the fascist RSS" and is a bigger enemy. It indicates that if the situation so demands, an indirect joining of hands in the future could be possible in Bengal. In Tripura, the game is afoot. Whether the opposition can defeat the BJP in Tripura is another question. But the TMC may change the political landscape of Tripura, and Abhishek Banerjee may play a crucial role in uniting the opposition there. If it happens, the BJP will have a tough time in the state. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-tmc-may-galvanise-an-anti-bjp-front-in-tripura-1018855.html
12-08-2021||Panorama||‘Nixon Shock’ from 50 years ago has lessons for today’s politics of money||On August 15, 1971, US President Richard Nixon announced, in a televised address, that the United States was “closing the gold window,” starting the next day. While that may not have rung the bell among the common people in America and elsewhere, the decision, later called the ‘Nixon Shock’, was one of the most decisive ruptures in US (and global) monetary history. Ending the US dollar’s convertibility to gold (at $35 to an ounce of gold at the time) dissolved the centuries-old link between ‘money’ and ‘precious metals.’ Currency now became a ‘legal tender’ whose value was determined not by the availability of a precious metal (like gold, silver) but by the credibility of a particular country and its macroeconomic policies. As Harold James argued, “this epochal event — marking the end of the Bretton Woods era — has uncanny resemblances for today. For example, just as Nixon was struggling to extricate the United States from its long, costly and unwinnable war in Vietnam, Joe Biden has now ended America’s long, costly and unwinnable intervention in Afghanistan. Similarly, Nixon used his address to announce a policy programme with goals similar to those being pursued by the Biden administration now. ‘We must create more and better jobs,’ Nixon said, ‘We must stop the rise in the cost of living; we must protect the dollar from the attacks of international money speculators.’” Nixon’s shock announcement caused a colossal disruption in the global currency markets, particularly for emerging economies. Latin American nations (like Colombia, Brazil, Argentina, etc.) saw a series of currency crises — combined with the explosion of debt bubbles later. The frequency of economic crises increased substantially. Pre-determined, fixed exchange rate currency exchange regime entered the ‘flexible exchange rate system’ era in which valuation of one sovereign’s currency against another was left entirely to ‘market forces’, heightening uncertainty, leading to more currency arbitrage. Despite this, the US dollar — thanks to the Petro-dollar market and the US’ geopolitical dominance — never lost its hegemonic position in the international monetary system. America’s exportable model of ‘finance-based capitalism’, relying on freer capital account convertibility, easier flow of investments across borders, and a subsequent wave of hyper-globalisation, allowed most nations to continue trading in US dollars, giving it a popular reserve currency status. But, how long can this continue in today’s financial world? As money lost its connect to precious metals after the ‘Nixon Shock’, similarly, money today no longer needs to be linked to ‘paper currency’ or a ‘sovereign (public) legal tender’. The emergence and popular acceptance of ‘private digital currency’ (bitcoin, dogecoin, etc.) has changed the game. Trust in government’s ability to control and manage money has also been deeply eroded post the 2008 financial crisis. Also, the United States no longer enjoys the same economic position/relative share of economic trade and investment as it did back in the 70s, 80s and 90s. We are now in a multi-polar world, economically at least, with key regional anchors (China, India, Brazil, Nigeria etc.). New, digital technology-backed currencies pose increasing risks to the hegemonic role of the US dollar, the lingua franca of exchange. Some dangers, as James argues, are already visible in the US Treasury market, where there have been liquidity strains (in 2020) and a weakening of foreign demand. The dollar’s long pre-eminence is being challenged, not so much by other currencies (though both the euro and renminbi may aspire to the throne), as by new methods of speaking the same cross-border monetary language as the dollar. And so, as the digital money revolution accelerates, the era of fiat money issued by national governments may be drawing to a close. What’s more troubling is the weakening (post-Bretton Woods) link between ‘monetary stability’ and ‘fiscal prudence’. Both before the pandemic and in the midst of it, governments and central banks have been rolling out large stimulus, quantitative easing programmes without working out a medium-to-long term debt and fiscal consolidation strategy. Not only does this raise the risk of inflation (with more money supply creating low purchasing power) but with multiple forms of monies (public, private) it also limits the options for both central banks and treasuries (or the finance ministries) in undertaking any serious debt-reduction and better fiscal management strategies. Going forward though, a vital question to ask is: What does the future of money and the politics of control over its creation and distribution look like? Yanis Varoufakis offers an interesting proposition: the idea of ‘central bank digital currencies.’ Financial gatekeepers like the Bank of International Settlements (BIS) are embracing central bank digital currencies because they can see that, if they do not, someone else will, whether it is the People’s Bank of China, whose own digital currency is at an advanced stage of development, or, more ominously, Big Tech. Their objective is to usher in digital currencies that preserve the current oligarchy’s (bankers’) monopoly over money.” Varoufakis might be just about right. The time for a central bank digital currency is perhaps here. However, the main struggle to be observed is in the conflict between ‘public money’ and ‘private digital money’, the trust in them and over who controls the ‘payment system’ and ‘money tree’. To mitigate this growing conflict, a series of discussions ought to be positioned around the need to ensure greater ‘transparency’, ‘resilience’ and ‘trust’ for the form of money widely accepted, created around the world. No central bank-backed digital currency will be without its own vulnerabilities (and political conditions). At the same time, pre-existing forms of (paper) currency, the long-dominance of the US dollar will continue to see competition  from substitutes in the private technology-backed payment systems. The politics of money creation, its management, distribution, much like ‘consumer data’, is likely to engender an ugly battle between the powers of the nation-state and the private Big Tech space. One can only speculate how this ‘power battle’ will turn out for the macroeconomic implications it poses (on inflation, transactions, interest rates and fiscal policy). (The writer is Director, Centre for New Economic Studies, Jindal Global University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nixon-shock-from-50-years-ago-has-lessons-for-today-s-politics-of-money-1019094.html
12-08-2021||Panorama||Ban 'manjha' across India||Ruskin Bond’s short story The Kitemaker may have romanticised kite flying as the sport of the kings, a noble pastime where grown men fly kites and great battles fought with the defeated kite floating away into the blue unknown. But sadly, kite flying has become a worryingly dangerous pastime with the kite thread or manjha (string coated with glass and metal powder) causing injuries to and deaths of humans as well as birds. Recently, a 48-year-old man on a two-wheeler in Bengaluru sustained serious injuries after a kite thread got entangled around his neck. Unable to stop his two-wheeler immediately, he put his left hand on the string and tried to pull it away which badly injured his two fingers. A video of the man speaking from his hospital bed that went viral was horrifying. Another shocking case in Delhi was that of a 28-year-old engineer who died after his throat was slit by a kite string while he was riding a scooter with two of his sisters. One can cite several other cases of injuries and deaths caused by the deadly manjha but what is more shocking than these cases is the apathy of the powers-that-be to put an end to the dangers caused by irresponsible kite flying. Year after year, injuries and deaths are reported and cases are registered under Section 336 or 337 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code against “unknown persons” according to police and media reports. It was the public uproar after the deaths of two children in 2016 in Delhi due to the manjha that prompted the capital’s government to ban the production, storage and sale of metal or glass-coated kite threads. Then in 2017, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directed state governments to enforce its directive banning ‘Chinese manjha’ (glass-coated nylon or synthetic thread) the string used in flying kites. The sale and purchase of this manjha are punishable with up to five years of jail or a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh or both. Cops have been authorised to take action against sellers and buyers. In the battle of kites, one of the strings gets severed, sending it down with the kite far from the kite flyers. Often, it ends up entangling an unsuspecting pedestrian or two-wheeler rider’s neck causing injury or death. Since it is difficult to trace the kite flyers, they get away scotfree. By the time the injured seek treatment and complain to the police, it is too late to trace the culprits. Most of the injuries are of a minor nature and go unreported. Many youngsters risk life and limb chasing severed kites dodging traffic dangerously and jumping across walls or trees or tripping from terraces while flying kites. Equally dreadful is when kite strings injure and kill birds. A large number of severed kite strings end up on trees or electric wires and frequently trap birds who suffer silently till they are rescued or succumb to injuries. Every year, PETA receives thousands of calls regarding injuries to birds due to kite strings. Moreover, metal-coated kite strings can be dangerous if flown near electric installations and overhead cables causing fire and outages due to short circuits. There have been many cases of people getting electrocuted after kite strings get tangled in power cables. In July, an eight-year-old boy in Bengaluru was burnt to death after being electrocuted while flying a kite. While a strict and complete ban on manjha is a must, banning it in just a few states is no solution; it has to be banned across India. It is also imperative that police conduct random checks regularly where kite flying takes place to examine the threads used. Surprise checks must be conducted at shops that sell kites and threads. Stringent punishment must be meted out to the offenders. The public also has a role to play in combating this menace. Whenever they see or hear of a kite thread injury or death, they must report it to the police. Parents must counsel children on how to fly kites safely and responsibly. Organisations must coordinate with the police and others to run campaigns to educate people on the dangers of using manjha. Ahead of another Independence Day and festivals such as Makara Sankranti and Baisakhi, it is hoped that the tradition of kite flying remains a pleasurable, yet safe activity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/ban-manjha-across-india-1019110.html
12-08-2021||Panorama||Alibaba rape allegation reveals China tech’s seamy side||By Li Yuan For years, as Alibaba turned from a scrappy Chinese start-up into an e-commerce behemoth, some of its business units welcomed new employees with an ice-breaking ceremony that alarmed many of those who endured it. Fresh hires were required to answer deeply personal questions in front of their colleagues, according to former employees: About their first loves, their first kiss and their first sexual encounters. The questions were phrased in ways that aren’t printable in this newspaper, they said. The Chinese technology giant has denied such claims. But last weekend, a female employee alleged on the company’s internal website that she had been sexually assaulted by a company client then raped by her manager — and the disclosure unleashed a slew of stories about ice-breaking activities. Former employees said online that they, too, had gone through them. And in a letter to management signed over the weekend by more than 6,000 Alibaba workers, employees urged the company to forbid sexual remarks and games in ice-breaking and other business events. (Alibaba has said it fired the employee accused of rape and will take other steps to stop sexual misconduct. It did not respond to requests for comment.) The allegations against Alibaba may have shocked the Chinese technology industry and the public, but it shouldn’t have surprised them. The male-dominated sector has long objectified women, blamed the victims and normalised sexual violence. Women who dare to speak out about sexual harassment and violence are called troublemakers or worse. Three years ago, a student at the University of Minnesota alleged that Richard Liu, the billionaire founder of one of China’s largest companies, JD.com, had raped her after an alcohol-soaked business meal. After Liu denied the allegations and the police declined to press charges, the Chinese internet and the tech industry took his side and called her a gold digger, among other misogynistic slurs. Often, public allegations simply go unaddressed. An employee for Didi, the ride-hailing company, was fired for poor performance last year after she complained to the company’s operations in Jiangsu Province that she was physically and sexually assaulted after she was forced to binge drink at a business meal. She later posted on social media photos of her badly bruised face and a doctor’s diagnosis. Didi didn’t respond to questions about whether it had investigated her allegations, back then or when asked again for comment this week. Incidents like the one at Alibaba happen throughout the industry, one female tech investor said. She asked for anonymity because she worried that entrepreneurs, some of whom make dirty jokes in big chat groups, will think she is too judgmental and will stop trusting her. The industry has toned down some of its most blatant and explicit behaviour. For example, more recently hired Alibaba employees told me that they didn’t have to answer personal questions at their ice-breaking ceremonies. And if society doesn’t force them to change, the Communist Party will. Amid a government crackdown on the powers of Big Tech, People’s Daily, the party’s official newspaper, warned on social media that nothing “can be too big to fail.” But the Chinese technology industry’s toxic culture is so ingrained that it won’t be easy to stamp out. Not so long ago, Chinese tech companies invited popular Japanese porn stars to their events to drum up publicity. A business unit at China’s other internet giant, Tencent, made its female employees at a 2017 event kneel and use their mouths to open water bottles that male colleagues clutched in their crotches. Tencent later apologised. Over the years, the search giant Baidu, the smartphone maker Xiaomi and JD.com have had Victoria Secret-style lingerie fashion shows at their annual celebrations. Sometimes the models were their female employees. At the time, few people, if anybody, condemned their behaviour. Some programmers reacted by asking whether those companies were hiring. Women everywhere face some of the same challenges. But in China’s technology industry, these attitudes have been passed down from internet giants like Alibaba to alumni who now lead start-ups big and small. Cheng Wei, founder of Didi and a former Alibaba executive, borrowed much of his management style from the e-commerce giant, which he called his true alma mater. One of Didi’s earliest hires told a magazine that a few new employees were shocked by how far its ice-breaking ceremony could go, according to a flattering profile in 2016. The employee said she felt closer to her colleagues after learning about their personal details. A former employee who asked for anonymity said she was too scared not to answer those questions for fear of antagonising her co-workers and her manager. Even punishments at tech companies can be sexual in nature. Cheng has said he punished one male executive by ordering the executive to “run naked.” A former Didi executive explained that others, too, were similarly told to run around the company campus in its early years, though men were allowed to wear their underwear and women could wear paper clothes over their undergarments. The executive and other employees said the practice went away in recent years. The Alibaba crisis also triggered discussions about two misogynistic rituals at Chinese business meals: Forced drinking and women’s company. Young women can be considered accessories at business meals. “A meal without girls is not a meal,” read the headline of a 2017 column in the Chinese edition of GQ, accompanied by an illustration of naked women in soup bowls. In the allegations she posted on the internal Alibaba website, the female employee said her manager had told their clients at dinner: “Look how good I am to you, I brought you a beauty.” The Alibaba client who she alleged had sexually assaulted her denied that he had done anything inappropriate. “It was a regular meal,” the client told a Beijing newspaper. “I only hugged and cuddled her. Nothing else.” (His company said he had been fired for misconduct and that he was cooperating with a police investigation.) The Alibaba employee wrote that her nightmare began after she was forced to drink too much. Forced drinking plays an important and a problematic role in China’s business culture. It can serve as a power play that puts women and the junior employees at a disadvantage. Refusing to drink with a superior is considered offensive. At a business dinner last year, a bank manager slapped a new employee after he rejected the manager’s repeated orders to replace his soft drinks with alcohol. The bank later disciplined the manager. In their appeal for action over the weekend, Alibaba employees urged the company to forbid forced drinking and to stop linking alcohol with business. The company stopped short of forbidding it, saying it supports the right of its employees to reject drinking requests. Alibaba said it had fired the manager accused of rape and pushed out two senior managers who ignored the woman’s pleas. Still, its response has left many people unhappy. Wang Shuai, Alibaba’s public relations chief, reposted a post he said a colleague had written. The post complained that some people simply believed in rumours and assumed the worst of Alibaba. People who are too critical of the company, the post said bluntly, could go away. In response, members of the public pointed to episodes that they said indicated problems at the top. A widely circulated video showed that Jack Ma, Alibaba’s billionaire founder, made a sex joke when he was hosting a group wedding ceremony — an annual event for the company that typically draws headlines — for his employees in 2019. “In work, we want the 996 spirit,” he said, referring to the punishing work schedule of 9 am to 9 pm, six days a week. “In life, we want 669,” he said. “Six days, six times. The key is long-lasting.” He played with the pronunciation of the word “nine,” which sounds like the word for “long-lasting.” His audience cheered and applauded. International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/alibaba-rape-allegation-reveals-china-tech-s-seamy-side-1019113.html
12-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Never say die||More often than not, most unexpected tragic events like the Pandemic strike us in life, shattering our inner strength and wiping out the faith we had reposed all through in something supernatural. Life, at that point in time, looks meaningless with even our near and dear ones departing from us. Some succumb to the impact of the tragedy while the brave manage to brace themselves to weather the storm with fortitude. I had spent a considerable period of time in the mid-1950s in the then USSR while working at the Bhilai steel plant and also more than three decades in close interaction with my Soviet counterparts at that plant. That was the time when the Soviet Union had emerged as a superpower after overcoming the colossal human and material casualties during the two World Wars. One could not fail to notice their never-say-die attitude, serving as an unfailing pick-me-up. It had almost become a trait among most of them to accept the worst adversity in life befalling them with a philosophical remark: “Nichhevo... Esscho khuzhe bivayut!”( take it easy, it could have been worse) This simple expression, for them almost a gospel truth, had the power to assuage afflictions ranging from material and personal losses to the worst natural calamity. The remarkable aspect of this positive psyche was that it was not thrust upon them by any political or power dispensation. It was indeed a panacea borne out of their long-suffering during their worst post-war years. My thoughts go back to a singularly remarkable incident that is indelibly etched in my memory, which glorifies this human trait. I was closely associated with my Russian counterpart, Alexei Fursov, a brilliant young engineer who became a close friend of mine, in the commissioning activities of the plant. That fateful day, while we were engaged in commissioning a coal crusher unit, his right hand got caught accidentally between the jaws of the crusher, and the arm had to be amputated to save his life. Being a witness to this gruesome tragedy, I was stunned to the core and depressed to no end. But instead of me consoling him, it was he who actually pacified me with the magic words: “Take it easy, dear comrade, worse could have happened. At least I have my left hand, and the rest of my body is intact” Though his body had suffered a grievous injury his “inner self’ remained as strong and resilient as steel. He had to, however, be sent back to the USSR for further treatment. After about three months, I received a letter from him laced with his characteristic touch of humour: “I have written this with my left hand. Don’t you think this is far better than my ‘right’ handwriting?” What he had actually meant was, “I am only crippled physically but not finished.” Destiny favours the ones that are ‘Down but never out.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/never-say-die-1019107.html
12-08-2021||Second Edit||Custodial deaths, torture must end||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana’s statement that “the threat to human rights and bodily integrity is the highest in police stations” is reiteration of a fact that courts and the society as a whole have known for a long time. But it is important that the CJI has made a mention of it outside the court and not as part of a judgement in a case on custodial death. As he noted, custodial torture and police atrocities still prevail despite constitutional guarantees, and vulnerable sections of the population continue to live outside the system of justice. The system of justice has many parts, and the police is an important part of it. But the most serious challenge to justice often comes from the police. Custodial deaths and torture are reported every day. It was disclosed in the Lok Sabha this month that 348 custodial deaths and 1,189 cases of torture by the police were reported across the country in the last three years. This is an understatement because many such cases are not reported at all. There are several reasons for the increase in custodial deaths. The idea of rule of law is under strain. There is even a view gaining ground that it is right for the police or even mobs to punish criminals and suspects without investigation and the judicial process confirming that they are guilty. The killings of accused persons have met with popular approval in many cases. The failure of the system to award justice in time is one reason for this. There is also a growing disregard for the rights of citizens. The police force is inadequate in numbers, undertrained, under-equipped and overstressed. The police system is highly politicised and all political parties control the police when they are in power. Police reforms have often been talked about but the proposals are never implemented. An independent police force that respects the rights of citizens and is well-equipped to deal with crimes without torture and killing of suspects remains a distant ideal. Union Home Minister Amit Shah recently said that the days of third-degree torture are over. The statement is in stark contest with the CJI’s statement which accepts the reality of the situation. The government has also said that codes like the IPC and the CrPC would be amended to speed up investigation and trial of cases. Speedier justice is not just a matter of faster legal procedures. It should be ensured that justice is not defeated when the process is fast-tracked. Every part of the justice system should work together to put an end to custodial deaths and torture, with the support of politics and the larger society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/custodial-deaths-torture-must-end-1019095.html
12-08-2021||South||Opposition leaders hold mock session, present adjournment motion notice outside Kerala Assembly||The Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kerala staged a mock adjournment motion notice presentation in front of the state Assembly on Thursday over the statement of gold and dollar smuggling accused about Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's involvement in currency smuggling. The demonstration was staged in protest against the denial of permission to present notice for an adjournment motion. Congress MLA P T Thomas gave the adjournment motion notice on the basis of reports regarding the statement of gold and dollar smuggling case accused and former employee of UAE consulate Swapna Suresh to the customs that a packet containing currency was sent through a UAE consulate official from the Chief Minister's office to the Chief Minister who was on a UAE tour earlier. Speaker M B Rajesh denied permission to present the notice citing that it was a matter under court's consideration. Subsequently, the Opposition MLAs, led by Opposition leader V D Satheesan, walked out of the House and staged a mock Assembly in front of the Assembly gate. Satheesan said that the statement of an accused to customs has much legal value and could be even treated as evidence. Hence the statements linking the Chief Minister with currency smuggling assumed much significance. The Congress had already demanded the resignation of Vijayan from the Cabinet in view of the fresh development. The Left Front government had also suffered a setback on Wednesday as the Kerala High Court stayed a notification ordering a judicial probe against officials of the Enforcement Directorate and other central agencies probing the gold and dollar smuggling case. The state government alleged that the central agencies were hatching a conspiracy against Vijayan and others in the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/opposition-leaders-hold-mock-session-present-adjournment-motion-notice-outside-kerala-assembly-1018883.html
12-08-2021||South||Budget session of Puducherry Assembly to begin on August 26||The Budget session of the Puducherry Assembly will begin on August 26 with the customary address by Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. Official sources told PTI that the date of the Assembly session was decided on Wednesday at a meeting the Speaker R Selvam had with Chief Minister N Rangasamy and a request had been sent to the Lt Governor to present her customary address that day. This would be the first budget session after the AINRC-BJP coalition government headed by Rangasamy assumed office after emerging victorious in the April 6 Assembly elections. The sources also said the Chief Minister, who holds the Finance portfolio, would present the budget for the fiscal 2021-2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/budget-session-of-puducherry-assembly-to-begin-on-august-26-1018972.html
12-08-2021||South||Woman mahout immerses ashes of Kerala elephant in Ganges, offers rituals||It was the emotional bonding that prompted a woman mahout from Kerala to offer rituals for a tusker at various temples and immerse its ashes in the Ganga at Kashi after an unexpected death. Shabna Sulaiman, a native of Kozhikode in Kerala, quit her medical profession and started working with elephants. Being the granddaughter of a circus firm owner, she had even more reasons to be very affectionate with animals, especially elephants. Her desire to be an elephant instructor was turned down by many elephant custodians citing reasons like it being a risky task for women. Finally, two years ago she got in touch with Palakkad-based elephant custodian Haridas Manissery who could realise her genuine interest to work with elephants. Shabna said that among the three elephants being cared for by Haridas, she developed a special bonding with Manissery Raghuram. Despite being partially blind, it was very intelligent and used to show much affection. It even used to identify her by the sound of her vehicle, said Shabna, who is considered to be the first woman mahout from the Muslim community in Kerala and even India. Shabna even used to accompany the elephant as its second mahout when it was taken to festivals. A couple of months ago Raghuram developed foot disease and it died on June 9 at the age of 53. "We had been giving utmost care to the elephant and hence never expected that it would depart us so soon. I was in Bihar as part of penning a book on caring for elephants when Raghuram died. I am yet to come out of the grief. It was owing to the attachment that I felt like doing some rituals for the tusker. I expressed my desire to Hardias sir who used to care for him as if he were his own son and he agreed to it," Shabna told DH. The ashes were taken to Varanasi and immersed in the Ganges on the 21st day of death. Rituals were also offered at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, including an offering of 53-litre milk marking its age and bookings for annual rituals for next 20 years. Rituals are also being offered at various Ganapathi temples in the name of Raghuram, said Shabna. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-mahout-immerses-ashes-of-kerala-elephant-in-ganges-offers-rituals-1019038.html
12-08-2021||South||Graduates submit anti-dowry declaration during convocation in Kerala||As many as 386 students who graduated from the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies in Kochi have submitted a declaration that they will neither accept nor give dowry. The anti-dowry declarations were given on the basis of a suggestion made by Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the university chancellor, that no-dowry declarations should be mandated by universities while awarding degrees. The call was given in view of a series of dowry deaths and harassment reported in Kerala recently. The Governor who attended the convocation of KUFOS held in Kochi on Thursday appreciated the students for their firm decision against dowry and said that they stand as leaders of a campaign against the nefarious practice. University vice chancellor Riji John handed over the declaration by students to the Governor. The Governor also urged that jewellery firms should keep off from advertisements featuring brides wearing ornaments as it was sending a wrong message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/graduates-submit-anti-dowry-declaration-during-convocation-in-kerala-1019048.html
12-08-2021||South||Syro-Malabar Church head to face trial in land corruption case||Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church in Kerala, Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, will have to face a trial in a land deal case as the Kerala High Court rejected his pleas against the orders of a lower court in this matter. As many as six petitions filed by Alencherry were rejected by the court. The fresh development came close on the heels of Income Tax Department issuing a notice to the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese headed by Alencherry to pay Rs 3.5 crore as capital gains tax. A local court in Kochi had initiated proceedings against Alencherry and three others in 2019 in connection with the alleged corruption in land deals of the Catholic church. The court found prima facie evidence in a private petition alleging corruption to the tune of several crores in the sale of prime land of the church by undervaluing it. The Income Tax department had earlier issued a notice to the church to pay income tax of Rs 3 crore in connection with the land deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/syro-malabar-church-head-to-face-trial-in-land-corruption-case-1019064.html
12-08-2021||South||Maoist cadre strength in Andhra Pradesh falls from 140 to 54 in 2 years||Once the hotbed of the Naxalites now known as Maoists, the Left Wing Extremism is apparently struggling to survive in Andhra Pradesh. The state police department asserts that the Maoist movement's decline has been significantly steep in the past two years, “when their cadre strength was reduced from 140 to 54.” As per the Andhra Pradesh police intelligence reports, the Maoist military formations, responsible for guerrilla actions, saw a reduction from two companies (50 members) to a mere platoon (10 members). Out of the 13 districts in the state, LWE activities have been largely confined to Visakhapatnam and East Godavari, which comprise the Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) area. While eight area committees were operating in early 2019, at present there are four such committees in the AOB. Only two divisional committees (Visakha-East and Malkangiri-Koraput Border) and one military platoon are active in the AOB. Two Central Committee Members - Akkiraju Harigopal alias Ramakrishna (RK) and Gajarla Ravi alias Uday are said to be operating in the AOB Special Zonal Committee (SZC). Andhra Pradesh Director General of Police Gautam Sawang attributes this decline in Maoist influence – numerically and geographically – to a lack of new local recruitment, waning public support even as several Maoists have either been killed in encounters or surrendered before the police. In the last two years, 14 Maoists including three Divisional Committee Members were neutralised in 11 exchanges of fire, six including one Special Zonal Committee Member and one DCM were arrested and 32 cadres including one SZCM and three DCMs surrendered. “Because of their violent activities, killing of innocent tribals branding them as police informers, obstruction of road construction and other development activities in the interiors, public perception towards Maoists has been visibly changing and they are fast losing the hitherto local support,” Sawang says. “Most of the village level formations known as Janatana Sarkars are also defunct,” the DGP says while also factoring in the government welfare schemes, police outreach, tribal youth skill development programmes etc for the change. Due to the inadequate local recruitment, officials say that Maoists are trying to influx Chhattisgarh cadre to work in the AOB-SZC. “But due to the tough terrain and language barriers, they find it difficult to operate here and often run back to Chhattisgarh.” In May, CCM Uday had brought with him eight new cadres from Chhattisgarh to function in the AOB. Maoists surrender Six CPI Maoists of AOBSZC – including Chikkudu Chinna Rao alias Sudheer, a divisional committee member and two former bodyguards of top leader Akkiraju alias RK– have surrendered before the police. A native of Pedabayalu in Visakhapatnam district, Sudheer (32) is also the commander of the divisional command, carrying a reward of Rs five lakh and involved in 93 offences including 14 murders. Vanthala Vannu alias Mahita alias Sailu (25) and Madakam Somidi (21), both Area Committee Members, were part of the team protecting RK. Mahita participated in the incident of killing TDP MLA Kidari Sarveswara Rao and ex-MLA Siveri Soma in September 2018. “Disillusion with the obsolete Maoist ideology, discrimination of the Adivasi cadre by the leaders hailing from the plains and attractive surrender policies of AP government are among the reasons for their surrender,” Sawang said while presenting them before media on Thursday at Amaravati. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maoist-cadre-strength-in-andhra-pradesh-falls-from-140-to-54-in-2-years-1019087.html
12-08-2021||State||After HC order, govt tells ULBs to remove lake encroachments||The state government on Wednesday told all municipalities and corporations to start removing encroachment on water bodies, including the structures that have come up on the 30-metre buffer zone. The order from the Urban Development Department comes in the wake of a direction by the Karnataka High Court on July 14, 2021. It cited the obligatory functions of the officials to protect the water bodies under different laws for municipalities, corporations and the BBMP and cited the KTCDA Act 2014 that bars any construction activity in the 30 metre buffer zone. The order, however, falls short of ordering a survey or fixing a deadline for reclaiming the government land. Last month, the high court had noted that out of 39,179 lakes, survey of only 17,009 lakes has been completed and directed officials to resume the process. "We direct the state government to issue specific directions to all concerned officers including the Deputy Commissioners to commence the work of survey of lakes and buffer zones under their respective jurisdiction. We again reiterate that survey has to be of the lakes as well as its thirty meters buffer zones," the order had said. To a question, Additional Chief Secretary of Urban Development Department Rakesh Singh said a deadline for survey water bodies and recovery of encroached land will be fixed in the coming days. "That will be done in consultation with the Revenue Department. Multiple agencies are involved in removing of encroachments and all the stakeholders have to agree on the deadline," he said. Sources said the department was wary of ruffling the feathers of the political leaders. "In urban areas, encroachment has the backing of political leaders who also face charges of land grabbing. In the case of poor people living on such land, we have to tread cautiously. The Wednesday order is essentially acknowledging the high court order," he said. In prime places like Bengaluru, evicting encroachers has become a Herculean task. As per a survey by the Bangalore Urban district administration, 4,500 acre of land belonging 837 lakes in the district has been encroached. Over the last one month, officials have recovered about 180 acre belonging to more than 75 lakes. Officials said the drive will continue in the coming days. In BBMP, Special Commissioner (Lakes) B Reddy Shankar Babu said an action plan has to be chalked out to recover the lake land. "There are a number of properties that come under the purview of the UDD order. The BBMP will have to survey and identify the properties and chalk out an action plan," he added. A senior official said thousands of properties have to be demolished if the order is implemented. "There are thousands of properties built within 30 metres of a water body even after that area was declared a buffer zone. They have obtained all the permissions and sanctions from the BBMP. In addition, those properties built before declaration of buffer zone but without the required permissions are also illegal. The town planning department has to be held responsible and a future course of action has to be decided," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/after-hc-order-govt-tells-ulbs-to-remove-lake-encroachments-1018772.html
12-08-2021||State||Read Kannada newspaper, books, culture min urges public||Urging citizens to read at least one Kannada newspaper everyday, Kannada & Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar took charge of his portfolio on Wednesday. “Buy at least one Kannada book a month. Watch a Kannada film once in two or three months,” Kumar urged. Conserving the heritage of the language and the region should be everyone’s effort, he said, assuring to work towards the cause. The minister will also soon take charge as the energy minister, another portfolio allocated to him. “There has to be power in the Kannada & Culture department and there has to be culture in the Power department,” he quipped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/read-kannada-newspaper-books-culture-min-urges-public-1018776.html
12-08-2021||State||SSLC student ends life over not getting expected marks||A 16-year-old student ended his life after failing to score expected marks in SSLC examinations at a village in Karkala taluk on Wednesday. Agneesh Kumar, a resident of Havaldarbettu, was dejected over his results. He took the extreme step when no one was at home. A case has been registered at Karkala Police Station in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sslc-student-ends-life-over-not-getting-expected-marks-1018779.html
12-08-2021||State||Pilferage of petroleum products: 3 arrested||Police arrested three men for allegedly puncturing Petronet MHB Ltd’s Mangaluru-Bengaluru pipeline at Arala in Bantwal and pilfering petroleum products. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said that the arrested persons included prime accused Ivan Charl Pinto (43), welders Ajith from Pacchanady Bondel and Joyel Preetham D’Souza from Kannur. The police are on the lookout for other suspects involved in the incident. Upon witnessing the loss of pressure during pumping of petroleum products through the pipeline on July 11, officials of the company conducted a survey and had identified a location in Arala inBantwal. Narrowing down on the spot, they had found damage to the pipeline and arrangements made to drain petroleum products. Accordingly, a complaint was registered against Charl Pinto for allegedly stealing petroleum products worth Rs 40 lakh.   The police have seized a jeep, cans used for filling diesel, and also diesel. The prime accused  Ivan had engaged the welders Ajith and Preetham to drill a hole in the pipeline, the police officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pilferage-of-petroleum-products-3-arrested-1018780.html
12-08-2021||State||SC order on withdrawal of cases against MPs & MLAs: High Court seeks details||The High Court on Wednesday directed the state government to place on record the orders passed withdrawing criminal cases against Members of Parliament and Members of Legislative Assembly after September 16, 2020. This direction was in the wake of the order of the Supreme Court on Tuesday stipulating that no case against an MP/MLA can be withdrawn without the consent of the respective high courts. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said that in view of the binding nature of the orders passed by the Supreme Court, the state government will have to scrupulously follow the directions. The bench noted that the legality of the actions of the state government taken after September 16, 2020, of withdrawal of prosecution against sitting or former MP or MLA, will have to be considered as per the directions of the Supreme Court. In this regard the state government has been directed to furnish the details. One of the petitions before the bench challenged the decision of the government dated August 31, 2020, to withdraw prosecution in 61 cases, including cases against the elected representatives. The counsel for the petitioner – People Union for Civil Liberties Karnataka – submitted that the petition may be disposed of in view of the order of the apex court. The bench also directed the state government to place on record the copy of the Supreme Court order, details of decision to withdraw before the bench in a suo motu PIL registered to monitor the cases against the elected representatives. The court on September 26, 2020, registered a suo motu PIL and also constituted a special bench to hear all pending criminal cases involving legislators (MPs and MLAs).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-order-on-withdrawal-of-cases-against-mps-mlas-high-court-seeks-details-1018783.html
12-08-2021||State||Karnataka BJP MLA sits in protest alone over neglect towards his constituency||In an embarrassment to the ruling BJP, Mudigere legislator MP Kumaraswamy on Thursday staged a protest in Vidhana Soudha all by himself, accusing the government of neglecting his flood-hit constituency. Kumaraswamy’s demand is that Mudigere should be brought under the ambit of flood relief through the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Kumaraswamy sat in protest in front of Mahatma Gandhi’s statue in Vidhana Soudha with a placard addressed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai seeking NDRF/SDRF funds for Mudigere and compensation to those who lost their homes, land and crops. “In 2019, we had severe floods in which six people got washed away along with their homes. It took us 15 days to recover their bodies. Not just homes, but even coffee estates got washed away. We asked for relief and [the government] showed extreme neglect. We kept quiet. Last year, there were floods again,” he said. “This time, I won’t ask why funds were given to others. But, I will say that when Shivamogga City comes under NDRF, why not Mudigere, which is a forest area in the Western Ghats region that received 900 mm rainfall?” he said. Kumaraswamy’s reference to Shivamogga is seen as a dig at former chief minister BS Yediyurappa and RDPR Minister KS Eshwarappa; both of them belong to the Shivamogga district. The BJP MLA even said that former JD(S) chief minister HD Kumaraswamy was more helpful. “When I was elected in 2018, Kumaraswamy was the CM. I requested him, with folded hands, for help. He gave grants and even reached out to me. But now, despite our own party being in power, there’s neglect,” he said. This monsoon saw Karnataka suffering floods for the fourth consecutive year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bjp-mla-sits-in-protest-alone-over-neglect-towards-his-constituency-1018892.html
12-08-2021||State||Karnataka govt lists out strict guidelines for Ganesha, Muharram festivals||Laying out a fresh set of guidelines for the celebration of festivals, the state government listed elaborate restrictions on the celebration of the Muharram and Gowri-Ganesha festival. The state government has banned all kinds of processions associated with both festivals. The government stated that all prayers shall be held at Masjids strictly adhering to Covid rules. Similarly, the government has banned the public celebration of the Ganesha festival by setting up pandals. "People must celebrate the festival in their homes and no procession will be allowed while bringing the Ganesha idol or during the immersion of the idols," the order said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-lists-out-strict-guidelines-for-ganesha-muharram-festivals-1019014.html
12-08-2021||State||Diploma courses come with exit option now||The department of higher education has launched admission to diploma courses for the current academic year with exit options as per the National Education Policy (NEP) guidelines. The students, who get admission to Diploma courses across the state, will have the option to exit after completion of one year along with a certificate which is associated with National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) level one which will help students to start working. If the students decide to exit after the second year, they will be given a certificate that is linked to NSQF level 3. Considering the decreasing trend in admissions to diploma courses in the state, the department of collegiate and technical education has revamped the curriculum completely with inputs from industry leaders. P Pradeep, commissioner of the department of collegiate and technical education, said, "The overall admissions to diploma courses during 2020-21 was 41 per cent and it was 65 per cent at government colleges, 63 per cent at aided institutions and 25 per cent at private unaided colleges." "After the completion of the course, 40 per cent of the students will take up engineering and hardly 25 per cent  of them will get jobs. Considering this, we have revised the curriculum and now it is job oriented," he explained. This year to prevent inconveniences to students, the department has enabled walk-in admissions instead of online admissions. However, these walk-in admissions will not be applicable at the select 26 polytechnics where merit-based admissions are offered.  8 new courses Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayana launched eight new courses introduced in diploma education in the city on Thursday. Speaking to the media, he said, "Our aim is to reach 100 per cent admissions in diploma courses and increase employability and also to align the courses with NSQF and with global standards." Currently, 33 traditional are courses offered and the newly introduced eight courses include Alternative Energy Technologies, Cyber Security, Food Processing and preservation, Travel and Tourism, Cloud computing and Big data, Automation and Robotics, Direction screenplay writing and TV Production.  These new courses will be introduced at the government polytechnics in Gauribidanur, Shiralakoppa, Kudligi, Rabakavi, Banahatti, Aurad, Chennagiri, Koppal, Honnali and Kapu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/diploma-courses-come-with-exit-option-now-1019032.html
12-08-2021||State||HC bench stays single judge order quashing GST on bets at turf clubs||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday stayed the order of single judge quashing the Goods and Service Tax (GST) Rules of paying tax on the entire face value of betting amount at Bangalore Turf Club (BTC) and Mysore Race Club Limited (MRCL). A bench headed by Justice Satish Chandra Sharma passed this order on the writ appeals filed by the Union government and the state government. In its June 2, 2021, order, the single-judge bench had said that the consideration clubs receive is by way of commission for planting a totalizator, which is no different from that of a stockbroker or a travel agent. In such transactions liability is on payment of GST only on the income commission that they earn and not on all the money that pass through them. The single bench had quashed Rule 31A (3) of the Central Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017 and Rule 31A of the Karnataka Goods and Services Tax Rules, 2017, in respect to the two clubs. In the appeal it is contended that that Section 15 of the GST Act, devolves power on the government to make rules for valuation and said that Rule 31A (3), which was quashed by the single bench, has been issued in pursuance of this power under Section 15. This rule has been upheld by the three-judge bench of the Supreme Court in 2020, the appeal stated. The next hearing on the batch of appeals is posted to October 7, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-bench-stays-single-judge-order-quashing-gst-on-bets-at-turf-clubs-1019085.html
12-08-2021||State||Sex CD cases: SIT head not to verify probe done in his absence||Senior IPS officer Soumendhu Mukherjee, who is also the head of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the sex CD cases involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, on Thursday, informed the High Court that he sticks to the investigation carried out during his absence. The officer was on medical leave even as the investigation was underway. During the previous hearing, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka had observed that the investigation report, submitted to the bench in sealed cover, was not approved by Mukherjee. The government submitted that Mukherjee had authorised the joint commissioner of police Sandeep Patil to submit the report before the High Court. Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi submitted that the investigation was not vitiated due to the absence of the head of the SIT. The bench perused the additional statement of objections filed by the SIT, which was verified by Mukherjee. The court was informed that the officer had resumed charge as head of the SIT after his return from medical leave, from April 28 to July 29. The bench made a query to the counsel representing the SIT whether as head of the SIT, Mukherjee was now willing to go into the investigation carried out in his absence with a view to ascertain whether it had been properly done. The counsel submitted on instructions that the officer wanted to stick to the statement made by him in the additional statement of objections. “Thus the only inference that can be drawn is that the head of the SIT is not willing to look into the investigation carried out by other members of the team during his long absence,” the bench observed, noting that query was made only with the object of ascertaining whether there is any effort made by the officer to ensure that proper investigation is carried out. The bench has posted the batch of petitions on various issues, including the challenging of the validity of the constitution of the SIT, for hearing to September 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sex-cd-cases-sit-head-not-to-verify-probe-done-in-his-absence-1019086.html
12-08-2021||State||No changes in offline classes schedule for schools||The Karnataka government will go ahead with the decision for the resumption of offline classes as per the schedule from August 23 for grades 9 and above. Following the reports about an increase in the number of children infected with Covid-19 in the last five days, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said, "There is no question of withdrawing the order or revisiting the decision. We are all set to reopen offline classes from August 23." The minister also mentioned, "The worry is about children belonging to primary grades and we will discuss it during the end of this month." V Anbu Kumar, commissioner, department of public instruction, said that the Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) will be issued on Friday.  As per the current decision, the classes for grades 9, 10, 11 and 12 will resume offline classes from August 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-changes-in-offline-classes-schedule-for-schools-1019104.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Minister vows action on illegal slaughterhouses||Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan on Thursday said action would be taken towards "total prohibition" of cow slaughter by closing down illegal slaughterhouses in Karnataka.  In a statement he issued after reviewing his department, Chauhan said he received calls from various parts of the state on illegal slaughterhouses. "A swift operation will be taken up with the home department to close down illegal slaughterhouses," he said.  Chauhan was the animal husbandry minister in the previous B S Yediyurappa government and piloted the passage of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, imposing a blanket ban on the slaughter of cows in the state.  The only slaughter allowed is for terminally ill cattle or cattle suffering from contagious diseases or operated upon for experimental or research purposes. Also, buffalo above the age of 13 years can be slaughtered with certification from a competent authority. Chauhan further said that over 6,000 cows were rescued from slaughter during the recent Bakrid festival. "I thank animal welfare board members, home department staff and those in my department," he said.  During the review meeting, the minister took officials to task for a delay in the implementation of a Pashu Loka (theme park) that was announced in the 2021-22 Budget. This will be the country's first such project, he said. "It's been five months and nothing has been done about it," Chauhan said, flaying officials. It was announced in the Budget that the theme park would come up 100 acres of land in Hesarghatta near Bengaluru with private partnership "to provide information and training with permanent exhibition and demonstration of native livestock, breeds of sheep/goats and poultry breeds." Chauhan also noted that work on setting up gaushalas in every district was on. "By October 2, we should flag off the gaushalas," he said, asking officials to expedite work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-vows-action-on-illegal-slaughterhouses-1018748.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Improve power supply in rural areas, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday directed officials to prepare a blueprint to ensure uninterrupted seven-hour power supply in rural areas after he found disparity on this front during a review meeting. At the meeting he chaired with Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar, Bommai said 15 districts in the state had seven hours of uninterrupted power supply every day, with the rest of the districts having only five hours of power supply. Even that is not continuous, he noted.  Bommai directed officials to focus on strengthening the capacity of renewable resources in Karnataka, while noting that the state currently had a capacity of 1,5184 MW of renewable energy. “I also directed officials to see to it that we sell excess power to other states at a higher price,” Bommai said.  Also, the government will examine a proposal to increase the financial aid provided for pumpsets under the Ganga Kalyana scheme from Rs 50,000 at present to Rs 1.2 lakh. The state aims to provide electricity to 18,569 wells under the scheme, he said.  The CM also reviewed projects under water resources department, directing officials to complete pending projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/improve-power-supply-in-rural-areas-cm-tells-officials-1018760.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 lockdowns left kids with speech disorders||A surge in cases of children having speech development problems and behavioural changes due to lockdowns in the past one-and-a-half-years has resulted in a spurt in special helplines with child psychologists, behavioural, occupational and speech therapists dealing with such problems. Doctors are currently seeing children born around 2018-19 and aged between two years and two-and-a half-years, who are still unable to speak even a few words properly in the absence of peers to communicate with. Instead, they sound like cartoon characters having been exposed only to gadgets instead of other children at daycare, nannies or grandparents. Inability to interpret, understand sensory input through the use of their senses, or adapt and interact with their environment, are other problems.  Generally, children begin to babble from around the age of six months and say their first words between 10 months and a year and three months. Most start speaking after their first birthday. Dr Meghna Kashyap, child and rehabilitation psychologist, Aster Little Bluejays Child Development Centre, said perceptual development refers to how a child takes in inputs by using all five senses of seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting and touching. “We used to get at least four paediatric cases every day of children not having age-appropriate development. Now, we have 50 cases. Since the second wave’s lockdown, we have treated at least 100. With 0 to 5-year-old kids, we observed that there is a lack of expression by the child. All communication basics, verbal and non-verbal, are learnt in the first five years. “But children have had only one-way input from phones, iPads, and laptops. They generally start picking up the language spoken at home but some, even though three years old, spoke only gibberish that cartoon characters do,” she said. Doctors suggest allowing 30-minute screen time per day only for children aged six and above, and if not possible, show them real-world videos of animals and nature, instead of allowing them to fantasise about them in the cartoon world. Dr Supraja Chandrasekhar, Paediatric Intensivist, Columbia Asia Referral Hospital, Yeshwanthpur, said, “We’ve seen serious implications like sleep disturbance, irritability, and stubbornness because of increase in screen time. Toddlers grow with nature. Their lack of playtime under the sun, in the mud, in the park has negatively impacted their way of thinking and living.” Dr Yogesh Kumar Gupta, Head of Paediatric Intensive Care, Fortis Hospitals, Bannerghatta Road, said the hospital is seeing a lot of toddlers with speech regression due to lack of social contact and increased screen time. Perceptual development is closely linked to physical development because children’s growing motor abilities allow them to explore their environments in new ways. “As they are locked in the house, this has been affected. An increase in fatigue, headaches and aggressive behaviour can also be attributed to absence of playtime and schools.” “We are seeing gaming addiction, depression, arguments, and fights with parents. Sensory perceptual development has been especially affected in toddlers since there are no pre-schools. Physical interaction and socialisation are essential for a child’s sensory, speech and social development. Due to online classes, personal touch with teachers is also absent,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-lockdowns-left-kids-with-speech-disorders-1018766.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka plans to spend Rs 1,471 crore on third wave||Karnataka government is expecting to spend Rs 1,471.80 crore to fight the third wave of Covid-19, an official report shows. These costs will not only go towards treating thousands of cases, including 3,270 to 4,861 projected child paediatric hospital cases expected at the peak of the third wave, but will also be used to procure necessary medical resources and pay the salaries of medical staffers vital to delivering Covid-19 healthcare services. The costs were detailed in a vision document compiled by the Department of Health and Family Welfare (DoHFW) and the Department of Medical Education, titled 'Action plan for Preparedness to Address the Upcoming Third Wave of Covid-19 in Karnataka'. The total sum is split along three broad areas of expenditure. Firstly, Rs 640.27 crore will be used to upgrade bedding infrastructure across 19 districts and general hospitals and 146 taluk hospitals.  In district hospitals, this will encompass increasing the number of HDU beds from 10 to 70, ICU beds from 10 to 50 and paediatric ICU (PICU) beds from 6 to 20. In taluk hospitals, ICU/HDU beds will be increased from the current 6 to 25 and two PICU beds will also be set up per hospital. The proposed oxygen bed availability for Covid care, post-augmentation, is to be 84,032. The budget also includes money for electrification plus bolstering of oxygen resources such as storing an additional 13 kilolitres (KL) of liquid medical oxygen above the 6 KL already available at each of the 19 district hospitals, plus 6 KL each at every taluk hospital. According to the government, the state has an oxygen requirement of 1,994 metric tonnes per day. At present, the supply is about 1,097 metric tonnes. Secondly, the state is also proposing to allocate Rs 595.16 crore to cover 12 months of salaries of 13,280 doctors, nurses, medical technicians and Group D workers. Lastly, the state will also have to spend Rs 236.44 crore for medical equipment such as ventilators, concentrators and oxygen cylinders. The document proposes completing preparations by October by when the third wave is predicted to begin. While the proposed infrastructure augmentation is focused on treating adult cases as much as children, the report stresses that the high transmission rate and vaccinations among the adult population and the elderly makes “age-shifting” a real problem. The report pointed out that a greater number of children were affected in the second wave than in the first. "As per data collected in waves one and two, even severe Covid-19 infections in children are less likely to require ICU admissions. However, we need to be watchful about how the mutant strains will behave,” the report states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-plans-to-spend-rs-1471-crore-on-third-wave-1018769.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Bommai govt's countdown has begun, BJP is nothing without BSY'||Opposition leader in Legislative Council S R Patil said countdown has begun for Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government as the party is nothing without B S Yediyurappa.  Speaking at a press meet here on Wednesday, he said, “The BJP leaders had created a hue and cry when I told this about six months ago. My statement became true now”. The BJP is a divided house now and the validity of the Bommai government is about to expire soon, Patil predicted. He said the BJP leaders are fighting for the chair and the ministers are upset over the allocation of portfolios and some are demanding plum portfolios. Hence, this government will not last long, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-govts-countdown-has-begun-bjp-is-nothing-without-bsy-1018774.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka far from attaining immunity against Covid; must step up vaccination: Second serosurvey||Karnataka was far from attaining natural immunity against the Covid-19 in January this year, and hence must step up vaccination coverage and enforce public health measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19, concluded the second serosurvey done in January this year, the results of which were finally published eight months later in Bengaluru on Wednesday. The study found antibodies in 15.6% of the population and active Covid infection in just 0.5%. Statewide infection fatality rate (IFR) was estimated as 0.11%, and Covid-19 burden estimated between 26.1 to 37.7%.   Epidemiologist and State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) member Dr Giridhar Babu tweeted, "The study found lower levels of IgG seroprevalence (antibodies), mostly due to antibody waning. We found near zero prevalence of active cases during mid-February 2021. Karnataka was far from attaining population levels of immunity during the survey." The results of the second round of serosurvey were used in late March by the State health department to update testing and surveillance strategies. The results were finally published on medRxiv, a preprint server, on August 11. The second serosurvey started on January 25 this year, to estimate the burden of active infection and anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies in the general population of Karnataka. Additionally, a study among participants identified as Covid-19 positive in the first survey round was conducted to assess the clinical sensitivity of the testing kit used. The study of 41,228 participants across 290 healthcare facilities in all 30 districts of Karnataka was done among three groups of participants (low, moderate, and high risk).  Consenting participants were subjected to RT-PCR testing and antibody (IgG) testing. Clinical sensitivity of the IgG ELISA test kit was estimated as equal or more than 38.9%. The sentinel based population survey helped identify districts that needed better testing, reporting, and clinical management.  Babu further added, "There was a subsequent surge seen in Karnataka due to a mix of alpha, and delta (variants) which was picking up speed in April, and a large susceptible population were infected." "The results from such surveys are useful for prioritising areas that need to step up vaccination coverage and enforce public health measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Analysis at district level can identify priority areas needing actions," he said.   "Not every area will have the same risk. Battle against multiple waves has to be fought by using data from seroprevalence and vaccination coverage. Areas with lower vaccination coverage and lower seroprevalence will be the worst hit and need to be prioritised for saving lives," Babu said. Neurovirologist Dr V Ravi, state nodal officer for genetic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 virus, told DH, "One should remember that this survey was done when the first wave ebbed. The people who participated in the second round were those who didn't participate in the first round (in September last year). So, these infections are in addition to what we found in the first survey. The right interpretation is to add both results that gives us 42.9% (27.3% prevalence found from first serosurvey + 15.6% from second survey)." Ravi explained considering that until January only 43% were exposed, this explains why we had a huge second wave because more than half of our population was not exposed. "We need to do at least 1.2 lakh vaccinations per day and sustain high levels of testing. These are actionable takeaways for the government to implement. Now, we're waiting for the government clearance to do the third survey. This time the added variable will be the vaccination status of the participants and if it has any effect on the disease burden," he said.  He pointed out that since the gap between the first and the second rounds of serosurveys was more than three months, hence antibodies waned. "This is why we called back participants from the first survey and took samples from them, and found that more than half of them did not have antibodies," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-far-from-attaining-immunity-against-covid-must-step-up-vaccination-second-serosurvey-1018912.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||10-day ultimatum to Dakshina Kannada admin to implement serious Covid measures: CM Bommai||Expressing his concern over the high positivity rate of Covid 19 in the district, Chief Minister Basavaraja Bommai issued an ultimatum of 10 days to the district administration of Dakshina Kannada to implement serious measures to increase admissions at Covid Care Centres. The CM stated that 70 per cent of the Covid-19 positive persons in the regions with larger density of population, should be admitted to the Covid Care Centres.  He noted that the Covid 19 positivity in the district is at an alarming rate. This is a result of the district administration's failure to form micro containment zones. "The Covid Care Centres should be equipped with necessary facilities such as oxygen concentrators, clean labatories and necessary staff," the CM said. Bommai stressed the importance of tracking the Covid-19 positive persons. Thermal checking should be done on a regular basis, he aded Health Minister Dr Sudhakar was among those present at the meeting||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10-day-ultimatum-to-dakshina-kannada-admin-to-implement-serious-covid-measures-cm-bommai-1018922.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt brings in major changes in diploma courses under NEP||Announcing admission to various diploma courses under technical education, the Karnataka government has made several changes in the admission and academic activities. As per the new changes, the students will get an option to exit after completion of the first-year diploma course with a certificate in hand.  Keeping in mind the declining trend in admission to diploma courses across Karnataka and limited job opportunities, the Higher Education Department has implemented National Education Policy (NEP) in Diploma Education from the current academic year.  "After one year if a student wishes to exit, a certificate will be provided which will be associated with National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) level 1 and if students exit after the second year, they will be given certificates associated with NSQF level 3 which will help students in getting jobs," said Pradeep P, Commissioner, Department of Technical and Collegiate Education.  To make diploma courses more attractive and industry-oriented, the department has revamped the entire curriculum with the help of industry leaders.  Along with existing 33 existing traditional courses, the department has introduced eight new courses including Robotics, Cybersecurity, Food processing, Alternative Energy Technology etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-brings-in-major-changes-in-diploma-courses-under-nep-1018935.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Flood relief: BJP MLA protests at Vidhana Soudha||In an embarrassment to the ruling BJP, its Mudigere legislator M P Kumaraswamy on Thursday demonstrated all by himself in Vidhana Soudha, accusing the government of neglecting his flood-hit constituency.  Kumaraswamy's demand is that Mudigere should be brought under the ambit of flood relief through the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF).  Kumaraswamy sat in protest in front of the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Vidhana Soudha with a placard addressed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai seeking NDRF/SDRF funds for Mudigere and compensation to those who lost their homes, land and crops.  "In 2019, we had severe floods in which six people got washed away along with their homes. It took us 15 days to recover their bodies. Not just homes, but even coffee estates got washed away. We asked for relief and (the government) showed extreme neglect. We kept quiet. Last year, there were floods again," he said.  "This time, I won’t ask why funds were given to others. But, I will say that when Shivamogga City comes under NDRF, why not Mudigere, which is a forest area in the Western Ghats region that received 900 mm rainfall?" he said. Kumaraswamy's reference to Shivamogga is seen as a dig at former chief minister B S Yediyurappa and RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa; both of them belong to the Shivamogga district. Apparently, Kumaraswamy also holds a grouse against fellow MLA and BJP national general secretary C T Ravi, who comes from the same Chikkamagaluru district.  The BJP MLA even said that former JD(S) chief minister H D Kumaraswamy was more helpful. "When I was elected in 2018, Kumaraswamy was the CM. I requested him, with folded hands, for help. He gave grants and even reached out to me. But now, despite our own party being in power, there's neglect," said Kumaraswamy, a ministerial aspirant.  This monsoon saw Karnataka suffering floods for the fourth consecutive year.  Kumaraswamy withdrew his protest after Revenue Minister R Ashoka reached out to him. The MLA cried while explaining his ordeal to the minister. "I'm a senior MLA, but not a single minister reciprocates," he said. Ashoka calmed him down.  "He's a friend. I will discuss his demands with the CM and take steps towards providing compensation and rebuilding damaged infrastructure in Mudigere," Ashoka told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/flood-relief-bjp-mla-protests-at-vidhana-soudha-1018936.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Lack of data on number of senior citizens skews Covid vaccination coverage figures||The lack of proper enumeration of the total number of elderly in the state has skewed vaccination coverage figures as districts are reporting coverage as high as 120% and 107% in a couple of instances as of August 8. This is worrisome as estimates affect allocation of vaccines, and the amount of resources a district is allocated. Experts suggest a more effective way to undertake the vaccination drive is to start off using these estimates but later do micro-planning by way of house-to-house surveys or by using voters' lists available with every district collector to check the actual number of beneficiaries in a priority group. The state health department put out an estimate of population aged above 60 years in March this year (when the drive for the elderly began) as 54,87,399, as per 2011 census projection. As per the CoWIN portal, 78,54,941 first and second doses have been administered to the elderly as of August 11 at 9 am. But it did not reveal by what percentage this exceeds the population projection they went by as they did not provide a first and second dose breakup for the elderly. District administrations say one cannot say what percentage of the elderly (who are most susceptible to severe Covid and see relatively higher mortalities compared to other age groups) are unvaccinated five months after the process to jab them began because the targets are based on projections for 2021 made from 2011 census. Kodagu district, for example, was told by the State that 8.9% of their total population (5.51 lakh) comprises the elderly. This translates to 50,198 people but the district has already vaccinated 60,615 (120.75%) with the first dose as of August 8 and the numbers are still rising. Dr Devin Karkada, from the Kodagu district war room, told DH, "People who were 50 years then and who are senior citizens now after 10 years, do not figure in the targets. Also, it doesn't account for migrants to the state." Similarly, Ramanagara district has an achievement of 107.06% with 1,20,546 vaccinated as on August 8over a target of 1,12,593. Dr P C Kumaraswamy, District Immunisation Officer, Chitradurga, did not rely on projections made by the state and took the effort of getting a door-to-door survey done. "We were told 7% of the population (1,47,000) are senior citizens. But we made a line list by asking our ASHAs to go house-to-house and found 1,50,464 elderly," he said. The district has vaccinated 94.13% (1,41,633) of its elderly as of August 8. A source said, "All microplans of how many vaccination officers should be deployed, how many intramuscular injections need to be given, and how many vaccine doses are to be allocated are based on these estimates. Voters' lists can be easily used to crosscheck. A more effective way is to start with these projections initially and later do house-to-house surveys." Vaccination (60+ years) as on August 8: District Target Vaccinated (first dose)Koppal 1,03,180 97,088 (94.09%)Gadag 89,975 82,843 (92.07%)Ballari 2,44,224 1,73,524 (71.05%)Dharwad 2,00,426 1,31,479 (65.59%)Belagavi 5,49,929 3,34,590 (60.84%)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-lack-of-data-on-number-of-senior-citizens-skews-covid-vaccination-coverage-figures-1019017.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Merge Karnataka’s Marathi-speaking areas with Maha, Ajit Pawar urges PM||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to take the lead to ensure that the Marathi-speaking towns and villages in Karnataka are merged with Maharashtra. Pawar, on Wednesday tweeted, that he had written to Modi on August 9, to mark the anniversary of Quit India Movement and to highlight the demands of the Marathi-speaking people in Karnataka, who for the past 60 years have been holding agitations for the same. In the letter, Pawar said that there was a demand to merge Belagavi, Bidar, Karwar, Nippani and other places in the border areas between Karnataka and Maharashtra. He alleged that Karnataka had been meting out injustice to Marathi-speaking people and that the prime minister should take the lead to stop it. People from Marathi-speaking areas in Karnataka have been dreaming of becoming part of Maharashtra and till then Maharashtra too will not keep quiet, he said and sought the PM’s support for the stand taken by his state.    “Maharashtra has filed a suit in the Supreme Court. The demand of Maharashtra and Marathi-speaking people from Karnataka is justified and our stand shall be vindicated by the apex court,” he said in the letter. “People from boundary areas in Karnataka have been writing letters to you demanding justice and I too have been supporting them,” Pawar said and expressed faith that Modi will not backtrack from giving justice to the Marathi- speaking people from the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/merge-karnataka-s-marathi-speaking-areas-with-maha-ajit-pawar-urges-pm-1019084.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||I am not aspiring for ministerial berth: Vijayendra||BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra on Thursday said that he was not an aspirant for ministerial berth or deputy chief minister's post and that his father and former chief minister B S Yediyurappa had not pressured the high command for the same.  Speaking to media persons on Thursday, he said, "I am just 45, not 77 or 78 years old. I can get good positions in the party in future. Unmindful of positions, I have engaged myself in organising the party." My father never thought that he would become chief minister when he started touring towns and villages on a cycle to organise the party. I also do not have any such ambition, Vijayendra told. "It is true some ministers are upset over not getting plum portfolios. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, with the help of the party high command, will handle it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-am-not-aspiring-for-ministerial-berth-vijayendra-1019091.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Confident of becoming minister soon: Renukacharya||Former minister M P Renukacharya, who was camping in Delhi for the past few days, said on Thursday that he is confident that soon he will get a place in Basavaraj Bommai's Cabinet. “I met many top leaders, including BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh and general secretary incharge of Karnataka Arun Singh. Now I am confident that I will get a chance to become a minister in the coming days,” he told reporters. "The BJP government still has several months of its tenure left. Before that, I may get an opportunity. I also met former chief minister B S Yediyurappa and state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel and discussed the matter. A total of 13 districts do not have representation in the ministry. Since Davangere is a major district, the party will reward leaders from this region," the Honnali MLA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/confident-of-becoming-minister-soon-renukacharya-1019093.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Open new branches, govt tells banks to improve SDG score||The government has asked banks to consider opening new outlets in order to improve the density of branches, which is an indicator of “decent work and economic growth,” one of the sustainable development goals (SDGs).  Karnataka’s score on the number of functional branches of commercial banks per one lakh population has decreased for two years in a row, according to the SDG India Index. In 2019-20, the state had 19.67 banking outlets for one lakh people. This dropped to 16.69 last year.  A study commissioned by the government to understand the ground situation revealed that the density of bank branches in the state was 17.21 per lakh population, still lower than the SDG target of 31.26.  “Commercial banks have been asked to pull up their socks and maintain their percentage in terms of providing banking services,” finance Secretary (fiscal reforms) Manju Prasannan Pillai told DH.  “Karnataka has done well to make sure there’s no area in the state that is unbanked,” Pillai said, a feat the state achieved early this year by covering all 30,000 villages with banking facilities. She said the state’s coverage of business correspondents (there are 8,916 of them) and brick-and-mortar branches was good. “However, due to the amalgamation of bank branches, the 5-km radius of a village within which banking services have to be provided has been exceeded in a few cases. Banks have been told to rectify this within a month,” Pillai added.  Goa has the highest number of bank branches per lakh population at 45.78, followed by Chandigarh (39.40). In the south, Karnataka trails Kerala (19.6), but is better than Tamil Nadu (16.07), Telangana (15.08) and Andhra Pradesh (14.40), according to the SDG India Index 2020-21.  Recently, 18 bank branches in rural areas were closed due to merger or amalgamation. “The government has made it clear that no rural bank branch should be closed without the permission of the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC),” Pillai said. According to the district-wise comparative study done by the SLBC, Udupi has the highest number of commercial bank branches per lakh population at 31.85. This is followed by Dakshina Kannada (28.19) and Kodagu (28.13). Bengaluru Urban, the most populous district, has 26.73 bank branches for every one lakh people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/open-new-branches-govt-tells-banks-to-improve-sdg-score-1019098.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka faces Zika virus scare too from Kerala, Maharashtra||Even as Karnataka is struggling with Covid, the state Commissionerate of Health and Family Welfare Services on Thursday stressed the need for prevention and control of Zika Virus Disease (ZVD) in the state. Issuing necessary instructions to all districts, the department has sought daily reports mandatorily to monitor the situation in the state. Transmitted by Aedes aegypti, the same mosquito which transmits both dengue and chikungunya, ZVD presents symptoms of fever, rashes, conjunctivitis, joint pain etc. Travel history to affected areas or visits of the guests from affected areas may also be considered for suspecting the ZVD. The sample collected from suspected cases should be sent to NIV field station, Bengaluru for testing, the circular mandated. Necessary community participation and inter-sectoral collaboration, especially from urban local bodies must be obtained for effective implementation and sustaining the achievement, it said. There is no specific treatment or vaccine for the disease. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-faces-zika-virus-scare-too-from-kerala-maharashtra-1019101.html
12-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka far from natural immunity against Covid-19: Sero-survey||Karnataka was far from attaining natural immunity against the SARS-CoV-2 virus in January this year, and hence must step up vaccination coverage and enforce public health measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19, concluded the second serosurvey done in January-February this year, the results of which were finally published eight months later on a preprint server. The study found antibodies in 15.6 per cent of the population and active Covid infection in just 0.5 per cent. Statewide infection fatality rate (IFR) was estimated as 0.11 per cent, and Covid-19 burden estimated between 26.1 to 37.7 per cent.  The study of 41,228 participants across 290 healthcare facilities in all 30 districts of Karnataka was done among three groups of participants (low, moderate, and high risk). Epidemiologist and State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) member Dr Giridhar Babu tweeted, "The study found lower levels of IgG seroprevalence (antibodies), mostly due to antibody waning. We found near zero prevalence of active cases during mid-February 2021. Karnataka was far from attaining population levels of immunity during the survey." Another TAC member Neurovirologist Dr V Ravi, state nodal officer for genetic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 virus, told DH, "One should remember that this survey was done when the first wave ebbed. The people who participated in the second round were those who didn't participate in the first round (in September last year). So, these infections are in addition to what we found in the first survey." "The right interpretation is to add both results that gives us 42.9 per cent (27.3 per cent prevalence found from first serosurvey + 15.6 per cent from second survey)," he said. Ravi explained that considering until January, only 43 per cent were exposed, this explains why we had a huge second wave because more than half of our population was not exposed. "We need to do at least 1.2 lakh vaccinations per day and sustain high levels of testing. Now, we're waiting for the government clearance to do the third survey. This time the added variable will be the vaccination status of the participants and if it has any effect on the disease burden," he said. He pointed out that since the gap between both the rounds of serosurveys was more than three months, antibodies waned. "This is why we called back participants from the first survey, and found that more than half of them did not have antibodies," he added. Babu further added, "There was a subsequent surge seen in Karnataka due to a mix of alpha, and delta (variants) which was picking up speed in April, and a large susceptible population were infected."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-far-from-natural-immunity-against-covid-19-sero-survey-1019124.html
12-08-2021||West||Oxygen requirement will be criterion for imposing lockdown: Maharashtra CM||The daily oxygen requirement for Covid-19 patients will be the deciding factor for imposing lockdown in future, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Wednesday. If the oxygen requirement reaches 700 metric tons, lockdown will be imposed again, he said in a statement. The daily oxygen production capacity in the state is 1,300 metric tons, he said. "During the second wave, when the number of Covid-19 cases showed a steep spike, the demand for oxygen was also very high. Some 500 metric tons of oxygen had to be procured from other states. If the demand goes up to 700 metric tons daily, which is the quantity needed for nearly 30,000 patients, the state will be once again brought under lockdown," Thackeray said. The chief minister's statement came in the wake of the government's decision to ease restrictions by allowing local train travel in Mumbai for fully vaccinated people, and allowing shops, malls, restaurants, gyms and salons to remain open till 10 pm from August 15. The Delta variant of the Covid-19 is spreading fast in other countries like UK and USA, Thackeray said, adding that easing of restrictions is being done very cautiously. "We have to be vigilant against the third wave and various variants of the virus," Thackeray said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/oxygen-requirement-will-be-criterion-for-imposing-lockdown-maharashtra-cm-1018793.html
12-08-2021||West||Man caught for molesting woman manhandles cop||A 30-year-old man, who was caught for allegedly molesting a woman, manhandled a sub-inspector at a police station in Maharashtra's Thane city, police said on Thursday. The accused allegedly flashed and winked at a 19-year-old woman in Kopri area in the wee hours of Wednesday. When the woman's father reprimanded him, the accused beat him up, an official at Kopri police station said. The woman's neighbours caught hold of the accused and alerted the police. The accused then tried to run away, but a police team caught him, the official said. After he was brought to the police station, the man abused security personnel there as well as the woman and her father. When a sub-inspector tried to control him, the accused allegedly pushed him aside, the official said, adding that the policeman suffered fractures on his hand and was taken to a hospital for treatment. The accused was subsequently arrested and booked under relevant Indian Penal Code sections for molestation and deterring a public servant from discharging his duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-caught-for-molesting-woman-manhandles-cop-1018860.html
12-08-2021||West||Twitter swoops to bar Maharashtra Congress, 500 state leaders too||After blocking the account of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other central party leaders, Twitter has blocked the handles of Maharashtra and Mumbai Congress, as well as several senior leaders from the state, party officials claimed here on Thursday. Besides, the All India Congress Committee, the Maharashtra and Mumbai verified Congress handles, that of Congress Legislative Party leader and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, Mumbai Congress President Bhai Jagtap, state party social media head Abhijeet Sapkal, and around 500 other leaders at various level have been blocked on Twitter. "Congress' questions have caused jitters to the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Twitter's actions are biased and taken under pressure from the Centre and the BJP," State Congress President Nana Patole said, slamming the move. Slamming the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he said that the Modi government is working in a dictatorial manner and all efforts are being made to suppress every voice raised against the Centre since the past seven years, trampling the freedom of express enshrined in the Constitution. "The Congress is protesting against these tactics and will continue to raise its voice against the injustice, for protecting Democracy and the Constitution without succumbing to any pressures," Patole said. He questioned why the BJP does not dare to take any action against its own leaders who often create divides with objectionable messages on the social media including Twitter.Thorat said it was regrettable that an international organisation like Twitter was working under the pressure of power, terming it as an attack on freedom of thought and speech, and the Congress leaders would continue to speak up for justice. "Today, Twitter locked my handle because I tweeted in support of Rahul Gandhi... Rahul Gandhi is a fearless, aggressive leader who stands with the people and becomes their voice. This is an apologetic attempt to suppress his voice for the people," Thorat said. State spokesperson Sachin Sawant, while condemning the Twitter action, said blocking of accounts "won't deter the Congress leader from speaking the truth about the inept Modi government which is destroying democracy and the idea of India". Patole and Thorat said Twitter has resorted to extreme actions though the Congress or its leaders do not air anti-national, anti-religion or racist views, but was merely standing behind a victim's family. Sapkal said besides the top party leaders and the party handles, Twitter has blocked nearly 500 accounts in Maharashtra and details of more are being gathered from all over the state. "This is nothing but a blatant attempt to divert attention from the core issues the Congress is raising with the BJP government at the Centre which is attempting to stifle the voice of the Opposition for raising tough questions," Sapkal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/twitter-swoops-to-bar-maharashtra-congress-500-state-leaders-too-1019037.html
12-08-2021||West||Man bites snake, kills the serpent||In a bizarre case of human revenge, a 45-year-old tribal man reportedly bit a snake to death after the latter bit him in a remote village in Odisha's Jajpur district. Kishore Badra of Gambharipatia village under Salijanga panchayat under Danagadi block was returning home after working in his paddy field on Wednesday night, when when a snake bit him on his leg. Badra managed to capture the viper and bit it to death in a bid to take revenge. “Something bit on my leg while I was returning home on foot last night. I switched on my torch and found it to be a poisonous krait snake. In order to take revenge, I took the snake in my hands and bit it repeatedly, killing the viper on the spot,” said Badra. Following the incident he came back to his village with the dead snake and told his wife the whole tale. Soon this became the talk of the village with Badra exhibiting the snake to his friends. Some onlookers advised Badra to visit a nearby hospital, but he refused to go to the hospital and instead went to a traditional healer to seek advice on the same night. Luckily for Badra, the snake bite and his biting the snake has seemingly had no impact on him. Badra none the worse for his bizarre adventure, said on Thursday, “even though I bit the poisonous krait, I did not feel any difficulty. I went to a traditional healer residing near the village and was cured.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-bites-snake-kills-the-serpent-1019119.html
