13-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai calls urgent meeting of experts on Covid-19 situation||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who has himself pledged to donate his organs after his death, urged people to come forward and do the same as it is the "most sacred and selfless service". On the World Organ Donation Day, he said, instead of burning and burying the body, organs like kidney, heart and liver can be donated to save lives. Speaking to reporters in Udupi before his departure to Mangaluru International Aiport on Friday, the Chief Minister said the technologies that support organ transplantation are more sophisticated and proficient with a positive success rate unlike in the past. Replying to a query on the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state especially among children, the Chief Minister said the opinions of experts will be considered on further decisions about relaxation and reopening of schools. The Chief Minister said that he has called for an urgent meeting of the experts today to decide about the reopening of the schools as there are Covid-19 infections reported among children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-calls-urgent-meeting-of-experts-on-covid-19-situation-1019248.html
13-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Charmadi Ghat: Light vehicle ban at night lifted||The restrictions on the movement of light vehicles on Charmadi Ghat in the night hours have been lifted. With this, the light vehicles can ply on the stretch of NH 173 at night. However, the restriction on the movement of heavy vehicles continues on Charmadi Ghat, Chikkamagaluru DC K N Ramesh said. Following a minor landslide on the Charmadi Ghat stretch, the Deputy Commissioner had restricted the movement of light vehicles from July 23. Accordingly, KSRTC normal buses, six-wheel lorries were allowed to ply on the stretch from 6 am to 7 pm. With the lifting of restrictions, tempo, ambulances, cars, jeeps, vans and two-wheelers can ply on the stretch in the night as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/charmadi-ghat-light-vehicle-ban-at-night-lifted-1019289.html
13-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dont create confusion on NIA investigation: Mangalore MLA U T Khader||Mangalore MLA U T Khader claimed that no terror activities had taken place in Ullal. "The residents in Ullal live in communal harmony and are patriotic," he declared while addressing mediapersons at Circuit house on Friday. The NIA had recently arrested a man from Ullal. As the investigation is in progress, it is not right to comment on the issue. The NIA visiting the region itself is a big issue and needs a thorough probe. Nobody should bring in politics and create confusion, he stressed.   Welcoming the NIA branch in Mangaluru, he said; "besides NIA, a narcotic and cyber cell should also be set up in the district.” Khader lashed out at Hindu organisations for declaring Deepthi Marla, who resides in the house owned by former MLA B M Iddinabba’s son Basha, as a victim of love jihad. MLA sought to know whether her parents had filed a complaint. "Why are Hindu organisations staging a protest by highlighting the agenda of Love Jihad. They should hold fast demanding a law against Love Jihad in the country," he said.. Khader also condemned trolls on social media declaring Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had cancelled his visit to border areas fearing protest. “The CM did not cancel his visit following any protest. If all Kannadigas are united, then we are capable of carrying out a padayatra from Talapdy to Thiruvananthapuram along with Chief Minister," he declared. The government had taken a decision on restricting entry of people at the border keeping safety of people in mind, he added. Flays C T Ravi Khader objected to BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi’s statement that Congress should start hookah bars named after former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru. Khader said the MLAs who are "intoxicated with communal thinking" speak about hookah bar culture. "The Congress believes in offering food to poor. He (C T Ravi) has spoken of his culture," he declared sarcastically. By not releasing funds to the housing scheme, Vajpayee Housing project, BJP government had insulting former prime minister Vajpayee, he charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dont-create-confusion-on-nia-investigation-mangalore-mla-u-t-khader-1019492.html
13-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Makna elephant found dead in mysterious manner in Hunsur||A makna elephant was found dead in a mysterious manner, at a field, in Gurupura Tibetan settlement, in the taluk, on Friday. The jumbo is said to be around 25 to 28 years old. It is said that the jumbo had strayed out of Nagarahole park on Thursday night, in search of food, and had destroyed crops in and around the region. It had crossed the wired fence at the land belonging to Honda at the Tibetan camp, when it collapsed and died. The exact reason for the death of the jumbo, whether it is out of electrocution or normal death will be known after the post mortem report is available. Assistant Conservator of Forest Satish, Range Forest Officer Namananarayana Nayak and others visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/makna-elephant-found-dead-in-mysterious-manner-in-hunsur-1019494.html
13-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ministerial aspirants and those desiring better positions should express feelings within party forums: Ashwath Narayan||Ministerial aspirants or those desiring for better positions in the government should express their feelings within the party forums and not in public, Karnataka Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Friday, as discontentment and lobbying refuses to end in the ruling BJP, after the recent cabinet exercise. He also reiterated that it is the clear stand of the Karnataka government to go ahead and implement the Mekedatu project across river Cauvery. "It is common to aspire for a position in politics and people to express their desire, but it should be done between four walls and should not happen in public," Narayan said. Speaking to reporters here, he however, said there is no confusion or differences within the party and the government. The Minister was responding to a question on simmering discontent within the ruling BJP after the recent expansion of the cabinet by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai with Ministerial aspirants openly expressing their displeasure on not being inducted, and some even reportedly lobbying in Delhi to push their case. Also, some Ministers like Anand Singh and MTB Nagaraj, despite being part of the cabinet, openly expressed their unhappiness over the portfolios allocated, which has caused embarrassment to the party and the government. Rejecting reports of competition among the Ministers to become in-charge of Ramanagara district, the Minister said "there is no such thing, if there should be a competition, it should be with regards to the work we do. Whoever is assigned the responsibility they will take it up and function accordingly." Narayan, who was in-charge of Ramanagara district during the previous Yediyurappa government is likely to retain the responsibility as he has been assigned COVID management of the district by Chief Minister Bommai. Responding to a question on the Mekedatu project across river Cauvery to which neighbouring Tamil Nadu is opposed, he said, what Karnataka is planning to implement is not something that is against the law. "We are trying to exercise our rights over the water, within the framework of the law, so we are not worried. We will get justice. The Mekedatu project will be implemented for sure and it is the clear stand of our government," he said, adding that necessary groundwork such as for rehabilitation, environmental impact are being worked out. Mekedatu is a multipurpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir, near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district. Tamil Nadu is against the project and is of the opinion that it is against it's interests. The project once completed is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighbouring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power, and the estimated cost is Rs 9,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ministerial-aspirants-and-those-desiring-better-positions-should-express-feelings-within-party-forums-ashwath-narayan-1019328.html
13-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||I lost patience over BK Hariprasad's remark against Modi: Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa clarified that he used abusive words against Congress leader B K Hariprasad for the latter's remark that toilet pits must be named after Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said, he would apologise for it, and he would withdraw his words. He demanded that Hariprasad too should apologise for his remarks made against Modi.  Speaking to media persons here on Friday, he said, he did not criticise the Congress party, but only Hariprasad. He said, he lost his patience when Hariprasad made such cheap remarks against Modi, and he used such abusive words. "I have the highest regard for Modi. Today, India is recognised as a fast developing nation in the world. So, all countries are hailing India at the global-level. There was a time when foreigners used to term us as bloody Indians. But, Modi changed India's reputation at the global-level. Now, Pakistan has become alone and no country is backing it, and this is due to Modi. But, Hariprasad made such a remark against Modi. Will I not get angry?" he questioned, and said, he has the highest regard for Congress party. He also made it clear that he would apologise for his words, and urged the Congress to guide Hariprasad properly. "I don't know what action KPCC President D K Shivakumar or Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah would take against Hariprasad for making such a remark. What is the stand of the Congress party in this regard"? he questioned. Jalashakti Abhiyan Referring to Jalashakti Abhiyan, he said, Karnataka stands first in Jalashakti Abhiyan under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched it on March 22, 2020. He said, the Abhiyan had been implemented effectively in all the States across the country. The main objective was to improve underground water level and construct farm ponds, check-dams, tank bunds, and kalyanis. Following this, the groundwater level is increasing even in drought-prone districts like Kolar, and scores of lakes are filled with water, he added. On the training programme for gram panchayat presidents, and vice-presidents, and PDOs, he said, it has been completed in Shivamogga, Chitradurga, Davangere, and Chikkodi. It will be conducted in Tumakuru on August 17. After the completion of the training programme, the department would conduct the same for the members of gram panchayats at assembly constituency level, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-lost-patience-over-bk-hariprasads-remark-against-modi-eshwarappa-1019374.html
13-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress needs women, youth to win power: D K Shivakumar||Congress leader Raksha Ramaiah was formally anointed as the party’s Youth Congress president on Friday.  Raksha has his task cut out going by the diktat he received from Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar.  “Women and youth hold the key for the Congress to come back to power,” Shivakumar said at the event where Raksha took charge. “I am designing a programme on this front. I want Raksha to send youths to every village and booth. Meet every youth aged 18-35. We have a form to ask them what the BJP has done for them in the last seven years. Let’s ask this question to every youth,” he said. Shivakumar said Youth Congress workers need not worry about the BJP. “We the state leaders will handle them. Every Youth Congress member should focus on adding more people to the organisation,” he said, adding that Raksha’s team should work closely with the National Students Union of India, the party’s student wing. The KPCC chief also asked the Youth Congress to form groups in every booth. “In every booth, there should be one digital youth,” he said. Raksha, the son of former minister MR Seetharam, was declared as the president of the Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee in January this year. He will hold the post until January 31, 2022. Thereafter, Mohammed Haris Nalapad, the other contender for the post and son of Shantinagar MLA NA Haris, will take over. Speaking at the event, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the BJP was filled with "thieves" and that he had not seen people "do so much corruption". "Each one of you should know why you are with the Congress and not BJP or JD(S)," he said. "The BJP stands for Hindutva whereas the Congress is for manushatva (humanity)." Cut fuel price, Siddu tells Bommai Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday asked Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to follow Tamil Nadu's footsteps in reducing fuel price. "Tamil Nadu has cut the petrol price by Rs 3 helping lakhs of common man (sic). I urge CM Basavaraj Bommai to follow the same and cut the price of both petrol & diesel in Karnataka," Siddaramaiah said in a tweet. Tamil Nadu has cut the petrol price by Rs. 3 helping lakhs of common man.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-needs-women-youth-to-win-power-d-k-shivakumar-1019455.html
13-08-2021||National||3 Indian engineers rescued in Afghanistan from area not under control of Afghan forces||Three Indian engineers, who worked at a project site in an area not under the control of Afghan government forces, were rescued by air recently, according to the Indian embassy in Kabul on Thursday. The embassy cited the rescue of the engineers in fresh security advisory while calling upon all Indians in Afghanistan to strictly adhere to the measures advised by it in view of a spike in violence in that country. "A recent case that required emergency air rescue of three Indian engineers who remained at a dam project site, in an area not under the control of government forces, has brought to light that Indian nationals receiving this embassy's advisories are not heeding its advice and continue to put themselves in mortal danger," the embassy said in a fresh advisory. It is learnt that the engineers were working in an area that has been under the control of the Taliban. "Embassy of India Kabul once again underscores the need for all Indian nationals to fully adhere to steps in the security advisories provided from time to time," the advisory said. The embassy had issued separate security advisories on June 29, July 24 and August 10, recommending a series of measures to ensure the safety and security of the Indians living in that country. "Precautions and security measures advised in the above three advisories continue to remain valid. All Indian nationals in Afghanistan are once again requested to strictly adhere to the measures advocated," the new advisory said. In its advisory on Tuesday, the embassy strongly advised all Indian citizens residing in Afghanistan to make immediate travel arrangements to return home before commercial air services are discontinued from the country in view of the massive spike in violence. It also strongly advised the Indian companies operating in Afghanistan to immediately withdraw their Indian employees out of project sites before air travel services from the country are discontinued. In the latest advisory, the embassy also asked Indian journalists who are in Afghanistan to cover the latest developments to take additional security measures. "As a recent tragic incident demonstrated, the public profile of Indian journalists in Afghanistan entails additional risks," it said, in an apparent reference to the killing of Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui in Kandahar last month. "It is therefore advised that members of the Indian media should take additional security measures for their stay and movements inside Afghanistan including tying up of interviews and planned coverage before arrival in Afghanistan, as well as identifying well-established security logistic firms who can make necessary security arrangements for stay and movement of the journalists. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. India has been engaged with a number of stakeholders and leading powers on the latest developments in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-indian-engineers-rescued-in-afghanistan-from-area-not-under-control-of-afghan-forces-1019164.html
13-08-2021||National||RS interim security report names some opposition MPs for unruly behaviour in House||An internal interim report of Rajya Sabha security is learnt to have named some opposition MPs, including those of TMC, Congress and CPI(M), for allegedly indulging in unruly behaviour and clashing with the security personnel deputed there. The report names Congress members Chhaya Verma, Phulo Devi Netam and Naseer Hussain besides TMC member Dola Sena and CPI(M) MP Elamaram Kareem. The two-page report comes after opposition MPs and marshals clashed with each other while the General Insurance Bill was being taken up in the Upper House. The opposition MPs had created uproar as they wanted the bill to be referred to a select committee. The bill was passed amid din. The security report also says that security personnel from the Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha were deployed to protect the table staff and a cordon was made. It says that one MP mahandled and "severely choked the neck of a male marshal and dragged him in order to break the security cordon". It also says that one lady marshal was "pulled and dragged" by women MPs and assaulted in the Well of the House. A video showing the melee in the Rajya Sabha with opposition MPs clashing with the marshals also went viral with both sides blaming each other. Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu held discussions with officials of the Upper House who told him that no outsiders were deployed as marshals inside the House. Naidu has also sought a detailed report of the unruly events inside the House from the security staff. TMC MP Derek O'Brien, however, alleged that the government is trying to defame the opposition to divert attention. Several opposition MPs alleged that the leaked video footage was edited and demanded that the complete footage be released “where opposition MPs are at the receiving end”. Meanwhile, Congress MP Chhaya Verma claimed that she was trying to save her colleague Phulo Devi Netam. Netam also said that she was trying to protect the woman marshal in the melee. The opposition also alleged that its MPs, including women members, were manhandled by outsiders who were not part of parliament security during the ruckus. The government has, however, maintained it was the other way round and alleged that a lady marshal was manhandled by opposition MPs. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla also met Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairman Naidu and the two reviewed the "unfortunate sequence of events in parliament" during the Monsoon Session. The Vice President's Secretariat tweeted that the two expressed "deep concern" over the disruptive behaviour of some parliamentarians. Parliament sources said both the presiding officers felt that these incidents have dented the dignity and stature of the highest legislature in the country. They said the duo has decided to undertake a detailed examination of such unruly scenes in the past and action taken for deciding on the future course of action in such cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-interim-security-report-names-some-opposition-mps-for-unruly-behaviour-in-house-1019165.html
13-08-2021||National||Porn case: Director of one of Kundra's firms arrested||A director of one of Raj Kundra's companies was arrested in connection with the pornography case against the businessman on Thursday, city police said. Abhijeet Bomble, a director of one of Kundra's firm, was arrested by the Mumbai police's crime branch, said an official. Kundra, who is married to actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested last month for allegedly producing and distributing porn films through an app. A related offense was registered at Malvani police station on the complaint of a 25-year-old model who alleged that she was promised roles in shorts films and web series, but in the name of bold scenes she was forced to perform nude scenes. Bomble was named as one of the accused in this case, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/porn-case-director-of-one-of-kundras-firms-arrested-1019167.html
13-08-2021||National||J&K BJP leader urges PM Modi to rescue Sikhs from Afghanistan||A Jammu and Kashmir BJP leader urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday to make necessary arrangements for rescuing Sikh families from Afghanistan amid an escalating situation in that country, and ensuring their proper settlement in India. J&K BJP vice president Varinderjeet Singh also said around 650 families belonging to the Sikh community are under "threat of persecution" due to the violence in Afghanistan. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. Singh said the minorities in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan have been targeted repeatedly during the past so many years and the respective governments in these three countries have never shown any concern towards taking effective steps for checking repetition of such incidents. He said the BJP-led government under Prime Minister Modi brought in the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in 2019 with the sole objective of granting citizenship rights in India to the minorities of some countries. This, he said, also includes the Sikhs living in Afghanistan. "The time has come when the Union government should be practical and make necessary arrangements for rescuing Sikh families from Afghanistan, settle them gracefully in India and grant constitutional and legal rights as enjoyed by other citizens of this country," Singh said. He also demanded that the Union government should use its diplomatic channels to ensure safety of the religious places of Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-bjp-leader-urges-pm-modi-to-rescue-sikhs-from-afghanistan-1019184.html
13-08-2021||National||The Lead | All Things Covid: All questions in vaccines answered||In today's episode of "All things Covid" by GCCMC, a Covid-19 knowledge and collaboration platform enabled by Wipro, in collaboration with Deccan Herald, Dr Mahesh Kanth answers questions relating to the vaccines against Covid-19. The pandemic has been over us for over a year now and there are still doubts persisting about it especially on the vaccines. Today we will know about the Covid-19 vaccines. Listen in  Welcome to All Thinks Covid. This is Sheetal and as we bring you the podcast while recording this we are in May 2021 and while India is in Phase-3 of its vaccination drive or campaign, there are still a surprising number of questions on vaccination and that is why we have decided to put together a comprehensive list of questions and not just put together but also answer them for the benefit of healthcare professionals, who might encounter these in their interactions with their patients, family and the larger community. To help us do this we have with us Dr Mahesh Kanth, who is part of Wipro and has had quite a career as a hospital administrator, has been part of the armed forces and now handles a Zila Parishad Covid hospital in Pune, this is the one which is in the Wipro Pune campus. He has been with this setup since its construction in May of last year (2020). To know more about the interaction, listen to the podcast||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-all-things-covid-all-questions-in-vaccines-answered-1019199.html
13-08-2021||National||Telangana man keeps grandfather's body in fridge||A man in Telangana kept the body of his grandfather in the fridge at their house as he had no money to perform his last rites, police said on Thursday. The shocking incident came to light at Parkala in Warangal district after neighbours complained to police about a foul smell emanating from a house. Police officers who searched the house found the body of 93-year-old Balaiah, a retired teacher, in the fridge. When they questioned his grandson Nikhil, he revealed that Balaiah died of ill health three days ago. Nikhil, 23, told police that since he had no money to perform the last rites of his grandfather, he kept the body in the fridge. Assistant Commissioner of Police Shivaramaiah said they registered a case of death under suspicious circumstances and took up an investigation. The body was sent for an autopsy. The police were verifying the statement given by Nikhil. Balaiah, a retired teacher and a native of Kamareddy district, was living with his grandson in a rented house. They were meeting their expenses from Balaiah's pension. The police officer said they were trying to find out if Nikhil kept the body in the fridge to ensure that the pension did not stop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/telangana-man-keeps-grandfathers-body-in-fridge-1019208.html
13-08-2021||National||Look-out circular against Param Bir Singh in extortion case||A look out circular has been issued against former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in an extortion case, Thane Police Commissioner Jai Jeet Singh told news agency ANI.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/look-out-circular-against-param-bir-singh-in-extortion-case-1019218.html
13-08-2021||National||India logs 40,120 new Covid-19 infections, 585 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 40,120 coronavirus infections, taking the tally of Covid cases to 3,21,17,826, while the recovery rate increased to 97.46 per cent, the highest recorded so far, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated Friday. The death toll, meanwhile, climbed to 4,30,254 with 585 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The ministry said the number of active cases has declined to 3,85,227 or 1.20 per cent of the total cases, the lowest since March 2020.  The national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.46 per cent, the ministry said. A decrease of 2,760 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours, the data showed. Additionally, 19,70,495 tests were conducted Thursday, taking the cumulative tests carried out so far for the detection of Covid-19 in the country to 48,94,70,779. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.04 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 19 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.13 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,13,02,345, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 52.95 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till Tuesday morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-40120-new-covid-19-infections-585-deaths-1019220.html
13-08-2021||National||Airlines can operate maximum of 72.5% pre-Covid domestic flights: Centre||Airlines can now operate a maximum of 72.5 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights instead of the 65 per cent allowed till date, the Ministry of Civil Aviation stated on Thursday. The carriers have been operating 65 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights since July 5 according to the ministry's order. Between June 1 and July 5, the cap was at 50 per cent. The ministry issued a fresh order on Thursday, wherein it modified the July 5 order stating that "65 per cent capacity may be read as 72.5 per cent capacity". Thursday's order also noted that the 72.5 per cent cap will "remain in place until further order". When the government had resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services. The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December. The 80 per cent cap remained in place till June 1. The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 to 50 per cent from June 1 onwards was taken "in view of the sudden surge in the number of active Covid-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and the passenger load (occupancy rate) factor", the ministry had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airlines-can-operate-maximum-of-725-pre-covid-domestic-flights-centre-1019224.html
13-08-2021||National||Independence Day | Remembering Khudiram Bose: The 18-year-old martyr who smiled at death||At an age when youth begins to blossom, can you imagine someone giving up their life for the sake of the country's freedom? At 18, one man took it upon himself to free his motherland from the clutches of British rule. As India celebrates its 75th Independence Day, it is time to remember one of India's youngest revolutionaries — a forgotten hero named Khudiram Bose. Born on December 3, 1889, in a small village named Mohobani in the Medinipur district of then undivided Bengal (present West Bengal), Khudiram was the fourth child in a family of three daughters. He lost his mother when he was six years old, and a year later, lost his father. He joined a group named 'Anushilan Samiti', became a volunteer at the age of 15, and was arrested for distributing pamphlets against British rule in India. When he was a 16-year-old, Khudiram took part in planting bombs near the police stations and targeted government officials. In 1908, 'Anushilan Samiti' hatched a plan to murder Douglas Kingsford, who was the Chief Magistrate of the Presidency Court of Alipore. Kingsford was known for his antipathy towards the Indian revolutionaries, and his effort to cripple the Bengali newspaper 'Jugantar' drew severe criticism from many erudite people of that time but the group's first attempt to kill Kingsford by delivering him a book bomb failed flat. On April 29, 1908, they made another attempt. And it was to be executed by Khudiram Bose and Prafulla Chaki, who was then a 19-year-old. Khudiram and Prafulla adopted the name of Haren Sarkar and Dinesh Chandra Roy respectively and went to Muzzafarpur, where Kingsford was transferred to as the District Judge. On a fateful day, Kingsford and his wife were playing bridge with the daughter and wife of Pringle Kennedy, a British author, and barrister. While heading home, Kingsford and his wife were in a carriage identical to the one carrying Kennedy and his family. As their carriage reached the eastern gate of the compound of the European Club, Khudiram and Prafulla ran towards the carriage and threw the bombs into the carriage. A loud explosion ensued and the carriage was taken to Kingsford's house. It was shattered and the Kennedy ladies sustained terrible injuries. Pringle Kennedy's daughter died within an hour and his wife on May 2. Khudiram Bose was arrested on the morning of April 30 at the Wani station where he reached after walking 25 miles. Two police constables became suspicious of him when he asked for a glass of water at a tea stall. His disheveled look led the constables to suspect that something was wrong. They later found in his possession 37 rounds of ammunition, Rs 30 in cash, a railway map and a page of the rail timetable, thus sealing his fate. Prafulla Chaki committed suicide while trying to escape from the police. The Wani station is now known as Khudiram Bose Pusa station. Khudiram had to give a statement of declaration to the magistrate. Unaware of the fact that Chaki was dead, Khudiram took full responsibility for the act to save his compatriot from the inevitable threat of gallows. But once the police brought Chaki's body, he realised the futility of his effort. After numerous hearings and trials, the British judges gave the verdict of a death sentence. Khudiram was hanged on August 11, 1908. At the time of his hanging, Khudiram was 18 years, seven months, and 11 days old, making him one of the youngest revolutionaries in India. The region around the prison was thronged by a large crowd, and the funeral procession went through the city, with police guards holding back the crowd all along the central artery street. The people kept throwing their flowers on the body as the carriage passed by. Several newspapers like the Amrita Bazar Patrika, a prominent Bengali newspaper of that time, and The Empire, an established British newspaper, reported that Khudiram was smiling while mounting the scaffold. His story will continue to burn with an aura of immortality, 113 years later. The legend of Khudiram Bose, who gave death a defiant smile, lives on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-remembering-khudiram-bose-the-18-year-old-martyr-who-smiled-at-death-1019234.html
13-08-2021||National||Fully-vaccinated woman aged 63 is Mumbai's first Delta Plus victim||Mumbai has recorded its first death due to the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus with a 63-year-old fully-vaccinated woman succumbing to it in July, a civic official has said. Following her death, at least two of her close contacts have also been found infected with the Delta Plus variant, which is considered highly infectious, he said. It is the second death due to this variant in the state as it had claimed the life of an 80-year-old woman from Ratnagiri district on June 13. That woman had not taken even a single dose of Covid-19 vaccine, officials said. In the latest case, the woman, a resident of eastern Mumbai suburb of Ghatkopar died on July 27 while undergoing treatment in a hospital ICU. However, it was only on August 11 that the state government authorities came to know that she was infected with the Delta Plus variant which came to light in the genome sequencing report, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. The woman had taken both the doses of Covishield vaccine, but tested coronavirus positive on July 21 with synonyms like dry cough, loss of taste, bodyache and headache, he said. She was put on oxygen support and given steroids and Remdesivir as part of the treatment, the official said, adding that she did not have any travel history or history of reinfection. Six close contacts of the deceased woman have also tested coronavirus positive. After their samples were sent for whole genome sequencing, two of them were found to have been infected with the Delta Plus variant, and the result of others is awaited, he said. Two days back, the Maharashtra government had said that as many as 20 new cases of the Delta Plus variant were detected in the state on Wednesday alone and seven of them were in Mumbai. With this, the number of patients found infected with this variant in the state had increased to 65, said a statement issued by the health department. Out of the newly detected cases, seven were in Mumbai, three in Pune, two each in Nanded, Gondia, Raigad, Palghar, and one each in Chandrapur and Akola districts, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fully-vaccinated-woman-aged-63-is-mumbais-first-delta-plus-victim-1019237.html
13-08-2021||National||India set for huge boost in Covid vaccine supplies: Nadda||India expects to get about 266 million Covid-19 vaccine doses in August as a simpler licensing process has helped the government secure far more than earlier expected, the president of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's party said on Friday. Late last month, a senior government official told reporters that the government could only count on getting about 150 million doses in August. Since then, India's drug regulator has approved the Johnson & Johnson vaccine -- though the company has not yet committed to a delivery schedule -- and commercial production of Russia's Sputnik V in India could start too. Indian drugmaker Cadila Healthcare's ZyCoV-D could also be approved soon, the health minister said this month.  "Among the many significant decisions taken by the PM is simplifying compulsory licensing policy to speed up vaccine production," Nadda wrote. "It ensured clearance for manufacturing of Russia's Sputnik V in the country and just a few days back Johnson & Johnson vaccine has also been given clearance. In the coming days more vaccines will be available in India." Nadda, who was the health minister in Modi's first term, said India's vaccine supply will reach 266.5 million doses in August, 261.5 million in September, 282.5 million in October, 282.5 million in November and 285 million doses in December. The health ministry, whose end-July target of supplying 516 million doses fell short, did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Nadda's projections.  India wants to vaccinate its entire adult population of 944 million by the end of this year. It has so far administered 528.6 million doses https://dashboard.cowin.gov.in, giving at least one dose to about 44% of its adults, while 12% have had the required two doses. India is the world's biggest vaccine maker, thanks to the Serum Institute of India. The company stopped all exports of Covid-19 shots in April as the government asked it to divert supplies to the domestic inoculation drive as infections surged. India has reported 32.11 million Covid-19 infections, the most after the United States, with about 430,000 deaths, though experts say these are gross underestimates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-set-for-huge-boost-in-covid-vaccine-supplies-nadda-1019238.html
13-08-2021||National||PM Modi launches vehicle scrappage policy, hopes to create huge job opportunities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the National Automobile Scrappage Policy, aimed at junking old vehicles. Virtually launching the policy initiative during the Investors Summit' organised by Gujarat Government in Gandhinagar, Modi said the policy will promote a circular economy and make the process of economic development more environment-friendly. The policy, aimed at recycling old and unfit vehicles, will give new identity to India's mobility and auto sector, Modi said. The summit, which saw participation of potential investors and industry players, was organised to attract investment for setting up vehicle scrapping infrastructure under the Voluntary Vehicle-Fleet Modernisation Programme, an official release said. Under this policy, people who give their old vehicle for turning it into scrap will be given a certificate by the government. People having this certificate will not be charged any registration fee on the purchase of a new vehicle, said Modi, adding that such vehicle owners will also be entitled for some rebate on road tax. Highlighting a key feature of the policy, Modi said that instead of the age of the vehicle, a fitness test will determine if the vehicle will be sent for scrapping. The policy would attract an investment of Rs 10,000 crore and create thousands of employment opportunities, he said. "We imported scrap steel worth Rs 23,000 crore last year because recovery of metals in our country is not enough. With this policy, we can now recover even rare earth metals in a scientific manner, he said. The PM stressed on developing Alang in Bhavnagar, which is a hub for ship recycling, into a vehicle recycling hub. During the Summit, seven MoUs were also signed for setting up scrappage infrastructure in Gujarat and Assam. As per the figures shared by Union Road Transport Ministry, around one crore unfit vehicles which can be recycled immediately in the country, around four lakh are in Gujarat. The policy recommends “fitness tests” for private and commercial vehicles that are more than 20 and 15 years old respectively. In the absence of a “fitness certificate,” registration of such vehicles will be automatically cancelled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-launches-vehicle-scrappage-policy-hopes-to-create-huge-job-opportunities-1019242.html
13-08-2021||National||New IT rules: HC grants more time to Centre to file counter-affidavit||The Madras High Court on Friday granted 10 more days to the Centre to file its counter-affidavit in response to a batch of PIL pleas challenging the new Information Technology (IT) Rules. The First Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu which granted time to the central government to file its counter, posted the matter for hearing after 15 days. The petitions filed by Carnatic music singer T M Krishna, Digital News Publishers of India, former Editor of The Hindu, N Ram and a senior journalist sought to declare the recently notified Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, as ultra vires of the Constitution and the parent Information Technology Act, passed in 2000. Among other things, the petitioners contended that Part III of the impugned Rules imposes illegitimate restrictions on the right to freedom of expression, guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. As part of a set of general principles laid down in the appendix to the Impugned Rules, the Code of Ethics directs publishers to take into consideration a slew of factors beyond those that are stipulated as grounds on which reasonable restrictions can be made on speech under Article 19(2). For example, it directs publishers to "take into consideration India's multi-racial and multi-religious context and exercise due caution and discretion when featuring the activities, beliefs, practices and views of any racial or religious group." These directions are bound to force the hand of publishers to act against the interests of preserving the marketplace of ideas and in the interests of their own businesses. What more, these directions will also lead directly to the restriction of speech on unconstitutional grounds. For instance, the Inter Departmental Committee constituted under the Impugned Rules will be at liberty to recommend to the central government the speech which the committee finds offensive to a person's religious belief ought to be removed, although Article 19(2) permits no such restriction on such a speech. The new rules, thus, breached Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, petitioners said. The new Rules are ultra vires the IT Act 2000 too, as no part of the Act confers power on the Union Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to regulate digital news media or online content producers through an Inter-departmental committee or otherwise and as such the rules made under Part IIl are wholly ultra vires the purported parent Act, the petitioners further contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-it-rules-hc-grants-more-time-to-centre-to-file-counter-affidavit-1019254.html
13-08-2021||National||Domestic flights becomes costlier as govt raises cap on airfares to 12.82%||Domestic air travel is set to become costlier as the Civil Aviation Ministry has raised the lower as well as upper caps on fares by 9.83 to 12.82 per cent, according to an official order. India had imposed lower and upper limits on airfares based on flight duration when services were resumed on May 25, 2020, after a two-month lockdown due to coronavirus. The lower caps were imposed to help the airlines that have been struggling financially due to coronavirus-related travel restrictions. The upper caps were imposed so that passengers are not charged huge amounts when the demand for seats is high. In an order dated August 12, 2021, the ministry increased the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration from Rs 2,600 to Rs 2,900 -- an increase of 11.53 per cent. The upper cap for flights under 40 minutes of duration was increased by 12.82 per cent to Rs 8,800. Similarly, flights with duration between 40-60 minutes have a lower limit of Rs 3,700 instead of Rs 3,300 now, the order said. The upper cap on these flights was increased by 12.24 per cent to Rs 11,000 on Thursday. The flights with duration between 60-90 minutes have a lower limit of Rs 4,500 -- an increase of 12.5 per cent. The upper cap on these flights was increased by 12.82 per cent to Rs 13,200 on Thursday. Now, domestic flights of duration between 90-120, 120-150, 150-180 and 180-210 minutes have lower caps of Rs Rs 5,300, Rs 6,700, Rs 8,300 and Rs 9,800, respectively, as per the ministry's order. Till date, domestic flights of duration between 90-120, 120-150, 150-180 and 180-210 minutes had the lower limits of Rs 4,700, Rs 6,100, Rs 7,400 and Rs 8,700, respectively. The lower cap on flights between 120-150 minutes duration was increased by 9.83 per cent to Rs 6,700, as per the new order. On Thursday, the upper caps on domestic flights of duration between 90-120, 120-150, 150-180 and 180-210 minutes were increased by 12.3 per cent, 12.42 per cent, 12.74 per cent and 12.39 per cent, respectively, as per the order. The caps mentioned by the government in its order does not include the passenger security fee, user development fee for the airports and the GST. These charges are added on top when the ticket is being booked by the passenger. The ministry's order on Thursday stated that the government has taken this decision of increasing the lower limits as well as the upper limits keeping in mind the "prevailing situation of Covid-19" in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-flights-becomes-costlier-as-govt-raises-cap-on-airfares-to-1282-1019261.html
13-08-2021||National||Twelve nations, including India, decide not to recognise any Afghan govt imposed by force||Twelve nations, including the US, India and China, along with representatives of the UN and EU have decided that they would not recognise any government in Afghanistan that seeks to take control through the barrel of a gun, the State Department has said, amid the continued Taliban offensive across the war-torn country. Representatives from the United States and Qatar, the UN, China, Uzbekistan, Pakistan, the UK, the EU, Germany, India, Norway, Tajikistan, Turkey and Turkmenistan joined a regional conclave on Thursday to discuss ways to contain the escalating security situation in Afghanistan. The conclave was hosted by Qatar. The participants "agreed, first and foremost, that the peace process needs to be accelerated. And they also agreed, importantly, that they will not recognise any government that is imposed through military force," State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters on Thursday. His remarks came as the Taliban advanced across Afghanistan and took control over key provincial capitals. Reports say that the militant group has captured Herat and Kandahar, the country’s second and third largest cities after Kabul, and a strategic provincial capital on Thursday. It comes just weeks before the end of the American military mission in Afghanistan. The US Embassy in Afghanistan issued a security alert Thursday, urging Americans to “leave Afghanistan immediately using available commercial flight options.” "So this is not just the United States making this point. This is not just the United States speaking with our voice. This is the international community, as you see represented in the consensus that has emerged today," Prince said. He said the consensus is on "this very simple point: any force that seeks to take control of Afghanistan with the barrel of a gun, through the barrel of a gun, will not be recognised, will not have legitimacy, will not accrue the international assistance that any such government would likely need to achieve any semblance of durability." Price said the international community came together to speak with one voice on this point over the course of weeks and months. "I’ve spoken just recently about the UN Security Council statement that emanated last week, where the members of the Security Council recalled Resolution 2513, reaffirmed that there is no military solution to the conflict, and declared they do not support the restoration of an Islamic emirate," Price said. J P Singh, the Joint Secretary in the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran division in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), represented India at the meeting in Doha, officials said in New Delhi. India on Thursday said the situation in Afghanistan is of concern and that it continues to hope for a comprehensive ceasefire to end violence in that country. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi also said India is in touch with all the stakeholders in Afghanistan and closely monitoring the ground situation in the strife-torn country. Zalmay Khalilzad, the US envoy, travelled to Doha, Qatar, where the Taliban maintain a political office to persuade the insurgents to return to peace talks with the Afghan government as American and NATO forces finish their pullout from the country. The latest US military intelligence assessment suggests Kabul could come under insurgent pressure within 30 days and that, if current trends hold, the Taliban could gain full control of the country within a few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twelve-nations-including-india-decide-not-to-recognise-any-afghan-govt-imposed-by-force-1019275.html
13-08-2021||National||Independence Day Quiz: How well do you know India?||India enters the 75th year of Independence on August 15, clearing yet another milestone in the vast and complex history of the nation. From shedding the colonial feathers and emerging as a new sovereign nation, India has achieved a great deal of progress on various fronts. While newer and more nuanced concerns emerge, India continues to boast a rich history and a glorious struggle to attain independence from the British. Take the quiz below to refresh your memory of India or to learn more insightful facts:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-quiz-how-well-do-you-know-india-1019278.html
13-08-2021||National||Over 2.82 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states, UTs: Govt||Over 55.01 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far, and 59,16,920 more are in the pipeline, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Of this, the total consumption, including wastage, stands at 52,59,93,669 doses (as per data available at 8 am on Friday). More than 2.82 crore balance and unutilised doses are still available with states, UTs and private hospitals, the ministry said. The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country, it said. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.  The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the ministry added. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the government of India has been supporting states and UTs by providing them Covid-19 vaccines free of cost. In the new phase of the universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the Union government will procure and supply (free of cost) 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by the manufacturers in the country to states and UTs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-282-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-uts-govt-1019296.html
13-08-2021||National||CRPF jawan, two civilians injured as militants lob grenade at security forces in J&K's Baramulla||Three people, including a CRPF head constable, were injured on Friday when militants lobbed a grenade towards security forces in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said. Militants hurled a grenade at a security forces party near SBI Main Chowk Sopore in north Kashmir district, a police official said. He said a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) head constable and two civilians were injured in the explosion. The injured were taken to a hospital for treatment, the official said. Meanwhile, in another incident, militants targeted a CRPF camp here with a grenade, but no loss of life or injury has been reported so far, the officials said. About 8:30 pm, militants hurled a grenade at CRPF Camp at Nowpora Chowk which exploded on the roadside, they said. The officials said a sentry on duty fired some aerial shots after the explosion, but no loss of life or injury was reported so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-jawan-two-civilians-injured-as-militants-lob-grenade-at-security-forces-in-jks-baramulla-1019309.html
13-08-2021||National||Rajnath Singh launches multiple events to mark 75th Independence Day||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh Friday virtually launched multiple major events to commemorate the 75th anniversary of India's independence. "Due to these programs, not only there is a rise in national consciousness, but there is also an increase in the self-esteem the country has," he said during a speech. One of the events launched was of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) whose 75 teams would be leaving Friday for 75 remote places in the border areas of the country to unfurl the national flag on August 15. The Indian Coast Guard will be unfurling the national flag at 100 islands pan-India as a part of the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'. Singh said that in order to maintain unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country, it is important that the feeling of national self-esteem is present in the citizens, and that is the purpose of the programs being launched Friday. If this feeling of national self-esteem was not present in Chandrashekhar Azad, Sardar Bhagat Singh, Khudiram Bose, Asfaqullah Khan, would the country have been able to celebrate this 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', he asked. India is celebrating the 75th anniversary of the Independence Day as 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'. Singh Friday also flagged off 75 Army teams that will scale 75 mountain passes to mark the momentous occasion. The passes include the Saserla Pass in Ladakh region, the Stakpochan Pass in Kargil region, Satopanth, Harshil, Uttarakhand, Phim Karnla, Sikkim and Point 4493, Tawang region of Arunachal Pradesh. Singh also launched an event of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) wherein its cadets will carry out cleaning and maintenance of 825 statues of freedom fighters and bravehearts that have been adopted by 825 NCC battalions. To commemorate India's victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war, a book 'Deeds of Gallantry' was launched by the Defence Minister. The book details 20 selected battles and highlights the gallantry of Indian soldiers. Singh launched a 'Jan Sampark Abhiyan' wherein a representative each of the respective Zila Sainik Board along with a representative of Indian Ex-Servicemen League -- a recognised ex-servicemen (ESM) association -- will interact simultaneously with the ESM fraternity in 75 districts across the country. The objective of the Abhiyan is to address the issues of the veterans in a time-bound manner. Underlining the importance of conservation of water, Singh flagged off activities for rejuvenation of 75 water bodies across 62 cantonments by inaugurating the work on the Patel Park Lake in Ambala Cantt. Singh also launched a portfolio of export-ready defence products such as fast interceptor boat made by the Goa Shipyard Limited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-launches-multiple-events-to-mark-75th-independence-day-1019313.html
13-08-2021||National||The Red Fort and India's 'tryst with destiny'||The Red Fort or Lal Quila has personified 'revolution' for India for over centuries. From the iconic battle of 1857 to being a site where our farmer's gathered last Republic Day to make their voices heard -- the structure has witnessed countless accounts of struggle, freedom, and democracy that will be etched in the country's history forever. "Long years ago we made a tryst with destiny, and now the time comes when we shall redeem our pledge, not wholly or in full measure, but very substantially." Jawaharlal Nehru, India's first Prime Minister's voice echoed through the walls of the Red Fort as he continued his speech "Tryst with Destiny". The Indian flag rose high on the Fort's Lahore gate when Nehru urged millions of independent Indians to cooperate with Independent India in furthering peace, freedom and democracy. The Red Fort has become an icon of freedom struggle in India. It has witnessed copious battles and bloodshed. The UNESCO declared World Heritage was built by the great Mughal emperor Shah Jahan in 1648. It took 10 years to build the Fort. It was a residence for the Mughal emperor for around 200 years until the British took over. The name 'Red Fort' compliments its huge enclosing walls made with red sandstone.  Between the Mughal empire and the British, the Red Fort witnessed other invasions from the Afghans and the Marathas. After Aurangazeb, the Fort started slipping through the hands of the Mughals. The Persian empire defeated the Mughals and took over the seat, making it a 'Peacock throne'. Next in the line were the Afghans and the Marathas. The Afghan ruler Mohammad Shah Durrani took over the Fort, who was then replaced by the Marathas. The Marathas occupied the throne for two decades until they fought the historic Anglo-Maratha war in 1803 against the British East India Company. Interestingly, the battle of the uprising against the British forces was also fought on the Red Fort and the last Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah ll became the symbol for the 1857 rebellion against the British. He was tried there by the Britishers.  After the British took over the Fort, they unleashed their anger on the Fort by destroying most of the artistic designs in the Fort. They also took away the jewels and the crowns of the rulers. Several structures like the gardens, bungalows and halls in the Fort were destroyed. After the second world war, the Red Fort came into the spotlight again as the British Raj put the officers of the Indian National Army to trials at the Fort in 1945. Some rooms in the Red Fort were also converted into prison where these officers were detained. Why was the Red Fort chosen to become the site of Independence? The Octagonal Fort has been a strategically important monument through ages. It has been a symbol of freedom for years. The Red Fort has not just seen bloodshed, but it has also witnessed the good days of the rulers. Before getting destroyed to what it is now, it was once a beautiful palace crafted with explicit designs. After the many battles fought on the Fort, be it for freedom, or for merely acquiring the place, what remains today are the memories of death, of ruins, and most importantly of unity during the Indian uprising against the British, and the revolt against the suppression of colonisation. On 15th August 1947, Jawaharlal Nehru hoisted independent India's national flag, there. Since then, every year, the Prime minister of the country hoists the national flag on the Red Fort. This year marks the 75th Independence of India, and the nation would be glued on their televisions to see the flag being hoisted on the Red Fort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-red-fort-and-indias-tryst-with-destiny-1019317.html
13-08-2021||National||NCW writes to states to bridge gender gap in Covid-19 vaccination||Concerned over the gender gap in the Covid-19 vaccination, the National Commission for Women (NCW) has written to states to take measures to ensure that more women get the jabs. In a letter to Chief Secretaries, NCW Chairperson Rekha Sharma said there was an "urgent need to increase" the proportion of women coming to vaccination booths for receiving the vaccine so that the gap in immunization coverage can be corrected. There is also a need to create public health awareness so that more and more women are vaccinated on priority, she said in the letter, which was sent after suo moto taking cognizance of a media report that spoke about the low uptake of Covid jabs among women. Sharma said the gap in immunisation coverage between the genders is a matter of great concern and states should take proactive measures to bridge the gender gap. She said the gender gap in vaccination reflects the existing gender stereotypes in the society due to which women are being left behind and the reasons include unequal access to resources and technology for both genders. In many households, she said, women’s health is not considered a priority as compared to men if they do not work outside the home and end up getting less preference for vaccination. However, she said, women being the primary caregivers are more likely to get infected while taking care of any sick member of the family. Sharma also said the Centre has been running intensified vaccination drives to reach every nook and corner of the country along with regular campaigns to dispel misinformation and rumours about any side-effects of the vaccine. The state government should also continue the campaigns so as to ensure correct information reaches the remotest part of India, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-writes-to-states-to-bridge-gender-gap-in-covid-19-vaccination-1019319.html
13-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: Focus shifts to booster shots as jab supply pipeline smoothens||Covid-19 cases in India have been plateauing around 40,000 cases a day but many districts in states like Kerala and Tamil Nadu have been witnessing a rising trend in the average daily new Covid-19 cases over the last two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-focus-shifts-to-booster-shots-as-jab-supply-pipeline-smoothens-1019324.html
13-08-2021||National||HC seeks response from Centre, Delhi govt on PIL against child begging||The Delhi High Court Friday sought response from the AAP government and the Centre on a public interest litigation seeking eradication of begging by children here. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Amit Bansal issued notice on a PIL by Ajay Gautam and also sought responses from Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights and Delhi Police. In his petition, Gautam has sought directions to the authorities to rehabilitate children who are beggars and to identify and arrest the persons who are “pushing women using toddlers, teenage girls and small children into begging and...crime” and exploiting young girls. Gautam has alleged that in spite of the presence of beggars in every part of the city, the authorities have failed to take any remedial steps to curb the menace. “Everyone knows that begging mafia is actively behind this menace of begging by the children and they in fact they kidnap, train, force and torture innocent children for begging," the petition states. It is further said that small children are deliberately harmed and injured to “get maximum sympathy of people”. “It has been commonly seen in winters that young girls hold toddlers without clothes to gain maximum sympathy. It is also not out of context to mention here that in many cases these gangs I mafias and young girls intentionally give sedatives to small children to gather sympathy of people risking lives of toddlers as young as 9-12 months”, reads the petition. The petition argues that the Constitution of India mandates the State to make efforts to provide best opportunities for the development of children and ensure that they are not abused. The matter would be heard next on September 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-response-from-centre-delhi-govt-on-pil-against-child-begging-1019327.html
13-08-2021||National||No evidence to confirm if 9-year-old girl was raped before being killed, Delhi Police tells court||Delhi Police has told a court here that no evidence could be collected so far to confirm whether the nine-year-old girl was raped before allegedly being killed near Delhi Cantonment in south-west Delhi earlier this month. The investigating officer (IO) of the case told the court that the disclosure statements of the four accused have revealed that two of them -- Radhey Shyam, the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, and it's employee Kuldeep Singh -- had raped and killed the minor victim. The remaining accused persons -- Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan, both employees at the crematorium -- had helped them in trying to cremate the deceased minor, the IO told the court. “The IO has further admitted that neither any statement of any eye witness nor any other evidence, including medical or scientific could be collected so far to confirm as to whether the victim child was raped or not. He has further submitted that at this stage, he cannot conclusively say as to whether the victim child was raped or not,” the court noted in the order passed on August 12. Disclosure statements of the accused persons before police, unless supported by other evidence, is not admissible under law. Special Judge Ashutosh Kumar, meanwhile, awarded Rs 25 lakh as “interim relief” to the mother of the child for the loss of her daughter's life. The court, however, did not grant further interim relief on the additional ground of the alleged rape of the victim, in view of the submissions of the IO and “in view of the fact that the investigating agency itself is not sure as to whether the victim was raped or not, the interim compensation qua the same is not allowed at this stage.” The judge granted the liberty to the parties concerned to move a fresh application regarding compensation for rape, in case the investigating agency collects further material or comes to the conclusion that the victim child was raped. A per the government scheme, the maximum compensation awardable in case of loss of life is Rs 10 lakh. The court granted 25 per cent of the compensation amount as interim relief. The court, meanwhile, sent the four accused, who were all known to the girl's mother, to 14-day judicial custody. According to the FIR, the minor girl was raped, murdered and then cremated without her parents' consent. The case was recently transferred to the crime branch of Delhi Police. Delhi Police registered a case against the four accused on the basis of the statement of the minor's mother, who alleged that her daughter was raped, murdered and cremated without family's consent on August 1. The accused have been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, along with the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-evidence-to-confirm-if-9-year-old-girl-was-raped-before-being-killed-delhi-police-tells-court-1019338.html
13-08-2021||National||IAF chief attends conference of Maintenance Command, bats for embracing modern technology||Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria attended a two-day commanders' conference of the Maintenance Command in Nagpur and pitched for embracing modern technology for the transformation and re-structuring of the force, a statement said. The conference -- which ended on Friday -- was attended by the commanders of base repair depots, equipment depots and other stations or units under Maintenance Command (MC), and they reviewed ongoing projects and took stock of goals and tasks for MC in the year ahead, the IAF's statement said. In his address to the commanders, Bhadauria noted the pivotal role of MC in the meticulous management of the vast and varied inventory of the IAF. "Commending the Command for initiatives launched to meet the evolving needs of a modern and future ready IAF, he highlighted the need for building capacity to improve maintainability and operability in complex conditions along with a thrust on active pursuance of indigenised projects," the statement said. While highlighting recent events, Bhadauria underscored the importance of due vigilance to meet new security challenges. "He delved on aspects of embracing modern technology such as AI (artificial intelligence) and automation in the task of transformation and re-structuring of IAF to ensure that it is always combat ready," the statement noted. The IAF chief exhorted the commanders to imbibe the 'mantras' of indigenisation and modernisation in their efforts to ensure that MC remains the fountainhead of maintenance and logistics support to integrated operations in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-chief-attends-conference-of-maintenance-command-bats-for-embracing-modern-technology-1019344.html
13-08-2021||National||'Use & throw' out: Centre amends rules for single-use plastic||Aiming to reduce plastic pollution, the Union Environment Ministry has decided to make the ubiquitous plastic carry bags thicker and do away with many commonplace items like plastic handles of earbuds, balloons and ice-cream as well as plastic plates, glasses and cutlery used in large gatherings. The ministry on Thursday published an official notification mandating an increase in the thickness of plastic carry bags from September 30, 2021 and phasing out a whole range of single use plastic products from July 1 next year. The thickness of plastic carry bags will have to be increased from 50 micron to 75 micron from September 30th and subsequently to 120 microns from December 31, 2022. This, according to the ministry, would help stop littering due to light weight plastic carry bags and allow reuse of such bags because of their increased thickness. From July 1, 2022 the ministry has also prohibited manufacture, import and sale of single use plastics like plastic sticks for earbuds and balloons, plastic flags, candy sticks, ice-cream sticks, polystyrene (thermocol) for decoration; plastic plates, cups, glasses, cutlery such as forks, spoons, knives, straw, trays, wrapping or packaging films around sweet boxes, invitation cards and cigarette packets, plastic or PVC banners less than 100 micron and stirrers. According to a report prepared by the Centre for Science and Environment, India generated more than 33.5 lakh metric tonnes of plastic waste in 2018-19, (roughly 9,200 metric tonnes per day). Given that the total municipal solid waste generation is 55-65 million metric tonnes, this would mean that plastic waste is roughly 5-6 per cent of the total solid waste generated in the country. The CSE estimate, however, was lower than a previous estimate made by the Central Pollution Control Board in a 2015 report. Using data from 60 cities, the CPCB report concluded that India generate more than 50 lakh tonnes of plastic each year. Karnataka figures among the seven states contributing maximum in generating plastic waste. They are Maharashtra (12%), Tamil Nadu (12%), Gujarat (11%), West Bengal (9%), Karnataka (8%), Uttar Pradesh (7%) and Delhi (7%). Goa, one of India’s richest states, has the highest per capita plastic waste generation — nearly 60 grams /per capita/day, which is almost double of what Delhi generates (37 gm) and way above the national average of 8 gm. The ministry has now asked the states and other central departments to develop a comprehensive action plan for elimination of single use plastics and effective implementation of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 in a time bound manner. The states have been asked to strengthen their enforcement mechanism. The notification comes two years after Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his 2019 Independence Day address declared the government's plan to eliminate single-use plastic, posing a big challenge to the environment, by 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-throw-out-centre-amends-rules-for-single-use-plastic-1019361.html
13-08-2021||National||BJP organises football tourneys in West Bengal to counter TMC's 'Khela Hobe Divas'||The BJP on Friday organised football tournaments across the state, including one in the city, as it sought to counter the ruling TMC, which has decided to mark August 16 as 'Khela Hobe Divas' by promoting sporting activities. 'Khela Hobe' (game will be played) was the rallying cry of the TMC for assembly polls, held earlier this year. The Mamata Banerjee-led government announced that it would observe 'Khela Hobe' Divas on August 16 in memory of football fans who were killed in a stampede during a match in 1980, much to the chagrin of the BJP, which objected to the TMC dispensation's plan, stating that the Muslim League had proclaimed Direct Action Day on this date in 1946, sparking large-scale violence and bloodshed. The ruling party has also said it would distribute footballs among sports clubs on the occasion. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu, who took part in a football match in Salt Lake area, told reporters, "By choosing August 16 as 'Khela Hobe Divas', the TMC wants to bring back that era of atrocities. "The party has already unleashed unimaginable violence on BJP party workers after the declaration of poll results on May 2 counting. The TMC wants to increase the intensity of such attacks with its 'Khela Hobe' call." Basu also said the BJP has organised football tournaments across the state "though the administration, at the behest of TMC, did not grant us permission in some places". The saffron camp leader further alleged that the state government has "politicised all sporting bodies" by putting TMC members at the helm and most clubs in the state have turned into "ruling party dens". "Lakhs of rupees have been given to the clubs, but sporting activities are rarely held. Call for 'Khela Hobe Divas' is meaningless, given the poor sporting infrastructure in our state," he added. Responding to Basu's remarks, TMC MLA Tapas Roy claimed that the BJP is deliberately trying to link Khela Hobe Divas with Direct Action Day to "communalise the event". "On this day, sports lovers were killed in a stadium in 1980. The date has been chosen to pay a tribute to them. Also, in a bid to encourage the youth, footballs will be distributed in the state, and tournaments organised at various places," Roy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-organises-football-tourneys-in-west-bengal-to-counter-tmcs-khela-hobe-divas-1019373.html
13-08-2021||National||Key events in the Freedom Struggle leading to India's independence||India has had a rich and varied history, one that isn't devoid of any struggles. For 200 years, India struggled to free itself from the shackles of the British Raj, making the fight to freedom a long-drawn one.  While every day was a struggle for the Indians fighting for their freedom, some key events rattled the British monarchy, enough for India to awaken to its freedom on August 15, 1947. On India's 75th Independence Day, let us take a look at the key events from Freedom Struggle: Revolt of 1857 India's First War of Independence, also known as the Sepoy Mutiny, was the first time Indians united against the British Raj. This rebellion led to the dissolution of the East India Company's rule in India and shifted the powers of the Company to the British Crown, in 1858.  Establishing the Indian National Congress in 1885 In 1885, the Indian National Congress was established. It became the leading party alongside the Muslim League and led the nation in the Freedom Struggle. 1915: Return of Mahatma Gandhi to India In 1915, the Father of the Nation Mahatma Gandhi returned to India from South Africa.  Lucknow Pact of 1916 The Lucknow pact was an agreement between Congress and the Muslim League. Muhammed Ali Jinnah had a strong role to play. As a member of both, the League and the Congress, he made both the parties agree that they would put more pressure on the British so that they adopt a more liberal approach to letting Indians run their country. 1917: The Champaran Satyagraha In 1917, Gandhi led an uprising of the farmers of Champaran, who were being forced to grow Indigo and were not even being compensated enough for it. Jallianwala Bagh Massacre In 1919, the British government had released an order banning public gatherings to punish civilians for their 'disobedience'. However, unaware of this order, thousands of Indians gathered at the Jallianwala Bagh in Amritsar, on April 13, to celebrate the festival of Baisakhi. Brigadier-General Dyer called in troops and ordered them to open fire for 10 mins at the mass gathering. The troops had also blocked the main entrance so no one could flee. Many jumped in wells to save themselves. As per the official records of the British, 350 people died in the massacre, but Congress claims the number was as high as 1,000 people. It was this event that prompted the start of the Non-Cooperation Movement. Non-Cooperation Movement In 1920, Mahatma Gandhi took charge of Congress and started the Non-Cooperation Movement. The movement was non-violent and saw people not buying British goods, supporting local artisans and handicrafts, and picketing alcohol shops. He went around the countr explaing the tenets of the movement to the masses. The movement came to an end in 1922, when a protest at Chauri Chaura police station turned violent. Return of Subhash Chandra Bose to India In 1921, Subhash Chandra Bose quit his high-paying ICS job in England to join India's struggle for Independence. Shortly after his return, he joined the Congress. He started a newspaper titled 'Swaraj'. He was sent to prison in 1925 and was released in 1927. Upon his release, he was made the President of the All India Youth Congress and the Secretary of the Bengal State Congress. In 1930, he became the Mayor of Calcutta. Purna Swaraj on January 26, 1930 On January 26, 1930, the Indian National Congress declared the independence of India which the British did not recognise. The Dandi March of 1930 In an act of civil disobedience, Gandhiji took a crowd from the Sabarmati Asharam to Dandi beach, in a non-violent manner, to protest against the repressive salt tax imposed by the British government.  Government of India Act of 1935 The Government of India Act and the creation of a new constitution laid the foundations for the events that would follow in the next decade and thereafter. Creation of the Indian National Army An important development in the struggle for freedom during the Second World War was the formation and activities of the Azad Hind Fauj, also known as the Indian National Army, or INA. The Indian National Army was formed from among the Indian prisoners of war with the aim of liberating India from British rule. In 1943, Subhash Chandra Bose visited Japan, where he rebuilt the INA. He shaped it to be an effective instrument for the freedom of India. The INA had close to 45,000 soldiers. In October 1943, Bose formed a provisional government that had been recognised by the Axis Powers during the Second World War Quit India Movement of 1942 The All-India Congress Committee started this movement in their Bombay session on August 8, 1942. There was only one mission - to end British Rule in India. In addition, Gandhiji made a call to Do or Die in his Quit India speech that he delivered in Bombay. Royal Navy Strike of 1946 On February 18, 1946, 1,100 Indian sailors of the HMIS Talwar, and the Royal Indian Navy (RIN) Signal School in Bombay declared a hunger strike against the conditions of Indians in the Navy. The next day, somewhere between 10,000-20,000 soldiers joined the strike. While the initial demands were for better food and working conditions, the strike soon turned into a wider demand for independence from the British.  The protesting sailors also demanded the release of all political prisoners including those from Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s Indian National Army. Partition of India and the Independence of the country in 1947 The Parliament of the UK passed the Indian Independence Act. As per the Act, British India would be divided into India and Pakistan. The Monarch gave its assent on July 18, 1947, and it came into effect on August 14-15 in Pakistan and India respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-events-in-the-freedom-struggle-leading-to-indias-independence-1019390.html
13-08-2021||National||Independence Day: The evolution of the Indian flag to the tricolour we know||The Indian flag has always been central to the Indian identity. The flag has dominated all public spheres on a range of issues across the vast country. However, the flag, stripes of saffron, white and green stacked in that order with the Ashoka Chakra for a pendant, came from decades of evolution. The different phases of the flag not only tell a story of India through time but also the personalities behind the freedom struggle. A variant of the unofficial national flag was first recognised in 1906 during the national freedom struggle. Through several political, national developments and vicissitudes of time, the national flag evolved into the tricolour or the tiranga as we know it today. In India, the first flag was hoisted on August 7, 1906, in Calcutta. At that time, the flag flaunted only three horizontal stripes of red, yellow and green, with Vande Mataram written in the middle. Believed to have been designed by freedom activists Sachindra Prasad Bose and Hemchandra Kanungo, the red strip on the flag had sun and a crescent moon, and the green strip had eight half-open lotuses. The second flag was hoisted in Paris by Madame Cama and her band of exiled revolutionaries in 1907. Similar to the first flag, the modification in the second flag was that the top strip had only seven stars denoting the Saptarishi. This flag was also exhibited at a socialist conference in Berlin. Dr Annie Besant and Lokmanya Tilak hoisted the third flag during the Home rule movement. This flag had five red and four green horizontal strips arranged alternately, with seven stars in the saptarishi configuration. The flag had a star and a crescent that occupied one corner of the flag while the other was taken by Union Jack. Arguably, understanding the need for a national flag, Gandhi, in 1921 had asked Pengali Venkayya to design a flag, with the symbol of the charka or the spinning wheel. The flag as we know it today is largely attributed to Venkayya. During the session of the All India Congress Committee which met at Vijaywada in 1921, Venkayya presented this flag, which was made of two colours: red and green, representing the two major communities i.e. Hindus and Muslims. To this, Gandhi apparently suggested the addition of a white strip to represent the remaining communities of India.   Some modifications later, the national flag was adopted in 1931. Red was replaced with saffron and the white strip moved to the middle. The center of the flag had the spinning wheel or charka. The national flag of independent India was largely similar to the one in 1931 with the exception of the Ashok chakra replacing the charka or spinning wheel. In the tricolour, The saffron on top symbolises courage, the white symbolises peace and the green stands for auspiciousness of the land. The dharma chakra at the centre stands for movement and growth, with the 24 spokes symbolizing 24 virtues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-the-evolution-of-the-indian-flag-to-the-tricolour-we-know-1019396.html
13-08-2021||National||Chair not as neutral as it should be; BJP's 'two gentlemen' will lock down Parliament if they have their way: Chidambaram||With a tumultuous Parliament session ending with unruly scenes, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday said the Chair in both Houses was "not as neutral as it should be" and asserted that the last-day pandemonium in Rajya Sabha started because the government tried to pass a legislation by "stealth" while going back on its words. Chidambaram also questioned the absence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah from debates during the session and alleged that the "two-man army" BJP government has "scant respect" for Parliament and if the "two gentlemen have their way, they will lock down Parliament". In an interview with PTI, the former Union minister also asserted that with patience, further conversations and meetings, he is absolutely certain the difficulties in forging Opposition unity to take on the BJP in 2024 general elections shall be overcome and it will be a reality well before the polls. The Monsoon session of Parliament was curtailed by two days on Wednesday. Just before the Rajya Sabha was adjourned sine die, opposition MPs jostled with marshals in the well of the House when they were trying to move towards the Chair and the treasury benches. While the government and the ruling BJP have blamed the Congress and other opposition parties for disruptions, the opposition leaders have accused the ruling dispensation of running away from debate on issues like Pegasus snooping allegations and contentious farm laws.  For Wednesday's ruckus in Rajya Sabha also, the ruling party has put the blame on opposition leaders while several leaders from Congress and some other parties alleged that opposition members including some women MPs were manhandled. Asked about the ruckus in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday and the government fielding eight ministers to accuse the Opposition of disrupting the Monsoon session, Chidambaram said the pandemonium was created by the government going back on its word that after the Constitution amendment bill on the OBC reservation was passed by the House, it will be adjourned sine die.   The Opposition had made it clear that it was opposed to passing the bill to amend the general insurance laws which would pave the way for privatisation of all general insurance companies and that it should be referred to a select committee of Parliament, he said. Chidambaram, a Rajya Sabha member and part of the Congress' strategy group in the House, said that since there was no agreement on that issue between the government and the Opposition, it was agreed that the bill will not be taken up in this session of Parliament.   "But after the Constitution amendment bill was passed unanimously, the government tried to rush through the general insurance amendment bill and one or two other bills.  This is a continuation of the BJP's practice of passing legislation by stealth," he said. Naturally, the opposition was infuriated and opposed the government vehemently, he said. "The chair, I am afraid, and I am sorry to say this, did not play a neutral role and therefore there was pandemonium in Parliament, but the starting point of the pandemonium was the government's attempt to pass legislation by stealth," Chidambaram alleged. Asked about Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu expressing disappointment with the behaviour of Opposition members during the session and the Opposition raising questions about the neutrality of the Chair, the senior Congress leader said, "We are increasingly driven to the conclusion, and  I say this with a heavy heart and great regret, that the Chair is not as neutral as it should be and the Chair does not reflect the sense of the House." The House consists of both the treasury benches and the opposition benches and the Chair should reflect the sense of the whole House and not just one side or the other, he asserted. On the government rejecting Opposition's criticism of passage of bills amid the din, stating that it also happened in the UPA era, Chidambaram said this "whataboutery" must come to an end.   In the UPA era, the prime minister and the home minister attended both Houses,  they answered questions in Parliament, they took part in debates and offered clarifications on statements, he said.   Chidambaram said that in this whole session, the prime minister and the home minister were "absent", did not answer a single question and did not participate in any debate. "This shows that the two-man army, which is the BJP government, has scant respect for Parliament. If these two gentlemen have their way, they will lock down Parliament," he alleged. Asked about Parliament not discussing the Pegasus snooping row and the parliamentary panel on information technology not being able to take up the issue with BJP members denying the panel a quorum in its last meeting, Chidambaram said the Supreme Court is the only hope.   "The government has a huge guilty conscience which is why the moment the word Pegasus is uttered, the government runs for cover and the government resorts to all kinds of strategies to shut out a debate on Pegasus, but Pegasus cannot be suppressed forever," he said.   One by one skeleton will tumble out of the cupboard, as they are, in France, Israel, Germany and other countries. Newspapers around the world will report on the new revelations, the senior Congress leader said. "I hope the Supreme Court will take up the issue of Pegasus and order an inquiry," he added. Asked if with the Opposition unity on display during the Monsoon session -- be it Rahul Gandhi's breakfast meeting, Kapil Sibal's dinner or floor coordination -- seeds of an alliance to take on the BJP in 2024 have been sown, Chidambaram said it was the "beginning of the beginning".   "We are still in the early days but my conversations with opposition leaders clearly point to the fact that every opposition leader is convinced that the Opposition must present a United front," he said. On Thursday, as the government fielded a battery of eight ministers at a news conference to take on the opposition over the ruckus in Parliament, the presiding officers of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha expressed deep concern over the "disruptive behaviour" of some MPs and felt such actions should not be tolerated. Opposition leaders also marched in protest against the government on several issues, including the Pegasus snooping row, the three farm laws and alleged manhandling of their MPs in Rajya Sabha, with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying the voice of people was crushed in Parliament and democracy was "murdered".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chair-not-as-neutral-as-it-should-be-bjps-two-gentlemen-will-lock-down-parliament-if-they-have-their-way-chidambaram-1019405.html
13-08-2021||National||India's exports up 49.85% in July to $35.43 billion, trade deficit at $10.97 billion||The country's exports surged 49.85 per cent to $35.43 billion in July on account of healthy growth in petroleum, engineering, and gems and jewellery segments, even as the trade deficit widened to $10.97 billion during the month, official data showed on Friday. Imports during the month also rose by about 63 per cent to $46.40 billion, as per the data released by the commerce ministry.  "The trade balance for July 2021 was estimated at $(-) 10.97 billion as against $(-) 4.83 billion in July 2020, which is a decline of 127.37 per cent," the ministry said in a statement. Oil imports soared by 97.45 per cent to $12.89 billion. Exports during April-July 2021-22 rose by 74.5 per cent year-on-year to $130.82 billion, as against $75 billion in the same period last year. Imports during the first four months of the fiscal increased by 94 per cent to $172.5 billion. Commenting on the data, Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) President A Sakthivel said the global demand during this period has also remained buoyant as the order booking positions of exporters have been impressive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-exports-up-4985-in-july-to-3543-billion-trade-deficit-at-1097-billion-1019410.html
13-08-2021||National||Class 12 student moves SC seeking time-bound decision to reopen schools||A Class XII student from Delhi has approached the Supreme Court for directions to the Centre and state governments to take a time-bound decision in connection with the physical reopening of schools and conduct of offline teaching.  A Delhi-resident, Amar Prem Prakash said he is echoing the sentiments and feelings of a large body of the student community and fraternity of the country, particularly underprivileged and voiceless children.  The petitioner said he is aggrieved by the indecision and vacillation on the part of the Centre, and many states and Union Territories in the matter of reopening of schools and resumption of physical classes with adequate safeguards. Students were forced to take up tuition and coaching classes in absence of physical schools. He contended if public places can be reopened for those vaccinated or not why should schools and other educational institutions be not given a priority. The plea filed through advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra claimed that it sought to raise a very vital issue regarding the deprivation and ill-effects, both psychological and actual, of school children being kept away from attending their schools physically. The plea said deprivation of regular school and teaching in the congenial and academic environment of a student’s education institution, was leaving an indelible mark on the psyche of student community.  “A holistic and considered decision in regard to reopening of schools will not only end the uncertainty and speculation in this regard, but also assuage the sentiment of the student community in the country," it said. The plea said having virtual classes was proving to be not only detrimental to the interests of students, but also tantamount to discrimination and unfair treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/class-12-student-moves-sc-seeking-time-bound-decision-to-reopen-schools-1019415.html
13-08-2021||National||SC asks hospital if cost can be reduced on woman's plea for Rs one crore aid from PM-CARES||The Supreme Court on Friday asked a Secunderabad-based hospital if something could be done at their level to reduce the treatment cost of a man whose wife sought Rs one crore aid from the PM-CARES Fund for lung transplant required due to Covid-19 infection.  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose clarified that they were not giving any direction but just wanted to know if the cost can be reduced. A counsel, appearing for the hospital, submitted that the condition of the patient has improved and he may not require the transplant. The bench asked him to ascertain the conditions and inform the court on Monday, August 16. The court was hearing a plea by Sheela Mehra who sought financial assistance for the medical procedure under Article 21 of the Constitution. In her plea filed through advocate Krishna Kumar Singh, the woman said no life should meet its end for the reason of financial constraints and the state is duty-bound to extend help in appropriate cases as the PM-CARES Fund is a national endeavour to provide relief to the persons in a distress situation.  The counsel said Rs three lakh from PMO's office and Rs two lakh have been sanctioned from the MP Chief Minister's Relief Fund to the woman, which was highly insufficient. On May 4, 2021, the man got infected with Covid-19. With high doses of steroids, the condition of her husband got worsened. He was diagnosed with severe pneumonia and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS). After initial treatment at AIIMS Bhopal, he was shifted to Yashoda hospital, Secunderabad on June 11 for lung transplant. At present, he is at KIMS hospital, where his treatment is costing Rs two lakh per day and requires one crore for the transplant due to his grim situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-hospital-if-cost-can-be-reduced-on-womans-plea-for-rs-one-crore-aid-from-pm-cares-1019417.html
13-08-2021||National||Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 nasal vaccine gets regulator's nod for holding phase 2, 3 clinical trials||Hyderabad-based vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech’s intranasal vaccine has received regulatory approval for phase-2/3 clinical trials, the outcome of which would decide whether it could be used in India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign. "Bharat Biotech's intranasal vaccine (BBV154) is the first nasal vaccine that has received regulatory approval for multi-centre phase 2/3 trials. This is the first of its kind Covid-19 jab to undergo human clinical trials in India,” the Department of Biotechnology that supports the development of the vaccine, said in a statement on Friday. Known as BBV154, it is an intra-nasal replication-deficient chimpanzee adenovirus SARS-CoV-2 vectored vaccine developed by scientists at Washington University in St Louis, USA. The Indian firm has received a license for commercial development for Indian and a few other markets. The phase 1 clinical trial, carried out in people belonging to the 18-60 years of age, showed that the vaccine was well tolerated with no reports of any serious adverse events. Previously, the vaccine was found to be safe, immunogenic and well-tolerated in the pre-clinical toxicity studies. It also elicited a high level of neutralizing antibodies in animal studies. “The intranasal vaccine candidate has shown unprecedented levels of protection in mice studies. “The ability to accomplish effective immunization with a single nasal dose is a major advantage, offering broader reach and easier administration,” David T Curiel director of Biologic Therapeutics Center and professor of radiation oncology at Washington University School of Medicine. “An effective nasal dose not only protects against Covid-19, but it also prevents the spread of the disease by offering another kind of immunity that occurs primarily in the cells that line the nose and throat. Most other vaccine candidates currently under development can’t do that.” In a statement issued last September Bharat Biotech's stated that the company would produce one billion doses of the intranasal vaccine “We envision that we will scale this vaccine to 1 billion doses, translating to 1 billion individuals vaccinated receiving a single-dose regimen. An intranasal vaccine will not only be simple to administer but reduce the use of medical consumables such as needles and syringes significantly impacting the overall cost of a vaccination drive,” said Krishna Ella, Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director. The company claimed it owned the rights to distribute the vaccine in all markets except the USA, Japan and Europe. "The Department of Biotechnology is committed to the development of safe and efficacious Covid-19 vaccines. Bharat Biotech’s BBV154 is the first intranasal vaccine being developed in the country entering into late-stage clinical trials," said Renu Swarup, secretary, DBT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotechs-covid-19-nasal-vaccine-gets-regulators-nod-for-holding-phase-2-3-clinical-trials-1019421.html
13-08-2021||National||Sharing pic of minor rape victim’s family shows Rahul Gandhi's ignorance, insensitivity: Baluni||Reacting to the temporary suspension of Rahul Gandhi’s Twitter account for sharing pictures of the family of a minor victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi, BJP’s media in-charge Anil Baluni on Friday called the Congress leader “ignorant and insensitive”. "It establishes that Rahul Gandhi is not only ignorant but insensitive as well. This was not expected from a top leader of the Congress party," Baluni said. Gandhi's account was temporarily suspended by Twitter last week after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) issued a notice to Twitter asking it to act against the Congress leader's handle for tweeting pictures of the family of a minor victim of alleged rape and murder in Delhi last week. The NCPCR had cited the juvenile justice law that mandates the privacy of minor victims. While Twitter said it has followed the due process as Gandhi's tweet on the family of the victim was against its rules and the law, the Congress leader accused the microblogging giant of "interfering in the national political process" and said shutting down of his handle amounted to "attack on the country's democratic structure". In a video statement on YouTube titled "Twitter's dangerous game", Gandhi alleged that it was not a neutral and objective platform and was "beholden to the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharing-pic-of-minor-rape-victim-s-family-shows-rahul-gandhis-ignorance-insensitivity-baluni-1019428.html
13-08-2021||National||Delhi protests as Pakistan turns ‘accident’ into ‘terror attack’ to blame it on spy agencies of India, Afghanistan||A day after Islamabad blamed intelligence agencies of India and Afghanistan for the death of nine citizens of China in what it earlier called an accident in northern Pakistan, New Delhi dismissed the allegation as yet another lie peddled by Imran Khan’s government in the neighbouring country. Khan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Thursday alleged that the Research and Analytical Wing (RAW) of India and the National Directorate of Security (NDS) of Afghanistan had colluded to carry out the July 14 explosion that killed 13 people, who were working on a hydropower project China was building at Dasu in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. He alleged that the RAW and NDS had carried out the explosion as India and Afghanistan were opposed to China-Pakistan economic cooperation and China’s role in building infrastructures in Pakistan. The explosion took place on a bus and the deceased included nine Chinese and four Pakistani citizens. Qureshi had earlier told Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi during a meeting in Dushanbe that the preliminary investigation had showed that it was an accident and not a terrorist attack, according to a statement released by the government of the communist country on July 15. New Delhi strongly reacted to Pakistan Foreign Minister’s allegations. “This is yet another attempt by Pakistan to malign India, in a bid to deflect international attention from its role as the epicentre of regional instability and a safe haven for proscribed terrorists,” Arindam Bagchi, the official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said on Friday. Qureshi’s allegation against the RAW and the NDS in an explosion killing citizens of China in Pakistan came amid the continued military stand-off between Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in eastern Ladakh and Islamabad’s pursuit of a strategic edge against India in Afghanistan after the resurgence of the Taliban. President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul accused Pakistan of providing support to the Taliban as its militants over the past few weeks continued its military advances occupying vast territories across Afghanistan. “India has been at the forefront of global efforts against terrorism in partnership with the international community, which is well aware of Pakistan’s credentials when it comes to terrorism,” the MEA spokesperson said in New Delhi. “Such desperate attempts by Pakistan at peddling lies and propaganda will therefore find few takers.” The Dasu Hydroelectric Project is part of the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC), which links China's Xinjiang Autonomous Region and the port city of Gwadar in southern Pakistan. New Delhi has been opposing the CPEC, because it passes through Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) areas, which India claims to be part of its own territory and accuses Pakistan of illegally occupying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-protests-as-pakistan-turns-accident-into-terror-attack-to-blame-it-on-spy-agencies-of-india-afghanistan-1019441.html
13-08-2021||National||NBA rechristens its name as News Broadcasters and Digital Association||The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) on Friday said it has decided to change its name to the News Broadcasters and Digital Association (NBDA) to bring within its purview digital media news broadcasters. The NBA board also decided to rechristen the name of the News Broadcasting Standard Authority (NBSA), a self-regulatory body set up by the Association 14 years ago, as the News Broadcasting and Digital Standards Authority with the inclusion of digital media news broadcasters, the broadcasters body said in a statement. The decision was taken by the NBA board to "reflect" the addition of digital media news broadcasters as its members with the media landscape having changed "drastically" due to technology, it added. Announcing the decision, the NBA president Rajat Sharma said, "I firmly believe that the NBDA will become a strong collective voice for both the broadcast and digital media." Along with commercial and regulatory issues, it will also enable the Association to defend the fundamental right of free speech and expression, guaranteed to the media in the Constitution of India, "in a better manner", he said. "The NBA has decided to bring within its purview digital media news broadcasters. In its new phase, with the inclusion of digital media news broadcasters, the NBA Board has decided to change the name of the body from the NBA to the NBDA," he said. The NBA said it consists of the "nation's top-rated news channels", claiming that it "commands more than 80 per cent of news television viewership" in India. "The pride of the NBA has been the setting up of an independent self-regulatory body News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) 14 years ago," it said. The NBSA has put in place "a time-tested" complaint redressal system and process, headed by eminent judges of the Supreme Court and eminent persons who have striven to improve broadcasting standards, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nba-rechristens-its-name-as-news-broadcasters-and-digital-association-1019446.html
13-08-2021||National||Vaccine export ban 'very bad' move; son warned me not to speak about it: SII's Cyrus Poonawalla||Cyrus Poonawalla, chairman of the Serum Institute of India (SII), on Friday termed the ban on Covid-19 vaccine exports imposed by the Union government a “very bad move”, saying it put his company, the world's largest vaccine-maker, in a difficult situation. He also said that his son Adar Poonawalla, the chief executive of the SII which makes the Covishield vaccine, had asked him not to speak about the issue. “It is a very bad move by the Modi government. My son asked me not to open my mouth. But it is my view that exports ought to be opened,” Poonawalla said here. He was speaking to reporters after receiving the prestigious Lokmanya Tilak Award. Over 150 countries are dependent on the SII for vaccines and are blaming the company for stopping the supply during a crucial period, he said. These countries have paid “crores” in advance to the company, Cyrus Poonawalla said, adding that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and World Health Organization (WHO) have also given it Rs 5,000 crore. He had offered to return the money to the Gates Foundation and WHO, he said, but hinted that they declined his offer in the hope that the Indian government will lift the ban on exports soon. India banned vaccine exports in April when the second wave of the pandemic began to peak and the need to vaccinate people in the country at a greater pace was felt acutely. The move led to concerns being expressed from various quarters as the Pune-based SII is one of the biggest suppliers globally and had taken advance orders. About a shortage of vaccines in Pune itself, Poonawalla again voiced disappointment with the Union government. “We told them (the government) that data says that the infections are highest in Pune and requested them to release more (vaccines) for Pune … but the Modi government is unwilling to even reply. The government says it will do what it feels,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-export-ban-very-bad-move-son-warned-me-not-to-speak-about-it-siis-cyrus-poonawalla-1019448.html
13-08-2021||National||BJYM yatra to spread Modi's new India message||BJP's youth wing will launch year-long programmes on Independence Day to take Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of 'New India' across the country through the 'Yuva Sankalp Yatra'. The year-long outreach efforts to mark the 75th anniversary of Independence would begin with a collective rendition of the national anthem at 13,350 places across the country on Independence Day and a three-day marathon and cycle rally at 75 kms at 75 places to cover a total distance of 12,755 km. “More than 10 lakh Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) volunteers will take part in the collective rendition of the national anthem across 13,350 mandals of the organisation,” BJYM President Tejasvi Surya told reporters here. He said the volunteers will upload the videos of the rendition of the national anthem on social media platforms at 7:50 a.m. Surya said the Yuva Sankalp Yatra will be launched in Udaipur on August 15 and conclude on August 17 at Ladakh. Besides, the BJYM will organise a series of events to take the Prime Minister's vision of a new India and foster a sense of patriotism. The participants in the yatra will also take a pledge to work to make a prosperous and inclusive India which will be a global leader in various fields by 2047, he said. The yatra will be undertaken in every assembly constituency in Gujarat and 37 places in Karnataka, Surya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjym-yatra-to-spread-modis-new-india-message-1019474.html
13-08-2021||National||More than 53 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India so far||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 53 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. On Friday, 55,91,675 vaccine doses were administered, according to the 7 pm provisional report. The ministry said 30,31,275 first doses and 4,92,283 second doses were administered in the 18-44 age group on Friday. Cumulatively, 19,12,12,891 people in the 18-44 years category across all states and union territories have received their first dose and 1,44,57,719 have received their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Five states — Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh — have administered more than one crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the 18-44 age group, the ministry said. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group of 18-44 for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, it said. As on day 210 of the vaccination drive, a total 55,91,675 vaccine doses were given. The ministry said 43,63,276 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 12,28,399 beneficiaries received second dose of the vaccine as per the provisional report till 7 pm. Final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-53-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-so-far-1019489.html
13-08-2021||National||Over 98,000 Kashmiri migrants issued domicile certificates till end of June||As many as 98,600 Kashmiri migrants have been issued domicile certificates till the end of June, officials said here on Friday. Giving the breakup, officials said 90,430 domicile certificates were issued to displaced Kashmiri Pandits, while 2,340 families of displaced Kashmiri Pandits were registered as fresh migrants. Of these, 8,170 individuals received the domicile certificate. Similarly, 2,988 families of displaced Persons of Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK) living outside Jammu and Kashmir have also been registered and domicile certificate issued to them, they said. Relief and Rehabilitation commissioner T K Bhat, who supervised and monitored the operation of issuance of domicile certificates and fresh registration of displaced Kashmiri Pandits and those from PoJK, said the process had begun in July last year. Any Kashmiri Pandit and displaced person, who may have left Kashmir in 1944 before Independence and has proof of owning or possessing immovable property in any part of Jammu and Kashmir on or after 1944, is entitled to domicile of the Union Territory. On May 16 last year, the Jammu and Kashmir administration took a historic decision by reopening "fresh registration" for Kashmiri migrants and displaced people that paved the way for inclusion of bonafide people who migrated from the UT. "Bonafide migrants and bonafide displaced persons who are not yet registered with the relief and rehabilitation commissioner (migrant), Jammu and Kashmir, can apply before the competent authority for registration for purpose of issuance of a domicile certificate only," an order issued by the Department of Disaster Management, Relief, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction, had said on May 16 last year. The relief and rehabilitation commissioner (migrant) of Jammu and Kashmir shall be the competent authority for the purpose of registration of displaced persons, besides Kashmiri migrants to issue domicile certificate, the order said. For this purpose, migrants and displaced people can apply online with one of the proofs, including a copy of permanent resident certificate, name in electoral roll of 1951 and 1988, proof of working in an autonomous body or entity before 1.11.1989, proof of owning immovable property in Jammu and Kashmir on or after 1944, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-98000-kashmiri-migrants-issued-domicile-certificates-till-end-of-june-1019500.html
13-08-2021||National||One of India's friends in Afghanistan detained by Taliban, two others vow to keep fighting||The Taliban has detained Mohammad Ismail Khan, one of New Delhi’s ‘old friends’ in Afghanistan, on Friday, as its militants occupied Herat, a provincial capital in the northwestern region of the country, and took control of the Salma Dam, which the Government of India had built spending over Rs 1,775 crore. Two other ‘old friends’ India has in Afghanistan, Ata Muhammad Noor and Abdul Rashid Dostum, vowed to fight back the Taliban and drive the militants out of the northern region of the war-torn country. The Taliban, however, occupied the capitals of at least 18 of the 34 provinces of Afghanistan by Friday, with the Afghan National Defence and Security Force (ANDSF) finding it difficult to slow down the militants' advances towards Kabul. Khan, 75, was detained by the Taliban after his militia and the ANDSF soldiers failed to hold out against the repeated attacks launched by the militants to wrest control of the capital of Herat in northwestern Afghanistan. His detention by the militants was confirmed by the Taliban’s spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid on Twitter. Some reports from Herat and Kabul, however, indicated that his surrender to the militants was part of a deal between the local government officials and the Taliban. The videos and pictures of him surrounded by gun-toting militants were widely circulated on social media. The warlord, once known as “Lion of Herat”, had fought against the erstwhile Soviet Union’s army, which had invaded Afghanistan in December 1979. He had also been a prominent member of the Northern Alliance, a coalition of warlords, which had fought against the Taliban in the 1990s with the support from India, Iran, Russia, Tajikistan and Turkey. Khan’s latest visit to New Delhi was on April 8 this year when External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had hosted him in his office and discussed with him the evolving situation in Afghanistan, in view of the imminent withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies from the conflict-ravaged country. He had last month led his militia to fight alongside the ANDSF soldiers to repel the Taliban’s attack on Herat – the third largest city of Afghanistan. After occupying Herat on Friday, the Taliban also took control of the Afghan-India Friendship Dam, a.k.a. Salma Dam, a hydroelectric and irrigation project located on the Hari River in the Chisti Sharif district of the province. India had spent Rs 1775.69 crore to build the dam in Afghanistan. The WAPCOS Limited took over 10 years to build the dam, with the remoteness of the site and security situation being the primary reasons for the delay in implementing the project. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani had inaugurated it on June 4, 2016. Two other ‘friends’ of India and ‘Northern Alliance’ veterans – Dostum and Noor – are camping in Mazar-e-Sharif, as the militias led by them are helping the ANDSF to repel the Taliban’s advances towards the Balkh province in northern Afghanistan. Jaishankar had hosted Dostum and Noor in New Delhi in September and October 2020, when India was working out plans to deal with the Taliban’s resurgence after the withdrawal of the US troops and to respond to Pakistan’s renewed bid to gain a strategic edge in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-of-indias-friends-in-afghanistan-detained-by-taliban-two-others-vow-to-keep-fighting-1019510.html
13-08-2021||National||Covid-19 shot booster desirable, says SII chairman Cyrus Poonawalla||Serum Institute of India chairman Cyrus Poonawalla on Friday said that taking a third or `booster dose' of Covishield, the coronavirus vaccine manufactured by his firm, was desirable. He also said he was not in favour of mixing two difference vaccines, and criticized the Union government for banning exports of vaccines. Poonawalla was speaking to reporters after receiving the Lokmanya Tilak award here. "After six months, the antibodies go down and that is why I have taken the third dose. We have given the third dose to our seven to eight thousand SII employees. For those who have completed the second dose, it is my request to take a booster dose (third dose) after six months," he said. The ideal gap between two doses of Covishield is two months though the Union government increased it to three months because of dose shortage, he said. "I am against the mixing of two different vaccines. There is no need to mix two different vaccines," Poonawalla said, when asked about a recent ICMR study that a cocktail of Covishield and Covaxin was found to have generated better immunity within a small group. If such combination of doses did not work, each vaccine manufacturer will blame the other company, he said. Later, in a statement to clarify his remarks, Poonawalla said such mixing can be resorted to if a particular vaccine is not available at the time of second dose. He also dismissed reports about `threats' to the Poonawalla family. His son Adar had left the country for a usual summer vacation, he claimed. Asked for his view on the government's assurance to complete the vaccination in the entire country by the end of this year and the claim that 45 crore doses will be available by September, he said, "What do you think ? Politicians sometimes boast... "Our production of Covid-19 vaccine is 10 crore per month and producing that much quantity is not easy," Poonawalla added. No company in the world can provide 10 to 12 crore doses in a month, he said. "However, with the advance preparations by SII and investments of thousands of crores, we can produce 110 to 120 crore doses per year. As other companies are also producing the vaccines, the immunization will increase," he said. Poonawalla termed the Union government's decision to ban the export of vaccines as a “very bad move”. "My son asked me not to open my mouth (on the issue). But it is my view that exports ought to be opened,” he said. Over 150 countries are dependent on the SII for vaccines and are blaming the company for stopping the supply during a crucial period, he said. In his speech at the award ceremony earlier, he praised the Narendra Modi government for cutting red-tapism, and recalled how the industry used to face "hardships" in securing permissions and "harassment from bureaucrats" 50 years ago. Speedy permissions granted by the government authorities made the development of the coronavirus vaccine within a very short time possible, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-shot-booster-desirable-says-sii-chairman-cyrus-poonawalla-1019514.html
13-08-2021||National||Communal sloganeering at Jantar Mantar: Court denies bail to three, says remarks undemocratic||A Delhi court has denied bail to three persons arrested in connection with the communal slogans allegedly raised during a protest at the Jantar Mantar here, saying one of them can be seen making “scathing” and “undemocratic” remarks. The judge noted that while accused Deepak Singh was seen making the remarks which were “uncalled for from a citizen of this country where principles like secularism hold the value of basic feature imbibed in the Constitution”, accused Preet Singh was seen with him in the rally and accused Vinod Sharma was also present at the venue at the time of the alleged offence. A video allegedly showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar here was widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case on Monday. Metropolitan Magistrate Udbhav Kumar Jain refused to release the accused persons on bail on parity with co-accused and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, who was granted bail on Wednesday, saying that they stood on a different footing from him. “In one of the clippings, accused, as identified by the IO (investigating officer) in the video clipping, can be seen making scathing remarks which are undemocratic and uncalled for from a citizen of this country where principles like secularism hold the value of basic feature imbibed in the Constitution,” the judge said in the order passed on Thursday. The judge saw the alleged video clippings and played some part of it in open court also. He said that freedom to express oneself was indeed allowed to be enjoyed by the citizens to the fullest possible extent, yet with every right there was a corresponding duty attached. “The principle behind Section 153A IPC is to preserve religious/ communal harmony and it is the duty of every citizen that while he enjoys his right to express himself, he preserves religious harmony. This indeed is the positive aspect of secularism,” he said. The court said it could not check the veracity of those video clippings at present, which was a matter of appreciation of evidence to be done at later stage. “Besides, there is no time stamp available at this stage on these video clippings for which proper investigation has to be done. This court cannot interfere with the ongoing investigation,” the judge said. The accused persons were represented by advocate Ashwani Dubey. The court had on Aug 11 granted bail to Upadhyay, saying there was nothing on record to show that the slogans were raised on his behest, or that he was present at the spot at the time of the offence. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by 'Bharat Jodo Aandolan' at Jantar Mantar on Sunday. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, had said the protest was held under the leadership of Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. Upadhyay too denied any involvement in the anti-Muslim slogan shouting incident. The video allegedly shows a group of people shouting inflammatory slogans and threatening Muslims during the protest at Jantar Mantar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/communal-sloganeering-at-jantar-mantar-court-denies-bail-to-three-says-remarks-undemocratic-1019518.html
13-08-2021||National||Muslim man thrashed: NCM issues notice to Kanpur police commissioner, seeks info on action taken||The National Commission for Minorities (NCM) on Friday issued a notice to Kanpur's commissioner of police over the alleged assault of a Muslim man in public and asked the official to apprise it of the action taken in the matter. A one-minute video of the incident, which took place on Wednesday, surfaced on social media, in which the  45-year-old man is seen being thrashed by some men, who ask him to chant "Jai Shri Ram". The man's daughter is seen trying to save her father, crying and asking the attackers not to beat him up. Taking suo-motu cognisance of the matter, the NCM, on the directions of Vice-Chairman Atif Rasheed, issued a notice to the commissioner of police, Kanpur Nagar, Kanpur. The commission has taken suo-motu cognizance of the news in the print media regarding assault of a person belonging to Muslim community in Kanpur and forcing him to chant religious slogans, the notice read. "The same has hurt the sentiments of the Muslim community," it said. The commission asked the police commissioner to furnish within a week information on what action has been taken against the accused who assaulted the person, how many persons have been arrested and the sections under which the accused have been booked. It also asked the commissioner to state what preventive measures have been taken to avoid recurrence of such incidents in future to create an atmosphere of religious harmony. What action has been taken against the police officials in whose presence the person was being beaten up, the commission sought to know from the police commissioner. Noting that due to the incident, the rights of the child of the victim have been violated, the commission also sought to know what action has been taken in this regard and whether the mental and physical condition of the child has been evaluated after this incident. It also asked whether any statement of the child has been recorded and a video clipping of the same may also be furnished. Police on Friday said six people, including one having affiliation to the Vishva Hindu Parishad, were arrested for allegedly thrashing a Muslim e-rickshaw driver here and asking him to chant "Jai Shri Ram". Three arrested on Thursday night were released on bail by police. The other three, who were held on Friday, are still in police custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslim-man-thrashed-ncm-issues-notice-to-kanpur-police-commissioner-seeks-info-on-action-taken-1019519.html
13-08-2021||National||India, other countries vow to not recognise Afghan govt imposed by force||Even as the Taliban continued its military advances across Afghanistan; India and Pakistan participated in two separate meetings in Doha and joined China, the United States, the United Kingdom and several other nations to reaffirm that they would not recognize a new government in the war-torn country if it comes to power using military forces. The nations participating in the back-to-back meetings hosted by the Qatari Government in Doha this week took note of “converging statements” by the Afghan Government and the Taliban on the “guiding principles” for a possible political settlement, like inclusive governance, respect for human rights, including the rights of women and minorities; a mechanism to deliver a representative government, a commitment not to allow any individuals or groups to use the territory of Afghanistan to threaten the security of other countries and respect for international law, including international humanitarian law. The Qatari Government issued a statement after hosting the representatives of Pakistan, India, China, the United States and other nations in two separate meetings in Doha this week to assess the situation in Afghanistan. The participants of the two meetings reaffirmed that they would not recognize any government in Afghanistan imposed through the use of military force, according to the “Chair’s Statement” issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Qatari Government. New Delhi has been maintaining that if the Taliban grabs power in Afghanistan through violent means instead of going through a political process, it would lack legitimacy. Pakistan has been drawing flak from President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul for providing support to the Taliban and facilitating its resurgence in Afghanistan. But Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad has now apparently buckled under pressure from the United States and the rest of the international community and vowed not to recognize an Afghan Government if it comes to power in Kabul using military force. The representatives from Qatar, China, Uzbekistan, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, the United States, the European Union and the United Nations met in Doha on Tuesday. India did not send any representative to participate in the meeting. New Delhi, however, sent two senior diplomats – J P Singh and Deepak Mittal – to attend another meeting with the special envoys and representatives of Qatar, Germany, India, Norway, Tajikistan, Turkey and Turkmenistan in Doha on Thursday. Singh heads the Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran division of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) of the Government of India. Mittal is India’s ambassador to Qatar. The participants of the two meetings called for immediate cessation of violence and attacks in and against provincial capitals and other cities, said the Qatari Government in the Chair’s Statement. The call came even as the Taliban continued to advance towards Kabul, after occupying several provincial capitals in northern and southern Afghanistan. The Afghan Government’s negotiators also had a meeting with the representatives of the Taliban in Doha and offered to clinch a power sharing deal with the Sunni Muslim militants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-other-countries-vow-to-not-recognise-afghan-govt-imposed-by-force-1019520.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||India attends regional meet on Afghanistan||India on Thursday joined a regional conclave hosted by Qatar to discuss ways to contain the escalating situation in Afghanistan in the backdrop of the Taliban's continued offensive across the country. J P Singh, the Joint Secretary in the Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran division in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), represented India at the meeting, officials said. MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said several important stakeholders in Afghanistan attended the meeting. The invitation for the meeting to India was extended by Qatari special envoy for conflict resolution Mutlaq bin Majed Al-Qahtani during his visit to the national capital last week, Bagchi said. Al-Qahtani, the Special Envoy of the Foreign Minister of Qatar for Counter-terrorism and Mediation of Conflict Resolution, visited India ostensibly to discuss the latest developments in Afghanistan. He met External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and Singh. "We are committed to the long-term development of Afghanistan. We would like to see a peaceful and democratic Afghanistan," Bagchi said at a media briefing. Qatar's capital Doha has been the venue for the intra-Afghan peace talks and the Gulf country has emerged as a crucial player in facilitating the Afghan peace process. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the United States began withdrawing its troops from the country on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. India has been engaged with a number of stakeholders and leading powers on the latest developments in Afghanistan. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. It has also been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in the country, including those from the minority communities, for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-attends-regional-meet-on-afghanistan-1019166.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha Monsoon Session chaos: Centre talks tough||The Modi government on Thursday went on the offensive against the Opposition, as it demanded action against unruly members and a public apology from them for assaulting a lady marshal in the Rajya Sabha. With Opposition leaders stating that “outsiders” were brought into the Rajya Sabha, the government, claiming violence was pre-planned, released CCTV recordings of Wednesday evening that showed a lady marshal being pushed around by members. Seven Union ministers, including Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal, Anurag Thakur, addressed a joint press conference after meeting Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Deputy Chairman Harivansh, seeking a “thorough investigation” and “strongest possible action” over the “shameful and deplorable” behaviour. A lady marshal, in an incident report submitted to her superiors, said two women MPs Chhaya Verma and Phulo Devi Netam forcefully dragged her by pulling her arms to help their male counterparts break the security cordon. Joshi, the Parliamentary Affairs Minister, said the Opposition was in a belligerent mood since the first day of the monsoon session and had clearly told him that there would be a washout of proceedings. He said the government was ready to extend the monsoon session by a day had the Opposition agreed for a discussion on farmers’ issues and the state of the economy. “But, we were threatened by the Opposition with more disastrous things if the government tried to pass any other bills other than the OBC bill. It was told to us in no unambiguous terms,” Joshi said, narrating his interaction with Opposition leaders. Thakur, the I&B Minister, said the Opposition had brought “anarchy of streets” to Parliament during the monsoon session and demanded an apology for their behaviour. Goyal, Leader of the Rajya Sabha, dismissed Opposition claims that outsiders were let in to prevent members from exercising their right to protest. “A total of 30 house marshals – 18 male and 12 women – from the Parliament Security Service were deployed to protect the secretary general’s table and the Chair,” Goyal said, adding that the decision was taken after Opposition members had climbed the secretary general’s table and flung books at the empty chair. Goyal also rejected NCP leader Sharad Pawar’s claim that he had never seen a woman member attacked in Parliament. “Mr Pawar is misinformed. A lady marshal was attacked by Opposition members. Does Mr Pawar condone the Parliament Security Staff being strangled,” Goyal asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-monsoon-session-chaos-centre-talks-tough-1019172.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Blame it on the new Parliament's 'vastu'||The government on Thursday claimed that the disruptions in Parliament were pre-planned by the opposition leaders, who had even threatened union ministers with “disastrous things” if certain bills were pushed in the Rajya Sabha. The government also rejected the opposition allegations that outsiders were brought into the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday to rein in unruly members and demanded an apology from opposition leaders for the “unprecedented” scenes in the Upper House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-blame-it-on-the-new-parliaments-vastu-1019193.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||Twitter trying to define nation's politics: Rahul Gandhi on ban||Rahul Gandhi, whose account was temporarily suspended by Twitter, on Friday accused the social media platform of "interfering" in the country's political process  and trying to define the nation's politics, which he said amounted to "attack on the democratic structure of the country." "It’s obvious now that Twitter is actually not a neutral, objective platform. It is a biased platform. It's something that listens to what the government of the day says. So this is not only patently unfair, this is their breaching the idea that Twitter is a neutral platform," Gandhi said in a video statement a day after Congress alleged that not only Rahul Gandhi's, the Twitter account of a number of other leaders were suspended as well. While the NCPCR had cited the juvenile justice law that mandates the privacy of minor victims to argue for action against Rahul's twitter handle, Congress questioned Twitter as to why it did not act when a similar photo was tweeted by the National Commission for Scheduled Castes. Twitter has stuck to its guns saying that if a post is found to violate its rules and is not deleted by the account holder, the platform hides it behind a notice and the account remains locked until that tweet is removed or the appeal is successfully processed. It also argues the company's rules are enforced judiciously and impartially for everyone in its service. "By shutting down my Twitter they are interfering in our political process. A company is making its business to define our politics and as a politician I don't like that," Gandhi said. "This is an attack on the democratic structure of the country. This is not an attack on Rahul Gandhi. This is not you know simply shutting Rahul Gandhi down. I have 19-20 million followers. You are denying them the right to an opinion. That’s what you are doing..... And for the investors this is a very dangerous thing because taking sides in the political contest has repercussions for Twitter," the former Congress President said days after his party made a huge political campaign around the issue. Gandhi also shared an image saying "Digital Dadagiri nahi chalegi" on Instagram. He also shared his video message on Instagram. On Thursday, Congress started  a campaign "I am Rahul Gandhi" with many party leaders including Priyanka Gandhi changing her profile picture with that of her brother Rahul. On Monday, Mahila Congress had organised a flash protest march from Press Club of India to Parliament while Youth Congress had led a protest  outside Twitter India office in the national capital, alleging that the government is trying to silence the voice being raised by the Opposition against the rape and murder of a dalit girl in Delhi. On August 8, a meeting of top party functionaries at the AICC also discussed the issues and decided to scale up the protest further, giving  "Daro Mat (don't be scared)" message  to the microblogging site. Congress said the Twitter accounts of its Communication department chief Randeep Surjewala, AICC general secretaries K C Venugopal, Ajay Maken, party's Whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Assam in-charge and former Union minister Jitendra Singh and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev were also locked. "Our democracy is under attack. We are not allowed to speak in Parliament. The media is controlled. And I thought there was a ray of light where we could put what we thought on Twitter. But obviously, that's not the case.  As Indians, we have to ask the question: are we going to allow companies just because they are beholden to the Government of India to define our politics for us?," Gandhi said, seeking to amplify the message from the temporary suspension of the account of the Congress leaders to the large issue of controlling the political narrative. "Is that what this is going to come to? Or are we going to define our politics on our own? That's the real question here," Gandhi said. His sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted "Is Twitter following its own policy for the suspension of Congress leaders' accounts or the Modi government’s? Why hadn’t it locked the account of the SC commission that had tweeted similar photos before any of our leaders did? By locking Congress leaders' accounts en masse, Twitter is blatantly colluding with the stifling of democracy by the BJP government in India." At an AICC press conference, Congress's spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said, "First it was Twitter and now it is Instagram where they are threatening to block us." She stressed that the channels of communication cannot be banned for India’s principal opposition. "They cannot be banned specifically on the pretext that we are trying to be the voice of the voiceless," she said. The Congress spokesperson alleged Twitter is against its own prescribed public available policies of what they have done. "They are in violation of their own policy. Twitter very categorically states that if you have shared personal information, which has already been available on a public platform, then it is not a violation of their policy. Rahul Gandhi  shared personal information or the pictures of those parents on  August 4. This was already available in the public domain through many platforms, including media, including the National Commission for Schedule Caste, we were not in violation, " she said Congress MP Udit Raj alleged that Rahul Gandhi's  Twitter was locked, because he stood with the poor and the Dalits. "Our Congress Twitter handles are being locked because the Congress stood for ‘Dalit Beti’, that’s it," Raj said. Clearly the Congress is not in a mood to lose the momentum on the issue as the idea of social media control resonates with people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/twitter-trying-to-define-nations-politics-rahul-gandhi-on-ban-1019230.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||DMK presents paperless budget; AIADMK boycotts||The ruling DMK on Friday presented its first budget after coming to power, months after it swept the April 6 Assembly elections, with the opposition AIADMK boycotting the financial exercise. AIADMK, Tamil Nadu's main opposition, staged a walkout from the Assembly, boycotting the first budget presentation by Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan. As soon as Speaker Appavu gave tips to MLAs on accessing budget document on their computer, leader of opposition, K Palaniswami began reading out from a prepared text and sought an opportunity to covey his views. While opposition MLAs stood up, requesting the Speaker to give Palaniswami an opportunity, Appavu said they can convey their views on Monday during general discussion and asked them to sit down. However, Palaniswami continued to read out from the statement, and after he completed it, AIADMK members, led by him, walked out of the House. However, AIADMK's allies -- BJP and PMK, stayed put. This is the first budget, also the first paperless one, of the DMK government after it assumed power in May after a 10-year stint in opposition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dmk-presents-paperless-budget-aiadmk-boycotts-1019241.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||After Twitter, NCPCR demands action against Instagram profile of Rahul Gandhi||After Twitter, apex child rights body NCPCR on Friday asked Facebook to take action against the Instagram profile of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for posting a photo of the family of the nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi, saying it violated the law. On August 4, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) wrote to Twitter, asking it to take action against the handle of Gandhi for posting the photo of the family. The microblogging site blocked the account of Gandhi following the complaint. In a letter to Facebook, the Commission said it has come across a video posted on the Instagram profile of Gandhi wherein the identity of the victim minor girl’s family has been disclosed. In this video the faces of the father and the mother of the deceased girl can be clearly seen, which is in violation of the prescribed provisions of law, it added. The NCPCR asked Facebook for taking appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Gandhi over violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video from the platform. Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, prohibits the disclosure of identity of a child in any form of media and Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, also states that no information or photo of a child should be published in any form of media which could reveal the identity of the child. This information under Section 23 of the POCSO Act includes his/her name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of the child. "Therefore, posting of the video of the minor victim's family on social media platform-Instagram has been observed by the Commission to be a violation of Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, Section 228A of the IPC and the guidelines of the Hon'ble Court as well. “In view of the same, the Commission deems it appropriate to take suo-moto cognisance under Section 13(1) and notice under Section 14 of the CPCR Act, 2005 in this matter," the NCPCR said. "Accordingly, the link to the Instagram video is being forwarded for taking appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Rahul Gandhi for violation of provisions of JJ Act, 2015, POCSO Act, 2012 and IPC and removal of the Instagram video from the platform," it added. Gandhi last week met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and “will not back down even an inch”. Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Twitter and wrote in Hindi, “Parents' tears are saying only one thing – their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice.” The girl died under mysterious circumstances when she went to get water from a cooler at a crematorium in the Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi. The girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident, demanding capital punishment for the accused.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/after-twitter-ncpcr-demands-action-against-instagram-profile-of-rahul-gandhi-1019260.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||'Disney Prince' Rahul Gandhi shown the door from only place he was active: BJP on Twitter account suspension||BJP on Friday said Rahul Gandhi was locked out of Twitter for an “illegal” act of disclosing the identity of a rape victim's family's to further his “petty politics”and cannot hide behind the argument of “freedom of expression”. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) President Tejasvi Surya questioned whether it was proper on Gandhi's part to disclose the identity of the family of the rape victim. “Not only rules of Twitter, but the law of the land frowns upon such indecent, illegal as well as inhuman acts,” Surya said, adding that Gandhi cannot seek umbrage behind the argument of freedom of expression after committing such a heinous act. The BJP's sharp attack came after Congress accused Twitter of bias and launched a campaign in support of Gandhi, claiming that he was locked out of the social media platform under pressure from the Modi government. Taking a swipe at Congress scion, Surya said Twitter has shown the door to Gandhi from the only place where he was active. “Rahul Gandhi's politics was never on the ground, but only on Twitter,” said Surya, a Lok Sabha member from South Bengaluru. In a dig at Gandhi, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said, “Disney prince Rahul Gandhi should not have disclosed the victim's identity for his petty politics. He should understand this is real world, not his Disney world.” Surya said the same Congress was crying hoarse and attacking the government when it framed the new rules to “empower” social media platform users. Surya said Gandhi and the Congress should make use of the rules and regulations framed by the Modi government and raise a complaint at the appropriate level to get his account restored. Gandhi had accused Twitter of bias and of interfering in the country's political process by blocking his account.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/disney-prince-rahul-gandhi-shown-the-door-from-only-place-he-was-active-bjp-on-twitter-account-suspension-1019312.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition, Treasury benches like 'two eyes' of Rajya Sabha: Venkaiah Naidu||Asserting that the government and the Opposition are like his "two eyes", Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday said it is the collective responsibility of both the sides to enable smooth functioning of the House. Naidu's remarks came as the Monsoon Session of Parliament witnessed large-scale disruption and unruly scenes towards the end as the government stonewalled Opposition demand for a discussion on Pegasus issue first and passing of controversial bills like the one on general insurance companies without sending it to a Select Committee. He said the Opposition and Treasury benches in the House are like his two eyes and are equal for him. "A proper vision is possible with two eyes and I hold both the sides in equal esteem. On many occasions, I had said that it is the collective responsibility of both the sides to enable smooth functioning of the House," Naidu said. Asked about disruptions, he said that the legislatures are meant for debate and discussion and outside political battles should not be fought on the 'Table of the House’'. He said after detailed consideration, which is underway, an appropriate view would be taken to deal with the unruly MPs. Asked about Bills not being sent to Select Committee, he said whenever differences persisted on such matters in the House, the House collectively takes a decision and the Chair can not force it one way or the other.  Sources said Naidu has already indicated that unruly MPs, who created ruckus during the just concluded Monsoon Session of Parliament, will face action that has a "deterrent" value. Naidu has instructed officials to study the past incidents of ruckus in Parliament and action taken earlier to decide on the future course of action, sources said. Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had on Thursday discussed this aspect and agreed on it. Sources said Naidu was "deeply anguished" at the developments in Rajya Sabha during the Monsoon Session and was of the view that action that has some "deterrent value" should be taken to ensure that such things do not repeat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-treasury-benches-like-two-eyes-of-rajya-sabha-venkaiah-naidu-1019331.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||TMC likely to join Sonia Gandhi’s virtual meet for Opposition leaders||The Trinamool Congress has received an invite to a virtual meet for opposition leaders by Congress president Sonia Gandhi slated for next week, a political aide of TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee confirmed. The TMC is likely to join the meeting. Gandhi has called the meet in the midst of a political row over alleged phone tapping of opposition leaders, judges and journalists and rowdy scenes in Parliament. While the agenda of the meeting is not known, it is expected to discuss a raft of issues irking opposition parties besides helping build bridge to forge opposition unity. The DMK, NCP and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha are among parties that have been invited, according to multiple sources. Banerjee too had last month, during a trip to Delhi, made a pitch for opposition unity. The West Bengal chief minister had, besides meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other central ministers, held parleys with Congress’ Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma and Abishek Manu Singhvi. She also met Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and DMK leader Kanimozhi, besides making telephone calls to NCP chief Sharad Pawar and RJD supremo Lalu Prasad. More recently, on Thursday, the TMC came out against the suspension of the Congress’ Twitter handles, displaying what many saw as signs of a rekindling of a spirit of opposition unity. Banerjee's advisor and political campaign pundit Prashant Kishor has also been reaching out to various opposition leaders, while Pawar has also held a meeting with eminent persons and opposition leaders. Political analysts see these meetings as essential stepping stones to forging unity among political parties ahead of a raft of state assembly elections including in Uttar Pradesh, India’s most populous state, in the next three years leading to national elections in 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-likely-to-join-sonia-gandhi-s-virtual-meet-for-opposition-leaders-1019345.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||No question of alliance with TMC in West Bengal: Sitaram Yechury||Even as he said that defeating the BJP was the main target of the CPI(M) and its participation in unity of secular opposition parties will continue, party general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Friday ruled out any alliance with the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal. Speaking to reporters in Kolkata, he said that there was no question of an alliance with the TMC in the state as it has inflicted atrocities on the grassroots level workers of the CPI(M). “Nothing of that sort will happen in Bengal because the contradiction with the TMC at the ground level remains. Why are there attacks on the Red Volunteers and on people who demand that vaccination should be done impartially. If such things happen there will be resistance,” said Yechury. Red volunteers are CPI(M) workers engaged in social work such as Covid-19 patients. However, he avoided a direct reply to the question as to whether the CPI(M) will join forces with the TMC in Tripura to oust the BJP from power in the state. Yechury only pointed out that earlier the TMC leaders in Tripura have joined the BJP adding that some of them even became Ministers in the BJP government. He also said that CPI(M) was the main target of BJP’s attacks in Tripura and its workers were being assaulted. “Our party’s top priority is to defeat the BJP. TMC was there earlier in Tripura. But they joined the BJP. The actual situation in Tripura is that we are fighting against the BJP since it came to power there. CPI(M) has been the principal of the BJP’s attacks in Tripura,” said Yechury. Yechury admitted that slogans such as 'Bjmool', a sarcastic coinage used by Left workers to claim covert understanding between the BJP and the TMC, ahead of the Assembly election was a mistake and the Central Committee has taken note of it. “The situation has now changed. It was decided by the Central and state Committee that the main target was the BJP, even then equating the two (TMC and the BJP) was wrong. The Central Committee discussed the issue and said it was wrong. The state Committee has also said it was wrong,” said Yechury.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-question-of-alliance-with-tmc-in-west-bengal-sitaram-yechury-1019358.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||Uddhav Thackeray, Sharad Pawar to attend Oppn meeting called by Sonia Gandhi||Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar would attend the virtual meeting of opposition leaders called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on August 20, party leaders confirmed here on Friday. Thackeray will attend the meeting, Sena leader Sanjay Raut told PTI. NCP MP Supriya Sule too confirmed that Pawar will be taking part in the meeting. Congress is part of the Sena-led ruling coalition in Maharashtra along with the Nationalist Congress Party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uddhav-thackeray-sharad-pawar-to-attend-oppn-meeting-called-by-sonia-gandhi-1019378.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem seeks action against marshals who 'manhandled' Opposition MPs in Rajya Sabha||CPI(M) Rajya Sabha floor leader Elamaram Kareem on Friday demanded action against marshals who "manhandled" MPs during the passing of a Bill on insurance sector and release of the full video footage of the day to put the record straight and counter the selective visuals released by Union Ministers. Kareem also said that it was "quite unfortunate" to mention that on the day the General Insurance (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill was taken up, the Chair denied the rights of Members for asking division and voting, leading to the protest by Opposition MPs. In a letter to Rajya Sabha Secretary General Desh Deepak Verma, the CPI(M) MP from Kerala said "fake complaints" of physical assault were filed against some MPs, including him, by security personals while claiming that he was "grabbed", "pushed" and hit forcefully on his chest by a marshal whom he could identify by face. Despite informing Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu about the sequence of events, Kareem said Union Ministers released a very small portion of the visuals from the House with an intent only to "mislead the public and deliberately tarnish" the Opposition. "Since Rajya Sabha TV hasn't aired any of the visuals of that time, we are unable to prove our innocence and provide backing for our complaint. In such a situation, I would request you to provide me with the visuals of August 11, when the House began to take up the General Insurance (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, for getting a clear picture of what happened inside the Rajya Sabha chamber on that day," he said. He also demanded stringent action against the security staff who have physically assaulted the opposition MPs and set up an inquiry to ascertain whether any outsiders have "infiltrated" among the security staff. He said the protest by the MPs was "never a violent struggle to physically harm any person" present inside the Chamber while emphasising that the heavy deployment of marshals during that time created all the chaos. "This advance deployment of marshals in huge numbers makes it clear that it was a well-planned action intended to harm the protesting MPs," Kareem said. He alleged that the marshals adopted "violent ways of physically blocking" Opposition MPs. "When I tried to approach the Chairman's Chamber to personally convince him, one among them, whom I can identify by face, grabbed and pushed me away. I got a forceful hit on the chest. I am still suffering from physical unwellness, and suffocation due to it. It may be noted that such an incident has never happened in the history of Indian Parliament," he said. He alleged it was the first time the security personnel were deployed only to physically assault the opposition MPs, including women. "Many doubt that those who were there in the chamber wearing security marshal uniforms were specially brought in from outside for manhandling the opposition MPs. I am saying this because the security personnel present in the Chamber at that time were not the officers who were seen inside the Rajya Sabha chamber or the Parliament House usually," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpims-elamaram-kareem-seeks-action-against-marshals-who-manhandled-opposition-mps-in-rajya-sabha-1019394.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||M K Stalin likely to take part in Opposition meeting with Sonia Gandhi||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin, who piloted his DMK to a spectacular win in the April 6 Assembly election, is likely to attend a virtual interaction with Congress president Sonia Gandhi on August 20. Confirming that the Congress leadership has convened a virtual meet next Friday, possibly in a bid to unite non-BJP parties, a senior DMK leader said Stalin is likely to take part in the meet. "We are expecting an official invite today. Probably it will be received by his (Chief Minister's) office," he said, adding, Stalin, president of the ruling party, would attend if invited. The DMK chief has been following in the footsteps of his late father M Karunanidhi in inviting the Congress leaders to the state on various occasions and has always painted a picture of unity with them. Even in organising protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, both the parties, who are allies, presented a show of strength in opposing the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre. Prior to this, Stalin proposed the name of Rahul Gandhi for the Prime Minister's post for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when the opposition party leaders gathered here in December 2018 for unveiling the statue of his father and former Chief Minister Karunanidhi by Sonia Gandhi. Incidentally, DMK was among the opposition parties, including the Congress and NCP which attended the Trinamool Congress' Martyrs' Day event in Delhi last month where West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's speech giving a clarion call to anti-BJP parties to unite was streamed live.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/m-k-stalin-likely-to-take-part-in-opposition-meeting-with-sonia-gandhi-1019434.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||Centre suppressing voice of those seeking justice for Dalit girl, says Congress||The Congress on Friday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ‘silence’ on the alleged rape and murder of a 9-year-old Dalit girl in Delhi and accused the central government of suppressing the voice of those seeking justice for her. The party said its leader Rahul Gandhi has not violated Twitter's policy by sharing pictures of the victim's family which “were already in public domain” and that the microblogging giant was acting under pressure of the government. It also accused the social media platform of "playing with democracy in the country" by blocking the accounts of the principal opposition party and its leaders. The party alleged that Gandhi and the Congress were being punished for standing with the Dalits, but they will continue to raise their voice for justice. Speaking at a joint press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate and former MP Udit Raj alleged that the Modi government was "anti-woman" and "anti-Dalit" and the same reflected in their actions. Shrinate said instead of getting justice for the victim's family, the government was busy suppressing the voice of those standing with the family, including Rahul Gandhi. "The prime minister, home minister and other ministers are silent on crime against girls in the national capital. The entire country is surprised that even after 13 days, the PM and the government are silent and have not uttered a single word on the incident,” she told reporters. She further alleged that the Union government, PM Modi or Home Minister Amit Shah do not have any fear of democracy or the law and neither do they care about the constitution. "The prime minister and his government could not protect the victim, but at least they should talk about providing her justice and compensation, and punishing the perpetrators of the crime," Shrinate added. The entire debate today, the Congress spokesperson said, is on why the photograph (of victim’s family) was shared and is diverting from the real issue of providing justice to the girl. She said this is the “fight for morality”. Taking a dig at the central dispensation, Shrinate said eight ministers can come to talk about the Monsoon Session, but will not speak a word on crime against minor girls. “The issue is not about suppressing the voice of the opposition, but of suppressing the voice of poor girls and women," she said. The Congress leader was apparently referring to the Centre fielding a battery of eight ministers at a news conference to take on the opposition over the ruckus in Parliament during the Monsoon Session. Taking on Twitter, Shrinate said the microblogging site is against its own publicly prescribed policies. "We did not violate the rules. Rahul Gandhi was trying to help the family of the victim seeking justice. What Twitter is doing is being done under government pressure," she alleged. The 9-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped and killed in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal area. She died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped and forcibly cremated by a crematorium's priest. Meanwhile, former MP Udit Raj alleged that under RSS and BJP's “Ram Rajya”, Dalits have no value and respect as no RSS or BJP supporter went to Delhi's Old Nangal village to meet the family of the nine-year-old girl. "The value of Dalits in the eyes of RSS and the BJP is even less than a cow. At least Modi ji, Amit Shah ji or Mayawati ji should have tweeted for the victim," he said. "The only fault of Rahul Gandhi is that he is standing with Dalits and its daughter, and that is why, his party is being punished," Raj, the Dalit leader, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-suppressing-voice-of-those-seeking-justice-for-dalit-girl-says-congress-1019515.html
13-08-2021||National Politics||Independence Day | CPI(M) to revive freedom struggle by hoisting the tricolor||On August 15, when India claimed the country back from the British, midnight meant different things for different sections of people. For Jawaharlal Nehru, it was independence from the British regime as he delivered his famous speech, ‘Tryst with Destiny’ at the Red Fort. For people uprooted by the hurried lines drawn for the tragic partition between India and Pakistan, it was chaos, violence, and fleeing home. For the Communist Party of India, then undivided, it was a false ‘independence’, as freedom, they stated, could not be won without an armed revolution. As Marxist ideology espouses, non-violence cannot win true independence in the absence of an armed class struggle. However, 74 years later, the CPI(M) wants to embrace the habit as new notions surface during recent party meets. The CPI(M) says it wants to revive the freedom struggle now as it aligns with the need of the hour, and has decided to hoist the tricolor from every party office. The party says the idea of India is under threat from fascist forces and the freedom movement needs to be remembered to fight such forces. The role of the Left too must be remembered. “The Central Committee decided that the Party will observe this anniversary highlighting the role of the Communists in the freedom struggle; Communist Party’s contributions to the building of modern India and consolidating the ‘Idea of India’; the complete absence and at times collaboration of the RSS with the British during the freedom struggle; and the vicious undermining of the Constitutional secular democratic Republic of India today,” read a communique issued by the party on Monday. “This year, we will be formally launching a comprehensive and intensive campaign to deliberate on the real issues related to India’s freedom struggle because this is the first time in the past 75 years, we are feeling that the ‘Idea of India’ is under threat,” Nilotpal Basu, a politburo member of the CPI(M), is quoted by The Print. Following the ideological rift born out of the friction between the Soviets and China at the peak of the Cold War (both professing a different kind of socialism/communism), the CPI too split in India, as beliefs bifurcated in 1964. Basu told The Print that the CPI(M) had abandoned the “erroneous understanding about independence” and “abandoned the political positioning” regarding flag hoisting following the party split. It’s going to be a new chapter for the party as it hoists the tricolour this independence day, envisioning a new freedom struggle in its contemporary rendition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/independence-day-cpim-to-revive-freedom-struggle-by-hoisting-the-tricolor-1019530.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi records zero Covid-19 fatality, eighth time since onset of 2nd wave; 49 cases||No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Thursday, the second consecutive day when the daily fatality count was nil, while 49 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the eigth time, since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital, that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8 and August 11, too, no death due to Covid-19 was recorded, as per official data.  On March 2 this year, the national capital had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of single-day infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May period. On Thursday, the city registered 49 cases and zero fatality, while the positivity rate stood at 0.07 per cent, according to the latest bulletin. On Wednesday, the city recorded 37 cases, while the positivity rate stood at 0.06 per cent, as per official data. The infection rate which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, had been hovering below 0.10 per cent-mark in the last several weeks. But, it reached to 0.10 per cent again on Saturday, and again dropped to 0.07 on Thursday. On February 16, ninety-four people were diagnosed Covid positive while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. Meanwhile, in a major upgrade of a field hospital in Delhi, 300-bed ICU facility and a telemedicine centre was on Thursday inaugurated by Health Minister Satyendar Jain at a Covid care centre at Burari. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier had said the total number of anti-coronavirus vaccine doses administered in Delhi has crossed the one-crore mark and of the eligible population in the city 50 per cent have received at least one jab. Despite fall in daily cases in the last several days, Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently had passed a colour-coded response action plan under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the Covid-19 situation here to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals, adding to the woes. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, as per the official data. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. The number of deaths per day, has also been showing a decline in the last couple of days. On May 15, Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway", while sounding a tone of caution. Following the relaxations in norms, the Delhi Metro is running with full seating capacity from July 26, with still no provision for standing travel for commuters. A total of 71,348 tests, including 48,877 RT-PCR tests and 22,471 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin on Thursday. The number of cumulative cases on Thursday stood at 14,36,938. Over 14.11 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The number of active cases rose to 502 on Thursday from 494 a day before, as per the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation stood at 179 on Thursday as it was a day before, while the number of containment zones dropped to 258 from 262 on Wednesday, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-zero-covid-19-fatality-eighth-time-since-onset-of-2nd-wave-49-cases-1019168.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Kanpur Muslim man thrashed, forced to say 'Jai Shri Ram' as minor daughter begs for mercy: Report||In yet another case of religion-based attacks, a Muslim man from Kanpur was forced to cant 'Jai Shri Ram' by a mob who assaulted him and paraded him through a street on Wednesday. In a viral video, the minor daughter of the man, Afsar, could be seen begging the attackers to spare her father's life. The video of the crime was widely circulated on social media. The attack happened in Barra locality - just half a kilometre from a site where a Bajrang Dal meeting was taking place, reported the publication and the attackers had tried to justify their violence by alleging that 'Muslims were trying to convert a Hindu girl in their locality'.  The crime reportedly took place right after the Bajrang Dal meet. The right-wing group had claimed that Afsar was related to a 'Muslim family that was trying to convert a Hindu'. Following the victim's complaint, a case of rioting was filed by Kanpur police against a local, running a marriage band, his son and about 10 others. Police refused to reveal if the men accused were a part of the Bajrang Dal. The victim, an e-rickshaw driver, and his family are enmeshed in a legal dispute with their neighbours who are Hindus. Both parties have filed cases against each other, police said. “The attackers were threatening to kill me and my family. I was saved by the police," Afsar said in his complaint, according to the publication.  After the attack on Afsar took place, the Muslim family filed an FIR of assault and criminal intimidation and the Hindu side filed a case alleging "assault with the intent to outrage the modesty of a woman". Kanpur South DCP, Raveena Tyagi, has said police have taken cognisance of the video of Afsar being attacked. “Based on a complaint by the victim, we have filed an FIR and we have already initiated the legal process in the matter", the DCP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kanpur-muslim-man-thrashed-forced-to-say-jai-shri-ram-as-minor-daughter-begs-for-mercy-report-1019223.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Six more bodies recovered from landslide site in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur, toll rises to 23||Six more bodies were recovered from the site of the landslide in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district, taking the death toll to 23 on the fourth day of rescue and search operations on Saturday, a senior official said. State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said six bodies had been retrieved from the rubble at Chaura village on National Highway 5 in Nichar tehsil. The search and rescue operation for the rest of the nine missing persons is underway, he added. Meanwhile keeping in view the continuous falling of shooting stones at the sliding point, Nichar Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Manmohan Singh ordered to restrict all type of vehicles at this point for the safety of public from 9 pm to 9 am. In his order issued on Thursday, he stated that the station house officer of Bhawanagar police station would ensure deputing of police force at both ends of the site. On Friday evening, two people were injured after stones falling down a mountainside hit their bus near the area. In the meantime, Mokhta said search and rescue operations, which had been suspended on Friday night, resumed again on Saturday around 6 am. An SUV and its passengers feared buried under the rubble could not be traced so far, he said, adding that it might be possible that the vehicle rolled down with the debris. The rescue operation is being carried out jointly by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and members of local police and home guards. On the day of the incident, 10 bodies were recovered and 13 people rescued. Earlier on Wednesday, eight bodies were found trapped in a Tata Sumo taxi during the search and rescue operation. Two cars had also been recovered in damaged condition on Wednesday, but no one was found in them. Earlier on Thursday, four bodies were found from the landslide site, while three were taken out on Friday. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur had informed the state assembly after visiting the spot on Thursday that 16 people were still missing. After that, six bodies have been recovered so far. At least nine people are still missing, officials said. An HRTC bus, which along with other vehicles, was buried under the debris, was found in a badly damaged condition on Thursday. A truck was also found, which had rolled down towards a riverside due to stones falling down a mountainside, and the driver's body was recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-more-bodies-recovered-from-landslide-site-in-himachal-pradeshs-kinnaur-toll-rises-to-23-1019246.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Ahead of Independence Day, multi-layer security in J&K||Ahead of Independence Day and in view of new and emerging threats, a multi-layer security arrangement backed by aerial surveillance has been put in place across Jammu and Kashmir to thwart any attacks. Besides massive frisking operations across the Valley, security agencies have also pressed in drones for aerial surveillance in Srinagar for the smooth conduct of August 15 function. Armed personnel and cops in civvies have been deployed around the Independence Day function venue to keep an eye on suspicious persons. A police official said apart from the drones, Close Circuit Television (CCTV) sets have also been activated across Srinagar and other sensitive areas of the Union Territory (UT) as part of the security drill. “All the high-rise buildings around the main venue of the Independence Day functions in Srinagar and Jammu have been occupied by sharpshooters of the police and paramilitary CRPF to prevent any untoward incident,” he said. “Both human and technical means will be used to ensure incident-free celebrations.” Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha will preside over the main Independence Day function which will be held at Sher-e-Kashmir Cricket Stadium, here. In Jammu LG’s Advisor R R Bhatnagar will preside over the function at M A Stadium. In Jammu, reports said, security has been stepped up around the Maulana Azad Stadium - the main venue of Independence Day function there. Alert has also been sounded around Indian Air Force base and all military establishments as drone threats loom large across the region. On June 27, two bombs were airdropped at a high security zone of Jammu Air Force Station in which two IAF personnel got injured. In the last more than a month, drone activity has increased manifold in various parts of Jammu. Besides Srinagar and Jammu cities, reports said, the security forces also intensified frisking in other areas of Jammu and Kashmir, especially at various points along the highways. On this Independence Day, the J&K administration has directed schools and government offices to unfurl tricolor and sing the national anthem on the occasion. In view of this, the School Education Department has directed all the teaching and non-teaching staff to attend their schools on a daily basis and ensure their attendance physically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ahead-of-independence-day-multi-layer-security-in-jk-1019251.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Pakistani militant killed in J&K as forces prevent attack ahead of August 15||A Pakistani militant affiliated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) outfit was killed while two security forces personnel and many civilians were injured in an overnight gunfight in Mir Bazar area of south Kashmir's Kulgam district. The gunfight broke out on Thursday evening after two LeT militants fired at a BSF convoy on the Srinagar-Jammu highway and were later holed up in a nearby building in Mir Bazar after being chased by the security forces. Police said that 22 civilians, including 12 shopkeepers, six females and four non-local labourers were evacuated safely from the building where the encounter broke out. Kashmir police chief, Vijay Kumar, said that a Pakistani militant was killed in the encounter while the second one managed to flee. “Intermittent firing remained on throughout the night and in the wee hours one foreign militant identified as Usman affiliated with the LeT was killed,” he told reporters in Srinagar. Kumar said that Usman was a dreaded militant and was planning a big strike on security forces ahead of Independence Day. “One AK-47 rifle, four magazines, a few grenades and a RPG launcher along with the mobile phone, was recovered from the possession of the slain militant,” he said. The Kashmir police chief said that militant were planning attacks ahead of 15 August to instill fear among the people to prevent them from participating in Independence Day functions. Pertinently 94 militants and 19 security forces and J&K police personnel have been killed in Jammu Kashmir since the beginning of this year. The highest number of militants (31) were killed in July which included several top commanders of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Among 94 militants killed in J&K this year, only 11 were Pakistanis while the rest were all locals. According to the Army, there are still 200-225 militants active across the J&K while 250-300 ultras are waiting to infiltrate at launch pads along the Line of Control in Pakistan occupied Kashmir||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-militant-killed-in-jk-as-forces-prevent-attack-ahead-of-august-15-1019252.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Muslim youth thrashed publicly in UP town as cops look on, three arrested||In a shocking incident, a Muslim youth was paraded in the streets and thrashed and was made to chant 'Jai Shree Ram' by saffron activists in the presence of cops over an alleged attempt to convert a Hindu woman in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur town. Three members of Bajrang Dal, a saffron outfit, were arrested in this connection, according to the police sources here. A video which went viral on social media sites showed the bearded Muslim youth being thrashed by a mob even as his little daughter kept pleading with the saffron activists to spare him. The video also shows presence of some cops, who do not make any attempt to stop the mob from hitting the Muslim youth, who was a rickshaw puller. Sources said that a woman, a resident of Barra locality in the town, had lodged a complaint with the police alleging that her neighbour, a Muslim, and two others, had been 'exerting' pressure on her and daughters to 'convert' a few days ago. She also alleged that he offered them money to get them to convert. After investigation, the police did not find any evidence to corroborate the charge. One of the accused was intercepted by a group of Bajrang Dal activists while he was going to the market with his six-year-old daughter. The saffron activists paraded him in the streets, thrashed him in full public view and also tried to force him to chant 'Jai Shree Ram'. The Muslim man was finally rescued by the police and taken to the police station. As the video of the assault went viral, the cops arrested three saffron activists. A mob of saffron activists later held a dharna before the police station demanding immediate release of the arrested youths. Muslim clerics condemned the incident and demanded stern action against the culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslim-youth-thrashed-publicly-in-up-town-as-cops-look-on-three-arrested-1019299.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Girl raped, murdered in Jaipur; family members stage protest||A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped and murdered in Jaipur, police said on Friday. The body of the girl, who was missing since Wednesday evening, was found near a pond on Thursday under Narena police station area of the district. “The body was found near a pond, which is around 3 km from her house. She had gone missing from her house on Wednesday evening,” Circle Officer Dudu Umesh Kumar said. He said the body was shifted to the mortuary of the local hospital in the town but the family members have refused to accept the body and are demanding arrest of the accused. “Different police teams have been formed for the identification and arrest of the accused,” he said. The girl's family members and villagers have gathered outside the mortuary and efforts are being made to pacify them, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/girl-raped-murdered-in-jaipur-family-members-stage-protest-1019300.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand government to recommend Padma award for Narendra Singh Negi, says CM Pushkar Singh Dhami||The Uttarakhand government will request the Centre to confer popular folk singer from the state Narendra Singh Negi with a Padma award. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami made the announcement while releasing a book on Negi's philosophy of life and achievements titled "Srijan Se Sakchatkar" here on the latter's 73rd birthday on Thursday. Wishing the famous folk singer as he turned 73, Dhami expressed hope that Negi will continue to give a better direction to the society through his creativity. "His songs have been helpful in connecting people of the state with their traditions. He has helped the state in carving an identity of its own by promoting the folk cultures of not only Garhwal, Kumaon and Jaunsar regions but the whole of Uttarakhand," the Chief Minister said at the book launch. The Chief Minister said the state government will send its recommendation to the Centre to honour the folk singer with the Padma award in recognition of his achievements. Dhami also announced that the works of all folk singers in the state, including Negi, will be published in the form of a book along with their introductions. Negi said he will continue to serve society through his songs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-government-to-recommend-padma-award-for-narendra-singh-negi-says-cm-pushkar-singh-dhami-1019310.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||IndiGo to start daily flights connecting Gwalior with Indore, Delhi from September 1: Scindia||IndiGo will start daily flights connecting Gwalior with Indore in Madhya Pradesh and Delhi from September 1 onwards, Union Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Friday. "IndiGo will start daily flights from Madhya Pradesh from September 1: Delhi-Gwalior-Delhi; Gwalior-Indore-Gwalior; Indore-Gwalior-Indore; Gwalior-Delhi-Gwalior," he said on Twitter. Scindia had on Thursday flagged off IndiGo's Bareilly-Mumbai flight that would operate under regional connectivity scheme UDAN. "Under the guidance of our visionary Prime Minister, the Ministry of Civil Aviation is determined to facilitate the movement of citizens across the country and give wings to their development," the minister tweeted on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indigo-to-start-daily-flights-connecting-gwalior-with-indore-delhi-from-september-1-scindia-1019318.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Noida Metro to run on Saturdays too as Uttar Pradesh govt lifts curfew||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has decided to resume services of its Aqua Line between Noida and Greater Noida on Saturdays, officials said on Friday. The decision has been taken in view of the Uttar Pradesh government lifting the curfew on Saturdays, NMRC Managing Director Ritu Maheshwari said. Earlier, the government had imposed curfews due to the Covid-19 pandemic on Saturdays and Sunday, with the metro rail service between Noida and Greater Noida also remaining suspended for the weekend. "The weekend curfew has been lifted by Uttar Pradesh government on Saturdays. Accordingly, the NMRC has decided to resume the metro rail service on Saturdays," Maheshwari said. "This change will be effective from August 14 onwards. The train operation will not be there on Sundays because the state government has not lifted the curfew on Sunday," she added. The trains run at an interval of 10 minutes during peak hours (8 am to 11 am and 5 pm to 8 pm) and 15 minutes during non-peak hours from Monday to Friday, the NMRC said. Metro train services on Saturdays will be available at an interval of 15 minutes throughout the day, it said. Also, from August 14, the NMRC said it will operate its metro train services from 6 am till 10 pm from Monday to Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-metro-to-run-on-saturdays-too-as-uttar-pradesh-govt-lifts-curfew-1019339.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Multi-layered security arrangements at Red Fort for Independence Day||A multi-layered security cover has been put in place to secure the historic Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on the 75nd Independence Day on Sunday. The security ring, including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos, kite catchers, canine units and sharpshooters on high-rise buildings, has been placed around the Mughal-era fort, and adherence to social distancing norms will be must like last year due to the Covid pandemic. According to the police, anti-drone systems have also been installed at the Red Fort in view of the recent terror attack at IAF station in Jammu airport where Pakistan-based terrorists used drones to strike the vital installation for the first time. India's Olympic contingent will be at the Red Fort as special guests on August 15. Over 350 cameras have been installed and their footage is being monitored round the clock through two-police control rooms situated in and around the Red Fort area, police said. There will be around 5,000 security personnel at the Red Fort and they will adhere to social distancing norms, they said. The Delhi Police had erected a huge wall of shipping containers decorated with graffiti for the first time earlier this month at the main gate of Red Fort for security reasons. The containers have been placed in such a way that no one will be able to see inside the premises of the fort when the prime minister addresses the nation. Nobody would be able to peek inside the fort from the Chandani Chowk and adjoining areas, the polcie said. The move comes after many protesters driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument on January 26 and hoisted a religious flag. Over 70 police vehicles – including PCR vans, 'PRAKHAR' vans and QRT (Quick Reaction Team) vans will be stationed at the Red Fort area as part of security deployment along with intensified patrolling by police personnel on motorcycle, the police said. Patrolling on motorboats will be carried out in the Yamuna river by the Delhi Police to ensure no untoward incident takes place in the national capital. Security arrangements have also been tightened at the Delhi borders where thousands of farmers have been protesting for over seven months against the centre's new agri laws. The police have already carried out anti-sabotage checks in the area and visited hotels in the vicinity in search of suspicious elements, officials said, adding security verification of the residents, including tenants and servants, has also been conducted. On Friday morning, a full-dress rehearsal of the 75th Independence Day celebrations was held at the Red Fort. Personnel from the Army, Navy and Air Force marched across the Mughal-era structure. The security arrangements were stringent and there were traffic restrictions during the rehearsal. The Red Fort has already been closed for public, officials said. Police personnel have been asked to keep an eye in the sky to ensure that no stray kites are seen in the areas around the Red Fort during Independence Day celebrations. The Delhi Traffic Police had also issued an advisory for the Independence Day function at the Red Fort to ensure safe and smooth flow of vehicles across the city. Eight roads -- Netaji Subhash Marg, Lothian Road, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chandni Chowk Road, Nishad Raj Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBT and Outer Ring Road from ISBT to IP flyover -- will be closed for general public from 4 am to 10 am, the advisory said. Flying of sub-conventional aerial platforms like para-gliders, para-motors, hang gliders, UAVs, micro light aircraft, remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, small size powered aircraft, quadcopters or para-jumping from aircraft etc. are prohibited over the jurisdiction of National Capital Territory of Delhi up to August 16. The Delhi Police had seized a drone flying near Vijay Ghat, the backside of the Red Fort. The Jaguar highway patrolling team of north district was patrolling in the area on Monday when it saw a drone near Vijay Ghat. A web series was being shot in the area, police said, adding permission was granted to shoot the show but sanction had not been given to fly a drone. A case was registered in this regard under relevant sections at Kotwali police station and the device seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/multi-layered-security-arrangements-at-red-fort-for-independence-day-1019346.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||IED-fitted sticky bombs recovered in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch, major tragedy averted||Ahead of Independence Day, a major tragedy was averted when security forces seized improvised explosive device-fitted four sticky bombs from a man in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Friday, police officials said. On information provided by the Border Security Force, a joint checking party of police, BSF and Army was deployed at Morh Kotan in the district, Additional Director General of Police (ADGP), Jammu zone, Mukesh Singh said. During checking, a suspicious person was apprehended and during his search, an IED attached with four sticky bombs and Rs 10,500 were seized from his possession, he said. The man, identified as Mehmood Hussain of Kasbalari area of Poonch, was arrested, the officials said. With this a major tragedy ahead of Independence Day was averted, they added. An FIR has been registered at police station Mendhar and further investigation is on, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ied-fitted-sticky-bombs-recovered-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-poonch-major-tragedy-averted-1019406.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi records zero Covid-19 deaths for ninth time since onset of 2nd wave; 50 cases||No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Friday, the third consecutive day when the daily fatality count was nil, while 50 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the ninth time, since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11 and August 12, no death due to Covid-19 was recorded, as per official data.  On March 2 this year, the national capital had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of single-day infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May period. On Friday, 50 fresh cases with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent, according to the latest bulletin. On Thursday, the city had registered 49 cases and zero fatality, while the positivity rate stood at 0.07 per cent, according to the official figures. On Wednesday, the city recorded 37 cases and zero death, while the positivity rate stood at 0.06 per cent. The infection rate, which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, had been hovering below 0.10 per cent-mark in the last several weeks. But, it reached to 0.10 per cent again on Saturday, and again dropped to 0.07 on Thursday. On February 16, ninety-four people were diagnosed Covid positive while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. In a major upgrade of a field hospital in Delhi, a 300-bed ICU facility and a telemedicine centre was on Thursday inaugurated by Health Minister Satyendar Jain at a Covid care centre at Burari. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier had said the total number of Covid vaccine doses administered in Delhi has crossed the one crore-mark and of the eligible population in the city 50 per cent have received at least one jab. Despite fall in daily cases in the last several days, Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently had passed a colour-coded response action plan under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the Covid-19 situation here to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals, adding to the woes. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, as per the official data. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. The number of deaths per day, has also been showing a decline in the last couple of days. On May 15, Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway", while sounding a tone of caution. Following the relaxations in norms, the Delhi Metro is running with full seating capacity from July 26, with still no provision for standing travel for commuters. A total of 73,324 tests, including 49,690 RT-PCR tests and 23,634 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin issued on Friday. The number of cumulative cases on Friday stood at 14,36,988. Over 14.11 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The number of active cases dropped to 468 on Friday from 502 a day before, according to the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation decreased to 164 from 179 on Thursday, while the number of containment zones dropped to 250 from 258 on Thursday, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-zero-covid-19-deaths-for-ninth-time-since-onset-of-2nd-wave-50-cases-1019423.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath reviews situation in flood-affected districts in UP||Over 600 villages in 24 districts of Uttar Pradesh are affected by floods, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Friday, and directed officials to help people on war-footing. He also advised them to ensure enough stock of medicines for snakebite and anti-rabies injections. "Due to release of water from various dams, over 600 villages in 24 districts of the state are affected by flood. Lakhs of people are facing problems due to this. We are doing everything possible to help people," Adityanath said while inspecting flooded areas in Ghazipur. He said this flood is manmade and not due to rains, and added that the government was also working to ensure the safety of cattle and arrange fodder for the animals. "I am inspecting flood-affected districts and reviewing the situation. In Ghazipur, 32 revenue villages are flood-affected. The district administration has been asked to distribute relief material to affected people. The water level of the Ganga is stable and the Irrigation department has been asked to remain alert," the chief minister said. Talking to reporters in Ballia, he said directives have been issued to monitor the number of people boarding small boats to avoid any untoward incident. After an aerial survey, the chief minister held a meeting with the administration and the people's representatives separately. He said he arrived in Ballia after reviewing the flood situation in Etawah, Auraiya, Jalaun, Hamipur, Varanasi and Ghazipur districts. Adityanath said his government was alert to the threat of viral diseases after the floods. A report from the state relief commissioner's office, however, said 1,171 villages in 24 districts of Uttar Pradesh are affected by floods, and rescue and relief operations are underway. The state recorded an average rainfall of 9 mm in a span of 24 hours, which is 87 per cent more than normal. "Twelve districts -- Siddharth Nagar, Maharajganj, Sant Kabir Nagar, Gorakhpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Basti, Mau, Balrampur, Kushi Nagar, Sant Ravidas Nagar, Gonda and Bahraich -- received rainfall of over 25 mm or more in the past 24 hours," the report said. According to the Irrigation department, the Sharda river is flowing above the danger mark at Pallia Kalan (Kheri), Quano river at Chandradeep ghat (Gonda) and the Ghaghra river at Turtipari (Ballia). The NDRF, SDRF and the state PAC have been pressed into service to help the people, and 59 rescue teams are pre-deployed in 43 districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-reviews-situation-in-flood-affected-districts-in-up-1019426.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Shutdown, protests in J&K's Rajouri after grenade hurled at BJP leader's house||A shutdown was observed in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri town on Friday to protest the attack on a BJP leader's house last night that left a three-year-old boy dead and six other people injured. Scores of people, some of them BJP workers, also took out a protest rally denouncing the attack. They raised anti-Pakistan slogans. Seven members of BJP leader Jasbir Singh's family were injured after suspected terrorists lobbed a grenade at his house in Rajouri district's Khandli area on Thursday night. The grenade exploded on the rooftop, police said. The three-year-old boy, Veer, who was among the injured, died during treatment at the government medical college hospital in Rajouri around midnight, sources said. All shops were shut and there was no traffic on roads on Friday in Rajouri town. Agitators blocked a highway on a call by the Sanatan Dharam Sabha, but police managed to prevent them from going too far ahead. Protesters blamed chinks in the security apparatus for the attack. They said terrorists are roaming freely and attacking BJP leaders with grenades. Condemning the attack, the BJP and the Congress called for beefing up of the security network across Rajouri, a border district, in view of reports of infiltration attempts along the Line of Control (LoC). Speaking to reporters in Rajouri, Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina blamed Pakistan for the attack. "Pakistan and its terrorist forces attack soft targets and unarmed people and kill them. They are cowards," he said. Another BJP leader said, "Terrorists tasked by Pakistan are out to target and kill BJP leaders. It is happening in the entire union territory. They want to instil fear among minorities here but we will not be cowed down by such acts." Despite encounters taking place in Rajouri and the obvious movement of terrorists, he said, the police have totally failed to protect the BJP leaders. He advocated the distribution of weapons and the setting up of village defence committees (VDCs) for the protection of minorities. Deputy Commissioner, Rajouri, R K Shavan assured the protesters that all measures would be taken to ensure the safety of the people, adding that the administration condemns the attack. "The injured will be flown to Jammu in a helicopter for specialised treatment," he said. On the demand for VDCs, Shavan said the government will look into it. BJP and Bajrang Dal workers also held protests in Jammu against the attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shutdown-protests-in-jks-rajouri-after-grenade-hurled-at-bjp-leaders-house-1019433.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Two brothers told to pay fine for 'helping' kin in love marriage in Rajasthan||A community panchayat in Rajasthan's Barmer district allegedly told two brothers to pay a penalty of Rs 17 lakh each for "helping" their relative in going for a love marriage, police said on Friday. The two brothers alleged that they were boycotted socially when they failed to pay the amount. The state human rights commission took a suo moto cognisance of the matter on Friday and directed the Barmer district collector to submit a factual report on August 31. Police have also lodged a case. The community panchayat imposed the penalty after the daughter of their cousin brother went for a love marriage sometime ago. Members of the panchayat believed that the two brothers "helped" in her love marriage. Khangar Singh Rajpurohit and his brother lodged the case with the Siwana police station on Thursday, alleging that their community panchayat imposed a penalty of Rs 17 lakh on each of them and they were boycotted socially after they could not pay the amount, police said. "A case has been registered against five named and as many unnamed persons. The matter is being investigated," SHO Prema Ram said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-brothers-told-to-pay-fine-for-helping-kin-in-love-marriage-in-rajasthan-1019438.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Stop acting like Opposition leader, fulfill poll promises: AAP's Raghav Chadha tells Sidhu||AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Friday asked Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu to deliver on poll promises and stop acting like an "opposition leader". "Otherwise, it will be clear to people that your struggle was a fight for chair and power, not a fight for Punjab's progress," he said in an apparent reference to the infighting in the Congress ahead of Sidhu’s elevation to the post of the state party chief. Sidhu has in the recent past criticised his own government for not fulfilling poll promises and has been pushing for the implementation of the 18-point agenda of the party high command. Addressing the media here, the AAP leader said Sidhu should stop acting like an "opposition leader" and he has written to the Punjab Congress chief to remind him of the poll promises made by his party in a 129-page manifesto before coming to power in 2017. Chadha said he told Sidhu that he was tasked with the responsibility of driving home these promises to every household of Punjab as in the past four-and-half years not a single promise has been fulfilled. "I want to say to Sidhu that now you are the Congress party's state unit president. You have the blessings of the party high command. You have the support of each MLA. You, for all practical purposes, are the government of Punjab," said Chadha. "It will not be incorrect to say in cricketing terms that you are the batsman and the bowler with the pitch being entirely yours. It is your responsibility to fulfill all poll promises," said Chadha, a legislator in Delhi. He further stated that Sidhu had raised several issues like ending corruption and scrapping of power purchase agreements. Chadha said he heard that Sidhu promised to give power at Rs 3 per unit if his party comes to power again. "Whose party is in power in Punjab now? Is it the DMK or the RJD running the government in Punjab? Sidhu Sahab, there is a Congress government in Punjab today,” he said, asking Sidhu to fulfill all poll promises within six months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stop-acting-like-opposition-leader-fulfill-poll-promises-aaps-raghav-chadha-tells-sidhu-1019463.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||'Medal of Excellence' for UP cop who got infant's rapist convicted||Police inspector Neeta Rani, who probed the sensational rape case of a one-and-half-year-old girl in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras and the accused convicted in just 34 days, has been awarded the Union Home Minister's 'Medal for Excellence in Investigation' in 2021, officials said on Friday. Rani, posted as the in-charge of the Chandpa police station in Hathras in western UP, is one of the 10 police officials from the state and only 152 from across the country who have been named for Centre's honour this year, they said. She also happens to be the first woman to be appointed as in-charge of any police station in Hathras, according to local officials. Rani was appointed the Station House Officer (SHO) of Chandpa in Janaury this year, after the infamous episode of a 19-year-old Dalit girl's gang-rape in the region and eventual death due to injuries in September 2020. The episode had led to severe criticism of law and order situation in UP and rolling of heads, including then SP of Hathras, Vikrant Vir. "A rape case was reported to the Chandpa police station on January 2 this year. The victim was a one-and-half-year-old girl. The accused belonged to the same village as the girl," a Hathras police spokesperson said. Considering the sensitivity of the case, an FIR was immediately lodged under IPC section 376 (rape) and under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the spokesperson said. "Inspector Rani took up the investigation and the scientific evidence in the case was collected carefully with the help of forensic department. The charge sheet was filed with the local court in just 11 days," the official said. In light of the effective arguments and solid evidence against the accused, the court ordered imprisonment for life for the convict and also slapped a Rs 1-lakh fine on him, the official said, adding all legal proceedings were concluded in just 34 days. Hathras SP Vineet Jaiswal said the Union Home Ministry's honour to the inspector will definitely work as a morale booster for the entire force. "I had appointed her the SHO of Chandpa in January only. In handling this particular case, she showed extreme sensitivity and as a result the case reached its logical conclusion in a short time," Jaiswal told PTI. "She has been very good at work and 'Union Home Minister's Medal for Excellence in Investigation' just proves that. Only 150 police officials, many of whom at senior ranks in central agencies, have got this. So it is a matter of pride for us," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/medal-of-excellence-for-up-cop-who-got-infants-rapist-convicted-1019473.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir L-G Manoj Sinha to honour Covid warriors on Independence Day||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha will honour 50 Covid warriors on Independence Day for their selfless services in managing the pandemic, an official spokesperson said on Friday. The union territory handled the Covid-19 pandemic with great professionalism and used all possible resources to provide care to patients suffering from the disease, he said. Sufficient measures were taken by the Health and Medical Education Department, which included increasing bed capacity, oxygen generation capacity or availability, ensuring supply of drugs and consumables, and management of protocols or directions issued by Centre from time to time, the official said. An effective mechanism was also adopted for vaccination which helped to contain the infection further, he added. The official said the L-G has decided to honour 50 healthcare workers (Covid warriors) with certificates of appreciation on Independence Day, recognising the selfless services rendered by them in managing the pandemic. Sinha said the way healthcare workers vaccinated people in difficult and snowbound areas by walking 18-20 kilometre has set a new benchmark for the entire country. "These warriors have put relentless efforts without even caring for their own lives and the lives of their family members and even remained away from their dear ones during this pandemic. "With the day and night efforts of these healthcare warriors, J-K was successful in keeping the positivity rate of patients and the mortality rate within controllable limits," Sinha said. "I would like to convey gratitude to them on behalf of entire Jammu and Kashmir," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-l-g-manoj-sinha-to-honour-covid-warriors-on-independence-day-1019529.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||UP youth hacks EC website, makes thousands of bogus Voter ID cards||A youth from Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur district hacked the Election Commission website and allegedly made thousands of bogus Voter ID cards. According to the police sources in Lucknow on Friday, the youth, identified as Vipul Saini, a resident of Machharhedi village in the district, was nabbed after the cops raided his house on Thursday. Saini, who was a graduate in computer applications, supplied the voter ID cards to one Arman Malik, a resident of Madhya Pradesh. ''Saini got Rs 100 to 200 for every Voter ID card,'' said a senior police official in Saharanpur. The police also found Rs 60 lakh in Saini's bank account. Malik was also arrested on Friday and was being interrogated by the cops in Delhi, sources said. Sources said that the EC officials, who were responsible for updating the voters' list, suspected some foul play recently and apprised the IT experts of the Commission about the same. It later turned out that someone had hacked their passwords. The trace led to Saini's computer. ''Saini has admitted to making ten thousand bogus Voter ID cards in the past three months.....he said that he had done so to make quick money...he does not have any political affiliation or connection,'' the official said. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav demanded a thorough investigation into the matter. ''It is a very serious issue....a thorough probe must be conducted to ascertain if it has state patronage....it concerns the dignity of the EC also,'' he tweeted.   उप्र चुनाव आयोग की वेबसाइट में एक नवयुवक द्वारा ‘डिजिटल सेंधमारी’ करके नक़ली वोटर आईडी कार्ड बनाए जाने की ख़बर बेहद गंभीर है। ऐसे घपलों के लिए पूरे राज्य में जाँच हो, पता तो चले कहीं इसे राज्याश्रय तो प्राप्त नहीं है। ये चुनाव आयोग की सुरक्षा ही नहीं बल्कि गरिमा का भी सवाल है।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-youth-hacks-ec-website-makes-thousands-of-bogus-voter-id-cards-1019535.html
13-08-2021||North and Central||No plans to appoint independent administrator for Chandigarh: Centre||The Centre has steered clear of a row over a separate administrator for the Union Territory of Chandigarh, a demand raised by Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. Badal had claimed that he had urged Home Minister Amit Shah to review the decision to appoint a full-fledged Administrator for Chandigarh by divesting the present Governor V P Singh Badnore of the charge. Badal had termed this another attempt to “dilute” Punjab's claim to its capital city. “It is clarified that the Union Government has not taken any decision of divesting Punjab Governor of this responsibility of Chandigarh Administrator; and, neither is any such proposal under contemplation,” a home ministry spokesperson said. As per the convention, the Governor of Punjab is also the Administrator for the Union Territory of Chandigarh, which is the shared capital of Punjab and Haryana. The UT is governed by the Adminstrators who have a set of advisors – all IAS and IPS officers – leaving little room for the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation, which completes 25 years this year. There have been demands from political parties to give a greater say to the elected representatives of the corporation in the governance of the union territory. A section has even raised the demand for revival of metropolitan council at the UT level with a chief executive councillor and executive councillors vested with executive functions and powers of different departments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-plans-to-appoint-independent-administrator-for-chandigarh-centre-1019539.html
13-08-2021||Opinion||The pandemic shows why counting global deaths is essential||The past 18 months have shown that accurately counting the dead is vital for protecting the living. At the outset of the pandemic, many countries lacked adequate registration systems, and others saw their processes break down under strain. This made it harder to track the spread of Covid-19 and deal with its consequences. Even in normal times, lack of data about deaths and their causes can seriously impede efforts to protect public health. Fixing this ought to be a global priority. Reliable information on mortality and morbidity can give warning of growing public-health challenges, such as heart disease due to obesity and diabetes, or drug abuse. It can also help to flag racial and other disparities that highlight inequalities in housing, jobs and access to health care. The rate of deaths from Covid-19 has been significantly higher for Black Americans than White Americans, for instance; figures for the U.K. tell a similar story. In India, lack of data for rural areas early in the pandemic led to fatal complacency. It’s safe to assume that deaths due to Covid have been, and continue to be, undercounted in much of the world. Nearly two-fifths of the world’s deaths are unregistered, and in Africa it’s the vast majority. Only 8 per cent of reported deaths in low-income nations show a cause. In a crisis, even developed nations can fail to gather the information they need to respond effectively. Technology is part of the answer. Online notification allowed countries such as Costa Rica to collect data as Covid-19 spread. Government agencies also need to get better at sharing information. Mobile phones and software make this feasible — but political will, appropriate incentives and investment are necessary as well. Local leaders need to understand the importance of accurate records; doctors need training in death certification; and policy makers need to know how to use the data. (Bloomberg Philanthropies works with organizations including Vital Strategies to support such efforts in countries such as Rwanda, which published its first vital statistics report last year.) Major progress will take time, but stopgap measures can help in the interim. Rapid surveillance using hospitals and community centers allows better counts of fatalities, especially if officials and health professionals, not families, are made responsible for reporting. Over time, deaths in excess of trend can then be estimated.  Household interviews (so-called verbal autopsies) and surveys can give a fuller picture. Such initiatives, already underway in many poor countries, deserve political and financial support. The cost can be low — a study in India estimated just 10 cents per capita per year. The crucial thing is to understand just how valuable better global information on deaths would be. A combination of ad hoc progress in the short term, combined with a longer-term strategy to extend, improve and integrate this essential record-keeping, can equip policy makers with the information they need to save lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-pandemic-shows-why-counting-global-deaths-is-essential-1019206.html
13-08-2021||Opinion||India at UNSC: A diplomatic breakthrough, not a superpower moment||India chairing the central sanctorum of global geopolitical power for the first time since 2012 at the United Nations Security Council is an imperative diplomatic step forward. It allows New Delhi to voice her core concerns in the global security commons like no other pulpit. India has begun well, with the first discussion on maritime security and the freedom of navigation on the open oceans – a topic that has the backing of other maritime democracies and evidently made the People’s Republic of China very uncomfortable. At the meeting, displayed its irritation by blaming a “few countries” for“pursuing an exclusive regional strategy in the Asia Pacific region in an attempt to create intensified maritime conflict.” Goal achieved. Many such corners will present themselves, and that in itself enhances India’s global footprint and bring on the agenda crossborder terror and the need for greater market access for poor countries among other topics of direct concern to India on the agenda of the world. So far, so good. The problem is the gloating back home - for unlike what the hyperventilating television media and the Twitterati may have you believe - this is no superpower moment. This opportunity does not suddenly make India a leader of the world. The elephant in the room is not India – it’s the v with a capital – the Veto. The fact is that the Security Council is an institution way past its use-by date. Without a veto, it is a glorified talk shop for the non-permanent members who come and vent their views, albeit with some diplomatic leeway. That India, a nation representing one-sixth of humanity, with a $3 trillion GDP and thermonuclear weapons, is not a permanent member puts a question mark on the relevance of this body. This is especially true when the Security Council has the United Kingdom as a veto country. It surprises many on that glorious island to discover this fact. Post the Second World War and particularly post the Suez crisis, the United Kingdom clearly punches so far above its weight in the highest decision-making body in the world. It single-handedly makes the permanent members look a little bit ridiculous. As always, wisdom comes to mind about Britain from the classic series Yes Minister, where Jim hacker famously said, “We don’t have any real power. We are just an American nuclear missile base.” Put differently, the Indian presidency at the Security Council actually shines the light on a past that is unwilling to give way to a present that is already upon it. India must not waste this opportunity to underscore her substance. Afghanistan presents a golden opportunity. Diplomatically, India has been cut out of the deal-making even by her natural international partner, Russia. By calling a last-minute Afghan situation discussion, India scored a point – and underscored the increasing irrelevance of the Security Council where deals are being cut in trilateral fora and not the august assembly. It is this kind of tactical positioning that will make this stint on the high table worth it for India. In the long run, India has some tough choices to make. It has been lobbying the world at great expense in time and money with its foreign missions trying to win the backing of countries like Mauritius to sundry African nations and the islands off Pacific atoll earnestly backing India’s cause. India lost a golden opportunity in the 1950s when America was amiable to her membership, but she perused the cause of China. Even now, as US secretary for state Bliken said, on a recent visit, the US favours an expansion of the Security Council – but without a veto. Russia has already endorsed this arrangement. It is this that India should peruse but with a caveat – that the veto is a must. The time has come to articulate that India does not have endless patience. Indeed time is running out for India – Japan, a close friend, and Indonesia, a potential partner, are fast on its heels with their diplomats who have been even busier than India and spending far more money to argue their case for permanent membership. In the coming years, India may well have to consider a radical shift in her approach. A cold shoulder to the United Nations, not a warm embrace may be needed. For a country whose strategic culture is embedded in the very idea of the equally vague notion of the international community - this will be a hard sell. Perhaps it will be an impossible call as the UN nurtures a mafia in India’s élite, offering tax-free dollar jobs to Indian bureaucrats and their children at the one end of the spectrum and to soldiers on much-coveted international peacekeeping mission at the other. India needs to realize that power by its very nature is not bestowed – it has to be seized. A good beginning has been made by seizing the moment – but to make India as a permanent member of the UN security council with a veto a reality will take a revolutionary new disruptive diplomatic outlook. (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-at-unsc-a-diplomatic-breakthrough-not-a-superpower-moment-1019253.html
13-08-2021||South||How can state govt deviate from vaccination schedule set by Centre? Kerala HC asks Left govt||How did the Kerala government deviate from the vaccination schedule set by the central government and what was the reason for the Centre to increase the gap between first and second dose of Covishield from 4 weeks to 12-16 weeks? These were the queries posed by the Kerala High Court to the Union Health Ministry and the state government on Thursday. The questions from Justice P B Suresh Kumar came while hearing a plea by Kitex Garments Ltd seeking permission to administer the second dose of Covishield vaccine to its workers. The court asked the state government how it could relax the prevailing protocol, which mandates a gap of 12-16 weeks between the 1st and 2nd jabs, for people going abroad when it was citing the instructions as "gospel truth" in all its circulars or notifications. "If what the central government is saying was gospel truth, then how did you (state government) deviate from it? Can you do that?" the court asked. To this, the state government responded that the Centre's protocols were "violated" to help people who had to go abroad for employment and were stranded here waiting to be vaccinated. The court said that the benefit of any illegality on the part of the state cannot be extended to others, but Kitex contended that there was no violation on the part of the Kerala government as the actual minimum period between two jabs of Covishield was 4-6 weeks and this was the protocol followed in respect of frontline workers. The court, thereafter, asked why then there was a restriction now which stated that gap should be 12-16 weeks. To this, the lawyer for Kitex said the reason was the increased efficacy of the vaccine if the second dose was taken after a longer gap. The court, however, did not accept the reason cited by the company's lawyer and impleaded the Union Health Ministry as a party in the matter to find out the reason for the longer gap between the two doses of Covishield. It directed the ministry to come with answers to its query on Friday, the next date of hearing. Kitex in its plea has said that it has already vaccinated more than 5,000 of its workers with the first dose and has arranged for the second dose, but was unable to administer the same due to the prevailing restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-can-state-govt-deviate-from-vaccination-schedule-set-by-centre-kerala-hc-asks-left-govt-1019160.html
13-08-2021||South||Two major Covid-19 clusters emerge in Chennai||As many as 23 people including 15 adults who have taken either single or two doses of Covid-19 vaccine and six children tested positive, according to Dr J Radhakrishnan, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, on Friday. This second major cluster in Zone -15 and Division 197 at the Ramaniyam Gaurav Apartments, Model School Road, Sholinganallur (two blocks) has come as a surprise to the health officials who have been hectically involved in sensitising people on Covid-19 related safety precautions. A religious gathering at Varadhammal Garden Street near Kilpauk on August 2 at a temple turned out to be a Covid spreader infecting 24 people and leaving a 47-year old woman with comorbid conditions dead. Nearly 300 people had gathered for the annual religious event and even the trustees of the temple contracted the virus, a senior official said. A total of 398 samples were lifted from the people at Ramaniyam Gaurav apartments here and of them 23 people had tested positive. Of them, four were administered single dose of Covid vaccine while 11 others availed two doses of the vaccine, Dr Radhakrishnan who inspected the apartments early this morning said. He was accompanied by Greater Chennai Corporation Regional Deputy Commissioner Simranjeet, Zonal Health Officer Dr Usha, Zonal officer Sukumar and other officials. Six children aged between 1 to 10 years and diagnosed with fever and asymptomatic have been advised home isolation, he told PTI. During the inspection it was found that the apartment security personnel were not vaccinated, the officials erected barricades in the area. Following a complaint by a resident that only the garbage of infected persons was being removed, Dr Radhakrishnan directed the civic officials to put in place a dedicated garbage disposal plan. After the emergence of two major clusters in the metro, Dr Radhakrishnan directed the district Collectors and Commissioner of GCC to take up effective micro containment and also intensify the campaign on masks and be strict on enforcement in crowded places.  "Of late we are having cluster cases. We were witnesses to a few clusters in Chennai. Effective cluster control has been done by Chennai Corporation. One was a festival cluster and another a gated community,” he said in the communication. "Like Chennai and neighbouring three districts, cases in Thanjavur and delta districts and Coimbatore and surrounding areas are also not coming down further after relaxations," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-major-covid-19-clusters-emerge-in-chennai-1019249.html
13-08-2021||South||Lakshadweep imposes travel restriction to mainland due to Kerala Covid spike||The Lakshadweep administration has imposed curbs on the movement of people travelling to the mainland from the islands in view of the Covid-19 situation prevailing in neighbouring states, especially Kerala. "Considering the circumstances, local residents of Lakshadweep islands are hereby advised to avoid all unnecessary travel to the mainland," said the order issued by Lakshadweep district Collector S Asker Ali on Thursday. The administration also directed the authorities officials concerned to give permission only for essential travel to mainland. The islands have three entry points from mainland — Kochi and Kozhikode in Kerala and Mangaluru in Karnataka.  According to the administration, the Covid-19 situation has been stabilised and there are only 40 active cases in the islands as on August 12. The administration said all those who come to the islands from mainland and other islands must undergo seven days mandatory quarantine at the institutional quarantine facilities provided by the administration or in their respective houses provided that there is a separate room with washroom. They must be tested for Covid-19 by the local health department after ending their quarantine period, the order said. However, there will be only three days mandatory quarantine for those who have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccination 14 days prior to the movement from mainland to islands or from one island to another on production of valid vaccination certificate, or for those persons who have become Covid-19 positive in the months on production of valid discharge certificate, the administration said. They will be tested after three days of quarantine. Until mid-January this year, the islands were a Covid-19-free territory in the country. The administration had come under attack from the residents and politicians in the islands for its decision to relax the stringent quarantine measures in December 2020, causing a sudden spike in virus infection cases. The administration's old standard operating procedure (SOP) had stipulated seven days quarantine for people in Kochi before taking an RT-PCR test for the travel. After arriving in Agatti also, they had to undergo another 14-day quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lakshadweep-imposes-travel-restriction-to-mainland-due-to-kerala-covid-spike-1019264.html
13-08-2021||South||Kerala HC grants anticipatory bail to 4 former officials in ISRO conspiracy case||The Kerala High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to four former police and Intelligence Bureau (IB) officers, including former Gujarat DGP R B Sreekumar, who were accused of hatching a conspiracy in over 25-year-old ISRO espionage case in Kerala.   In a relief to the accused former officers, the court also maintained that prima faice there was no evidence that the accused acted against the interests of the country. Apart from Sreekumar, who was a former IB official, former Kerala Police officers S Vijayan and Thampi S Durgadutt and another former IB official P S Jayaprakash were granted anticipatory bail. A bench comprising Justice Ashok Menon stated that the case originated out of suspicions of Kerala police over the overstaying of two Maldivian women in 1994 and the concerns of the Kerala police at that stage cannot be said to be without any basis. There is not even a scintilla of evidence regarding the petitioners being influenced by any foreign power so as to induce them to hatch a conspiracy to falsely implicate ISRO scientists with the intention to stall the activities of the ISRO with regard to the development of Cryogenic engine. Unless there are specific materials regarding their involvement, prima facie, it cannot be said that they were acting against the interest of the country, the court maintained. Meanwhile, the CBI on Friday gave further materials before a local court in Thiruvananthapuram objecting the bail pleas of a couple of former police officers accused in the case, including ex-DGP K K Joshua. The CBI registered a case against the former officers and launched a probe into the conspiracy angle of the case on the basis of a Supreme Court directive on ISRO former scientist Nambi Narayanan's plea. Narayanan, who was among the accused in the ISRO espionage case, was later exonerated and subsequently, he initiated a legal fight against the police officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-4-former-officials-in-isro-conspiracy-case-1019265.html
13-08-2021||South||Petrol to get cheaper in Tamil Nadu as Finance Minister slashes excise duty||Fulfilling one of the major election promises, though partially, by reducing Rs 3 in excise duty on petrol, Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on Friday postponed “deeper reforms” to ensure the state’s “debt overhang” is corrected till overcoming the Covid-19 pandemic. Presenting the revised Budget for 2021-2022 financial year, amid a boycott by principal Opposition AIADMK, Thiaga Rajan said the primary ambition of Friday’s exercise is to lay the “strongest foundation” for the full budget for the financial year 2022-23 which will be presented in February 2022. Rajan had on August 9, while releasing a white paper on state’s finances, batted for “once-in-a-generation” reforms to end the vicious cycle of debts that Tamil Nadu finds itself in – the overall debt stands close to Rs 6 lakh crore. The three-hour long budget speech by Thiaga Rajan, a former investment banker, gave strong hints that the “full budget” next year will have much-talked about reforms that might include an increase in property tax among other things to generate revenue for the state which has been falling for the past few years. In Friday’s speech, he announced a slew of measures to collect data to ensure proper and targeted delivery of services to various sections of the society. In what seems the first towards providing targeted cash subsidies than universal, Thiaga Rajan said the government was in the process of identifying households eligible for receiving Rs 1,000 to women heads, another poll promise of the DMK. However, Thiaga Rajan gave a categorical assurance that all promises made by the DMK during the 2021 assembly elections will be fulfilled gradually, while announcing a cut in excise duty on petrol by Rs 3. With this, the price of petrol in Tamil Nadu may go back to a double-digit figure from Saturday. “This Government has decided to reduce the effective rate of tax on petrol by Rs.3 per litre and thereby provide major relief to the toiling working class people in the State. This measure will result in a loss of revenue of Rs.1,160 crore a year,” Thiaga Rajan said. DMK had in its manifesto promised to reduce the prices of petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 4. The Budget laid focus on revamping the School Education, and Higher Education departments besides speaking of ambitious projects to protect the environment. The budget announced the appointment of a high-level committee of educationists and experts to formulate a distinct State Education Policy for Tamil Nadu, while allotting Rs 20 crores for setting up smart classes. While 10 new arts and science colleges will be set up by the government, the famous Arulmigu Baladhandayuthapani Swamy Temple, Palani will establish a Siddha medical college. A separate Siddha University will also be established. The finance minister also announced setting of SIPCOT industrial parks in half-a-dozen backward districts to decentralise industrialisation in the state, while announcing four Tidel (IT) parks in Villupuram, Vellore, Thoothukudi, and Tiruppur districts. Noting that time is not yet ripe for “fiscal consolidation” given that the economy is still just recovering from the impact of successive waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, Thiaga Rajan said revenue deficit for the fiscal is expected to go up from the “unrealistic Interim Budget Estimates” of Rs.41,417.30 crore to Rs.58,692.68 crore in the Revised Budget Estimates. “The increase in revenue deficit is on account of the exceptional times that we find ourselves in and does not detract in the least from this Government’s commitment to fiscal rectitude and consolidation in the coming years, as emphatically indicated in the white paper,” he said. Contending that the most significant finding in the white paper is the deterioration of the tax GSDP ratio of Tamil Nadu by 3.02 per cent from 8.48 per cent in 2006-07 to just 5.46 per cent in 2020-21, Thiaga Rajan said this represents loss of about Rs.65,000 crore worth of revenue per annum. “Through improved administration and plugging of leakages, revenue collections can be substantially stepped up,” he said. Targeted actions would be taken against tax evasion based on advanced data analytics,” he said, adding that the total number of roving squads will be increased to 100 and equipped with vehicles and RFID reading devices to prevent movement of vehicles without bills. The budget said the first corridor under the Phase-II project of Chennai Metro will be operational by June 2025. The finance minister said efforts are on to study the feasibility of bringing metro to Madurai. On Covid-19, the budget said against a capacity to vaccinate 8 lakh persons a day, the state receives on an average 2.4 lakh vaccines. He also announced that the famous Arulmigu Baladhandayuthapani Swamy Temple, Palani will establish a Siddha medical college.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/petrol-to-get-cheaper-in-tamil-nadu-as-finance-minister-slashes-excise-duty-1019271.html
13-08-2021||South||Dollar smuggling: UDF boycotts Kerala Assembly proceedings for second day; demands CM's reply||The opposition UDF members continued to boycott the Kerala Assembly proceedings for the second consecutive day on Friday protesting the alleged unwillingness of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to reply on the reported revelations against him by an accused in the controversial dollar smuggling scam. After intense sloganeering and banner protests inside the House and a brief sit-in at the entrance of the Assembly hall, the Congress-led UDF members erected a human wall in front of the main gate to express their disagreement over Vijayan''s silence. The Assembly adjourned sine die later.  As soon as the question hour began, the UDF members started sloganeering, urging the Chief Minister to give his reply on the floor of the House regarding the serious revelations against him in the case. They also raised banners in the House which could be read as "The CM should end his silence", against which Speaker M B Rajesh gave a strict warning saying it was against Assembly rules. When opposition leader V D Satheesan pointed out that it was inappropriate to continue the proceedings without discussing the allegations that cropped up against the Chief Minister, Rajesh said it was a matter disposed of yesterday (Thursday) itself. Though Vijayan was present in the House from the beginning, he did not utter any word despite the opposition continuing their protest. As the Speaker went ahead with the question hour, the UDF announced boycott of the proceedings and walkout of the House. After inaugurating the protest human wall outside, Satheesan said later that the Chief Minister's continued silence has evoked anxiety and suspicion in the minds of people of the state. "Vijayan is reluctant to give a reply in the House as he is scared. He cannot simply lie in the House. As the people of the state, we are also waiting for him to end the silence and hear his reply on the issue," he said. He also termed their protest human wall as an "anti-corruption" wall. Adopting an unprecedented mode of protest, the opposition had convened a symbolic "House" in front of the main gate on Thursday after boycotting the proceedings as their notice seeking an adjournment motion over the issue was denied permission for presentation. The state assembly witnessed continuous protests by the opposition after a section of the media recently reported that the Customs had issued a show-cause notice to the accused in the gold and dollar smuggling case indicating alleged involvement of Vijayan in smuggling dollars abroad. The Customs notice was reportedly issued based on the alleged statement of the prime accused in the gold and dollar smuggling cases, that Vijayan and former Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan were involved in smuggling foreign currency to the UAE through the officials of its Consulate here. The LDF government suffered another setback on Wednesday as the Kerala High Court stayed its order appointing a Commission of Inquiry to look into any alleged attempt by the Enforcement Directorate to implicate Vijayan in the gold smuggling through diplomatic channels case, saying a parallel inquiry would "derail the investigation" in the matter. Meanwhile, Speaker Rajesh, inside the House, announced the assembly adjourned sine die ending the 17-day-long second session of the 15th Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dollar-smuggling-udf-boycotts-kerala-assembly-proceedings-for-second-day-demands-cms-reply-1019283.html
13-08-2021||South||Kerala Police comes up with India's first Drone Forensic Lab and Research Centre||At a time when drones emerge as a major security threat in the country, the Kerala police on Friday launched a first-of-its-kind Drone Forensic Lab and Research Centre here with an aim to address the rising concerns in this regard. Besides addressing the threat aspects of the drones, the lab-cum-research centre is also envisaged to look at the utility part of the unmanned aerial vehicles, police sources here said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the unique initiative at a function held in the SAP parade ground here, which was followed by the display and air show of drones. Vijayan, while speaking at the function, said there are information that anti-national forces are using drones for various destructive activities including spying, smuggling and terrorism. He also mentioned about the recent drone strike at the Jammu airport by the terrorists. "It is posing serious challenges to various security agencies including police now-a-days. The Kerala police is coming out with such a lab-cum-research centre in this backdrop," he said. Not just the finding of unauthorised drones, but the production of aerial vehicles according to the demands of the police force to help the day-to-day policing would also be conducted at the new facility, the Chief Minister added. It had already become clear how drones could be used productively for maintaining law and order situation and crowd management during the Covid-19 induced lockdown, he said. Lavishing praise on the Kerala police, he said the state force is far ahead compared to their counterparts in many other states in using technology in investigation and day-to-day policing. Earlier, ADGP Manoj Abraham said in a video message that an anti-drone system would be developed at the new facility to handle the threat of the unmanned aerial vehicles. "The system will be capable of identifying all kinds of drones flying within a radius of five km," he said adding that it would be also capable of neutralising it. Abraham, also the nodal officer of the Cyber Dome, said the lab-cum-research centre is going to be one of the innovative labs in the country and a first-of-its kind in this regard in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-comes-up-with-indias-first-drone-forensic-lab-and-research-centre-1019297.html
13-08-2021||South||Just three votes for BJP candidate in Kerala local body bypoll||BJP's efforts to make inroads into the Christian vote banks of Kerala seems to be a tough task as the party candidate got just three votes in the local body byelections for a ward in Kottayam district in Kerala held on Wednesday. The national ruling party however has reasons to cheer as the party had got only two votes in the 2020 local body election at Elamgulam ward in Elikkulam grama panchayat in Kottayam district. While Kottayam district is generally a stronghold of the Christian community, Elikullam grama panchayat comes under Pala Assembly constituency which is dominated by orthodox Christians. The BJP has been making serious attempts to make inroads into the Christian votes banks of Kerala with even Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top leaders of the party holding talks various church heads.  As per 2011 census, Kerala has 18.38 per cent Christian population, whereas in Kottayam district 43.48 per cent of the district's population is Christians - just behind 49.81 per cent Hindus. The bypoll at Elamgulam ward was conducted as Congress rebel candidate Jojo Cheeramkuzhi who won in the 2020 elections died. This time Congress's James Chacko retained the party's stronghold by securing 512 votes.  Thomas Varkey of Kerala Congress (M) contested as a Left front candidate and finished second with 353 votes. BJP's Jayaprakash V came third with three votes along with two other namesake or independent candidates. Jayaprakash was not a voter of the ward. BJP Kottayam district president Noble Mathew told DH that the party was seeing the result positively as it was a region where the party did not have even a booth-level committee. But the party was expecting at least 25 votes as there were around 140 Hindu voters and 40 per cent families in the ward had received benefits of central government schemes like Rs.6,000 under PM's Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.  In the recent Assembly poll, the BJP secured six votes in the ward. There are many wards in Kerala where the BJP-NDA used to perform even badly, he said. Mathew said that he could identify the three persons who voted for BJP and would try to form a local level committee with them. "BJP is hopeful of overcoming the communal campaigns being unleased by the opponent political parties. In 2015 local body election the party had just 87 members in the entire Kottayam district. But in 2020 BJP-NDA candidates won in 118 wards and got power in two local bodies," he said. Meanwhile, in the bypolls to 15 local body seats across the state, left-front candidates won in seven, Congress and its allies in six and independent candidates in two.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/just-three-votes-for-bjp-candidate-in-kerala-local-body-bypoll-1019386.html
13-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu budget historic, growth-oriented: CII||Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Friday termed the budget presented by the Tamil Nadu government as 'historic', 'transformational' and 'growth oriented' with thrust on 'inclusive development'. The trade body's southern region chairman and industrialist C K Ranganathan said the investments announced in the budget would propel the State Gross Domestic Product (GDP) comfortably to a double-digit growth with greater focus given to industrial infrastructure. The announcement on mega-industrial clusters in pharmaceuticals, petro-chemicals, defence and aerospace would bring in more investments and create job opportunities, Ranganathan, also the chairman of fast-moving consumer good major CavinKare Ltd, said in a press release. He congratulated Chief Minister M K Stalin and finance minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan for allocating more funds towards education, women development, healthcare and skill development. CII Tamil Nadu chairman S Chandrakumar said, the reduction of Rs 3 per litre in retail sale of petrol would be a relief to people and also control the prices of various products. The government has made several announcements for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises including the state-level credit guarantee scheme, funding for MSMEs to list in stock exchanges. The announcements like 'Fin Tech Policy' and 'FinTech City' would facilitate the establishment of financial technology companies in the state which is the need of the hour, Chandrakumar said. The announcement on the creation of one thousand check dams across Tamil Nadu would revitalize the groundwater and fulfill the irrigation requirement of the agriculture sector, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-budget-historic-growth-oriented-cii-1019470.html
13-08-2021||South||Kerala tightens micro-level vigil to curb Covid-19||As part of the tightening of the Covid containment measures at the micro-level, the Kerala government on Friday decided to conduct Covid tests of all people in containment zones and even administer vaccines. There are reports that Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya will reach Kerala on Monday to review the Covid situation in the state. The state now has 1.8 lakh Covid-19 active cases. A three-day vaccination drive will be also held from August 14 to 16 in the state. So far over 44 per cent of the state's population has got at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The state government had also decided to extend micro-level containment measures up to family dwellings. Families with more than ten members, residential complexes and streets where there are more than five Covid-19 active cases would be considered as a micro-containment zone. Experts had evaluated that laxity of quarantine norms by Covid-19-infected at micro-levels, including in households were also ammounting to the higher number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala despite the three-month long lockdown A review meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had decided to enhance the vaccination drive. All persons in containment zones will be subjected to a Covid-19 test, and those people negative for the virus will be vaccinated on priority. Daily vaccinations targets of 25,000 to 40,000 would be prescribed to districts, said a statement from the Chief Minister's Office. Meanwhile, 20,452 more Covid -19 cases were reported in Kerala on Friday as the Test Positivity Rate stood at 14.35 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tightens-micro-level-vigil-to-curb-covid-19-1019495.html
13-08-2021||State||Karnataka misses detecting 12 cases for every Covid-19 positive case||For every confirmed Covid case, Karnataka missed detecting 12 Covid patients, revealed the second serosurvey. Called the cases-to-infections ratio or CIR, this figure was 3 for Bengaluru Urban. With a CIR of 39, the highest number of infections go undetected in Belagavi. The CIR for BBMP on the other hand is 6. However, in comparison to CIR of 40 in the first serosurvey, there is improved case identification between first and second survey. The total prevalence was highest in Mysuru district (33.6 per cent), followed by Mandya (31.9 per cent), Kodagu (27.1 per cent), Chamarajanagar (22.6 per cent), and Kolar (20.8 per cent). Within BBMP area, the total prevalence varied from 13.8 per cent (RR Nagar) to 24.3 per cent (Dasarahalli). The CIR ranged from 4–8 and the Infection Fatality Rate (IFR) from 0.11 per cent-0.28 per cent. As in the first serosurvey, Dharwad district had the highest IFR. The IFR of Bengaluru Urban was 0.17 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-misses-detecting-12-cases-for-every-covid-19-positive-case-1019173.html
13-08-2021||State||Decision on NIA branch in Mangaluru shortly: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has held two rounds of discussions on the need for setting up a branch of the National Investigation Agency in Mangaluru. Speaking to a section of media persons at Mangaluru, he said there is a demand for setting up an NIA branch in Mangaluru, following the raid in Ullal in connection with an alleged nexus with ISIS. “We have an efficient leader who is heading the home department. The home minister will continue to hold meetings in this regard. The home minister will also visit the coastal district to take stock of the situation shortly. Later, we will take a unanimous decision. We cannot divulge everything publicly. We will take an appropriate decision shortly,” said the CM. CM cancels border visits Though Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai was supposed to visit the borders of Dakshina Kannada as per his itinerary, however, it was cancelled on Friday. On the other hand, various organisations from the Kasaragod district held a protest at the border in Talapady against the state government’s decision of making RT-PCR negative report mandatory for commuters. Protesters have been demanding to allow those who have taken two doses of vaccines to enter Karnataka as per the central government guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decision-on-nia-branch-in-mangaluru-shortly-cm-bommai-1019267.html
13-08-2021||State||Security tightened across Karnataka for Independence Day ||The police have taken measures to beef up security across the state ahead of the Independence Day.  In Bengaluru, the police checked for suspicious objects and persons in crowded places on Thursday and deployed extra forces, including reserve police, in a few places. The forces, including the bomb and sniffer dog squads, visited and checked each and every corner of the crowded places. They also checked the baggage of a few people at busstations.    A senior police officer said the additional forces are going to be deployed in all crowded places including places where the national flag will be hoisted including in Bengaluru. DCP (West) Sanjeev M Patil said, “Our teams visited the public places with high footfalls and they checked for suspicious persons and objects. Public and commercial establishments in the crowded places have been told to keep vigil in their surroundings and alert the police if anything is found suspicious.”   DG&IGP Praveen Sood has given instructions to all superintendents of police (SPs) and police commissioners to take necessary security measures in their respective jurisdictions. The checking will be conducted at religious places, parks and other places. The intelligence police are also keeping watch on the movement of anti-national elements, Sood said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/security-tightened-across-karnataka-for-independence-day-1019481.html
13-08-2021||State||Education, healthcare to be AAP’s poll plank in local body polls: Atishi||The Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will fight the upcoming local body elections, including BBMP, on the plank of education and healthcare, party leader Atishi Marlena said on Friday. AAP is gearing up to contest elections to the BBMP that are yet to be announced, as well as the September 3 polls to Hubballi-Dharwad, Kalaburagi and Belagavi city corporations.  Speaking to DH, the AAP legislator said that the Covid-19 pandemic had deepened the gulf in learning among the “haves and have-nots,” setting back the education sector by a decade. She batted for immediate measures to prevent long-term learning shortcomings among students due to the disruption in schooling. “For students till 8th standard, a bridge course is essential when schools resume, so as to ensure that they know some key concepts required for further studies,” she said. Closure of schools had a major impact on learning and such courses will help children. Education and healthcare are key issues for the party, which will go to the people assuring better facilities. AAP Karnataka president Prithvi Reddy noted that the educational reforms effected by the party in Delhi has ensured that the students of government schools consistently outperformed their counterparts in private schools. “Such changes can be brought about in the education sector in Karnataka also,” he said. The economic distress caused by the pandemic has pushed several children out of schools. The state government has also failed to address the dispute between parents and school managements over fees, he said. On communal sloganeering at Jantar Mantar, Marlena accused the BJP of diverting attention from key issues such as the government’s failure in handling the second wave of Covid-19. “AAP is clear about the fact that any kind of politics of hatred against any caste or community is unconstitutional. This is the worrying direction that the country has taken. Instead of talking about education, healthcare and real challenges faced by the country, divisive politics is being pursued (by the ruling party BJP),” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/education-healthcare-to-be-aap-s-poll-plank-in-local-body-polls-atishi-1019484.html
13-08-2021||State||Govt to revive sick state-run companies, says Nirani||Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani on Friday said his department had come up with a new plan to revive government undertakings that have become sick or loss-making.  He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating his Vidhana Soudha office with a puja.  “There are several corporations and institutions such as Kalaburagi Cement Corporation, Mysuru Sugar Company (Mysugar) and Mysore Paper Mills that are on the path of bankruptcy,” Nirani said.  He said he discussed the revival plan with Union ministers during his recent trip to New Delhi. “I won’t allow the closure of industries during my tenure. I’ll try to make them function 24 hours,” he said.  Nirani asked officials to identify sick corporations at taluk, district, state levels and prepare a blueprint for their revival. The minister further added that the government had plans to use 21 acres of land belonging to Mysore Lamps and NGEF to build theme parks.  The government will make sure land allotted by the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) is used for the intended purpose. “I will order a survey if the allotted land is being misused. There is no provision to use KIADB land for other purposes and we won’t do sale deeds,” Nirani said. The minister said ease-of-doing-business and creation of jobs will be his priority. “We will conduct industrial adalats at the district-level and provide doorstep delivery of services to industries. We will also create more jobs for educated youths who have done ITI, BA, B.Com, B.Sc, M.Sc and PhD,” Nirani said.  To woo investors, the state government will appoint officers to be a part of the Invest India scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-to-revive-sick-state-run-companies-says-nirani-1019486.html
13-08-2021||State||II PU exams for private candidates from Aug 19||The department of pre-university education is all set to conduct the II PU examinations for private candidates and for those who have rejected their results.   As many as 18,414 candidates are appearing for the examinations, scheduled between August 19 and September 3, at 187 centres across the state.  Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh on Friday directed the district authorities to complete the preparations for the exams by August 17. The examinations are conducted under Karnataka Secure Examination System.  The department had cancelled the II PU examinations considering the spike in Covid-19 cases and promoted students based on their performance in class 10 and 11 examinations. However, the private candidates were not considered for promotion.  Meanwhile, the department had also provided an option for fresh candidates to reject their results and appear for the examinations, if they were not satisfied. Under this option around 900 students are writing the examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ii-pu-exams-for-private-candidates-from-aug-19-1019502.html
13-08-2021||State||Kageri condemns disruption in RS||Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Friday criticised the disruption witnessed in the Rajya Sabha earlier in the week, calling it a "dark day" of the Upper House. " Never before has the Rajya Sabha been obstructed in such a manner in the history of Parliament. The behaviour of some members were unacceptable. I condemn the disgraceful and inappropriate behavior," he said. "It is the responsibility of each political party to ensure discipline and dignity among its representatives," he said, asking parties to introspect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kageri-condemns-disruption-in-rs-1019506.html
13-08-2021||State||Facilities to Sasikala in prison: ACB told to file probe status report||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed the Anti- Corruption Bureau (ACB) to submit in a sealed cover the status report on the investigation in the case pertaining to alleged charges of bribery to provide preferential treatment to V K Sasikala, aide of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, at Central Prison Parappana Agrahara. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, passed this direction after the counsel for the petitioner drew the attention of the court that ACB has not carried out any investigation in the case. The petition filed by one K S Gita, an educationist from Chennai, was disposed of with a direction to the ACB to complete the probe within two months. The order was passed on June 11, 2021. The petitioner showed a newspaper report and contended that ACB has raided the Hindalga prison official. Meanwhile, the counsel representing the anti-graft agency sought further time to complete the investigation. The bench directed the ACB to place on record a detailed report on the investigation carried out in a sealed cover.  The matter has been posted to August 25. Sasikala was convicted in the multi-crore disproportionate assets case and served a four-year sentence at Parappana Agrahara prison. The petitioner alleged that retired IAS officer Vinay Kumar, appointed by the state government, had submitted a voluminous report indicating preferential treatment to Sasikala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/facilities-to-sasikala-in-prison-acb-told-to-file-probe-status-report-1019511.html
13-08-2021||State||Karnataka to revive sick state-run companies||Karnataka Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani on Friday said his department had come up with a new plan to revive government undertakings that have become sick or loss-making. He was speaking to reporters after inaugurating his Vidhana Soudha office with a puja. “There are several corporations and institutions such as Kalaburagi Cement Corporation, Mysuru Sugar Company (Mysugar) and Mysore Paper Mills that are on the path of bankruptcy,” Nirani said. He said he discussed the revival plan with union ministers during his recent trip to New Delhi. “I won’t allow the closure of industries during my tenure. I’ll try to make them function 24 hours,” he said. Nirani asked officials to identify sick corporations at taluk, district, state levels and prepare a blueprint for their revival. The minister further added that the government had plans to use 21 acres of land belonging to Mysore Lamps and NGEF to build theme parks. The government will make sure land allotted by the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) is used for the intended purpose. “I will order a survey if the allotted land is being misused. There is no provision to use KIADB land for other purposes and we won’t do sale deeds,” Nirani said. The minister said ease-of-doing-business and creation of jobs will be his priority. “We will conduct industrial adalats at the district-level and provide doorstep delivery of services to industries. We will also create more jobs for educated youths who have done ITI, BA, B.Com, B.Sc, M.Sc and PhD,” Nirani said. To woo investors, the state government will appoint officers to be a part of the Invest India scheme. GIM to be postponed? The government’s flagship global investors’ Invest Karnataka in February next year may have to be rescheduled depending on the Covid-19 situation, Nirani hinted. The summit was earlier planned in November 2020. Recalling his previous tenure as industries minister, Nirani said: “We conducted two successful global investors meets and the state attracted over Rs 11.8 lakh crore investments creating over 15 lakh jobs. We created a land bank by acquiring lands unfit for farming to promote industries,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-revive-sick-state-run-companies-1019526.html
13-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Independence Day: When Karnataka's 'sheroes' led the way||India is celebrating its 75th Independence Day this year, a fact that likely would not have been possible were it not for the sacrifice of tens of thousands of gallant Indians who unconditionally laid down their lives to drive the British Raj away from the country. There is no surprise in knowing that women had an important part to play during the struggle, and many of them are noted in the annals of history for their valour and courage in the face of a global empire that was known for its utter ruthlessness in crushing dissent. Here's a look at some women from Karnataka who contributed to the Indian freedom struggle, and eventually became locally and nationally revered heroes. Rani Abbakka Chowta: Abbakka Chowta, the Queen of Ullal, was amongst the first female rulers to fight a fierce war to safeguard her kingdom from European invaders — in her case the Portuguese. Her story dates back to 1555. Over a century before the British set foot in India, the Portuguese had already begun making advances, building forts and capturing territories on the western coast, and were eyeing Abbakka's Ullal, a strategic and thriving port location in present-day Mangalore. The defiant Abbakka refused to give in to the Portuguese forces trying to extort through numerous demands for tribute. An exasperated Portuguese force, under Admiral Dom Álvaro da Silveira in 1555, attacked Ullal, only to be repealed by Abbakka and her army. Many attacks from the Portuguese followed but were subsequently quashed by the valiant queen and her forces until the 1568 attack where they successfully captured Ullal. It is said that the final defeat came as a result of Abbakka's estranged husband joining forces with the Portuguese. Ullal and certain parts of Karnataka celebrate the ‘Veera Rani Abbakka Utsava,' a festival celebrating her gallantry, every year. Rani Chennamma of Kittur: The queen of Kittur, a princely state in present-day Belgaum, Rani Chennamma was one of the first female fighters to rise in revolt against the British Raj. She led an armed rebellion against the British in 1824, long before we saw the entry of Rani Lakshmibai in the first war of independence, the 1857 uprising. The revolt came as a result of a British attempt to annex Kittur citing the Doctrine of Lapse. They had ordered the expulsion of Chennamma's adopted child, Shivalingappa, the heir to the throne after the death of Chennamma's biological son with Raja Mallasarja of the Desai family. Chennamma refused to give in, starting with a fight against a force of around 20,000 men and 400 guns that attacked the Kittur fort, fighting many battles the followed alongside her trusted lieutenants Sangolli Rayanna and Gurusiddappa, a quest that ended with her ultimate arrest and imprisonment at Bailhongal Fort, where she died. Kittur Utsav, a three-day cultural event, is celebrated even today to pay homage to the queen. In her honour, on 11 September 2007, a statue of Kittur Rani Chennamma was unveiled at the Parliamentary Building in New Delhi by Pratibha Patil, the first woman President of India. Apart from the two valiant Ranis who are way ahead of their times, Karnataka also saw several other contemporary women Satyagrahis that spearheaded the movement in the state. Dharwad's Bellary Siddamma, for instance, was one of the few women who were arrested following the unfurling of the national flag during the Shivapura Dhwaja Satyagraha (flag satyagraha) 1938, a major turning point for the freedom movement in Karnataka. It is also said that she was the first lady to be arrested by the Mysore state police for her participation in the movement. Siddamma is just one such name. Staunch Gandians like Hubli's Umabai Kundapur, Mangaluru's Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay, Jayadevi Tayi Ligade, Honnavar's Krishnabai Panjikar, Bengaluru's Yashodhara Dasappa, Subbamma Jois, Nagamma Veeranagouda Patil, among so many others don't find a place in the books at all. In their case, along with spreading Gandhi's message across Karnataka and mobilising people to join the movement, most of them also worked towards the larger cause of emancipation of women in the state, something that they continued doing even after August 15, 1947.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/independence-day-when-karnatakas-sheroes-led-the-way-1019232.html
13-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||24 Covid-19 patients in Karnataka contract Tuberculosis after recovery||In a double whammy, the health department has found 309 Tuberculosis (TB) patients testing positive for Covid-19 among 40,159 TB patients this year. More districts are reporting TB in patients who have recovered Covid. So far, 24 post-Covid patients in three districts have contracted TB. Now, the government is undertaking a 15-day house-to-house survey from August 16 to August 31 across Karnataka to screen patients for TB who had recovered from Covid between January and June this year. Mysuru, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar districts have already found 12, seven and five such cases respectively. Koppal district has found six suspected TB patients when 4,000 recovered Covid patients were screened. State joint director (TB) Ramesh Chandra Reddy told DH, “Both Covid and TB have the same symptoms. The latter may have been missed. In Covid patients, there is damage to the lungs which leads to immunosuppression that increases the chances of getting TB. Covid patients who have gotten steroids or are diabetic have higher chances of getting TB.” The symptoms to watch out for are unresolved cough for three months, constant fever for two weeks, spitting cough, and sudden fall in body weight. A chest X-ray is recommended for immediate diagnosis. Reddy said the department could not test hospitalised Covid patients in the second wave for TB because sputum samples with high infectivity could not be collected from admitted patients. Now, it is undertaking a survey after a study conducted in Kerala showed 335 patients with both TB and Covid from January 1 to June 30, out of whom 33 had died (fatality rate 9.8 per cent), he added. Narayana Health pulmonogist Dr Murali Mohan said, “Covid itself brings the immunity down, with or without steroids. In India, people mostly get primary TB in childhood and as an adult, if immunity drops for any reason, due to Covid or sugar levels going up post-Covid, TB gets ‘reactivated’. Neglect of early symptoms and allowing them to get advanced is also a factor. Steroids also lead to higher sugar levels. Also, we did not use as many steroids in the first wave.” However, Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, HoD, Pulmonology, and lung transplant physician at Manipal Hospital, differed with the steroid theory and attributed TB to the ‘immunological havoc’ that Covid played in the body. "Delayed access to non-Covid healthcare, Delta variant compromising immunity, profound T-cell depression due to Covid in the second wave and malnutrition are the likely factors causing TB," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/24-covid-19-patients-in-karnataka-contract-tuberculosis-after-recovery-1019307.html
13-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No Covid-19 lockdown plan for Bengaluru, says Karnataka government||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Friday specified that the government had no plans to impose a lockdown in Bengaluru, ending speculation that stay-at-home orders might be issued fearing a fresh spike in Covid-19 cases. “There is no proposal with the government to abruptly impose a lockdown in Bengaluru,” Ashoka said, adding that lockdown and such measures affect people. “Instead, we will administer a slow medicine with which the situation can be kept under control.” The minister expressed confidence that Bengaluru was better off now. “The number of cases is decreasing in Bengaluru. So, there’s no big problem that the city will face. But, in districts where cases are going up, deputy commissioners are taking measures such as weekend curfew,” he pointed out. However, the Basavaraj Bommai administration is keen on having some curbs in place in Bengaluru. “We will restrict large gatherings and functions. We have already done that in places of religious worship,” Ashoka said. “We’re receiving complaints that 400 people are showing up at functions instead of the sanctioned limit of 100. We will take strict action on this,” he said, asserting that the government is alert. The government is expected to review the Covid-19 situation after Independence Day celebrations on August 15. It is likely that the government would consider a weekend curfew in Bengaluru. “The CM will chair a meeting after August 15. Currently, Kerala is witnessing a high caseload. So, we need to take all possible steps to avert a possible third wave in the state,” Ashoka said. Asked about the threat children face, Ashoka said no drastic rise in Covid-19 cases were seen among them. “Let me clarify that there is no surge in Covid-19 cases among kids. However, the government is taking all possible steps to ramp up infrastructure, including setting up of new paediatric hospitals and training doctors on treating kids,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-covid-19-lockdown-plan-for-bengaluru-says-karnataka-government-1019336.html
13-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,669 new Covid-19 cases, 22 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,669 new cases of Covid-19 and 22 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,26,401 and death toll to 36,933, the health department said on Friday. The day also saw 1,672 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,66,739. Bengaluru urban accounted for 425 new cases, as the city saw 424 discharges and 5 deaths. Active cases stood at 22,703. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.98 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.31 per cent. Dakshina Kannada and Kolar reported 3 deaths each, Belagavi, Chitradurga, Hassan and Tumakuru (2 each), followed by others. Dakshina Kannada recorded 390 new cases, Udupi 115, Hassan 113, Mysuru 106, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,32,220, Mysuru 1,74,421 and Tumakuru 1,18,534. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,08,097, followed by Mysuru 1,70,967 and Tumakuru 1,16,690. Cumulatively a total of 4,06,02,759 samples have been tested, out of which 1,69,332 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1669-new-covid-19-cases-22-deaths-1019418.html
13-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Reddy poses a serious threat to witnesses in Ballari: CBI tells SC||The CBI on Friday contended once more before the Supreme Court that the restriction imposed on mining baron and former Karnataka Minister Gali Janardhan Reddy on visiting Ballari should not be diluted as he is a very serious threat to local witnesses in the case related to the mining scam. "My endeavour is to convince the court that his conditions for bail should not be diluted. There was a reason as to why this should not happen. He is a very serious threat to witnesses over there (in Ballari)," Additional Solicitor General Madhvi Divan said on behalf of the CBI. She submitted before a bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari that Reddy was granted bail only on conditions that he would not visit Ballari. "The order was a consensual one. The petitioners cannot cherry-pick what conditions they have to adhere to and what they don't," she said. The CBI, which investigated the scam where Reddy was one of the prime accused, had filed the charge sheets. "The power that this person Reddy has, had an impact on two district judges and one CBI judge. Twice his application for bail was rejected," Divan said. She also pointed towards a cash-for-bail scam where a CBI judge was allegedly offered Rs 40 crore to grant bail to Reddy. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Reddy countered the argument, saying the charge was not a part of the record. Divan, for her part, said this would have an important bearing in the matter. "The court should know the background. The judges (dealing with the matter) have died in mysterious circumstances," she alleged. The court, however, said Reddy's plea was six years down the line, should the condition still continue to operate. She also claimed that there was a very good likelihood that he would try to tamper with evidence or influence witnesses if allowed to stay in Ballari.  Divan questioned the way the accused filed petitions after petitions for discharge. "He along with other accused have been trying to continue to keep the court over there busy with discharge petitions. Even now they are not allowing the trial to proceed after being granted bail," Divan said.  Opposing the arguments of Divan, Rohatgi said that his client was arrested in 2011 and the allegations where there that he was mining beyond the lease area. He was bailed out on Jan 20, 2015.  Rohatgi stated that on several occasions, he had been allowed to go to Bellari and he had never violated the bail conditions imposed by this court. "It will be very harsh for me, if the court did not allow my plea. It has been six years and the trial has not commenced as yet," Rohatgi submitted.  The court asked the parties to give a short note on submissions before posting the matter for further hearing on Monday, August 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/reddy-poses-a-serious-threat-to-witnesses-in-ballari-cbi-tells-sc-1019453.html
13-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No Covid protocol in Home Minister's office? ||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Friday struggled to explain the hundreds of visitors who attended the inaugural puja of his office in Vikas Soudha on Friday, disregarding Covid-19 protocols. "Those coming to my chamber must be wearing a mask. I also have a sanitiser here. But, you know, sometimes it happens. We get to know how many have come only after they've entered. There were about 100 people; they were coming and going. Rules were followed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-covid-protocol-in-home-ministers-office-1019507.html
13-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC seeks details of funds allocated to caste-based bodies||The High Court on Friday directed the state government to provide the details of funds disbursed to Lingayat, Maratha, Brahmin, Aryavysya and other development Boards/Corporations, the establishment of which is under challenge. The bench also asked the state government to furnish details of the amount already spent by such corporations. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, has reserved its orders after the completion of hearing. On Friday, the bench pointed out that the amount disbursed as well as the amount spent by the Boards/Corporations has not been furnished. Karnataka State Backward Castes Federation, Bengaluru-based advocate S Basavaraj and many others have challenged the establishment of these boards/corporations. According to the petitions, the castes/communities for whose benefit these entities have been established have already been declared as socially and educationally forward castes by several constitutionally established commissions. According to the government, the boards or corporations are intended to cater to the community that falls in the SC/ ST/OBC or Economically Weaker Section (EWS). These boards and corporations were set up keeping in mind various factors like social status, education levels, cultural and economic background, the state said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-seeks-details-of-funds-allocated-to-caste-based-bodies-1019509.html
13-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to observe 'Krantiveera' Sangolli Rayanna's birth, martyrdom||The BJP government in Karnataka decided Friday to organise official events to mark the birth of 18th Century freedom fighter 'Krantiveera' Sangolli Rayanna on August 15 and his martyrdom on January 26 in Bengaluru and across the state. In a circular, the protocol wing of the Department of Personnel & Administrative Reforms (DPAR) directed officials to hold events on both days to "pay respects" to Rayanna. Born 1798, Rayanna was the army chief of the erstwhile Kittur kingdom ruled by Rani Chennamma and fought against the British who hanged him from a banyan tree near Nandagad in Belagavi district in 1831. Bengaluru's railway station is named after Rayanna. In recent years, Rayanna has been projected as an icon of the Kuruba community, which is considered to be the dominant of all backward castes making up an estimated 6% of the population. The BJP government's decision to pay respects to Rayanna is seen as a way to woo the Kuruba community. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's Cabinet has three Kurubas - KS Eshwarappa, MTB Nagaraj and Byrati Basavaraj. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah is also a Kuruba.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-observe-krantiveera-sangolli-rayannas-birth-martyrdom-1019528.html
13-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Follow Tamil Nadu, cut fuel prices: Siddaramaiah tells Bommai||Following neighbouring Tamil Nadu government's move to cut tax on petrol by Rs three per litre, Leader of Opposition in Karnataka assembly Siddaramaiah on Friday urged Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to cut the price of both petrol and diesel in the state. "Tamil Nadu has cut the petrol price by Rs 3 helping lakhs of common man. I urge CM of Karnataka Shri Basavaraj Bommai to follow the same and cut the price of both Petrol and Diesel in Karnataka," Siddaramaiah tweeted. Tamil Nadu has cut the petrol price by Rs. 3 helping lakhs of common man. Tamil Nadu Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, presenting his maiden budget to the Assembly on Friday said the government has decided to cut tax on petrol by Rs three per litre. Earlier in the day, Siddaramaiah had asked Bommai to clarify his government's stand with respect to the Mekedatu project, accusing the BJP of speaking on contradicting lines. "Tamil Nadu BJP is opposing Mekedatu and C T Ravi (Karnataka BJP MLA and party's national General Secretary incharge of Tamil Nadu) is supporting them. Why this contradiction?" the Congress leader asked in a tweet. Further stating that Congress will never compromise or politicise on land, water and language issues, Siddaramaiah said, "We are firm on our decision irrespective of whether we are in power or not. The CM of Karnataka should take opposition parties into confidence and ask his party members to support Karnataka." Mekedatu is a multipurpose (drinking and power) project, which involves building a balancing reservoir, near Kanakapura in Ramanagara district. Tamil Nadu is against the project and is of the opinion that it is against its interest. The project once completed is aimed at ensuring drinking water to Bengaluru and neighbouring areas (4.75 TMC) and also can generate 400 MW power, and the estimated cost of the project is Rs 9,000 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/follow-tamil-nadu-cut-fuel-prices-siddaramaiah-tells-bommai-1019550.html
13-08-2021||West||11-feet-long King Cobra rescued and released in wild in Maharashtra||For the first time in Maharashtra, a King Cobra, nearly 11-feet-long, has been rescued and released in the wild. The rescue was undertaken by the Spreading Awareness on Reptiles & Rehabilitation Program (SARRP), an NGO. “This is the first documented rescue of the world’s longest venomous snake, King Cobras from the Sindhudurg district of Maharashtra,” said SARRP-India’s founder-president Santosh Shinde. The King Cobra rescue and release was reported from Dodamarg block in Sindhudurg district on the coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra. Rahul Niralgi, a wildlife rescuer of SARRP-INDIA rescued the snake from a village Dodamarg. Rahul received a distress call on the 24X7 Helpline number for the Sindhudurg district recently. He reached the spot and identified the snake as King Cobra perched on bamboo. M He carefully rescued the snake and updated the administration team of SARRP-INDIA. Simultaneously, Chitra Pednekar from the administration team of SARRP India updated the concerned officials of the forest department of Maharashtra. The snake was released in its natural habitat under the supervision of forest department officials of Dodamarg block.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/11-feet-long-king-cobra-rescued-and-released-in-wild-in-maharashtra-1019272.html
13-08-2021||West||Nandurbar farmer’s 4-month-old baby with rare disorder gets new life||A team of doctors at Wadia Hospital performed a successful complex eight-hour brain surgery on a four-month-old boy with rare congenital encephalocele disorder wherein the bones of a baby’s skull fail to close completely in the mother’s uterus, and gave him a new face and life. The couple Suresh Kuta Pavra and Bhartibai Pavra, residents of Dhanaji Putro village, Nandurbar became proud parents of a third boy Kartik on April 5, 2021. They have two other sons -- Ayush and Hardik. But, their happiness was short-lived when they saw a huge swelling on the face of the baby, a swelling which hung over his eyes and almost blocked his nose when they saw the baby for the first time. This made it difficult for the baby to eat, breathe and his vision was distorted. Back there in the village, the doctors and nurses referred the family to a local hospital in Taloda, Nandurbar. Their trips to the hospital continued for a month. Even after performing CT scans, no one had any clue regarding the condition he suffered from, and the family was told that the patient can get operated on in the near future. Finally, the village primary health care provider sent the pictures to the paediatric neurosurgeon at Wadia Hospital and after six days, the family took the bold step to move the child to Mumbai in the midst of coronavirus pandemic, with fear in the heart and little Karthik in hands. Little did they know about the war-like readiness done by the team at Wadia Children's Hospital to receive this baby of courage. The neurosurgery teamed up with the craniofacial plastic surgery team to save the baby’s life. Dr Chandrashekhar Deopujari, an honorary neurosurgeon at Wadia Hospital, said, “On arrival, the baby was diagnosed with a massive frontonasal encephalocele with his brain pouting in between his nose and eyes as it is linked to craniofacial deformity. This rare condition made the baby’s brain grow down via a crack in the skull into his nose. Encephaloceles are characterised by the protrusion of nervous tissue through the skull base openings into either the face or the posterior part of the skull.” Encephalocele incidence is around one in 10,000 live births. The incidence is higher in India as compared to the Western world due to lack of adequate folic acid ingestion or genetic causes. The child’s brain had descended down like a pouch and the bone between his brain and the eye was deficient.Along with his brain, his brain fluid space (ventricle) and his brain artery (Anterior cerebral artery) were in the encephalocele. Even though there was no impact on his brain activity. The child was breathing through his mouth because the swelling had prevented him from breathing properly through his nose; his vision was impaired and had completely deformed his nose and face. Having taken care of his massive encephalocele impending rupture, at a mere age of four months old, with the brain fluid space (ventricle) and blood vessel (anterior cerebral artery) being within the sac, was the challenge. Thus, by adhering to the Covid protocol, the child was worked up in a prompt and planned manner.” he said. Dr  Deopujari said the craniotomy procedure was scheduled for July 22, and his skull was opened and retracted his brain back. The normal brain from the sac of non-functioning brain matter was isolated that hung from his face. “Later, an artificial bone was placed between the two eyes and another bone on that to ensure that the brain does not fall again into the nasal cavity. The eight-hour surgery was uneventful, he was kept in the ICU for two days and later shifted to the normal ward,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nandurbar-farmer-s-4-month-old-baby-with-rare-disorder-gets-new-life-1019298.html
13-08-2021||West||Delta Plus causes concern in Maharashtra as death toll climbs to 5||The Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 virus is causing concerns in Maharashtra with the death toll mounting to five. The concerns come at a time when Maharashtra is unlocking after the second wave - and from August 15, the general public with twin vaccination doses are set to be allowed in suburban local trains of the Mumbai metropolitan region.  So far, Maharashtra has reported 66 Delta Plus variant cases and five deaths from this strain.  It may be recalled, an 80-year-old woman had expired in Ratnagiri on 25 June. In the last couple of days, two deaths have been confirmed in Mumbai and neighbouring Raigad district. A 69-year-old man diagnosed with Delta Plus has succumbed in Nagothane in Raigad, while a middle-aged woman infected with the variant is under treatment in nearby Uran town. A day earlier, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received the Delta Plus positive sample reports of a 60-year-old woman from the eastern suburbs of the city, who had passed away on 24 July.  Another death has been reported in Ratnagiri and Beed on Friday, the Public Health and Family Welfare department confirmed. Among the five who died, two had taken two Covid vaccine jabs. The Maharashtra Health Department had confirmed the number of Delta Plus variant patients in the state at 66 till date, as per data from the CSIR’s Institute of Genomics Integrative Biology. Among these 65, the highest 13 are from Jalgaon, 12 from Ratnagiri, 11 from Mumbai, six each in Thane and Pune, three in Palghar, two each in Raigad, Nanded, and Gondia, and one each from Sindhudurg, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Sangli, Beed, Nandurbar, Akola, and Chandrapur districts. The patients include 33 women and 32 men. Around 33 cases - or nearly half - of those infected are in the 19-45 age group, while 17 are 46-60 years and seven in the above-60 age group. Maharashtra has so far reported 1.34 lakh deaths and 63 lakh progressive Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/delta-plus-causes-concern-in-maharashtra-as-death-toll-climbs-to-5-1019316.html
13-08-2021||West||'What was the need to introduce new IT Rules?', Bombay HC asks Centre||The Bombay High Court on Friday asked the Union government what was the need to introduce the recently notified Information Technology Rules, 2021 without superseding the existing IT Rules that came into effect in 2009. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni reserved its order on two petitions pleas seeking an interim stay on the implementation of the new Rules. The pleas, filed by digital legal news portal Leaflet and journalist Nikhil Wagle, raised objections to several provisions in the new Rules and said these were likely to have a "chilling effect" on a citizen's right to free speech as guaranteed by the Constitution. The petitioners also claimed the Rules went beyond the scope of the parent IT Act as well as the reasonable restrictions imposed on speech and expression by Article 19 (2) of the Constitution. On Friday, the bench said orally that it was inclined to grant limited relief to both petitioners over serial number nine of the new Rules that related to adherence to a code of ethics. Earlier during the day's hearing, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Centre, defended the prescription of such ethics saying that even the Press Council of India (PCI) prescribed a code of ethics to be followed by journalists. The bench, however, pointed out that PCI guidelines were advisory norms on behaviour and did not carry any drastic punishment for their breach. "How can you put such an exalted status on the PCI guidelines? That not following those guidelines will lead to penalty? Unless you have the liberty of thought, how can you express anything? How can you restrict one's liberty of thought?" the bench said. Singh, however, said the petitioners' fear of adverse action on breach of the new Rules were premature. He said a specially designated committee that will be empowered to take action against those in breach of the new Rules, particularly regulation numbers 14 and 16, that the petitioners were objecting to besides number nine, was yet to be designated. Serial numbers 14 and 16 of the new Rules pertain to powers of an inter-departmental committee and to blocking of information in case of emergency respectively The HC, however, said the above argument could not be accepted. "There is a catch here.You may say there is no urgency, or no committee. But the sword is hanging on their heads," the HC said. Advocate Khambata, who appeared for Leaflet, and advocate Abhay Nevagi, who appeared for Wagle, further argued that the Union government had brought in the new Rules, with more drastic checks on publishing content online, by way of a delegated legislation. However, the Rules, in effect, would act like a substantive law. Nevagi also told HC the new Rules sought to take away the protection granted against penal action to intermediaries under section 79 of the IT Act. He showed the bench a portion of the Centre's affidavit, filed in the case on Thursday, which stated that the protection to an intermediary under Section 79 can be taken away if there is non-compliance with the new Rules. The HC said this was "very serious" and asked how could the rules take away protection granted by a law. "Under 69A (1) (ii) of the IT Act, the 2009 Rules have been framed. What was the necessity for the Union government to bring in subsequent rules without superseding the prior rules and create a substantive law through the Rules?" the HC further asked. ASG Singh, however, reminded the court it was presently dealing only with interim relief and not on the merits of the new Rules. He further said the Central government had felt the need to bring in the new Rules in order to check the spread of fake news, illegal content etc. The HC said will pronounce its order on the interim relief sought via the pleas on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/what-was-the-need-to-introduce-new-it-rules-bombay-hc-asks-centre-1019376.html
13-08-2021||West||Indian Navy cancels flag-hoisting at Goa island following protests||The Indian Navy has been forced to cancel its flag-hoisting ceremony at a picturesque island in a South Goa bay, after villagers led by Nationalist Congress Party president Jose Phillip D'Souza accused the navy and government authorities of plotting a takeover of the island terrain. The stand-off occurred in the island's main square where villagers staged a demonstration against the proposed flag-hoisting ceremony. "Navy officers came here and they said that they will hoist the flag on August 15. I want to say that whether they are from the Navy, government or any private company, we do not give this right to anyone (to hoist a national flag). The villagers are united against this. If the Navy, state and central government try to capture our island, then local villagers will never allow this," D'Souza told reporters at the protest meet. The St. Jacinto island is located in a bay by the Zuari river in South Goa and is considered a haven for photographers and is located close to several naval installations in the state. Following the protests on Friday, the Indian Navy in a statement said that the flag-hoisting ceremony at the island was a part of the central government's 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' initiative to commemorate 75 years of India's independence. The initiative includes unfurling of the national flag in islands across the country between August 13 and 15. "A team from Goa Naval Area visited islands of Goa including Sao Jacinto Island as part of this pan India initiative... However, the plan at Jacinto island had to be cancelled as the same was objected to by the residents," the Indian Navy statement said. "This initiative was taken nationwide to instill a sense of patriotism and celebrate the run up to the 75th year of independence," the statement further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-cancels-flag-hoisting-at-goa-island-following-protests-1019439.html
13-08-2021||West||RBI cancels licence of Karnala Nagari Sahakari Bank, Panvel||The Reserve Bank has cancelled the licence of Karnala Nagari Sahakari Bank, Panvel in Maharashtra for not having adequate capital and being unable to pay its present depositors in full. The bank ceased to carry on banking business with effect from the close of business on Friday. "As per the data submitted by the bank, 95 per cent of the depositors will receive full amounts of their deposits from Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC)," the central bank said while announcing cancellation of the bank's licence. On liquidation, every depositor would be entitled to receive deposit insurance claim amount of his/her deposits up to a monetary ceiling of Rs 5 lakh from DICGC. RBI said the licence of Karnala Nagari Sahakari Bank was cancelled through an order dated August 9, 2021. The licence of the bank is cancelled as it does not have adequate capital and earning prospects, RBI said, adding that the lender has failed to comply with the requirements of various sections of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. Also, "the bank with its present financial position would be unable to pay its present depositors in full", it said. While announcing cancellation of the licence, RBI said public interest would be adversely affected if the bank is allowed to carry on its banking business any further. Now, Karnala Nagari Sahakari Bank cannot conduct the business of banking, which includes acceptance of deposits and repayment of deposits. The Commissioner for Cooperation and Registrar of Cooperative Societies, Maharashtra has also been requested to issue an order for winding up the bank and appoint a liquidator for the bank. Meanwhile, in separate statements, RBI said it has imposed penalty on three cooperative banks for deficiencies in regulatory compliance. A penalty of Rs 25 lakh each has been imposed on Madhya Pradesh Rajya Sahakari Bank Maryadit, Bhopal, and The Greater Bombay Cooperative Bank Ltd, Mumbai. RBI has also imposed a penalty of Rs 50,000 on Jalna People's Cooperative Bank Ltd, Jalna, Maharashtra. In all the three cases, RBI said the penalties are based on deficiencies in regulatory compliance and is not intended to pronounce upon the validity of any transaction or agreement entered into by the cooperative banks with their respective customers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rbi-cancels-licence-of-karnala-nagari-sahakari-bank-panvel-1019451.html
