14-08-2021||First Edit||Risks in tinkering with military promotions||A new proposal being studied for promotions to the higher ranks in the armed services has created some apprehensions and met with reservations. The proposal is to formulate what is claimed to be a “more progressive, common and merit-based” policy for promotion of officers to three-star ranks (Lt-Generals in the Army, Vice Admirals in the Navy and Air Marshals in the Air Force) and specifically for commanders-in-chief of different commands. There are reports that a committee of vice-chiefs of the three services may be formed to lay down suitable criteria for merit-based promotions. The matter has received special attention because of the ongoing theaterisation process in the services. The existing 17 single service commands are being merged into three tri-service commands, each under a single commander. The policy under consideration would put more emphasis on merit than on seniority for promotions to these positions and possibly for the levels from where these promotions are made. The armed forces have an established promotion policy which is based on merit, seniority in terms of date of birth and commissioning date and residual seniority. The criteria have some variations for different services but the thrust is on a combination of merit and service. The new criterion should be such that no service will feel it has been disadvantaged. More importantly, it should clearly and convincingly show what bigger role merit can play than in the present method. Every officer at the three-star level has gained the rank after rigorous assessment of merit at many levels. There are only a few who reach that level and it will be difficult to make a selection again on the basis of merit. This is especially because an assessment of merit in such a situation, in spite of all objective criteria to assess it, can take on a subjective dimension. The apprehension is that because of the room for such a subjective factor and for non-professional reasons, one more selection which puts more accent on merit can be misused, and may give room to favouritism of various kinds. It can also lead to politicisation of the top echelons of the services, and demoralisation if in the name of merit other considerations come into play. In any case, service chiefs are not selected strictly on the basis of merit even now. The present Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Gen Bipin Rawat was appointed as the Army chief in 2016 after superseding two generals. Prescribing and institutionalising a procedure to make such appointments the rule rather than the exception may not do any good to the armed forces. There is a need for care, caution and sensitivity in such matters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/risks-in-tinkering-with-military-promotions-1019592.html
14-08-2021||In Perspective||The GOAT conundrum||Comparisons are loathsome. In sports, they can breed unhealthy rivalries between equals. How, for example, does one choose the best in a classy game like tennis? Are grand slam victories the criteria for excellence? Or, the style, elegance and allure of a player on and off the court? This is not football or cricket, where players are judged by their victories alone. Here, the entire persona of a player counts. The legendary Arthur Ashe, one of the best tennis players of all time, not only excelled in the game but was an icon of grace, humility and courage. His tryst with AIDS was in itself a game he played with dignity. Among the three contenders for the Greatest of all Time (GOAT) title, we have Raphael Nadal, who is one of the celebrated athletes of this century. At age eight, he won his first tennis championship. As a teenager, he won his first Grand Slam singles title. Last year, he won his 20th Grand Slam after defeating a world champion. An unpretentious player, he simply walks out there and gives all he has to the game. His sincerity shines through and he has never lost his cool while playing. He does not question an umpire’s judgement, nor does he break down if he loses a match. Has anybody seen Nadal breaking a tennis racquet in anger? He is the favourite player in tennis courts, wearing the logo of a bull on one shoe, reciting a prayer before a serve, and accepting defeat or victory with the same half-smile. Nadal is an inspiration to sportspersons. He plays with intensity and passion, celebrates success modestly and accepts defeat gracefully. If tennis is one of the most popular games today with its wide global reach, Rafa partly made it so.  The next contender for the GOAT title is the world’s Number One player, Novak Djokovic, who recently declared after a run of extraordinary victories, including his 20th Grand Slam at Wimbledon, “I consider myself the best and I believe that I am the best, otherwise I wouldn't be talking confidently about winning slams and making history.” Although Tokyo proved his Waterloo shortly after this statement, Djokovic is right. He has taken tennis to new heights and will go down as the most extraordinary tennis player of all time. According to earlier masters of the game, the tennis that Djokovic plays may be “cold and clinical”; it may even be boring at times. That’s because his aim is not to entertain but to succeed. He is a player who has poured his heart and soul into the game. Yet, let us admit it is no waltz. When he plays, you are not seeing a ballet dancer on court, but a gangly spider stretching and seeing in eight directions at the same time. This singular player reminds you of the talented Amritraj brothers, Anand and Vijay, whom a sports journalist once described as “a sight to see on the tennis court, but a vision to behold when they play.” Djokovic can play extraordinarily well even as the spectators are jeering or rooting for his opponent. His concentration, determination and perseverance to win are simply amazing. But, his bluntness of speech and his “unfiltered comments”— added to his temper tantrums, like breaking racquets and destroying property— have sadly tarnished his image. His unprofessional behaviour in Tokyo recently, when he angrily threw his racquet into the spectators’ gallery after losing all his matches, is just one more example of why this great champion will never have swooning fans as does Roger Federer, the third contender for the title of GOAT.    Federer’s tennis has been called poetry in play. It reminds you of a Mozart symphony. The beauty, grace and elegance of his tennis are unmatched. Whether he wins or loses is immaterial to his legions of fans. They are carried away by his effortless style, which makes you believe that playing tennis is a picnic. The mystery of his tennis is making it seem like child’s play. Yet, all this does not take away the fact that he has remained the unbeatable tennis supremo for over two decades. Ever since that fateful day in July when, as another sports journalist described it -- “this teenager from Switzerland sauntered into sacred territory and knocked down the ‘trespassers not allowed’ signboard before knocking out Pete Sampras” -- Roger Federer has since been the uncrowned king of the game. Federer’s gift to the world of tennis is priceless. He made every match and every stroke a magical experience as no other player did. And then, of course, his impeccable behaviour on and off the court; his courtesy to all the participants, from the ball boys to the umpire; his remarkable empathy with the spectators have added up to his immense popularity. Notwithstanding critics like former champions John McEnroe or Boris Becker, who are not impressed with his fan following -- “a player whose used shirts sell like precious relics” -- Roger Federer has earned his rightful place in the tennis hall of fame. Although, comparisons are still loathsome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-goat-conundrum-1019588.html
14-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Zipline adventure sports opened at Maradigudda||Adventure lovers now have an opportunity to enjoy zipline adventure sports at Maradigudda Vruksha Vana in Kollegal taluk, Chamarajanagar district from Friday. The adventure sport has been established at a cost of Rs 20 lakh and is the first such sports activity in the district. The Forest department hopes to attract tourists with this. A large number of youths from Kollegal and surrounding areas enjoyed the sports on the first day. A 200-metre zipline has been used and it passes from one side of Maradigudda to the other crossing a depth of 80 feet. The department has taken all safety measures during the ride and all participants have to wear a wide belt and helmet. The adventure sports can be enjoyed from 10 am to 5 pm. While the adults are charged Rs 50, it is Rs 30 for the children. Covid-19 norms are to be strictly observed. Speaking to DH, Deputy Conservator of Forest V Yedukondalu said, "The works were delayed due to the Covid-19 situation. Now, the works are complete and the sports made available to the public. This is the first such attempt in the district."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/zipline-adventure-sports-opened-at-maradigudda-1019572.html
14-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||CM Bommai initiates work on Jalasiri water project||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai virtually launched work on Jalasiri water project, which envisages to supply water 24X7 to Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) limits. The water supply project is being implemented through KUIDFC with ADB funds. As part of the Jalsiri project, upgradation of 81.7-MLD-capacity water purifying unit at Thumbe will be taken up. In addition, the construction of filter back washed water reused plant and intermediate pumping stations will come up at eight locations. In addition to the existing 23 overhead tanks, 20 more overhead tanks will be constructed. There are five ground-level service reservoirs in the MCC limits. In addition, two more such GLSR will be constructed. The water distribution lines in Mangaluru will be augmented from 750 km to 1,500 km. New meters will be installed to 96,300 water consumers in the MCC limits. In addition, for the management of water supply, the entire corporation area has been divided into 54 zones and a 24X7 customer care centre will be set up to address the grievances pertaining to water supply under Jalasiri project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-bommai-initiates-work-on-jalasiri-water-project-1019605.html
14-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pregnant woman take part in physical test for PSI post, qualified for written test||A pregnant woman successfully completed her physical test, including running, conducted for the recruitment of the Police Sub-Inspector's post. She ran 400 meters in just 1.36 minutes instead of two minutes. Ashwini Kore is a BE graduate and resident of Lakhangaon in Bhalki taluk of Bidar district. She is now qualified for a written examination after passing all physical tests. There are several physical tests like high jump, long jump and throwball among others. The candidate kept to herself that she is two-and-half months pregnant. The issue had not come to the notice of the police officials. But it came to light four days after she got qualified. The police department was also unaware of a pregnant woman participating in the physical test. When the police officers were asked, they said they didn't have any information in this regard. Family members of the pregnant woman claimed that despite being pregnant, she took the risk as she didn't get selected in the previous two attempts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pregnant-woman-take-part-in-physical-test-for-psi-post-qualified-for-written-test-1019691.html
14-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man sets self, woman on fire inside car for rejecting marriage proposal||A 23-year-old man allegedly set himself and the woman whom he loved on fire inside a car after she rejected his marriage proposal, police said on Saturday. According to police, Srinivas (23) and Kanchana (22) were found charred to death inside the burnt car outside Mamballi village near here yesterday. A case of murder has been registered at the Agara-Mamballi police station. Police suspect that the car was set ablaze after petrol was sprinkled inside, killing both of them instantaneously. The two were classmates. Kanchana worked as a nurse in a government hospital while Srinivas was a cab driver. He had proposed to her several times but she rejected it every time, police said. On Friday, Srinivas offered to drop her in the village and took her in the car, they said, adding that he had attempted suicide three months ago||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-sets-self-woman-on-fire-inside-car-for-rejecting-marriage-proposal-1019745.html
14-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Amid discontent over Cabinet exercise, Karnataka CM Bommai holds discussions with Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Saturday called on his predecessor B S Yediyurappa and had a discussion amid disgruntlement among a section of BJP ministers and legislators over the Cabinet expansion and allocation of portfolios. In addition to the brewing discontent, the two leaders also discussed the prevailing political situation in the half-an-hour meeting held at Yediyurappa's residence, sources close to the CM said. Tourism Minister Anand Singh and Municipal Administration and Small Scale Industries' Minister N Nagaraj (MTB) have openly expressed displeasure over their portfolio, and have sought "weighty" ones. BJP MLA S A Ramadas and MLC C P Yogeeshwara were among those who are reportedly unhappy over not securing Cabinet berth. A sulking Singh had shut down his office in Hospet in Ballari district earlier this week and called on Yediyurappa before meeting Bommai. Later, the Chief Minister along with Revenue Minister R Ashoka tried to pacify Singh. After the meeting, Bommai said there were no differences of opinion between him and Singh and that both were "united". He had, however, conceded that Singh wanted a "better" portfolio. Nagaraj had also expressed his desire to have portfolios like public works department and transport. Meanwhile, BJP MLA from Krishnaraja in Mysuru district and former Minister Ramadas and MLC Yogeeshwara called on Bommai on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, Ramadas said he gave a letter in a sealed envelope to the Chief Minister. "Today I handed over a letter in the sealed cover. I told him (the Chief Minister) to read when he is free. I have explained certain things in the interest of the State and the government," Ramadas said. He added that he has explained in his letter why he did not meet the Chief Minister during his visit to Mysuru on Monday. Addressing the media outside Bommai's residence, Yogeeshwara, who was a Minister in the Yediyurappa government, however, said, "Earlier also I had met the chief minister and now also I met him. There are no reasons behind meeting him. I have no discontentment. I am a party worker and work accordingly." Bommai took over as the Chief Minister on July 28 two days after Yediyurappa resigned from the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/amid-discontent-over-cabinet-exercise-karnataka-cm-bommai-holds-discussions-with-yediyurappa-1019724.html
14-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bommai govt can collapse anytime, says Siddaramaiah||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday said the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government may not complete its full term and “it can collapse anytime”. Siddaramaiah based his conjecture on disgruntlement within the BJP. “This government won’t take off. And, I don’t think it will complete its term. It can collapse anytime,” Siddaramaiah, a former chief minister, told reporters. Karnataka is scheduled to face its next Assembly election in 2023. “Look at the fighting going on. One senior MLA (MP Kumaraswamy) protests in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue crying injustice by his own party government. Several ministers have said they’re unhappy. Several MLAs are unhappy for not becoming ministers,” Siddaramaiah pointed out. The Congress leader cited the examples of disgruntled BJP leaders such as Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, CP Yogeshwar, SA Ramdas, Arvind Limbavali and Arvind Bellad. “All of them remain disgruntled for not being made ministers and are visiting New Delhi. So, there’s no stable government in this state,” he said. This is a marked departure from Siddaramaiah’s stand; last month he said an early election was unlikely in Karnataka. Picking holes in the Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet, Siddaramaiah said as many as 13 districts had no representation in the council of ministers. “Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu...13 districts have no ministers. I can understand if 4-5 districts aren’t represented. Bengaluru alone has seven ministers. Instead, some other district could have been accommodated,” he said, adding that a Cabinet should have the right balance of region and caste. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bommai-govt-can-collapse-anytime-says-siddaramaiah-1019725.html
14-08-2021||Main Article||Gandhiji’s Rama unified India||Karl Marx, a great political thinker, famously declared, “Religion is the opium of the masses,” but he also said “Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of the heartless world, and the soul of the soulless condition” (Critique of Hegel’s Philosophy of Right, 1844). But Gandhiji, influenced by Tolstoy and Ruskin, had realised the strength of religious spirituality, and saw that even an imperialist like the South African General Smuts’ heart could be changed. Arriving in India in 1915, Gandhiji, as advised by his mentor Gopalkrishna Gokhale, travelled throughout India with a copy of the Ramayana in hand. He saw that “Rama and Khadi” were the strongest weapons he could wield to shake up the mighty British empire and to lift the gloom off Indian society. Perhaps influenced by the Ramayana, Gandhiji wore minimal clothes, stayed in Bhangi colonies, and began his discourses and speeches with the song Raghupati Raghava Raja Ram, originally written by Lakshmanacharya (or Tulsidas?). He spun into it Eshwar Allah tero naam/Sab ko sanmati de Bhagavan/Ram Rahim Karim Samaan/Hum sab hain unke santaan, set to music by Pandit V D Pulskar, to unite Hindus and Muslims in the cause of freedom. He found Rama in his walking stick and his Khadi Cheerumudi (plant fibre). Inspired by Rama embarking on Vanavasa, Gandhi marched to Dandi, he and his followers singing Raghupati Raghav Raja Ram along the route— Rama and Khadi became the salt of the Independence movement. How could Gandhiji achieve such a miracle? While the political stalwarts of the pre-Independence era were seized with the immediate truth of being under foreign yoke, in Rama, Gandhi discovered the truth of power and how different it is from the power of truth. Already in Bengal and in Maharashtra, Bankim Chandra’s Vande Mataram and Ma Durga, and Bal Gangadhar Tilak’s Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav had sprouted the seeds of the Independence movement, albeit at the regional level in these states. But Gandhiji realised that Ram is embedded in the psyche of Indians, yet posed no difficulty between Hindus and Muslims. He noted that Hindus who greeted each other with ‘Ram, Ram’ had no difficulty returning the Muslim greeting with “Wa-Alaikum Salaam.” He also took note of the chant “Ram naam satya hain” accompanying a Hindu’s final journey. He found his answer in Rama— as a symbol of truth and righteousness. Rama abandons the luxury of power, though his rationalist brother Lakshmana admonishes him: “Cowards”, believe in God and fate; the strong and the honest do not care for it, and should fight against it. Rama’s reply is firm. “Just for the sake of power by any means, I shall never earn the kingdom through unrighteous means (Ayodhyakanda). Rama advises Bharata. “You shall rule in consultation with a Council of Ministers, even if they oppose you when you dominate and your governance becomes anti-people, neglecting to protect the meek Patitas” (Ayodhyakanda). To Gandhi, Rama is “Patita-pawana”— uplifter of the downtrodden -- foremost. To emulate him to “wipe the tears of the last man” was the goal and purpose of political freedom and self-governance. Sita advises the victory-drunk Hanuman not to kill the Rakshasa women because they had only obeyed their master Ravana in their actions, and if Hanuman were to kill them, what difference, she asks, would remain between him and the Rakshasa. To Rama, the ethics and morality of the means employed were as important as the ethics and morality of the ends to be achieved. Even when Rama has to wage a war, before he does so, he advises Ravana to desist from that path. After the war, Rama instructs Vibhishana to perform the last rites of Ravana with appropriate respect, saying “Hatred should end; one should not hate a person though one should fight the destructive values he stood for” (Yuddhakanda). Thus Rama, who was all over the religious and cultural skies of India, became such a force that even progressive rationalists like Nehru, Patel, Bose, Kriplani, Aruna Asaf Ali, JP, Lohia, and conservatives like Rajaji, K M Munshi and Rajendra Prasad would sit together with the masses to sing Ram Dhun, cutting across religion, regionality, caste and creed. It was no anathema for secular stalwarts like Abul Kalam Azad, Saifuddin Ali Kichloo and even the Muslim masses, for Gandhi knew that even the great poet Iqbal said “Ram Mera Sikandar” in his song. Gandhiji declared, “Whether the Rama of my imagination ever lived or not, the ancient ideal of Rama Rajya is undoubtedly one of true democracy, which ensures equal rights alike to a pauper and a prince.” (Harijan, Sept 19, 1929) Gandhiji’s ‘controversial’ actions, like withdrawing Satyagraha after the Naukhali incident, the Salt Satyagraha, his fight against bigotry, his demand that newly independent India pay Pakistan the money (Rs 55 crore) as agreed during Partition, his “hate the rule but not the ruler” concept, and ultimately his succumbing to the bullets of Nathuram Godse with ‘Hey Ram’ on his lips, should be understood in the context of Rama’s ideology of truth and righteousness. Gandhiji used Ram (and Rahim) to unify India to fight for a common goal. But today, Rama has been made into a Lalla, but not a living light. Rama is used to cause fissures in our society, and Rama and Ma Durga were even brought to the election battlefield to fight against each other. Are Gandhi and Rama relevant to today’s hate-filled world, waging war within and without? But it is also a historical reality that truth and ethical means win in the end. ‘Gandhi’s Rama’ may be an utopian ideal, but he is the best instrument available to the helpless masses who are suppressed by the brutal truth of power. The ‘Shanta Rama’ of Gandhi, the iconic freedom fighter who united our multiple crises-ridden country, should be used to create a real welfare society, of which the country had dreamt at the dawn of Independence. (The writer is an educationist and author, and former Vice President of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/gandhiji-s-rama-unified-india-1019587.html
14-08-2021||National||India's armed forces are ready to deal with any security challenge: CDS||India's armed forces are ready to deal with any security challenge, and measures taken to increase synergy among the three services will enhance their overall capabilities, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said on Friday. Gen Rawat also recalled Prime Minister Narendra Modi's directions to modernise the armed forces and noted that there was a need to increase their capabilities further. The Chief of Defence Staff was speaking at an event to mark the 75th anniversary of India's Independence which is being celebrated as 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav'. Gen Rawat said India is a peace-loving nation but it had to train its forces for war considering the kind of challenges it has been facing. "Our prime minister has given us some directions that we have to focus on our country's economic revival, think on human resource development and encourage technology and research. We have to progress towards military defence reforms," Gen Rawat said. In an apparent reference to cross border terrorism into Jammu and Kashmir, he said ending it is one of the focus areas. "The armed forces are ready to deal with any challenge," Gen Rawat said, adding efforts taken to increase jointness among the forces will enhance their capabilities. As part of India's mega defence reform initiative, Gen Rawat has been working on the theaterisation model under which at least six new integrated commands are being envisaged. As per the plan, each of the theatre commands will have units of the Army, the Navy and the Air Force and all of them will work as a single entity looking after security challenges in a specified geographical territory under an operational commander. At present, the Army, Navy and the Air Force have separate commands. Initially, a plan has been firmed up for the creation of Air Defence Command and Maritime Theatre Command. In his brief address, the Chief of Defence Staff also remembered Mahatma Gandhi and Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose for their leadership role in India's Independence movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-armed-forces-are-ready-to-deal-with-any-security-challenge-cds-1019583.html
14-08-2021||National||DH Toon | If you can't afford, scrap it!||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched the National Automobile Scrappage Policy, aimed at junking old vehicles. Virtually launching the policy initiative during the Investors Summit' organised by Gujarat Government in Gandhinagar, Modi said the policy will promote a circular economy and make the process of economic development more environment-friendly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-if-you-cant-afford-scrap-it-1019618.html
14-08-2021||National||Independence Day: Facts, controversies around the National Anthem||On August 15 every year, India rises to celebrate its independence and laud the fighters who achieved this feat. In its second annual freedom celebrations during the Covid-19 pandemic, the crowds at the Red Fort where the Prime Minister will hoist the national flag may be limited but the chorus of the national anthem will be loud and sonorous. As the nation celebrates its 75th Independence Day, here’s a look at some facts and controversies around India’s national anthem. -Written by Rabindranath Tagore, the national anthem was originally composed in Bengali titled Bharoto Bhagyo Bidhata. It was reportedly first sung at the Calcutta session of the Indian National Congress in December 1911. -It was labelled ‘national anthem’ by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose for the first time during the meeting of the German-Indian Society on September 11, 1942. However, it formally became the anthem in 1950. -The national anthem’s playing time is 52 seconds, according to the government. -The national anthem was translated by Tagore into English in February 1919, titled ‘The Morning Song of India’. There is also a Hindi-Urdu version by Captain Abid Hasan Safrani, titled ‘Subh Sukh Chain’. Controversies around the anthem In the 1930s, the national anthem was part of a relentless controversial campaign as it was said that the song was only written to praise King George IV. Tagore had been asked many times to write songs praising India’s colonial rulers, which he had refused to do. In a letter to Pulin Behari Sen, Tagore finally responded to the debate saying, “I should only insult myself if I cared to answer those who consider me of such unbounded stupidity as to sing in praise of George IV or George V as the Eternal Charioteer leading the pilgrims on their journey through countless ages of the timeless history of mankind.” He further said in the letter that when an acquaintance of his in His Majesty’s service asked the Nobel laureate to write a felicitation song for the Emperor, the request “amazed” him. “I pronounced the victory in Jana Gana Mana of that Bhagya Vidhata of India who has from age after age held steadfast the reins of India’s chariot through rise and fall, through the straight path and the curved. That Lord of Destiny, that Reader of the Collective Mind of India, that Perennial Guide, could never be George V, George VI, or any other George,” Tagore’s letter read. More recently, in 2016, the national anthem was caught in another controversy when the Supreme Court passed a law that required movie theatres to play it before every film.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-facts-controversies-around-the-national-anthem-1019625.html
14-08-2021||National||Is this India’s 74th or 75th Independence Day?||India is gearing up for its Independence Day on August 15 but before the feeling of patriotism and celebrations comes a math-related confusion: Which Independence Day is it? Is India celebrating its 74th or 75th Independence Day this year? According to the official website of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav launched by the Ministry of Culture in March, the celebrations for the 75th Independence Day kicked off on March 12, 2021 in a 75-week countdown and will end after a year on August 15, 2022. This indicates that India finishes 74 years since freedom. But the confusion persists. Here’s how you can get rid of it.  India won its hard-fought independence from over 200 years of British rule on August 15, 1947. This means that on August 15, 1948, India celebrated the first year of freedom, 10 years on August 15, 1958, 20 years in 1968 and, consequently, 70 years in 2017. Therefore, India is celebrating 74 years of freedom from the British rule in 2021. But if we calculate the number of Independence Days India has celebrated, it will be 75 since August 15, 1947 will be considered as the first. The Prime Minister is expected to hoist the flag at the Red Fort and address the nation on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-this-india-s-74th-or-75th-independence-day-1019626.html
14-08-2021||National||India sees 38,667 new Covid-19 cases, 478 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 38,667 coronavirus infections, taking the tally of Covid cases to 3,21,56,493, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated Saturday. The death toll, meanwhile, climbed to 4,30,732 with 478 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The ministry said the number of active cases rose to 3,87,673, comprising 1.21 per cent of the total cases. The national Covid-19 recovery rate now stands at 97.45 per cent, the ministry said.  Additionally, 22,29,798 tests were conducted Friday, taking the cumulative tests carried out so far for the detection of Covid-19 in the country to 4,91,700,577. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.73 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 19 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.05 per cent, according to the Health Ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,13,38,088 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 53.61 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till Saturday morning. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and 3 crore on June 23. Overall, a total of 4,30,732 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,34,730 from Maharashtra, 36,933 from Karnataka, 34,462 from Tamil Nadu, 25,068 from Delhi, 22,782 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,394 from Kerala and 18,276 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that thste ate-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.  (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-38667-new-covid-19-cases-478-deaths-1019642.html
14-08-2021||National||'Will not be good for them': Taliban warn India against playing military role||The Taliban on Saturday appreciated India's humanitarian and developmental efforts in Afghanistan but warned against playing any role in the military in the neighbouring country.  Speaking to ANI, Qatar-based spokesperson of Taliban Suhail Shaheen said, "If they (India) come to Afghanistan militarily and have their presence. I think that will not be good for them, they have seen the fate of military presence in Afghanistan of other countries. So it is an open book for them. And about their help to the Afghan people or national projects, I think that is something which is appreciated." Shaheen said, "They (India) have been helping the Afghan people or national projects. They did it in the past. I think that is something which is appreciated." The Afghan Taliban tightened their territorial stranglehold around Kabul on Saturday, as refugees from the insurgents' relentless offensive flooded the capital and US Marines returned to oversee emergency evacuations. With the country's second- and third-largest cities having fallen into Taliban hands, Kabul has effectively become the besieged, last stand for government forces who have offered little or no resistance elsewhere. Insurgent fighters are now camped just 50 kilometres (30 miles) away, leaving the United States and other countries scrambling to airlift their nationals out of Kabul ahead of a feared all-out assault. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-not-be-good-for-them-taliban-warn-india-against-playing-military-role-1019645.html
14-08-2021||National||75th Independence Day: Full schedule of events at Red Fort||The nation is all set to celebrate its 75th Independence Day on Sunday. Like last year, the celebrations will be held maintaining the Covid-19 protocols. Here is the full schedule of the August 15 celebration at the Red Fort: 6:20 am Assembly of NCC cadets at the Red Fort 6:30 am  NCC choir to sing patriotic songs 6:50 am  Guard of Honour 7:18 am   Fanfare to herald the arrival of Prime Minister Narendra Modi PM Modi to arrive at the Lahore Gate and be greeted by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, the Minister of State for Defence, and the Defence Secretary Defence Secretary to introduce the General Officer Commanding (Delhi area) to PM PM, flanked by the General Officer Commanding, to proceed to the Saluting Base Guard Commander to report to PM who will then inspect the Guard of Honour PM to reach the Rampart where he will meet Defence Minister, Minister of State for Defence, Chief of Defence staff, and 3 Service Chiefs 7:30 am PM to unfurl the tricolour, the Guard to present the national Salute, and the Band to play the national anthem while a 21-gun salute is fired Guard to disperse Flower petals to be showered by 2 IAF choppers over the guests present 7:33 am PM to address the nation NCC cadets to sing the national anthem post the address Balloons to be released into the sky and PM to leave the dais PM to be seen off near a safe room by Defence Minister, Minister of State for Defence, Chief of Defence staff, and 3 Service Chiefs Flanked by Defence Secretary and GOC, PM to reach the well of the Red Fort PM to exit the venue||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75th-independence-day-full-schedule-of-events-at-red-fort-1019648.html
14-08-2021||National||'Floating island': Onboard India's first indigenous aircraft carrier INS Vikrant||As India celebrates its 75th Independence Day Sunday, the Southern Naval Command (SNC) offered a sneak peek into the engineering marvel that is INS Vikrant, the country's first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC). The largest and most complex warship built in the country, opened its 'doors' to mediapersons Friday in Kochi after its maiden sea trial successfully concluded on August 8. Speaking on board the 40,000-tonne warship, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command Vice Admiral A K Chawla said the five-day trial was a "glowing testimonial" to the country's vision of an Atmanirbhar Bharat. "It demonstrates the Indian Navy's capability to design and oversee the construction of the most complex of warships, as also the capability of our ship-builders and industries to successfully execute such a large and complex ship-building project," he said. The IAC, built at a cost of around Rs 23,000 crore, has been described by the Navy as "historic" as it propelled India into a select group of countries having capabilities to build state-of-the-art aircraft carriers. Commander Sreejith, a senior electrical overseer officer, told PTI that "the power used in the ship can light up half of the Kochi city". However, the officer said the exact power generated in the ship cannot be disclosed as it was "classified information". "All the major electrical industries including BHEL have contributed to the construction of this ship. We have used approximately 2,600 km-long cable in this," he said. Major Manoj Kumar, the Designer architect of the IAC, who shared factual details about the aircraft carrier and said "with the steel used in this, we can build three Eiffel towers". "There is a fully functional medical complex inside the ship with two operation theaters. There is a kitchen to cater to the needs of at least 2,000 staff on the ship. We have automated machines in the kitchen. We can park 20 aircraft in the hangar," he said. Anoop Hameed, part of the warship overseeing team which assesses the day to day progress of the ship said it was a "floating island". "The aircraft needs to generate enough power to take off due to the short runway and we also need a proper mechanism to arrest a landing one. We need to have that much power and coordination. This ship has everything inside it. This is a floating island," he said. The power generated in the ship is used for electrical systems including the radar system, communications, navigation, propulsion power generation, steering, air conditioning, food storage, safety related systems, medical systems among others, he added. The media team also met women officers who are part of the group which undertook the maiden sea trial. "At least 25 women officers from both the Navy and the Shipyard are associated with the IAC. Six of them have taken part in the sea trial. Two are from the Navy and four women officers were from the CSL," Lt Commander Janet Maria told PTI. Suresh Babu, Advisor to Chairman and Managing Director, Cochin Shipyard, told the media the sea trial was able to prove the workmanship of the CSL. "We have received two more orders, an anti-submarine warship and next generation missile vessels from the Navy and these are the two new orders worth Rs 16,000 crore," Babu said. He said the construction of the IAC was a major challenge to the design team of the Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL). "The design process and construction happened concurrently. It was very challenging for the designing team," he said. He said currently, the CSL is the only shipyard in the country that could undertake repairs of major aircraft carriers. "INS Viraat was repaired around 13 times here. We have the largest dry dock. We have a 300-member strong designer team and the productivity of the CSL helped us in bagging the order," Babu said. The Naval officers escorted the media contingent through the hangar and the flight deck. Chawla said the country can be justifiably proud of this achievement as India joins an elite club of nations that can design and build aircraft carriers. “The Indian Navy is confident that the new Vikrant will carry forward the illustrious legacy of its predecessor and write a new and glorious chapter in our maritime history," he said. The first INS Vikrant played an important role in India's victory in the Eastern theatre during the 1971 war. The warship, which will host MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, MH-60R multirole helicopters, has over 2,300 compartments, designed for a crew of around 1,700 people, including specialised cabins to accommodate women officers. The aircraft carrier, with more than 76 per cent indigenous components, is expected to be commissioned into the Indian Navy by August next year after it completes the aviation trials. “Vikrant has a top speed of around 28 knots and cruising speed of 18 knots with an endurance of about 7,500 nautical miles. The ship can accommodate an assortment of fixed-wing and rotary aircraft," the Navy had said in a statement. The IAC is 262-metre long, 62-metre wide and it has a height of 59 metres. Its construction began in 2009. Around 550 Indian firms including about 100 MSMEs are registered with the Cochin Shipyard Limited(CSL) and they provide various services in the construction of the IAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/floating-island-onboard-indias-first-indigenous-aircraft-carrier-ins-vikrant-1019652.html
14-08-2021||National||Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine doses to arrive in India by year-end: Report||With the approval J&J’s vaccines, India now has five vaccines for its nationwide immunisation drive. “This will further boost our nation's collective fight against Covid-19,” Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had said while announcing the grant of EUA to J&J. India’s vaccine basket now has five vaccines – Serum Institute's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russia's Sputnik V, Moderna and now Johnson & Johnson (J&J).  The official further told the publication that DCGI would soon give its nod to Zydus Cadila DNA-based Covid-19 dose. “We expect two crore doses monthly from Zydus Cadila," the source said. India's vaccine supply pipeline is exepected to smoothen further as indigenously-developed Corbevax, manufactured by Hyderabad-based Biological-E and Covovax produced by Serum Institute too would be available for the vaccination drive soon. Over the past week, Health Minister Mandaviya held meetings with vaccine manufacturers and took updates about the production capabilities of the vaccines. Among those who met Mandaviya were Mahima Datla, Managing Director of Biological E, Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla, Satish Reddy, Chairman of Dr Reddy’s Labs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/johnson-johnson-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-arrive-in-india-by-year-end-report-1019654.html
14-08-2021||National||Twitter unlocks accounts of Congress leaders, Rahul Gandhi||A week after locking their accounts, Twitter on Saturday unlocked accounts of Congress leaders including Rahul Gandhi. Soon after, the Congress party tweeted "Satyameva Jayate". Satyameva Jayate In a related development, however, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), which had on Friday written to Facebook and Instagram about violation of Indian laws on their platforms, after Gandhi shared the posts on these platforms "revealing the identity of victims" of the family of the nine-year-old girl, summoned Facebook officials on Tuesday for not responding to its notice. Facebook, which owns the photo and video-sharing social networking platform Instagram, was summoned over no reply about the action sought against Gandhi's profile. "However, no reply/action taken report has been received by you," the Commission said. The Commission has asked Facebook officials to appear before it on Tuesday evening in-person at the NCPCR office in Janpath or through video conferencing along with the details of the action taken. On Friday, Twitter had transferred its India head Manish Maheshwari to the US. While the company did not specify any reason for the change, it took place days after a relentless Congress campaign against the microblogging site for suspending the accounts of its leaders. Twitter India office also saw a protest outside its office in Delhi by the Youth Congress. Maheshwari was also named in an FIR in UP in connection with a probe related to a video of an alleged hate crime earlier. In a way, Twitter India was at the receiving end from both sides of the political spectrum. The Twitter accounts of Rahul Gandhi and some other Congress leaders including its communication department chief Randeep Surjewala, AICC general secretaries K C Venugopal, Ajay Maken, party's Whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore, Assam in-charge and former Union minister Jitendra Singh and Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev, were also locked as they had shared pictures tweeted by him of the family of the nine-year-old victim of rape and murder in Northwest Delhi. This led to a huge political row with protests on the streets and in Parliament and Gandhi on Friday alleging "democracy is under attack". Congress ran hashtag campaigns "Speak Up against Twitter's hypocrisy" on Saturday after its earlier campaigns "Daro Mat" and "Main Bhi Rahul Gandhi" while Rahul had himself shared an image saying "Digital Dadagiri nahi chalegi" on Instagram. The Twitter action against Gandhi's account had happened after the NCPCR had issued a notice to the microblogging site asking it to act against the Congress leader's handle for tweeting the pictures. While the NCPCR had cited the juvenile justice law that mandates the privacy of minor victims to argue for action against Rahul's Twitter handle, Congress had questioned Twitter as to why it did not act when a similar photo was tweeted by the National Commission for Scheduled Castes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-unlocks-accounts-of-congress-leaders-rahul-gandhi-1019655.html
14-08-2021||National||PM Modi expected to address annual UNGA session in person on September 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to address the annual high-level UN General Assembly session in person on September 25, according to a provisional list of speakers released by the UN. The list and schedule are subject to changes and the presence of world leaders in the United Nations headquarters here for the high-level annual session will significantly depend on the global Covid-19 situation, particularly as the highly transmissible Delta variant rages in the US as well as across other UN member nations. According to the first provisional list of speakers for the General Debate at the 76th session of the UN General Assembly, Modi is scheduled to speak at the high-level session on the morning of September 25, the first leader listed for the day. In 2019, Modi travelled to New York for the high-level UN General Assembly session. Last year, world leaders, including Modi, submitted pre-recorded video statements for the United Nations General Assembly session in September, as heads of state and government could not physically attend the annual gathering due to the coronavirus pandemic. It was the first time in the UN's 75-year history that the high-level session had gone virtual. This year too, the option has been kept open for the world leaders to send in pre-recorded statements since the pandemic continues to rage across several nations around the world. The General Debate begins on September 21 and US President Joe Biden is scheduled to address the session in person, his first address to the world organisation as the American leader. Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian leader Scott Morrison are also listed to address the General Debate in person on September 24. With leaders of Australia, India, Japan and the United States expected to attend the General Assembly session in person, it is highly likely that the Quad Leaders’ Summit could take place in September around the UNGA. The US, India, Australia and Japan had in 2017 given shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the "Quad" or the Quadrilateral coalition to counter China's aggressive actions in the Indo-Pacific region. The first Leaders’ Summit was held in March 2021 virtually. Senior officials from the four nations met virtually on Thursday as part of regular Quad consultations and “they welcomed the opportunity to continue regular consultations at the ministerial, senior official, and working levels and to hold a second Leaders’ Summit this fall,” the US State Department said Thursday. The Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement that the senior officials from the Ministry of External Affairs of India, Department of Foreign Affairs & Trade of Australia, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan and Department of State of the United States “look forward to continuing regular consultations and the next Foreign Ministers’ Meeting later this year.” So far, 167 Heads of State and Heads of Government and 29 Ministers and diplomats are scheduled to address the UN General Debate that will run through September 27. About 40 leaders are listed to address the high-level session through pre-recorded statements, including Iran, Egypt, Indonesia, South Africa and Nepal. The 76th session of the UN General Assembly will begin on September 14. Maldives Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid will be President of the year-long session. Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, told reporters on Thursday that holding of the General Assembly every year in the UN is a partnership between the United Nations, the host city, the host government, “because people that come here don’t all come into the building. They’re also in New York City and so on. “So, our host country, the host city will have whatever regulations they may have in place by September,” he said, adding that there will be an update on health requirements in the UN headquarters regarding vaccination, mask-wearing. “That is being decided at this point. We also need to have a dialogue with member states. As you well know, the Secretary-General has more direct authority over those that he pays, like the staff, than the 193 member states in this organisation. “All of that to say that the Secretary-General is determined to have the safest possible General Assembly,” Dujarric said, adding that Guterres has shown, right from the beginning of the coronavirus crisis, a very cautious approach to public health and to the way the United Nations works. “So, we are part of this New York City community, and we want to be as safe as possible,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-expected-to-address-annual-unga-session-in-person-on-september-25-1019663.html
14-08-2021||National||Independence Day: 1,380 police personnel to be awarded gallantry, service medals||The Centre on Saturday announced Police Medal for Gallantry to 662 police personnel, President’s Police Medal for Gallantry to 2 personnel, President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service to 88 personnel, and Police Medal for Meritorious Service to 662 personnel. As India celebrates 75th Independence Day on August 15, 2021, a total of 1,380 police personnel will be awarded the medal.  Aditionally, 23 ITBP (Indo-Tibetan Border Police) personnel have been awarded the Police Medal for Gallantry. 20 out of them have been awarded for bravery in eastern Ladakh skirmishes in May-June, 2020.   According to ITBP, this is the highest number of Gallantry Medals for ITBP awarded for the bravery of its men in border duties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-1380-police-personnel-to-be-awarded-gallantry-service-medals-1019665.html
14-08-2021||National||How chronic disease burden fueled Covid’s brutal waves in India||By Chris Kay High levels of chronic disease in India, such as diabetes and hypertension, helped stoke the brutal coronavirus waves that hit world’s second-most populous nation during the pandemic, researchers said. The findings from one of the few large-scale studies of Covid-19 in India showed patients from the southern district of Madurai had a higher risk of dying than those in China, Europe, South Korea and the US, even though 63 per cent of those tested were asymptomatic. Chronic health conditions in the community may have played a role, according to the report published in The Lancet. For years India has faced an escalating non-communicable disease crisis as its middle-class expands and leads a more sedentary and affluent lifestyle. That makes them susceptible to ailments such as diabetes and heart disease that account for almost two-thirds of all deaths in the country. Those existing conditions may have allowed the coronavirus to do more damage, boosting cases and fatalities and potentially fueling the near collapse of India’s health system. The death rate was 5.7 per cent among Covid-19 patients with at least one existing health condition, compared to 0.7 per cent in those who were otherwise healthy, the researchers found. The data came from more than 400,000 people who underwent coronavirus testing known as RT-PCR in Madurai from May 20 to October 31, 2020, during India’s first wave. “The findings that hypertension and diabetes actually predict acquisition of Covid itself, or at least being tested positive on an RT-PCR test, in itself is a significant finding,” Ramanan Laxminarayan, the study’s lead author and founder of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy, said in an interview. “Let’s just say India had half the diabetes and hypertension that we have, we probably would have seen a far smaller impact of the second wave.” Managing health conditions that are common in the population should be at the top of the list for any government response to curbing the pathogen’s toll, he said.  Mass Underreporting The researchers also highlighted what appears to be a mass underreporting of Covid cases and deaths in India after assessing the ratio between infections and fatalities, and the number of people in Madurai who were already producing infection-fighting antibodies between October 19 and November 5 last year. The results showed that testing found only 1.4 per cent of infections, and just 11 per cent of the expected number of deaths were detected. Some scientists have estimated that as many as 50 lakh people may have died after India’s hospitals were overwhelmed during the second wave that peaked mid-May, a fraction of the official total tally of about 430,000 during the entire pandemic. The death toll is lower than what would have been expected given the number of known infections, the researchers said. Researchers from the state government of Tamil Nadu, the University of California, Berkeley, Princeton University and the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health also contributed to the study. It comes as India prepares for an expected third Covid wave that some experts forecast will be smaller than the second and could peak in October -- blunted in part by a growing wall of vaccinations and naturally acquired antibodies from past outbreaks. A national survey in July found that two-thirds of Indians above the age of six had been exposed to the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-chronic-disease-burden-fueled-covid-s-brutal-waves-in-india-1019668.html
14-08-2021||National||4 more Indian sites added to Ramsar list as wetlands of international importance||Four more Indian wetlands have received international recognition as Ramsar sites taking the number of such protected sites in India to 46 spread over an area of nearly 11 lakh hectares in 20 states. The new additions are Thol and Wadhwana water bodies in Gujarat and Sultanpur and Bhindawas wetlands in Haryana. While Haryana gets its first Ramsar sites, Gujarat gets three more after Nalsarovar which was declared in 2012, the Union Environment Ministry said in a statement. Bhindawas Wildlife Sanctuary, the largest wetland in Haryana is a human-made freshwater wetland. Over 250 bird species use the sanctuary throughout the year as a resting and roosting site. The site supports more than ten globally threatened species including the endangered Egyptian Vulture, Steppe Eagle, Pallas’s Fish Eagle, and Black-bellied Tern. Sultanpur National Park supports more than 220 species of resident, winter migratory and local migratory waterbirds at critical stages of their life cycles. More than ten of these are globally threatened, including the critically endangered Sociable Lapwing, and the endangered Egyptian Vulture, Saker Falcon, Pallas’s Fish Eagle and Black-bellied Tern. Thol Lake Wildlife Sanctuary in Gujarat lies on the Central Asian Flyway and more than 320 bird species can be found here. The wetland supports more than 30 threatened waterbird species, such as the critically endangered White-rumped Vulture and Sociable Lapwing, and the vulnerable Sarus Crane, Common Pochard and Lesser White-fronted Goose. Wadhvana Wetland is internationally important for its bird life as it provides wintering ground to migratory waterbirds, including over 80 species that migrate on the Central Asian Flyway. They include some threatened or near-threatened species such as the endangered Pallas’s fish-Eagle, the vulnerable Common Pochard, and the near-threatened Dalmatian Pelican, Grey-headed Fish-eagle and Ferruginous Duck. “It is a matter of pride for us that four Indian sites get Ramsar recognition. This once again manifests India's centuries old ethos of preserving natural habitats, working towards flora and fauna protection, and building a greener planet,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Wetlands provide a wide range of ecological resources and ecosystem services such as food, water, fibre, groundwater recharge, water purification, flood moderation, erosion control and climate regulation. They serve as a key source of fresh water supply by soaking the rainfall and recharging the groundwater. The aim of the Ramsar list is to develop and maintain an international network of wetlands which are important for the conservation of biological diversity and for sustaining human life. Karnataka is the only southern state without any Ramsar site while its neighbours have. There are three such sites in Kerala (Ashtamudi, Sasthamkotta and Vembanad Kol) and one each in Tamil Nadu (Point Calimere Wildlife and Bird Sanctuary) and Andhra Pradesh (Kolleru Lake).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-more-indian-sites-added-to-ramsar-list-as-wetlands-of-international-importance-1019670.html
14-08-2021||National||World Punjabi Organisation urges Home Minister to evacuate Hindu, Sikh families from Kabul||The World Punjabi Organisation has appealed to Union Home Minister Amit Shah for early evacuation of 257 Afghan Hindu and Sikh families from Kabul in view of the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan. In a statement, International President of World Punjabi Organisation Vikramjit Singh Sahney said it is the need of the hour to bring the Afghan-origin Sikhs and Hindus safely to India as their lives are in grave danger. The organisation is ready to do the needful for the rehabilitation of those who would come from Afghanistan and provide them training for job-oriented courses free of charge, the statement said. Sahney had last year sent three chartered flights to evacuate 500 Hindu and Sikh families from Kabul, Ghazni and Jalalabad and other areas of Afghanistan. He also thanked the home minister for granting long-term visas to those who had already come to India and requested him to grant them citizenship under the Citizenship Amendment Act enacted last year, the statement said. The Taliban completed their sweep of the country's south on Friday as they took four more provincial capitals in a lightning offensive that is gradually encircling Kabul, just weeks before the United States is set to officially end its two-decade war. In just the last 24 hours, the country's second and third-largest cities -- Herat in the west and Kandahar in the south -- have fallen to the insurgents as has the capital of the southern Helmand province, where American, British and NATO forces fought some of the bloodiest battles of the conflict. The blitz through the Taliban's southern heartland means the insurgents now hold half of Afghanistan's 34 provincial capitals and control more than two-thirds of the country weeks before the US plans to withdraw its last troops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-punjabi-organisation-urges-home-minister-to-evacuate-hindu-sikh-families-from-kabul-1019671.html
14-08-2021||National||Full vaccination or negative Covid-19 report a must to enter Punjab from August 16||The Punjab government Saturday announced that from Monday the state will allow entry to only those who are either fully vaccinated against coronavirus or have a negative RT-PCR report. The directions, issued after Chief Minister Amarinder Singh held a Covid review meeting here, also said there will be strict monitoring of people coming from Himachal Pradesh and Jammu. According to an official statement, Singh expressed concern about the positivity rate in Himachal Pradesh and other parts of the country, which probably also pushed Punjab's positivity rate marginally up to 0.2 per cent in the last week. The new restrictions will apply to all those entering Punjab by road, rail or air, the chief minister said, adding if a person does not fulfil either of the criteria, he/she will have to undergo RAT (rapid antigen test) unless they recently recovered from Covid-19 Amid reports of Covid cases from schools, the CM also directed that only fully vaccinated teaching and non-teaching staff, or those recently recovered from Covid-19, physically teach in schools and colleges. Online learning option will remain available to all children, he said. Several school students have tested positive for coronavirus over the past few days. Punjab has so far reported 5,99,846 coronavirus cases and 16,334 fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/full-vaccination-or-negative-covid-19-report-a-must-to-enter-punjab-from-august-16-1019675.html
14-08-2021||National||Illumination of Navy ships in Andaman & Nicobar Islands as part of Independence Day celebrations||Indian Navy ships will be illuminated during sunset in Andaman and Nicobar Islands as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations, a Defence release said. Indian Naval Ships will participate in this illumination exercise at Netaji Subhash Chandra Dweep. Coloured flares would also be fired from the illuminated ships during the Independence Day parade and at sunset, the release issued by the Andaman and Nicobar Command on Friday said. A 21 gun salute ceremony has also been scheduled for Independence day. All Covid-19 protocol measures will be followed by the personnel present at the event, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illumination-of-navy-ships-in-andaman-nicobar-islands-as-part-of-independence-day-celebrations-1019684.html
14-08-2021||National||ITBP troops awarded medals for bravely fighting Chinese PLA in Ladakh||Twenty personnel of the India-China LAC guarding Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) force have been awarded gallantry medals for displaying bravery during standoff and clashes between militaries of the two countries in the eastern Ladakh region last year. These medals for bravery are among the total 1,380 service medals announced by the Union government for various central and state police forces on the eve of Independence Day. There are two President's Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG), 628 Police Medal for Gallantry (PMG), 88 President's police medal for distinguished service and 662 police medals for meritorious service in the latest awards list. Sub Inspector Amar Deep of Jammu and Kashmir Police (JKP) and late Head Constable Kale Sunil Dattatraya (posthumously) of the CRPF are the only two recipients of the top bravery medal -- President's Police Medal for Gallantry. The maximum gallantry medals at 257 (1 PPMG and 256 PMG) were earned by the JKP, followed by the Central Reserve Police Force at 151 (1 PPMG and 150 PMG), an official list released by the Union home ministry said. Among the 23 gallantry medals for the ITBP, twenty are for operations that took place during the May-June 2020 clashes with the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) in Ladakh where the central paramilitary is deployed shoulder-to-shoulder with the Army as part of its primary mandate to guard the 3,488-km-long icy Line of Actual Control (LAC). Out of the 20, eight personnel have been awarded the PMG for their gallant act, meticulous planning and tactical insightfulness and for defending the motherland in Galwan Nalla on June 15, the force said in a statement. Six personnel have been awarded with the PMG for gallant action during violent face off on May 18 in the Finger IV area while the rest six have been decorated with the same medal for their gallant action near Hot Springs in Ladakh on the same day, the statement said. "This is the highest number of gallantry medals awarded to the force for the bravery of its men in border face offs, skirmishes and border guarding duties," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said. In eastern Ladakh, the ITBP troops not only effectively used shields to protect themselves but also responded fiercely to advancing Chinese PLA troops and brought the situation under control during "fierce" face offs and skirmishes, the statement said. "With highest order of professional skills, ITBP troops fought shoulder-to-shoulder and also brought the injured (Army) troops to the rear." "Even when the ITBP troops fought the whole night, they received minimum casualties by giving befitting reply to the stone pelters of the PLA," it said. At certain places, the statement said, the troops gave a "determined" standoff for about 17-20 hours throughout the intervening night (June 15-16) in extremely challenging conditions. "Due to the high-altitude training and survival experience of the force at the icy Himalayan deployments, ITBP troops kept the PLA troops at bay and due to the all out and befitting response of ITBP troops at several fronts, many areas were safeguarded." "The ITBP troops showed highest level of devotion, courage, determination, utter disregard to personal safety even in injured condition and exhibited great professional skills in the face of violent physical scuffle with the PLA," it said. Twenty Indian Army soldiers were killed during these clashes. China had claimed the casualty figures on its side were five, which is widely believed to be much higher. Three ITBP personnel have been awarded the PMG for displaying courage, grit and determination in anti-Naxal operations in Chhattisgarh, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbp-troops-awarded-medals-for-bravely-fighting-chinese-pla-in-ladakh-1019690.html
14-08-2021||National||Piyush Goyal faces heat for criticism of businesses including Tata||India's commerce minister Piyush Goyal faced heat on social media on Saturday for his remarks that many big domestic businesses had overlooked national interests and that $106 billion Tata Group's objections to proposed policy changes for e-commerce had upset him. At an event organized by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on Thursday, Minister Piyush Goyal criticised Tata and more broadly said local businesses should not just focus on profits or think of bypassing local laws, according to media reports and a source who attended the event. The comments caught public attention and stoked a debate on social media after The Hindu newspaper reported on Saturday the government had asked the CII to block videos with Goyal's comments. Two links to those videos on Goyal's speech shared with journalists were now marked private and blocked. The CII and Goyal's office did not respond to a request for comment. "The kind of language used against industry captains & calling their work against nation's interest is shameful ... CII should demand an apology instead of helping him by pulling down the video," said Priyanka Chaturvedi, a lawmaker and opposition leader. A spokeswoman of India's main opposition Congress Party, Supriya Shrinate, said on Twitter Goyal's remarks were "undignified". Goyal's comments on Tata came after Reuters last month reported the conglomerate was among most vociferous in telling the government in a July meeting that proposed e-commerce rules will have a major impact on its business and bar its joint venture partners like Starbucks from selling goods on Tata's shopping websites. At the CII event, Goyal said Tata's objection to the rules had hurt him, saying he had conveyed that position to Tata Sons Chairman N. Chandrasekaran, the source who attended said. Tata declined to comment on Saturday. Goyal has also repeatedly criticized Amazon and Walmart's Flipkart for allegedly bypassing foreign investment rules for e-commerce. This week, he also invoked the "Quit India" movement in parliament as he welcomed a court order that allowed an antitrust probe of the two companies to continue. The Confederation of All India Traders, however, welcomed Goyal's stand on Saturday, saying it was "highly unfortunate" that Tata was opposing government's e-commerce rules. The 153-year-old Tata Group has big e-commerce plans and is planning launch of an app that will integrate several of its top brands, but the proposed policy changes have spooked it, Reuters has reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/piyush-goyal-faces-heat-for-criticism-of-businesses-including-tata-1019697.html
14-08-2021||National||NIA carries out searches in Tamil Nadu, Kerala in Vizhinjam arms case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday conducted searches at seven locations in Tamil Nadu and Kerala at the premises of those involved in trafficking of arms, ammunition and narcotics from Iran and Pakistan to Sri Lanka, an official said. The searches were carried out in Tamil Nadu’s Chennai and Thiruvallur districts and Kerala’s Ernakulam district, the official of the premier investigation agency said. The case was registered in April in Trivandrum under sections of the Arms Act and the Indian Penal Code against six Sri Lankan nationals who were intercepted along with consignments of 300 kg of heroin, five AK-47 rifles and 1,000 live rounds by the Coast Guard during patrolling off the Vizhinjam coast in the Arabian Sea on March 18. The NIA re-registered the case in May and during investigation, it arrested two more accused -- Suresh and Soundarajan -- on August 2. During the searches, various incriminating documents including books relating to the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), a proscribed terrorist organisation, seven digital devices including mobile phones, SIM cards and tablets were seized, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case continues. The NIA official said the accused and suspects were involved in trafficking of arms, ammunition and narcotics from Iran and Pakistan to Sri Lanka. The seizure by the Coast Guard of 300 kg of drugs, valued at Rs 3,000 crore in the international market, and five AK-47 rifles with 1,000 live rounds from a Sri Lankan boat off Minicoy in Lakshadweep on March 18 was the second major anti-drug trafficking operation undertaken by the Coast Guard on the west coast of India within a fortnight. Earlier on March 5, the Coast Guard had intercepted a Lankan boat off Minicoy with six crew members. In a similar operation in November last year, it had seized a Lankan boat off Kanyakumari, with 120 kg of narcotics worth approximately Rs 1,000 crore and five weapons. During the past one year, the coastal patrolling agency has seized about 1.6 tonnes of narcotics worth approximately Rs 4,900 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-carries-out-searches-in-tamil-nadu-kerala-in-vizhinjam-arms-case-1019707.html
14-08-2021||National||Home Ministry notifies August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day||The Union Home Ministry on Saturday issued a notification declaring that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to salute those who sacrificed their lives during the country's partition, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the announcement to this effect. The prime minister has said that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in the memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people, saying the pain of partition can never be forgotten. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has welcomed Prime Minister Modi's decision to observe August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. "The wound of the partition of the country and the grief of losing loved ones cannot be described in words. I am sure that Partition Horrors Remembrance Day will strengthen peace, love and unity by eliminating the ill-will of discrimination and malice from society," he said in a tweet in Hindi. In a notification, the Home Ministry said the people of India, while celebrating “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”, will salute those sons and daughters of the country who had to sacrifice their lives during the partition of India. "...the Government of India has decided to declare 14th August as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in remembrance of the people who lost their lives during the partition. “Therefore, the Government of India declares 14th August as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to remind the present and future generations of Indians of the pain and suffering faced by the people of India during the partition,” the notification said. Modi has also noted that millions of people were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence caused by the partition. Pakistan was carved out as a Muslim country after the division of India by the British colonial ruler in 1947, and millions of people were displaced and many lakh of them lost their lives as large scale rioting broke out. India will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/home-ministry-notifies-august-14-as-partition-horrors-remembrance-day-1019721.html
14-08-2021||National||Where India stands on global indices after 74 years of independence||India is celebrating its 75th Independence Day this year, and the country has had a long, arduous journey towards reaching where it is. As a nascent country in 1947, India had to fight its way up the ladder of development, facing several geopolitical and local issues such as war with its neighbours, nuclear tests that earned it the ire of its allies, major terror attacks on its soil, internal strife and much more. All this has been a series of trials and tribulations the country has had to face as it reaches 74 years of Independence. Here's where the country stands in the global scale through its presence on five indices. We selected India's position on the Human Development Index by the United Nations, the World Happiness Index, the Index of Economic Freedom by the Heritage Foundation, the percentage of women in Parliament by The World Bank and the Globalisation index by The Swiss Institute of Technology.  India dropped one spot to 131 among 189 countries in the 2020 human development index after showing a steady rise over the years, byt according to UNDP Resident Representative Shoko Noda, the drop ranking doesn't mean "India didn't do well but other countries did better". According to the report published by the United Nations Development Programme, India's gross national income per capita also fell to $6,681 in 2019 from $6,829 in 2018 on purchasing power parity (PPP) basis. Converesely, India has shown a consistent downward trend in the World Happiness Report, which measures the percieved happiness of citizens in 149 countries on a number of factors. The 2021 report focussed on Covid-19, and the report said its aim was two-fold, first to focus on the effects of Covid-19 on the structure and quality of people’s lives, and second to describe and evaluate how governments all over the world have dealt with the pandemic. "In particular, we try to explain why some countries have done so much better than others," the report said. Meanwhile, India ranked 121st on the economic freedom index in 2021, with the overall score unchanged since 2020. According to The Heritage Foundation, which publishes the index, the country made improvements in ease of doing business, which was offset with decline in judicial effectiveness and other factors, leading to the stagnant placing. "The Indian economy remains in the mid-range of the mostly unfree category. A move toward greater economic freedom would require substantial and broad-based reforms. In addition to taking steps to improve fiscal health and strengthen the rule of law, the government would need to increase financial freedom and reform the tax code, the investment regime, and the labour code," the report said. Methodology The purpose of choosing these indices was to provide an overall picture of national development as the Human Development Index shows a composite index of life expectancy, education, and per capita income indicators; the World Happiness Index, which shows the ranking of national happiness, including factors such as quality of life; the Globalisation Index, which measures the economic, social and political dimensions of globalisation; and the percentage of women in Parliament, which measures the extent of gender equality and representation for women in a country's legislative body. For the purposes of comparison, each index was normalised to a scale of 100, i.e., all relevant indices were either multiplied or divided by a value of 100 so as to present a picture that is easier to understand, as some indices (such as Human Development Index) measure on a scale of 0-1, while others (such as the Happiness Index) measure on a scale of 0-10. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/where-india-stands-on-global-indices-after-74-years-of-independence-1019732.html
14-08-2021||National||CPI's Binoy Viswam questions selective leaking of Rajya Sabha footage, documents to target Opposition MPs||CPI Rajya Sabha floor leader Binoy Viswam on Saturday questioned the "selective leaking" of Upper House's video footage and internal documents to target MPs and said it was part of an attempt of the Narendra Modi government to "mislead the country and whitewash its own draconian" actions during Parliament's Monsoon Session. Viswam shot off a letter to Rajya Sabha Secretary General Desh Deepak Verma urging him to set up an inquiry into the happenings of August 11 during the passage of General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill 2021 and stop "selective leaking" of information. His letter comes a day after CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem wrote to Verma seeking a probe into the incident and the deployment of "outsiders". "In order for a fair and just probe into the incident, it is imperative that the Rajya Sabha not be turned into a political tool for the Government and selective leaks related to the events of August 11 must be stopped immediately," Viswam said. "Any probe into these events must abide by principles of justice and as such the complete footage of the house on August 11 be provided to the MPs against whom such allegations are being made in addition to all such complaints or other documents pertaining to them," he added. Viswam claimed that Opposition MOs, including him, were physically manhandled and targeted by "unknown personnel" in Parliament. These "unfortunate instances" occurred when the government tried to "bulldoze" the passing of the insurance Bill despite repeated requests from the Opposition to send it to a Select Committee. He said when the government went ahead with passing the "anti-people bill", they exercised their right as MPs to protest. "It is only the bringing in of over 40 personnel, whose identity is unknown and suspect, that lead to the chaos in the well of the house. The deliberate move to create multiple cordons of security resulted in members of the Opposition, including female MPs being manhandled. During this commotion, I was personally targeted by 4-5 of these outsiders who grabbed hold of me and physically assaulted me," Viswam said. He said it was "deeply unfortunate" that the safety and security of MPs was "purposefully compromised" by the government. The CPI MP from Kerala said the government has used every avenue to portray a "biased and concocted" narrative against Opposition MPs. "From the selective leaking of privileged property of the Rajya Sabha in the form of CCTV footage and internal documents to the filing of false allegations by the marshals alleging assault by the Opposition MPs, it is clear that the government is actively trying to mislead the country and whitewash its own draconian actions during this session," he said. He claimed these events occurred at the end of a Parliamentary session that has seen the government abuse its power as it hurriedly passed anti-people legislation such as the Essential Defence Services Bill 2021 while failing to take up discussions on issues of national importance like the Pegasus or the repeal of the three anti-farmer laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpis-binoy-viswam-questions-selective-leaking-of-rajya-sabha-footage-documents-to-target-opposition-mps-1019734.html
14-08-2021||National||75th Independence Day celebrations: Choppers to make a debut||Helicopters will make a debut at the 75th Independence Day celebration with two IAF Mi-17 helicopters showering petals at the Red Fort on Sunday. As soon as the national flag is hoisted by the Prime Minister, flower petals will be showered at the venue by two helicopters flying in Amrut formation, the Defence Ministry said on Saturday. Thirty-two Olympic winners, including javelin thrower Subedar Neeraj Chopra, India’s first-ever gold medallist in track and field, along with two Sports Authority of India officials have been invited to participate in the celebrations. However, it is not sure whether Chopra will attend as he is down with a fever. Around 240 Olympians, support staff and SAI and sports federation officials have also been invited to be present at the 75th Independence Day celebrations. This happened in the wake of India's much-improved performance at the Tokyo Olympics where the athletes bagged one gold, two silver and four bronze medals. To honour the Corona warriors who played a vital role in fighting the invisible enemy, a separate block on the south side of the Rampart has been created. Prime Minister Modi will lead the nation in celebrating the day from the historic ramparts of the Red Fort. Modi had launched Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav from Sabarmati Ashram at Ahmedabad in March 2021 to celebrate 75 years of Independence. The celebrations will continue till August 15, 2023. Indian Navy being the coordinating service this year, the Guard of Honour will be commanded by Commander Piyush Gaur while Lt Commander P Priyambada Sahoo will assist the Prime Minister in hoisting the National Flag. After being hoisted, the Tricolour will receive a ‘Rashtriya Salute’ by the Navy Band.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75th-independence-day-celebrations-choppers-to-make-a-debut-1019738.html
14-08-2021||National||SC asks NALSA to prepare general SoP on premature release of convicts||The Supreme Court has asked the National Legal Services Authority to frame a uniform-country wide Standard Operating Procedure for "protecting rights" of life term convicts, in order to secure their pre-mature release in accordance with provisions of law. A life term convict can seek premature release after completing a minimum of 14 years in jail in line with the rules framed by the state governments. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah passed the general direction on formulating the procedure while dismissing a petition by Kadir, a life-term convict lodged in the jail of Uttar Pradesh's Agra district, against his conviction and sentence. The petitioner, represented by amicus curiae, Rajeev Nanda, however, contended that as of June 26, 2021, he has undergone an actual sentence of 15 years, 11 months and 22 days without remission and 19 years, one month and 22 days with remission. Taking note of the submission, the court directed the jail superintendent to inform the petitioner about his right to submit an application for premature release in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations. It also ordered the competent authority to take a decision on his application, if so made, within three months. "The facts which have been drawn to the attention of this court in the present case would merit a general direction," the bench said, asking NALSA to consider issuing a uniform procedure for protecting the rights of similarly placed convicts to secure their premature release. A separate bench in May this year declared as bad and discriminatory the 2018 policy of the Uttar Pradesh government restricting the premature release of prisoners, undergoing life term, to the event of Republic Day each year only. It had also said the court cannot approve of the policy which stated that those who did not apply for remission would be ineligible for consideration, as this was against its avowed objective to prevent overcrowding in prisons, and to check frustration and disappointment and to ensure rehabilitation. In the instant case, the court also directed the UP State Legal Services Authority to ensure that its panel lawyers visit every jail within the state and after due scrutiny of the nature of the conviction, the term of sentence and the sentence undergone, advise the convicts and assist them in drafting appropriate representations so as to enable them to pursue their remedies for premature release. "Once such applications are filed, they shall be disposed of by the competent authority within a period of three months," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-nalsa-to-prepare-general-sop-on-premature-release-of-convicts-1019766.html
14-08-2021||National||Bombay High Court grants interim stay on part of IT Rules||In a significant development, the Bombay High Court has granted an interim stay to the operation of clauses 9 (1) and 9 (3) of the new Information Technology Rules, 2021, for digital media vis-a-vis the adherence to the Code of Ethics. However, the court declined to stay Rule 14 and 16 of the IT Rules. In the order, a division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni observed that such compulsory adherence to the Code of Ethics was in breach of the petitioners’ right to free speech guaranteed under Article 19 of the Constitution. According to the court, clauses 9(1) and 9(3) of the IT (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 infringe the fundamental right to freedom of speech under Article 19(1)(a) and was against the substantive provisions of the IT Act, 2002. “Rule 9 was found to be an intrusion on the petitioner's rights under Article 19(1)(a)….it goes beyond the substantive law of the Information Technology Act….Therefore we have stayed clauses 9(1) and 9(3). The rule is not stayed in its entirety,” the bench observed. The Bombay High Court had on Friday reserved orders in two pleas — by digital platform The Leaflet and journalist-activist Nikhil Wagle - challenging the recently notified Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2020. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-high-court-grants-interim-stay-on-part-of-it-rules-1019780.html
14-08-2021||National||President Ram Nath Kovind's Independence Day speech: Full text||My Dear Fellow Citizens, Namaskar! It is a matter of great joy for me to wish all Indians, living in India and abroad, a very Happy Independence Day! This day has a special significance as it marks the beginning of the 75th year of India’s independence for which ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ is being celebrated. My hearty congratulations to you all on this momentous occasion! Independence Day is a festival of freedom for us. This was made possible by generations of freedom fighters; some known, many unknown. They made great sacrifices. Today, you and I breathe under free skies thanks to their heroic deeds. I bow in respect to the pious memory of those brave martyrs. Our nation, like many others, suffered great injustices and tyranny under foreign rule. What distinguishes India, however, is that the character of our nationalist movement, led by Mahatma Gandhi, was based on the principles of truth and non-violence. He and all other national heroes provided us with an invaluable blueprint to not only liberate the nation from colonial rule, but also to rebuild it. Gandhiji’s struggle was for a return to Indian ethos and for human dignity. Now as we look back to the seventy five year journey of our republic, we have reasons to be proud of the considerable distance we have travelled. Gandhiji taught us that slow and steady steps in the right direction are preferable to rapid strides in the wrong direction. The world looks up at the miracle of India, home to the plurality of traditions and yet the biggest and most vibrant democracy. Dear Fellow Citizens, In the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, our sportspersons have brought laurels to the nation with their stellar performances. India has won the highest number of medals in the 121 years of its participation in the Olympics. Our daughters have achieved world class excellence in playgrounds overcoming many adversities. Along with sports, epoch-making changes are taking place in the participation and success of women in all walks of life. From higher educational institutions to armed forces, from laboratories to playgrounds, our daughters are making their mark. In this success of our daughters, I see a glimpse of a developed India of the future. I urge every parent to learn from the families of such promising daughters and provide opportunities to their daughters also to explore avenues of growth. Like last year, this year too, the scale of Independence Day celebration may have been reduced due to pandemic, yet our hearts remain always filled with enthusiasm. The intensity of the pandemic has come down, but the coronavirus has not yet gone away. We are yet to come out of the devastating effects of its recurrence this year. Last year, with exceptional efforts from all, we had succeeded in bringing the spread of infections under control. Our scientists had succeeded in developing vaccines in a very short time. Therefore, at the beginning of this year, there was every reason to be hopeful as we launched the largest vaccination exercise in history. Yet, due to the new variants and other unexpected factors, we suffered from a terrible second wave. I am deeply sad that many lives could not be saved and many more suffered immensely in this phase of an unprecedented crisis. I speak for the whole nation when I say that I share the grief of all the affected families with the same intensity. The science is coping with this invisible enemy of terrible might with remarkable speed. We can take solace from the fact that more lives have been saved than the lives lost. It was our collective determination to overcome the challenge that helped us see the weakening of the second wave. Once again, our corona warriors, the doctors, nurses and health workers, the administrators, and others, risked everything to contain the impact of the second wave. The second wave brought our public healthcare infrastructure under stress. The reality is that no infrastructure, even of advanced economies, could withstand a crisis of such enormous proportions. Efforts were made on war-footing to plug the gaps. The leadership rose to the challenge, and the government’s endeavours were supplemented by initiatives of the states, private sector healthcare facilities, the civil society and others. In this extraordinary mission, foreign nations shared the essentials generously, just as India had reached out to many nations with medicine, equipment and vaccines. I am grateful to the global fraternity that came forward with a helping hand. Due to these efforts, the nation breathes a sigh of relief with the return of a semblance of normalcy. If we have learned our lessons well, we know that this is the time of extra care and caution. We shall not let our guard down. Vaccines are the best possible protection science offers to us. Under the world's biggest vaccination campaign going on in our country, more than 50 crore fellow citizens have been vaccinated so far. I urge all eligible citizens who are yet to get vaccinated to do so at the earliest and also inspire others. Dear Fellow Citizens, The economic impact of the pandemic is as disastrous as its health impact. The government has been concerned about the lower middle classes and the poor, as well as about the small and medium industries. It has been sensitive to the needs of the labourers and of employers who have been facing hardships due to the lockdowns and movement restrictions. Sensitive to their needs, the government had taken a series of relief measures last year. This year also, the government had distributed food grains to about 80 crore people in May and June. This benefit has been extended till Diwali. Moreover, the government has announced a new stimulus package worth Rupees 6 lakh 28 thousand crore to boost the selected Covid-affected sectors. In particular, it is heartening to note that an amount of Rupees 23 thousand 220 crore is being spent over one year for expansion of medical facilities. It is heartening to note that rural India, particularly the agriculture sector has kept growing against all odds. In a recent visit to my ancestral village Paraunkh in Kanpur Dehat district, I was quite pleased to find that better infrastructure is being developed to make life better for people in rural areas. The psychological distance between the urban and the rural is now much less as compared to the past. After all, India lives in its villages which cannot be allowed to lag behind in development. That is why special campaigns, including the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, are being implemented for the welfare of our farmers. These efforts are consistent with the vision of an Atma Nirbhar Bharat, a self-reliant India. With abiding faith in the inherent capacity of the economy, the government has further opened up defence, health, civil aviation, power and other sectors. The government’s new initiatives to promote eco-friendly, renewable sources of energy, particularly solar power, have won praise around the world. If there is an improvement in the ease of doing business, it has a positive impact on the ease of living for all. In addition to these, special emphasis is being given to public welfare. For example, the dream of having a home of one’s own is being realised, thanks to the Rupees 70,000 crore credit-linked subsidy scheme. The series of agricultural marketing reforms will empower our ‘annadata’ farmers and help them get better price for their produce. These are some of the measures the government has taken to unleash the potential of every Indian. Dear Fellow Citizens, A new dawn is rising in Jammu and Kashmir. The government has initiated the process of consultation with all stakeholders who have faith in democracy and the rule of law. I urge the people, especially the youth, of Jammu and Kashmir to utilise this opportunity and work on realising their aspirations through democratic institutions.With all-round progress, India’s stature is rising in the international arena, as it was reflected in our participation in several key multilateral forums as well as in consolidating bilateral relationships with several countries. Dear Fellow Citizens, When India won Independence 75 years ago, many sceptics thought democracy would not survive in India. Little did they know that roots of democracy were nurtured in this soil in ancient times, and even in modern times India was ahead of many western nations in offering franchise to all adults, regardless of any distinctions. The founding fathers had reposed their faith in the wisdom of the people, and ‘we, the people of India’ have made India a strong democracy. We have adopted the system of parliamentary democracy. Therefore, our Parliament is the temple of our democracy which provides us highest forum where we discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of our people.  It is a matter of great pride for all Indians that our Parliament will soon be housed in a new building. It will be a fitting statement of our outlook: It will honour our legacy while also walking in step with the contemporary world. It is more than symbolic that the new building will be inaugurated in the year of the 75th anniversary of Independence. The government has planned many initiatives to make this special year memorable, and the most exciting of them all may as well be the Gaganyaan mission. Pilots of the Indian Air Force have been receiving training abroad.  When they fly off into space, India will become only the fourth nation on the planet to carry out a manned space mission. When it comes to the flights of our ambitions, we don’t let any limitations define us. Yet we keep our feet on the ground. We acknowledge that we still have a long way to go in realising the dreams of those who won the freedom for us. Our Constitution neatly summarises those dreams in four words: Justice, Liberty, Equality and Fraternity. We must strive for more equality in an unequal world, more justice in unjust circumstances. Justice has come to encompass a larger range of connotations, including economic and environmental justice. The road ahead is not easy. We will have to negotiate many twists and turns, but we have the benefit of incomparable guidance. It comes to us from diverse sources, from the venerable seers of millennia ago, down to the sages and leaders of more recent times. In the spirit of “unity in diversity”, we as a nation are following the right course. This vision derived from the unique Indian heritage is going to be helpful not only to us but to the whole world in this century. Modern industrial civilization has posed serious challenges before humankind. Climate change has become a reality of life, with seas rising, glaciers melting and temperatures soaring. India is proud of not only adhering to the Paris climate agreement but doing more than what the country has committed to protect the climate. However, the world desperately needs a course correction. This is why the world is increasingly turning to the wisdom of India, as created by the authors of the Vedas and Upanishads, as depicted in the Ramayana and Mahabharata, as taught by Lord Mahavira, Lord Buddha and Guru Nanak and as reflected in the lives of the likes of Mahatma Gandhi. Learning the art of living in tune with nature requires effort, Gandhiji says, but once you establish a relationship with rivers and mountains, birds and animals, nature reveals its secrets to you. Let us resolve to listen to this message of Gandhiji and also to make sacrifices for the sake of the land we live in. The spirit of patriotism and sacrifice was paramount among our freedom fighters. They faced all kinds of challenges without caring for their own interests. I have seen that in the face of Corona crisis, lakhs of people have taken enormous risks to protect others, with the spirit of selfless service for humanity. I convey my profound appreciation for all such covid warriors. Many of them succumbed to Covid-19. I pay homage to them. Recently, on the occasion of 'Kargil Vijay Diwas', I wanted to visit the 'Kargil War Memorial - Dras' in Ladakh to pay homage to our brave soldiers. But due to bad weather, it was not possible for me to reach that monument. On that day, I paid homage to our brave soldiers at the 'Dagger War Memorial' in Baramulla. That memorial has been built in the memory of all the soldiers who have made the supreme sacrifice in their line of duty. While appreciating the valour and sacrifice of those brave warriors, I noticed that the war memorial has a motto inscribed: “मेरा हर काम, देश के नाम” which means, each and every deed of mine is for the nation. All of us should imbibe this motto as a mantra and work with full devotion and dedication for the development of the nation. I would like that all of us come together to take India forward on the path of progress with the spirit of keeping the interest of the nation and society foremost. Dear Fellow Citizens, I extend my greetings especially to the members of the armed forces, who have guarded our freedom, valiantly and gladly making supreme sacrifice when necessary. I also extend my greetings to the members of the Indian diaspora, who have represented the motherland well wherever they have made home. I once again congratulate all of you, on the eve of India’s 75th Independence Day. While celebrating this anniversary, I cannot stop my mind from imagining a powerful, prosperous and peaceful India of 2047 when we will celebrate 100 years of our independence. I wish that all our people come out of the difficulties caused by the Covid pandemic and move ahead on the path of happiness and prosperity.Once again, my best wishes to all of you! Thank you, Jai Hind! Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovinds-independence-day-speech-full-text-1019783.html
14-08-2021||National||Traffickers use social media to prey on schoolgirls||With her school closed for over a year and little to do at home, 15-year-old Shahida (name changed) started spending more time on social media. Soon, the teenager was in a relationship with a 24-year-old man, Aadil, who contacted her on a social media site. He told her that he would send her to a good school and look after her well if she married him. Eventually, he managed to persuade the girl to elope with him. With her family struggling financially since her father lost his job during lockdown, Shahida was excited about the good life that Aadil promised to give her. At the end of May, when Aadil came to take Shahida with him, child representatives of the Village Child Protection Committee alerted a social worker who stopped the wedding in time. "Aadil made me believe that I could go to a good school if I married him. He said that would also make my school admission easier," said Shahida, who lives with her family in West Bengal's South 24 Parganas district. "I agreed to his proposal as I hoped to have one square meal a day. I never thought that there might be danger lurking for me," she said. Rita Paramick, a frontline child protection worker with Save the Children, who stopped Shahida's wedding, said Shahida's is one of the many cases of traffickers using social media to target children, who are spending a lot more time online as schools are closed and they can't even go out to play. "These days, traffickers have changed their modus operandi. Social media is one platform through which they trap young children like Shahida," she said. "Children have been out of school for more than a year now and girls like Shahida, who are living in extreme poverty, are always soft targets for predators," she added. Mamata Sardar, a youth advocate for Save the Children in West Bengal, said girls are increasingly being lured into marriage on social media. "As most children are now at home and attending classes online, they're glued to social media," she said. Sardar said she has stepped up vigilance as parents of many children have lost their jobs during the pandemic, leading to an increased possibility of child trafficking. She said she has counselled at least three girls who were almost ready to marry men who contacted them on social media. "Since the second wave of the pandemic, I have intervened to stop five child marriages and convinced the girls' parents to let them finish their education before they marry them off," she added. In one such case, the unemployed father of a 15-year-old girl fixed her marriage so that he would have one less mouth to feed. He didn't even consult his wife. When the girl's mother found out, she informed a frontline child protection worker of their village in South 24 Parganas. The frontline child protection worker made the girl's father understand that marrying her before the age of 18 was illegal and that he should let her continue her studies. Anindit Roy Chowdhury, director - Programmes and Policy, Save the Children, said child marriages have risen sharply during the pandemic and are even being held in villages that have not seen any in years. "Child marriage is extremely harmful to girls. Not only does it mean that they are unable to continue their education but also poses danger to their physical and mental health," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/traffickers-use-social-media-to-prey-on-schoolgirls-1019795.html
14-08-2021||National||AIIMS Director points out why children will be 'more susceptible' if third Covid wave strikes||AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said on Saturday that the country might not see a third wave of coronavirus disease but it largely depended on people following Covid appropriate behaviour. He, however, also stressed that children will be more vulnerable if at all the third wave strikes. Talking to reporters at the Gitam Institute, where he received the Foundation Day Award in recognition of his services, Guleria noted that the only unpredictable part was how the virus behaved. "But I don’t think that we will see a third wave which will be as bad as the second wave," he observed. Referring to apprehensions that the possible third wave could infect children more, the AIIMS chief pointed out that children would be "more susceptible" because they were not being vaccinated. "The general feeling is that adults are getting vaccinated, children are not being vaccinated and, therefore, if there is a new wave it will affect those who are more susceptible. Children will be more susceptible," he noted. More than 50 per cent of children have already been infected as per the sero-survey and have antibodies, Guleria pointed out. But, he added, hopefully there would be a (Covid-19) vaccine for children also coming up in another month or two. Then children would also start getting vaccinated. He said the vaccines were still effective as far as severe disease was concerned. "Vaccines are helping in preventing severe disease and death from Covid-19. Infections are still happening but those infected are predominantly those who have not been vaccinated. That’s why we are saying more and more people need to get vaccinated," he added. "Those getting infected even after vaccination, what we call breakthrough infection, are predominantly getting milder infection. So vaccines are effective in giving protection from severe disease," he noted. Guleria, a renowned pulmonologist, was presented the Gitam Foundation Day Award that carried Rs 10 lakh and a citation. Gitam Institutions chairman M Sri Bharat presented the award and felicitated Guleria on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-director-points-out-why-children-will-be-more-susceptible-if-third-covid-wave-strikes-1019797.html
14-08-2021||National||We should not let our guard down: President Kovind on Covid-19 situation||The public healthcare infrastructure of even the advanced economies could not withstand the Covid-19 crisis, President Ram Nath Kovind said, adding that the ‘leadership’ had risen to the challenge posed by the second wave of the pandemic in India. “If we have learned our lessons (from the second Covid-19 wave) well, we know that this is the time of extra care and caution. We shall not let our guard down,” Kovind said, addressing the nation on the eve of Independence Day. The President underlined that the vaccines were the best possible protection offered by science. “Under the world's biggest vaccination campaign going on in our country, more than 50 crore fellow citizens have been vaccinated so far,” he said, urging all eligible citizens who are yet to get vaccinated to do so at the earliest and also inspire others. The brutal second wave of the pandemic resulted in the death of over 2.5 lakh people across the country in April-May this year – almost double the toll during the first wave. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government drew flak from the opposition parties for alleged failures in responding to the crisis, as a large number of people died without being able to get admitted in the hospitals, which ran out of beds. A number of people also reportedly died without getting oxygen support. The President said that the second Covid-19 wave had brought the country’s public healthcare infrastructure under stress. “The reality is that no infrastructure, even of advanced economies, could withstand a crisis of such enormous proportions,” he said but noted that efforts had been made on war-footing to plug the gaps and the leadership had risen to the challenge. “The government’s endeavours were supplemented by initiatives of the states, private sector healthcare facilities, the civil society and others,” he said. Kovind also acknowledged the support Government of India received from the other nations to deal with the situation. “In this extraordinary mission, foreign nations shared the essentials generously, just as India had reached out to many nations with medicine, equipment and vaccines,” he said. The President said that the economic impact of the pandemic was as disastrous as its health impact. The government has been concerned about the lower middle classes and the poor, as well as about the small and medium industries. The government had distributed food grains to about 80 crore people in May and June and had announced a new stimulus package worth Rupees 6.28 lakh crore to boost the selected Covid-affected sectors, said Kovind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-should-not-let-our-guard-down-president-kovind-on-covid-19-situation-1019815.html
14-08-2021||National||Respect for diversity, freedom of expression essence of democracy: Advani||Amid a stand-off between the Modi government and the opposition, BJP veteran L K Advani on Saturday said it was his strong belief that the essence of Indian democracy is respect for diversity and freedom of expression. In a statement on the eve of 75th Independence Day, Advani, a member of the BJP’s Margdarshank Mandal, said respect for diversity and freedom of expression has contributed to India being a successful democracy. “Hence it is my sincere desire that all of us should collectively strive in strengthening this important democratic ingredient,” the nonagenarian leader said. On a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an appeal to observe August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, Advani said he himself was a victim of partition and painfully recalled the physical and emotional trauma this tragedy caused to the displaced people on both sides of the border. “It has been seventy five years since, and over the years, India has blossomed into a strong, prosperous, and robust nation, despite its many challenges,” the former Deputy Prime Minister said. Advani said India’s global profile has risen remarkably, the world was looking to our country for leadership in overcoming many pressing challenges – from accelerating the global economy to meeting the climate change obligations. “I am happy to see a wave of national pride and self-confidence among Indians of all walks of life,” he said. Advani said he was also grateful that life gave him an opportunity to devote his life in service of the nation in the post Independence era and make his own humble contribution through the instrument of the Bharatiya Janata Party, which was co-founded in association with some of the most dedicated and selfless patriots. He said the theme of India's 75th Independence Day is ‘Nation First, Always First’, echoed with the guiding principle of his own life and the BJP – ‘Nation First, Party Next, Self Last.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/respect-for-diversity-freedom-of-expression-essence-of-democracy-advani-1019816.html
14-08-2021||National||BCAS, Delhi Airport organise Fit India Freedom Run||Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), in collaboration with Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) on Saturday, organised Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 to commemorate 75th Independence Day. The Fit India Freedom Run 2.0 was flagged off by Ankit Garg, Deputy Director-General, BCAS Headquarters in which several participants including RAXA personnel, who are deployed for security at large office spaces at the airport, took part. The Run started from the flag staff near New Udan Bhawan at Delhi Airport and the participants covered a distance of 3.5 km, passing through the general aviation terminal and public transport centre before reaching the finish line at the flag mast. The event aims to bring awareness about behavioural changes and motivate common people towards a more physically active lifestyle. Fit India Movement was launched on August 29, 2019, by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make fitness an integral part of our daily lives. “Such initiatives will motivate people to move towards a more physically active lifestyle and stay fit,” Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO-DIAL, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bcas-delhi-airport-organise-fit-india-freedom-run-1019817.html
14-08-2021||National||Over 1.5 crore Indians to record and upload national anthem on online government portal on Independence Day||More than 1.5 crore Indians have recorded and uploaded the national anthem on the government's portal rashtragaan.in to mark India's 75th Independence Day, the Ministry of Culture said on Saturday. On July 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had given a clarion call to the people of the country to sing the national anthem together in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme. "More than 1.5 crore Indians from India and across the world have recorded and uploaded their videos to achieve a never done before record on this very special occasion. This is evidence of the inherent unity, strength and harmony of India,” the culture ministry said in a statement. The ministry had created a programme to enable people to sing the national anthem ‘Jana Gana Mana’ by August 15 and upload it on the website. The government had also made it mandatory for all school children to record and upload the same. "As is evident from the record-breaking numbers, people from all parts of the country, from all sections have enthusiastically participated in this unique initiative. Children, senior citizens, youth, women, no one wanted to be left behind from this feeling of community and shared pride. "Eminent artists, well-known scholars, top leaders, senior officers, brave soldiers, famous sportsmen to farmers, labourers, people with special needs, everyone came together and sang the National Anthem in one voice," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-15-crore-indians-to-record-and-upload-national-anthem-on-online-government-portal-on-independence-day-1019822.html
14-08-2021||National Politics||Parliament being made irrelevant by Modi govt, presiding officers complicit : Jairam Ramesh||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Friday alleged that Parliament was being made "irrelevant" by the Modi government and the presiding officers were complicit. Explaining further, Ramesh said one of the reasons for the opposition getting agitated was that only 12 per cent bills were sent to select committees for scrutiny under the current government and 27 per cent were sent in the previous Modi dispensation. "Why's the opposition agitated? One of the reasons: Only 12 per cent of bills in Modi-II have gone through any parliamentary committee scrutiny. This was 27 per cent in Modi-I, 71 per cent in UPA-II and 60 per cent in UPA-I," he said on Twitter. "Parliament is being made irrelevant by Modi government and the presiding officers are complicit," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-being-made-irrelevant-by-modi-govt-presiding-officers-complicit-jairam-ramesh-1019584.html
14-08-2021||National Politics||What went wrong: CPI(M) review says was wrong in equating Trinamool with BJP||A 'what went wrong' examination in West Bengal has led the CPI(M) to acknowledge that it was wrong in its assessment of equating the Trinamool Congress (TMC) with the BJP on a single plane and under-estimated the "growing hostility" between both the parties even as people chose the Mamata Banerjee-led party over them in tackling the saffron party. The assessment is part of the 'Review of Assembly Elections in Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Assam', adopted at the Central Committee meeting held between August 6 and 8 in the national capital. The CPI(M) had campaigned that TMC and BJP were two sides of the same coin and had formed Samjyukta Morcha through an electoral understanding with Congress and ISF, which the review said did not emerge cohesively with the Congress largely disowning the ISF. It said ISF presence affected the cohesiveness of the Samyukta Morcha despite the secular nature of its programme and candidates from marginalised sections could not completely erase the image of it being a Muslim minority outfit. The review said that the CPI(M) or its allies were not seen as a "credible alternative" to the BJP while voters felt TMC was capable of defeating the BJP. The results in these assembly elections in West Bengal were "devastating" for the CPI(M) as it did not win a single seat for the first time since 1946 and for the first time in independent India, no Communist was elected to the state assembly. Its vote-share declined from 19.75 per cent in the 2016 Assembly polls to 6.28 per cent in 2019 and further to 4.73 per cent in 2021 Assembly polls. During this period, the review said the party and mass outfits organised many big protests and its Brigade rallies had a participation of more than 10 lakh people. "Yet the question remains why such mobilisations and actions have not translated into better electoral results or reversed the trend of the decline in our mass base," it said. Referring to what went wrong in its strategy in Bengal, the CPI(M) said the political bipolarity in the state was strengthening for some years now and it sharpened during and after the 2019 elections. While insisting that the BJP-TMC bipolar projection negating any other electoral alternative in the state was actively supported and abetted by the corporate media and influential sections of the ruling classes, the review was ready to acknowledge that it was "wrong to draw the conclusion that there was a collusion between the TMC and BJP to achieve such bipolarity". The review referred to Trinamool Congress' alliance with BJP in A B Vajpayee era and said the party served as the piggyback for the RSS-BJP to get a foothold in Bengal but the BJP's rise countrywide and it seeking to gain control in all the states, created "new ruptures in this alliance". The party accepted that it "wrongly assessed" that the large-scale defections from Trinamool to BJP and their return post-elections as a reflection of the collusion between the two in creating a bipolarity in the state. With the BJP eating up regional parties it aligned with, the review said the "consequent growing hostility" between the BJP and the Trinamool was "underestimated" by the party. This resulted in diluting sharpness of the anti-BJP campaign and often equating BJP and Trinamool Congress in practice, despite the statements that BJP was its principal target. "The position of our party as an uncompromising defender of secular democracy opposing the BJP suffered," the review admitted. It also said that they over-estimated the anti-incumbency against Trinamool Congress while under-estimating the efforts made by Mamata to overcome this. The CPI(M) mistakenly brushed aside these contemptuously as 'dole politics', leading to alienation of a section from the party and support Trinamool. The personal tirade against Mamata by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah generated a degree of sympathy among the people for the Trinamool likening it to a David vs Goliath fight and the sympathy was further bolstered with the Chief Minister campaigning on a wheelchair. "However exaggerated her injuries may have been, this generated empathy particularly among the women voters. Thirdly, they succeeded in a sort of social engineering targeting specific groups with specific concessions to earn their support. These factors, which can be clearly seen in retrospect, were not properly taken into account by us," the review said. The party also said that the Nandigram episode and the slogan 'land as our basis and industrialisation as our future' raised then haunted its prospects as references to it during the poll campaign led people to view the CPI(M) as continuing land acquisition policy. "Further, in the current situation of deep agrarian crisis and the ongoing farmers’ struggles for the repeal of the agri-laws and the legal right of MSP, any talk of acquiring land from the peasantry, particularly when they are subjected to the terror of the land mafia, only strengthened the alienation of the peasantry from us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-went-wrong-cpim-review-says-was-wrong-in-equating-trinamool-with-bjp-1019630.html
14-08-2021||National Politics||August 14 to be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Saturday that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in the memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people, saying the pain of partition can never be forgotten. Modi noted that millions of people were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence caused by the partition. May the Partition Horrors Remembrance Day, the prime minister said, keep "reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment". Pakistan was carved out as a Muslim country after the division of India by the British colonial rule in 1947, and millions of people were displaced and many lakhs of them lost their lives as large scale rioting broke out. India will be celebrating its 75th Independence Day on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/august-14-to-be-observed-as-partition-horrors-remembrance-day-says-pm-modi-1019662.html
14-08-2021||National Politics||RS Chairman Venkaiah Naidu reviews footage of scuffle with marshals||Naidu went to Parliament House where he watched the "entire recording" to ascertain the sequence of events. He was not in the House when MPs' protest against the government passing of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill took place. He was also not present when some MPs climbed the reporters' table on August 10 during the discussion on farmers' issues, prompting him to make a statement in the Upper House condemning the action during which he broke down. Sources said Naidu is deeply anguished at the turn of events and wants action taken against the erring Opposition MPs, which will act as a "deterrent" in the future. Interestingly, the government did not move a motion in Rajya Sabha on August 11 seeking suspension of MPs apparently not to disturb its plans to get the Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill, which restores states' power to identify Other Backward Classes (OBCs), passed. However, in the case of Trinamool Congress MP Santanu Sen snatching an official paper from Information and Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in July, the government had moved a motion and got him suspended for the remainder of the session the very next day. It was BJD MP Sasmit Patra, a member of the presiding officers' panel, who conducted the passing of the OBC Bill and the insurance bill. Sources said Naidu is seeking legal advice on the action to be taken against MPs, who are accused of unruly behaviour in the House. Former Rajya Sabha Secretary General VK Agnihotri among others are being consulted on the next course of action. Naidu also held discussions earlier with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on the "unfortunate sequence of events in Parliament" and decided to examine in detail unruly scenes in the past and action taken for deciding the future course of action. They strongly felt that such unruly behaviour should not be tolerated and appropriate action should be taken, officials had said. Both felt that such "persistent disruptions in defiance of repeated appeals" from the Chair and in "violation" of the rules have "dented the dignity and stature" of Parliament. They both said that these events need to be taken a "serious view of". Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rs-chairman-venkaiah-naidu-reviews-footage-of-scuffle-with-marshals-1019735.html
14-08-2021||National Politics||Want Congress to be part of Opposition unity, not third front: TMC||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) in its official mouthpiece Jago Bangla stated that it does not want to form an Opposition unity against the BJP without the Congress but reminded the grand old party that it has to be treated with respect. The TMC also said that it does not want any “third alternative” but an alternative to the current ruling dispensation at the Centre. "We are never speaking of alliance without the Congress. Instead of any third alternative, the opposition’s aim should be providing an alternative to BJP,” the TMC stated. Referring to its skipping a meeting of opposition parties at the office of the Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge in Parliament on Thursday, the TMC made it clear that it has to be duly invited to such programs. It reminded the Congress that its sincerity for the “unity of non-BJP, secular, democratic parties in the interest of the country” is beyond doubt as party supremo Mamata Banerjee recently met Congress president Sonia Gandhi at her residence in the presence of Rahul Gandhi. “Our anti-BJP stand is established inside and outside the Parliament. But we want the opposition unity to take place following specific rules and processes. Actions such as a sudden invitation to attend a procession will not do for the Trinamool,” stated the TMC. Adapting a hot and cold attitude towards the Congress, the TMC reminded the grand old party that it defeated the BJP in West Bengal on its own strength while the Left-Congress alliance drew a blank. The TMC stated that it was not concerned about the “leadership of the alliance” but its top priority is to end the “anti-people policies” of the BJP. It accused the Congress of failing to fulfill its role at the national level, resulting in the BJP coming to power at the Centre with a massive mandate. “If Congress fought by establishing itself as a credible alternative, then the BJP would not have got so many seats in the last Lok Sabha elections. Hence, lessons have to be learnt from the mistakes in earlier attempts of forming Opposition unity," the TMC stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/want-congress-to-be-part-of-opposition-unity-not-third-front-tmc-1019737.html
14-08-2021||National Politics||Harish Rawat: Cong’s unchallenged leader in Uttarakhand faces many hurdles||For the wily Harish Rawat, the veteran Congress leader from Uttarakhand, politics has always been a battle of nerves and he appears to have been made of nerves of steel. The septuagenarian former Uttarakhand chief minister is also a survivor of sorts, having convinced the Congress leadership, aiming for a generational change across the country, to place their trust in him ahead of the Assembly elections in the hill state. Having lost the chief minister’s race after ensuring the Congress’ victory in the 2012 Assembly elections, Rawat chose to wait till the central leadership’s choice Vijay Bahuguna stumbled on the administration front after the Kedarnath floods of 2013. The Congress handed over the ‘crown of thorns’ to Rawat on February 1, 2014, just months before the general elections, helping him fulfil a long-cherished dream of becoming the chief minister. His tenure ended on a sour note with Rawat losing the 2017 polls from both the seats he contested and Congress ending a distant second to BJP which won 57 seats in the 70-member house. Sensing the uneasiness in the BJP ranks quite early, Rawat gradually increased his tours of the state, re-establishing himself as the only leader with a mass appeal in the faction-ridden Congress. Rawat, who did not hold any official party post in the Uttarakhand Congress, then egged on the party leadership to name a chief ministerial face for the next Assembly polls and even suggested his arch-rival and the then Leader of the Opposition Indira Hridayesh as a possible candidate. Having helped the Congress settle the leadership issue in Punjab by anointing Rahul Gandhi favourite Navjot Singh Sidhu as the state unit chief, Rawat has now set his eyes on winning back Uttarakhand. On July 22, Congress named Rawat as the Chairman of the Campaign Committee for the 2022 Assembly elections, edging out his arch-rival Pritam Singh from the post of the president of the state unit of the party. Ganesh Godiyal, a Rawat loyalist, was appointed as the Uttarakhand Congress president, and the AICC leadership also accepted his formula of appointing four working presidents in the state unit. The challenges before the “unchallenged leader” of the Congress in Uttarakhand are immense, the topmost being getting the support of the sulking leaders within the party. But his focus, at present, is to take advantage of the unease within the BJP ranks over the appointment of 45-year-old greenhorn Pushkar Singh Dhami as the chief minister. Senior leaders Satpal Maharaj and Harak Singh Rawat, who were among those who quit the Congress to join the BJP before the 2017 elections, were upset with Dhami’s appointment. Back to playing mind games, Rawat declared that some BJP leaders had sent him feelers and Congress’ doors were open for “anyone willing to join it but after proper analysis”. He sought to send another message to the sulking BJP leaders by appointing Chandra Shekhar Upadhyay, the great-grandson of BJP ideologue Deendayal Upadhyay, as his advisor, citing his role in fighting court cases of those involved in the statehood movement. In Uttarakhand, Rawat is seen as a great survivor, who bettered the BJP in their attempts to topple his government in 2016 by mounting a tough legal challenge. Though he lost the 2017 elections, his tooth and nail fight against the BJP won him admirers within Congress. Born in Almora in the Kumaon region of Uttarakhand, Rawat is a product of student politics at Lucknow University, where he was known for his feisty nature. His Lok Sabha entry was in style having defeated another Almora-born leader Murli Manohar Joshi, then a Janata Party candidate, in the 1980 elections. Rawat retained the Almora seat for two consecutive elections – 1984 and 1989. He built a team of loyalists in the Almora Parliamentary seat, where he tasted defeat for five successive elections, but persevered and kept himself busy in the party’s trade union outfit INTUC and Seva Dal. He was considered as a front-runner for the post of the chief minister when Congress won the first-ever Assembly poll in Uttarakhand in 2002. However, the party opted for Narayan Dutt Tiwari. Over the years, Rawat has earned the trust of the party high-command by strongly rooting for Rahul Gandhi’s return as party chief and hitting out at the G-23 change seekers in the party. Despite his detractors joining the BJP en masse in 2016, Rawat still is on a trickier terrain in Uttarakhand as newer rivals have emerged in the party who have expressed their disappointment at his projection as the next chief minister. The attempts by the Aam Aadmi Party to make inroads in Uttarakhand too pose a challenge to Congress. Rawat appears to be making every possible move in his political strategy book to get closer to the 'crown of thorns' yet another time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/harish-rawat-cong-s-unchallenged-leader-in-uttarakhand-faces-many-hurdles-1019762.html
14-08-2021||National Politics||Political row over Modi's pitch for Partition Horrors Remembrance Day||Congress hit out at the move and released a letter of the Prime Minister to Modi to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan written on March 22 this year in which the former had greeted Pakistan on the occasion of the National Day of Pakistan and said that India desires a cordial relationship with the people of Pakistan. The political row kicked up ahead of state elections in seven states including Congress-ruled Punjab, where emotions run high on the issue of displacement during partition. The partition issue has also been frequently raked up by the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, which goes to polls in March. In the polarised politics of Western UP in particular, Pakistan has frequently been raked up during polls. A day before the 75th Independence Day of the country, Modi said on Twitter, "Partition’s pains can never be forgotten. Millions of our sisters and brothers were displaced and many lost their lives due to mindless hate and violence. In memory of the struggles and sacrifices of our people, 14th August will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day." The Prime Minister further said, "May the #PartitionHorrorsRemembranceDay keep reminding us of the need to remove the poison of social divisions, disharmony and further strengthen the spirit of oneness, social harmony and human empowerment." Soon after, Home Minister Amit Shah greeted the Prime Minister for this "sensitive decision" of celebrating the day in the "memory of the sacrifice and struggle of numerous people displaced due to partition" while the Home Ministry notified August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted that this decision is a "testament to his sensitivity". "Announcing August 14 as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day is a rightful tribute to the struggles and sacrifices of our people who were a casualty of the Congress’ ambition and tunnel vision," Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting also hailed the decision saying it would be a fitting tribute to all those who lost their lives due to the partition and would remind the present and future generations of Indians of the pain and suffering faced by the people during the partition, it said. "Independence Day, which is celebrated on August 15 every year, is a joyous and proud occasion for any nation; however, with the sweetness of freedom also came the trauma of partition. The birth of the newly independent Indian nation was accompanied by violent pangs of partition that left permanent scars on millions of Indians. The pain and violence of partition remain deeply etched in the nation's memory. While the country has moved on to become the largest democracy and the third-largest economy of the world, the pain of partition suffered by the nation can never be forgotten," the ministry said in a statement. Noting that the partition caused one of the largest migrations in human history, affecting about 20 million people, the ministry said the nation salutes those sons and daughters of our beloved motherland who had to sacrifice their lives in the frenzy of violence. "Modi ji expresses love for Pakistan when there are no elections but takes refuge in partition as soon as polls come. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had begun the preparation of UP elections. He had  greeted Pakistan on March 22 on the occasion of Pakistan Day and given greetings and good wishes to the people of Pakistan on their Independence Day," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. The party also shared a screenshot of Modi to buttress the point and released his letter written to the Pakistan Prime Minister. "Excellency, On the occasion of the National Day of Pakistan. I extend my greetings to the people of Pakistan. As a neighbouring country, India desires cordial relations with the people of Pakistan. For this, an environment of trust, devoid of terror and hostility, is imperative. Excellency, at this difficult time for humanity, I would like to convey my best wishes to you and the people of Pakistan for dealing with the challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic. Please accept, Excellency, the assurances of my highest consideration," Modi had said in the letter to Khan. Attacking the Prime Minister for his letter, Surjewala reminded it was between March 22 and March 24 in 1940 that the foundation of the partition was laid when All India Muslim League in its Lahore session presented the concept of Pakistan. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-row-over-modis-pitch-for-partition-horrors-remembrance-day-1019771.html
14-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition MPs of Rajya Sabha presiding panel refuse to chair House||Three Opposition MPs — one each from Congress, Trinamool Congress and NCP — who are part of the presiding panel of Rajya Sabha refused to chair the proceedings during the entire Monsoon Session, citing that it was "unethical" to preside over the House when their colleagues were protesting. There are six members in the presiding panel or the Vice Chairman’s panel and they are BJP’s Bhubaneshwar Kalita and Surender Nagar, BJD’s Sasmit Patra, Congress' L Hanumanthaiah, Trinamool's Sukendu Sekhar Ray and NCP's Vandana Chavan. Hanumanthaiah, Ray and Chavan did not chair the House during the entire Monsoon Session, which saw acrimony between the government and the Opposition. The Session ended on August 11, two days ahead of schedule. The three MPs informed Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who clears the roster for the presiding officers, about their inability to chair the proceedings during the Session. When contacted, Hanumanthaiah told DH that the MPs took the decision after consulting each other. "The whole Opposition was in protest. We were also participating in the protest. In such a situation, it is embarrassing to preside over the House. The government was not listening to us," he said. The Karnataka MP said it would not have been a problem if the protest was for one or two days. "The protest was continuing. We thought it was not ethical to chair the proceedings when the government refused to accept our demand," he said, adding they had explained the situation to Harivansh. Chavan said it was morally not correct to preside over the House when they were protesting and there was no sight of easing the deadlock. "All of us were protesting. Then chairing the proceedings was pretty odd. For myself, I decided not to do chair proceedings. Others also decided not to do so," she told DH. "I personally met the Deputy Chairman and informed him about the decision. I told him that when the House is functioning smoothly, we will do our job. But the present situation does not allow me to conduct the House," she said. Ray could not be reached for his comments. Sources said some MPs tried to reason with the three MPs but they remained adamant in not sitting on the Chair. The MPs said it would be difficult for them to reconcile their position as an MP and Vice Chairperson, as controlling the protesting MPs would have been difficult. While those in the Vice Chairperson panel in Rajya Sabha took this stand, Opposition MPs in Lok Sabha adopted a different stand and presided over the proceedings, including during Opposition protests. Congress' Kodikkunnil Suresh and Trinamool's Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar among others presided over Lok Sabha proceedings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-mps-of-rajya-sabha-presiding-panel-refuse-to-chair-house-1019786.html
14-08-2021||National Politics||Parliament 'temple of demoracy', says President Kovind days after ruckus||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday said Parliament is the "temple of the country’s democracy" which provides the highest forum to discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of people, remarks that came against the backdrop of the recent ruckus and continuous disruptions that led to the abrupt adjournment of the two Houses. In a televised address to the nation on the eve of the 75th Independence Day, the President also referred to the second Covid-19 wave, and said the country is yet to come out of its devastating effects. He asserted this is the time for extra care and caution, and people should not let their guard down. President Kovind also sought to address the concerns raised by protesting farmers' unions against the three contentious farm laws, saying the series of agricultural marketing reforms will empower our ‘annadata’ farmers and help them get better price for their produce. Referring to the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, he lauded the "stellar" performance by the country’s sportspersons. President Kovind said when India won independence, many sceptics thought democracy would not survive in India. “Little did they know that roots of democracy were nurtured in this soil in ancient times, and even in modern times India was ahead of many western nations in offering franchise to all adults, regardless of any distinctions." The founding fathers had reposed their faith in the wisdom of the people, and ‘we, the people of India’ have made India a strong democracy, he added. “We have adopted the system of parliamentary democracy. Therefore, our Parliament is the temple of our democracy which provides us highest forum where we discuss, debate and decide issues for the well-being of our people,” the President said. Both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha were adjourned sine die on August 11, two days ahead of the scheduled date of August 13, after a tumultuous Monsoon session that witnessed unruly scenes in the Upper House on Wednesday when the Insurance bill was being passed. The Government and the opposition parties had traded charges over the abrupt end of the Monsoon session which was marred by continuous disruptions since it commenced on July 19. The opposition parties accused the government of crushing their voice in Parliament, "murdering" democracy and bringing "outsiders" as marshals to beat up MPs, a charge denied by the government. The government on its part had alleged that it was pre-planned by the opposition to not allow Parliament to function. Kovind also said it is a matter of great pride for all Indians that our Parliament will soon be housed in a new building. "It will be a fitting statement of our outlook. It will honour our legacy while also walking in step with the contemporary world, he said, adding that it is more than symbolic that the new building will be inaugurated in the year of the 75th anniversary of Independence." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-temple-of-demoracy-says-president-kovind-days-after-ruckus-1019787.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Why wall of containers has been erected around Red Fort||Independence Day celebrations have always posed a threat to the nation's security as VIPs and the public in large numbers gather at these events. This year, Delhi Police have taken unusual steps to secure the Red Fort, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation to mark the 75th Independence Day celebrations.  In order to separate the Prime Minister and the public, Delhi Police have erected a wall made of shipping containers at the main gate of Red Fort, officials said on Saturday. The containers have been placed in such a way that no one is able to see inside the premises of the Mughal-era fort from where the Prime Minister will address the nation on Independence Day, a senior police officer said. Nobody would be able to peek inside the fort from the Chandni Chowk area. This is the first time that police have put up such a high wall, officials said, adding the containers would be decorated with graffiti. On Republic Day this year, a large number of protesters had forced their way into Red Fort demanding the repeal of three farm laws. They even hoisted flags from the ramparts of the fort where the Prime Minister unfurls the Tricolour on Independence Day. On January 26, the national capital witnessed clashes between protesters and police during the tractor parade by farmers. A total of 394 police personnel were injured while 30 police vehicles were damaged in the violence. In July, Balaji Srivastava, the then Delhi Police Commissioner, had issued orders, prohibiting the flying of aerial objects like drones, paragliders, and hot air balloons. The order shall remain in force in the national capital for a period of 32 days till August 16. The Delhi Police has seized a drone that was flying near Vijay Ghat, the backside of the Red Fort. The Jaguar highway patrolling team of the north district was patrolling in the area on Monday when it saw a drone near Vijay Ghat. A web series was being shot in the area, police said, adding that permission was granted to shoot the show but no sanction was given to fly a drone. A case was registered in this regard under relevant sections at Kotwali police station and the device was seized. (Inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-wall-of-containers-has-been-erected-around-red-fort-1019637.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Dalit minor rape case: NCPCR summons Facebook officials over Rahul Gandhi's Instagram post||The country's apex child rights body NCPCR has summoned Facebook officials Tuesday for not responding to its notice flagging Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Instagram post allegedly revealing the identity of a nine-year-old rape and murder victim. The latest NCPCR communication to Facebook, which owns the photo and video-sharing social networking platform Instagram, follows its notice seeking action against Gandhi's profile for posting a video of the affected family. "However, no reply/action taken report has been received by you," the commission said in its follow-up letter. The commission has now asked Facebook officials to appear at 5 pm Tuesday in-person at the NCPCR Office in Janpath or through video conferencing along with the details of the action taken.  Earlier, the NCPCR had asked Facebook to take appropriate action against the Instagram profile of Gandhi over the alleged violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video. Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, prohibits the disclosure of the identity of a child in any form of media and Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, also states that no information or photo of a child should be published in any form of media which could reveal the identity of the child. This information under Section 23 of the POCSO Act includes his/her name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of the child. On August 4, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) wrote to Twitter, asking it to take action against the handle of Gandhi for posting the photo of the family. The microblogging site blocked the account of Gandhi following the complaint. Twitter on its part has said that it has followed the due process as Gandhi's tweet on the family of the victim was against its rules and the law. A Congress leader Saturday the account has now been restored. Gandhi last week met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Twitter and wrote in Hindi, "Parents' tears are saying only one thing their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path to justice". The girl died under mysterious circumstances when she went to get water from a cooler at a crematorium in the Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi. The girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident, demanding capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-minor-rape-case-ncpcr-summons-facebook-officials-over-rahul-gandhis-instagram-post-1019639.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Recovery of RPG launcher jolts security establishments in J&K||The recovery of a shoulder-fired explosive warhead - Rocket Propelled Grenade (RPG) launcher - has sent shockwaves among the security establishments in Kashmir as the weapon can inflict a lot of casualties. The use of the deadly weapon, which has the potential to damage even armored vehicles, marks a significant escalation in the region where militants were running short of arms till recently. The Army recovered the RPG launcher and its two projectiles from the militants, who had attempted to attack a convoy of Border Security Force in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district on Thursday evening. While one of the militants, identified as Usman from Pakistan, was later killed during a gunfight, the other one managed to escape from the security cordon. Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar, said it was after a long time that militants used a RPG. “The recoveries indicate how big a strike the militants were up to,” he said. The RPG-7 recovered from the Kulgam encounter is a shoulder-fired missile weapon that launches rockets equipped with an explosive warhead. It is after a long time that such a deadly weapon was used by militants to carry out an attack even though few such rusted weapons had been recovered during search operations. Sources said the recovery of the RPG has further fuelled suspicion that militants in Kashmir indeed have destructive weapons at their disposal -- ringing alarm bells amidst brass corridors. “Security agencies have taken the issue seriously and are gathering information on such an arsenal of militant groups operating in Kashmir,” they said. The slain militant Usman, according to the police, had infiltrated at least six months ago and was a close associate of Jaish-e-Mohammad top commander Ismail Alvi who was killed last month. “It is most likely that the RPG recovered in Kulgam had been sent from Pakistan in recent months. There is a likelihood that more such deadly weapons may have reached Kashmir already,” sources added. Former chief of J&K police, Shesh Paul Vaid says the recovery of RPG is “a matter of concern” and needs to be investigated as how these weapons reached Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recovery-of-rpg-launcher-jolts-security-establishments-in-jk-1019658.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Slaughtering cow inside house not a breach of public order: Allahabad High Court||In a significant judgement, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court has said that slaughtering a cow inside one's house cannot be considered to be an act of breach of public order. A division bench comprising Justice Ramesh Sinha and Justice Saroj Yadav made the observation while quashing the detention of three men under the National Security Act (NSA) on charges of cow slaughter. "Cutting cow beef in pieces in the secrecy of his own house can at best be described as a matter affecting law and order and not public order,'' the court said in its order delivered a few days back. ''The petitioners and co-accused were mutely arrested when they were found cutting beef in the wee hours of the morning in the house of the petitioners... We also do not know whether the cause was poverty, lack of employment or hunger, which may have compelled the petitioners and the other co-accused to take such a step... It is thus, a matter of quality and degree whether the act has been done in the public gaze and in an aggressive manner with scant regard to the sentiments of the other community or whether it has been done in a concealed manner, which can resolve the question whether the case is one involving public order, or is only a matter affecting law and order,'' it said. Citing a Supreme Court judgement in a case, the bench also said that it could not be inferred from a solitary incident that the petitioners would repeat the act. "The apex court has held that it is possible for the detaining authority to assume that the accused could repeat the action, but for reaching that conclusion there must be some material and circumstances on record, to justify such a conclusion... in the instant case there was no material for reaching the conclusion that the petitioners/detenues would repeat the activity in future,'' the court said. The police had arrested Parvez, Irfan and Rahamatullah after they were found to be cutting beef inside their house at Biswan in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur district, about 90 kilometres from here last year. The district administration later slapped the NSA on them stating that their act threatened public order and that there was a possibility that they would repeat the act if released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/slaughtering-cow-inside-house-not-a-breach-of-public-order-allahabad-high-court-1019676.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||NGT directs Delhi chief secy to take action over failure to maintain sewer channel at Saket Court||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Delhi chief secretary to take cognisance of a plea against failure to maintain the sewer channel adjacent to the Saket Court here. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel also requested the District and Sessions Judge (South) Saket to call a meeting on the administrative side of the local departments concerned for remedial action in the matter. “The State authorities are under obligation to provide pollution free environment which is part of the right to life. Discharge of untreated sewage into a water body is a criminal offence under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 as well as under the Indian Penal Code,” the bench said. The green panel said the issue raised in this application stands covered by its earlier order and monitoring mechanism under the Chief Secretary/Additional Chief Secretary Urban Development, Delhi, is in place. Thus, what remains is the execution, it added. “Instead of repeating the directions already passed in the said order, we direct Chief Secretary, Delhi to take cognisance of the problem highlighted in the application in course of monitoring of the control of pollution in the drains in Delhi for rejuvenation of Yamuna. “Since the applicant is a Bar Association, counsel for the applicants fairly stated that they will contribute to the solution in an appropriate manner which may be considered in any manner found helpful,” the tribunal said. Among other solutions, planting of trees on both sides of the drain as a safeguard against foul smell may also be explored, it said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Saket Bar Association against failure to maintain the sewer channel adjacent to Gate No. 1 and 2 of the Saket Court by the Delhi government, the Public Works Department (PWD) of Delhi and the Delhi Jal Board (DJB). The case set out in the application is that the petitioner is Saket Bar Association and represents 12,000 members and other residents who are affected by failure of the authorities in maintaining the sewer channel in question. The channel is clogged, affecting the environment and the public health, the plea said adding the Delhi chief minister was approached in 2018 but no action was taken. As per NGT orders, drains cannot be covered but have to be duly maintained so as to control the air/water pollution, the plea said. There is an SOP for cleaning the sewers, drains and septic tanks but the PWD of Delhi has failed to follow the same. At some places, sewer channel has been covered but the open drain, without proper maintenance is a source of foul smell and noxious gases, the petition said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-delhi-chief-secy-to-take-action-over-failure-to-maintain-sewer-channel-at-saket-court-1019692.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Bank fraud: ED arrests Chartered Accountant in Shakti Bhog money laundering case||A Chartered Accountant has been arrested here by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Delhi in connection with a money laundering case arising out of a Rs 3,269.42 crore bank loan fraud case against Shakti Bhog Foods Ltd. Raman Bhuraria was arrested on Friday for his "assistance and complicity" in the alleged fraud after a court rejected his anticipatory bail. Searches were also conducted at several premises linked to Bhuraria. He was produced before a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court that sent him to custody till August 20. During the searches, the ED said, various documents and digital evidence have been recovered. "The allegations against the accused (Bhuraria) include his active assistance and involvement in the bank fraud by way of round tripping through related entities. Siphoning off the funds was being done through fictitious sale and purchase through various dummy and other entities," the ED claimed. In July, the ED had arrested Shakti Bhog Foods Ltd Chairman and Managing Director Kewal Krishan Kumar in the case. The ED had filed a money laundering case against Shakti Bhog Foods Ltd following a CBI FIR that charged the company and others for criminal conspiracy, cheating and criminal misconduct. The CBI had registered the FIR following investigations into a complaint filed by the SBI claiming that the Directors of the company allegedly falsified accounts and forged documents to siphon off public funds. Over its long history, the SBI said in its complaint, the company has usually ventured only into related diversification and increased its product portfolio only in the food processing sector. This helped the company grow organically over the past decade and its turnover grew from Rs 1,411.87 crore in 2008 to Rs 6,000 crore by 2013-14, the SBI had said. However, the account turned into a Non-Performing Asset (NPA) and it was declared a fraud in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bank-fraud-ed-arrests-chartered-accountant-in-shakti-bhog-money-laundering-case-1019695.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh govt sounds alert ahead of Independence Day||The Madhya Pradesh government has sounded an alert ahead of Independence Day as per the Centre's guidelines, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, he also said strict action will be taken immediately if any suspicious activity is noticed. Meanwhile, the state government has allocated different districts to ministers for hoisting the tricolour on August 15. Accordingly, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will hoist the flag in the state capital and ministers will participate in similar functions in 30 other districts and read out the CM's message, an official order said. In 20 districts, respective district collectors will hoist the national flag. Assembly Speaker Girish Gautam will participate in the Independence Day function in Rewa, it said. Governor Mangubhai Patel, CM Chouhan and other ministers have extended greetings to the people on the eve of Independence Day. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-govt-sounds-alert-ahead-of-independence-day-1019709.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||UP varsity cancels 'mushaira' after invitation to 'anti-CAA' poets||A 'mushaira' (poetic symposium), organised by the Allahabad Central University, was cancelled at the eleventh hour allegedly after objections over invitation to some poets, who had taken part in the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act last year. According to the sources, the 'mushaira', organised jointly by the Uttar Pradesh Urdu Academy, the department of Urdu at the University and its Central Cultural Committee, was scheduled to be held on Friday evening. Minutes before the formal inauguration of the event, the Varsity officials announced the cancellation of the event without assigning any reason. Poets from different parts of the country had reached the venue by then. Though the Varsity administration refused to disclose the reasons behind the cancellation, sources said that some saffron organisations and BJP leaders had objected to the presence of a few poets, who had taken part in the protests against the CAA at Shaheen Bagh in Delhi. ''At least two of the poets invited to participate in the programme had not only taken part in the anti-CAA protests but had also made objectionable utterances against prime minister Narendra Modi,'' a local BJP leader said while speaking to DH. Sources said that the matter had reached the chief minister's office here after some people posted messages on social media objecting to the presence of those two poets and demanding cancellation of the event. Shaheen Bagh was the site of large scale protests by the women, mostly Muslims, against the CAA. The protests which began in December 2019 lasted for four months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-varsity-cancels-mushaira-after-invitation-to-anti-caa-poets-1019710.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||JeM module tasked to trigger blasts in Jammu busted, 4 terrorists arrested||In a major success, security forces have busted a module of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) tasked to trigger violence by planting a vehicle-based IED on the eve of Independence Day here by arresting four terrorists and their associates, officials said on Saturday. Giving details, a police spokesman said that four Jaish terrorists, including an Uttar Pradesh resident, and their associates were arrested by the Jammu Police in a drive to root out the militant presence in the district. "They were planning collection of arms dropped by drones and supply to active terrorists of Jaish-e-Mohammed in Kashmir valley; planting a vehicle-based IED in Jammu before 15th August and reconnaissance of important targets in other parts of the country," he said. Muntazir Manzoor alias Saifulla of Prichoo Pulwama, a member of JeM, was the first to be arrested in this chain and from him one pistol, one magazine, eight live rounds and two Chinese hand grenades were seized, the spokesman said. His truck used for transporting weapons to Kashmir was also seized, he added. Subsequently, three more Jaish terrorists, including Ijahar Khan alias Sonu Khan of Mirdan Mohalla in Kandala of Shamli district, Uttar Pradesh, were arrested, the spokesman said. Khan disclosed that a JeM commander in Pakistan by the name of Munazir alias Shahid had asked him to collect weapons from near Amritsar which would be dropped by a drone, he said. Khan was also asked by Jaish to do reconnaissance of Panipat oil refinery which he did and sent videos to Pakistan. He was then tasked to do the reconnaissance of Ayodhya Ram janmabhoomi but was arrested before he could accomplish the task, the spokesman added. Other terrorists, Touseef Ahmed Shah alias Showket of the Jeff area of Shopian district was tasked by JeM commander Shahid and another Jaish terrorist by the name Abrar in Pakistan to take up accommodation in Jammu which he did, the spokesman said. He was then asked to procure a second-hand motorcycle for causing an IED blast at Jammu. The IED for this purpose would be dropped by a drone, the spokesman said. Shah was arrested before he could complete this task, he added. Jahangir Ahmed Bhat of the Bandzoo area of Pulwama district has been arrested in the case and he is a fruit merchant from Kashmir who was constantly in touch with Shahid in Pakistan and had introduced Ijahgar Khan to him, the police official said. Bhat was further doing recruitment for JeM in Kashmir and in the rest of the country, he said. Further investigation on the work of the remaining module is in progress, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jem-module-tasked-to-trigger-blasts-in-jammu-busted-4-terrorists-arrested-1019712.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt to redesign, beautify 540 km-long roads in city according to European standards: Kejriwal||The Delhi government will redesign and beautify 540 kilometre-long roads in the national capital according to European standards, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. The chief minister visited a pilot project which he said was on the nearly 800-meter-long Chirag Delhi-Sheikh Saray stretch. He said the stretch will be evaluated and its shortcomings will be rectified. "Now, we will undertake beautification and redesigning of 540 kms of 100 feet wide roads on the line of European standards under the first phase," he told reporters. The agencies of the Delhi government, including the Public Works Department, own 1,280 kilometre-long roads in the city. "The roads of Delhi are being beautified and redesigned. Inspected a sample design of a road today. Now, we will beautify 540 km long roads," he tweeted after the visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-redesign-beautify-540-km-long-roads-in-city-according-to-european-standards-kejriwal-1019713.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||What happened to animals in circuses that have closed down: Delhi HC asks Animal Welfare Board||The Delhi High Court has asked the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to file an affidavit on the status of animals of circuses that have closed down.   A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, which was hearing a petition by PETA (the People for Ethical Treatment of Animals) India, gave three weeks to the AWBI to file the affidavit. PETA Counsel Aman Hingorani said that an affidavit filed already by the AWBI did not specifically disclose the status of such animals. "Mr. Rajesh Kumar Gogna, Advocate who appears for respondent No. 3 (AWBI) should ensure that a further affidavit is filed, disclosing the status of the said animals within the next three weeks," the court said in its order dated August 10.   Last year, the court was informed by the Federation of Indian Animals Protection Organisation (FIAPO) that according to a report filed by AWBI, around 740 circus animals were registered with it, but in a survey only 28 were found. The court had then directed the AWBI and the Central Zoo Authority to find out what happened to the missing animals and file an affidavit on the status of all circus animals registered with them. It had termed "serious" and "shocking" that there was a huge gap in the number of animals found by the AWBI, as against those registered with it, when it inspected circuses across the country. The People for Ethical Treatment of Animals and the FIAPO had moved the high court last year for the protection of animals in circuses stranded across the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic. PETA India claimed in its plea that due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown, circuses are finding it difficult to feed the animals which left many of them vulnerable to starvation. It sought a direction to the Centre to immediately notify the Performing Animals (Registration) Amendment Rules of 2018 which expressly prohibits the training and exhibition of performing animals in circuses and "mobile entertainment facilities". The matter would be heard next on November 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/what-happened-to-animals-in-circuses-that-have-closed-down-delhi-hc-asks-animal-welfare-board-1019714.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi eateries to celebrate Independence Day with 'Indian Thali', tricolour food||From the luscious and fragrant Kashmiri Pulao of Jammu & Kashmir to the popular 'Bisi Bele Bath' of South Karnataka, eateries across Delhi are celebrating Independence Day by serving 'United India' on a platter. Be it curating lavish brunches or dishing up a storm of cuisines, restaurants -- small and big -- are leaving no stone unturned to make the freedom day a 'dine-out' day for foodies revelling in the patriotic fervour. With dishes like Chicken Biryani from Andhra Pradesh, Rasam from Kerala, Gatte ki Subzi from Rajasthan, Sago Kheer from Chhattisgarh, Pav Bhaji from Maharashtra, Aloo Posto from Bengal, Fafda from Gujarat, the feast at Ardor 2.1 in Connaught Place has something from every state in its fully-loaded "country thali" presented in the shape of the map of India. Showcasing India, the melting pot of cultures and cuisines, in their menu are the chefs at Crowne Plaza New Delhi Okhla, who have whipped up a special brunch, 'The Buffet of Unity', at a whooping 74 per cent discount to mark the 74th Independence Day. "We have picked up the dishes which are either staple to a particular state or come under the category of heirloom recipes. Few of the signature dishes from the menu includes Chicken Chettinad from Tamil Nadu, Hyderabadi Biryani, Kashmiri Phirni, Rajasthani Moong Dal Halwa and many more," said Pradipt Sinha, director of food and beverage, Crowne Plaza New Delhi Okhla. He added that an Olympic-themed dessert station has also been set up to show "love to all our sportspersons who have made the country proud with their winning spirit. The spread at OTB Courtyard promises to be both scrumptious and "Instagram-worthy" with everything saffron, white and green in its tricolour menu. The patriotically-dressed delicacies include hummus platter, paneer tikka, angithi murg, pasta, and dimsum basket. The gastronomical extravaganza at Vivanta New Delhi, Dwarka and Roseate Hotels & Resorts is a mix of national and international delights. "The dinner will feature delights like Luckhnawi Mutton Nihari, Punjabi Kukkad Makhani, Uttrakhandi Paneer Hara Masala, Chicken Chettinad with Malabari Parantha, Tiranga Motiya Biryani. The buffet will also have International flavours like Tenderloin Shepherd Pie, Honey Mustard Glazed Chicken, Thai Vegetable Green Curry, Misoyaki Noodles and a lot more," said executive chef Rishikesh Rai, Vivanta New Delhi, Dwarka. While Vivanta is offering 50 per cent discount to defence personnel, feast at Roseate's Kiyan and DEL will be given at a special price starting Rs 1,999. The discounts are pouring at other restaurants too, even including food-chains like Pizza Hut and Bikano. Shakespeare Cafe in Punjabi Bagh is offering a flat "75 per cent" discount on its entire menu from 2-8 pm to celebrate 75 years of independence. SOCIAL and Smoke House Deli are giving a "20 per cent" and "15 per cent" discount, respectively, in their outlets across the city to defence personnel along with their family and friends for dine-in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-eateries-to-celebrate-independence-day-with-indian-thali-tricolour-food-1019723.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Ex-IPS officer Amitabh Thakur, who was forced to retire, to contest poll against Yogi Adityanath||Ex-Uttar Pradesh IPS officer Amitabh Thakur, who was known for taking governments head-on by his plain speaking and was given voluntary retirement (VRS) from service in ''public interest'' a few months back, on Saturday announced that he would contest against chief minister Yogi Adityanath in the upcoming state Assembly polls due early next year. ''I will contest against Adityanath from wherever he files nomination in protest against his repressive and undemocratic policies,'' Thakur said in a video posted on social media platforms. Thakur said that he would 'expose' the 'repressive' regime of Adityanath before the people of the state. ''It doesn't matter how many votes do I get.....I will force Adityanath to follow the model code of conduct in letter and spirit,'' he added. He said that his friends had been exerting pressure on him to contest against Adityanath. ''I know I will get very few votes...I don't possess politician-like qualities but I shall force Adityanath to abide by the code of conduct,'' he said. The firebrand ex-IPS officer, who had been usually given insignificant postings in view of his plain speaking, had irked the BJP government when he predicted that gangster Vikas Dubey, who had killed eight cops and was nabbed in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh last year, would be killed in an encounter even before it happened. Similarly, he had again embarrassed the bureaucracy and the government after he demanded action against the district magistrate of Hathras following the brutal rape and murder of a woman there. Thakur had also released a list of 'wasooli' (extortion) by the cops at Mughal Sarai Kotwali sending authorities in a tizzy. In 2015, Thakur had taped his alleged conversation with SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav in which the latter was heard threatening him over his criticism of the then SP government. After he leaked the tape, he was accused of raping a woman. He had then put up a board before his office stating that no woman should enter his office alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-ips-officer-amitabh-thakur-who-was-forced-to-retire-to-contest-poll-against-yogi-adityanath-1019726.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Four militants planning attacks on Independence Day arrested: J&K Police||On the eve of 75th Independence Day, Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday averted a "major tragedy"  by arresting four militants who were planning to “plant” a vehicle-based IED in Jammu. Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Jammu in a tweet said: "Jaish-e-Mohammed module busted, four terrorists arrested, major tragedy averted in Jammu." He said the arrested militants were planning to collect arms dropped by drones and supply to active militants of the Jaish in Kashmir valley, "planting a vehicle-based IED in Jammu before 15th August and reconnaissance of important targets in other parts of the country." Ahead of Independence Day, security across the Union Territory has already been heightened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-militants-planning-attacks-on-independence-day-arrested-jk-police-1019728.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||This Independence Day, markets in Kashmir witness huge demand for tricolours||This Independence Day markets in Srinagar and other parts of Kashmir valley have a huge demand for tricolours with customers, most of them government employees, placing orders for the national flag. The sudden demand for tricolours touched the sky after Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha led administration ordered the hoisting of tricolour at all government buildings, including educational institutions and offices across the Valley. The circular in this regard was issued by Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, P K Pole last week to almost all major government departments in the Valley. All deputy commissioners have been asked to ensure that rehearsals, Independence Day functions, and the flag hoisting ceremonies, are filmed for official records. In the Kashmir valley, there are nearly 12000 educational institutes while hundreds of other official locations have also been identified for flag hoisting. “All of a sudden, there is demand for thousands of tricolours which has created a shortage in the market. A flag which in normal times would not cost more than Rs 100 is selling for Rs 500 this time,” a shopkeeper in city center Lal Chowk, told DH. A government school teacher wishing anonymity said that they had no option but to purchase three national flags for Rs 500 each “as they have been conveyed that no leniency would be tolerated if the national flag is not unfurled and filmed.” “Even female teachers have been asked to reach their respective schools early in the morning, despite this Independence Day falling on Sunday. Arranging a tricolour in a place like Kashmir is also a risky job as you can be attacked by militants or stone-pelters if they come to know,” he rued. The schools have been asked to ensure the attendance of atleast 25 students during the flag hoisting ceremony. However, a teacher from a higher secondary school in Srinagar said many parents of students have already refused to be part of the official functions, “fearing being marked as targets by militants and stone pelters.” “The order to release videos of rehearsals and flag hoisting ceremonies online may have repercussions in the future,” he lamented. From 1989 to 2018, separatists used to call for a shutdown while militants would warn officials from participating in Independence Day or Republic Day functions in Srinagar and other parts of the Valley. These functions were generally limited to district headquarters, with the main functions held in Srinagar and Jammu cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/this-independence-day-markets-in-kashmir-witness-huge-demand-for-tricolours-1019793.html
14-08-2021||North and Central||Unmarried Indian girls don't have physical relationship only for fun, HC says while refusing bail in rape case||Indian girls do not enter into physical relationship unless there is "assurance of marriage", the Madhya Pradesh High Court has said while refusing bail to a rape accused who argued that it was a case of consensual sex. A boy who is entering into a physical relationship with a girl must realize that actions have consequences, said Justice Subodh Abhyanakar of the Indore bench of the high court in the ruling earlier this week. The court was hearing the bail application of a man who was arrested on June 4 by Ujjain police for alleged rape after the girl with whom he was in a relationship tried to commit suicide when he allegedly refused to marry her. "India is a conservative society, it has not yet reached such level (advance or lower) of civilization where unmarried girls, regardless of their religion, indulge in carnal activities with boys just for the fun of it, unless the same is backed by some future promise/assurance of marriage," the judge said. “...a boy who is entering into a physical relationship with a lass must realize that his actions have consequences," the court said. “You just cannot plead consent on the part of the prosecutrix and laugh all the way to your home,” the high court said. As per the police, the applicant raped the girl after promising to marry her. The applicant had claimed that he was having an affair with the girl for two years, and she entered into the physical relationship of her own will as she is around 21 years old. Their parents were opposed to marriage as the applicant is Hindu and the girl is Muslim, his lawyer argued. But the prosecution claimed that he had raped her on many occasions since October 2018 with a false promise of marriage, and told her in June this year that he was going to marry someone else. The girl then tried to end her life by drinking phenyl but survived, it said. The high court said that the fact that she tried to commit suicide "apparently shows that she was serious about the relationship" and was not seeking just enjoyment".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/unmarried-indian-girls-dont-have-physical-relationship-only-for-fun-hc-says-while-refusing-bail-in-rape-case-1019828.html
14-08-2021||Opinion||Taliban is already inspiring terror beyond Afghanistan||By Ruth Pollard The spillover has already begun, before the Taliban have even reached Kabul. City after city is falling as the Islamist insurgents draw closer to the capital. And it will only get worse from here as the conflict expands beyond Afghanistan’s borders.  Jihadist groups based in the country, some with transnational agendas like al-Qaeda, now have a template for defeating governments backed by major powers and have been emboldened by the Taliban’s lightning-fast advance. This is happening as the jihadi ecosystem is experiencing the lowest counter-terrorism pressure in the last two decades, effectively getting free rein. Asfandyar Mir, South Asia security analyst for the US Institute for Peace, says it’s a dangerous combination when threats go up at the same time efforts to combat them go down. “Central Asian jihadists have been flexing their muscle, anti-China jihadists have attacked Chinese personal in Pakistan, more regional violence is extremely plausible — the threat is ongoing, and we are just talking about an escalation from this point onwards,” Mir said. The collapse of the Afghan republic following the US departure would have regional significance like the post-9/11 invasion, or the withdrawal of Soviet troops and fall of the communist regime they’d backed. “This is a seismic shift that will change politics in this part of the world in ways” hard to foresee. Expect the immediate danger to be regional — in South and Central Asia — as geography and capability limit the initial damage. Chinese interests in Pakistan have already taken a hit. In April, a car bomb exploded at a luxury hotel hosting Beijing’s ambassador in Quetta, not far from Taliban strongholds in southern Afghanistan. The attack was claimed by the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, or the Pakistani Taliban, a loosely organized terrorist group with ties to al-Qaeda, based along the vast Afghan-Pakistan border.  Last month, a bomb blast on a bus traveling to a dam and hydro-electric project in Dasu, near the Pakistan border with China, killed 12 people, including nine Chinese citizens. No one has claimed responsibility, but Beijing was so concerned that it hosted Taliban representatives for a meeting with Foreign Minister Wang Yi. At stake is $60 billion in projects in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, a crucial part of President Xi Jinping’s wider Belt and Road Initiative, along with significant Chinese mining interests inside Afghanistan. While this wasn’t the Taliban’s first visit to China, the seniority of the Chinese representatives was unprecedented, as was the very public message that Beijing recognizes the group as a legitimate political force, Yun Sun, the Stimson Center think tank’s China program director, noted this week in an essay on the national security platform, War on the Rocks.  After posing for photographs with the group’s co-founder and deputy leader Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, Wang described the Taliban as “a crucial military and political force in Afghanistan that is expected to play an important role in the peace, reconciliation, and reconstruction process of the country.”  What Beijing wants in return is for the Taliban to live up to a commitment to sever all ties with terrorist organizations, including the TTP and the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (an outfit Beijing blames for unrest in its Xinjiang region that Washington removed from its list of terror groups in October after finding there was no credible evidence it continues to exist.) Any further attacks on Chinese nationals working in South Asia, whether claimed by the Taliban or others operating with its blessing, will no doubt impact future ties, though it’s unclear what China would do in retaliation. With no major political or diplomatic push to blunt the Taliban’s advance or rein in the groups operating in its shadow, including al-Qaeda — much diminished 20 years after the US invaded Afghanistan to destroy them and their Taliban hosts — it’s a matter of when, not if, there’s an upsurge in terror attacks. The danger is particularly acute for the six countries bordering Afghanistan. Beyond China, they include Iran and Pakistan — as well as nearby India, which will be closely watching its only Muslim-majority province of Kashmir, the object in two of its wars with Pakistan, for resurgent violence. Russia will be concerned about the impact on Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan and any terrorist blowback onto its territory.  There’s the possibility that the major powers — the US, Russia and China — might step in and convince their allies and friends to end hostilities. But analysts think that’s unlikely. The situation has festered since the US and the Taliban reached their agreement in February last year, and will continue to do so.  Extended international inertia is more probable. Look at Syria. After a decade of war and some significant US investment in money, military involvement and political capital, Bashar al-Assad is still president. The country has the world’s largest population of internally displaced people (6.7 million), while 6.6 million refugees subsist mostly in Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan. The threat posed by terror groups operating in and around Syria, as well as the use and proliferation of chemical weapons, remains a real concern. So does the conflict’s tendency to be a flashpoint for external players like Russia, Turkey, Israel and Iran. For Afghanistan, the next worry would be that foreign fighters again start pouring in from around the world. Insurgents from other nations are there now, but mostly from neighboring countries. Once they come from further afield, it increases the probability of attacks spreading much more widely. Husain Haqqani, Pakistan’s former ambassador to Washington and now director for South and Central Asia at the Hudson Institute, says the Taliban remain connected to al-Qaeda and other international terror groups by ideology, shared finances and training, and even marriage. “Given that jihadists do not think much of international borders and consider the current global order un-Islamic, it is only a matter of time before they set their sights on Europe and the US again,” he said. It’s hard to see how this ends well. Unless major powers do more than hold their collective breath and hope for the best, the fallout from their indifference will be felt well beyond Afghanistan’s borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/taliban-is-already-inspiring-terror-beyond-afghanistan-1019633.html
14-08-2021||Right in the Middle||The dancer||I sent my first piece to DH in the fifties. There was no middle column then, but the placement carried a miscellany of tidbits, a poem and an anecdote under the caption New Writing. I remember Raja Lakshmi from Bombay whose short sketches were fascinating. Before feminism was even mentioned, she was a feminist writer and a fine stylist too. Not in the Jane Austen mode but rather like V Woolf. Well, I aspired to write like her. My very first piece was a miniature portrait of a young dancer, who actually was my friend’s daughter making her debut on the Bangalore stage. Barely eight or nine she had undergone training under the famous dance maestros from Pandanallur. My friend, a purist, had wanted her daughter to learn from the best Bharatanatyam teachers. She had arranged for ‘sirs’ to leave their village and make their home in the city for a two-year stint during which she would be responsible for their upkeep from accommodation down to food and funds and the fresh betel leaves they chewed after lunch. So this dhoti-clad pair had become a familiar sight to the residents of Shankarpur and a few among them became beneficiaries as they engaged the gurus to teach their offspring as well. Bangalore became home to a crop of young Bharatanatyam dancers and many ancillary dance classes had sprung up on this wave.  Came the day for Chitra’s arangetram. Invitations were posted well in advance and the eight-year-old prodigy was in for a gruelling three and a half hour repertoire. Since my friend had assigned the duty of master of ceremonies to me, I was an important participant. The arangetram was the culmination of the two-year training Chitra had undergone, indeed a test for the artist as well as the masters which both parties seemed to sail through with laurels. The classicist audience had hailed the Pandanallur masters as superb and kutti Chitra as a promising dancer with a great future. I write this today in homage to my friend and her daughter, both sadly no more, for the modest contribution they made to the fifties art scene. The piece called The Dancer appeared a week after the arangetram and my excitement to see my name in print indeed knew no bounds. Everyone I knew congratulated me and I felt as though someone had given me a golden crown or that I myself had turned golden like Midas’s daughter. I was paid five rupees for my piece, for which I felt indeed grateful to DH. It was not the money but the fact that someone had recognised my writing that gave me wings as it were to fly into the high skies. Five rupees. I think I put it in the hundi at the Dodda Ganesha temple for having set me on the journey of writing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-dancer-1019586.html
14-08-2021||Second Edit||Welcome order on cases against politicians||The Supreme Court’s order that “no prosecution against a sitting or former MP/MLA shall be withdrawn without the leave of the high court” is a welcome step to check the abuse of power by governments, which means politicians, to keep their own kind above the law. There are hundreds of criminal cases against elected representatives, including ministers, MLAs and MPs, and these are regularly withdrawn by governments for no valid reason. The procedure for withdrawal of cases is not followed in cases against politicians. The court’s order curtails the power of state prosecutors and bars them from withdrawing criminal cases against lawmakers without prior sanction from high courts. The three-judge bench, headed by Chief Justice NV Ramana, has also said that the “courts are duty-bound to assess whether a prima facie case exists or not’’ and they would be justified in scrutinising the nature and gravity of the offence. This is an affirmation of public interest as opposed to political and personal interests that are often in play behind the withdrawal of cases. There have been cases of mass withdrawal of cases against legislators. Cases against UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and others were withdrawn by the state government headed by Yogi himself. The Karnataka government had last year decided to withdraw cases against a number of legislators. In a slightly different context, the Kerala government sought to withdraw cases against some MLAs who resorted to violence in the state Assembly. The idea behind all these decisions is to protect politicians from the consequences of their criminal actions. The argument often put forward is that the cases are politically motivated. But it is for a court to decide whether they are motivated and whether there is evidence of wrongdoing. Governments cannot assume the role of judges. The court also said that trial judges presiding over such cases should continue in their posts. This is because governments have resorted to the expedient practice of transfer of such judges when they resist political interference and refuse to be pliant. It has pulled up the CBI for failing to submit a status report on the details of cases the agency is pursuing against elected representatives. The court has given it a “last chance” to do so. It also indicated that a special bench may be constituted to monitor and ensure conclusion of such cases within a year of charges being framed. The court had in the past also directed that such cases should be fast-tracked but this has not happened. The rule of law should be equally applicable to all citizens. There is no reason to give elected representatives special treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/welcome-order-on-cases-against-politicians-1019593.html
14-08-2021||South||DMK government presents Tamil Nadu’s first agriculture Budget||Ensuring self-sufficiency and overall agricultural development in villages, a separate department for organic farming, encouraging those taking up organic farming by providing inputs subsidy, training youth in agricultural skill development, and bringing 11.75 lakh hectares of fallow lands into cultivation.  These are some of the salient features of Tamil Nadu’s first-ever Agriculture Budget presented by the M K Stalin government before the Assembly on Saturday. Agriculture Minister M R K Panneerselvam, who presented the document to the House on the day the DMK dispensation completed 100 days in office, dedicated the Budget to the farmers protesting against farm bills in Delhi.   Besides batting for increasing the cultivation area in the state and pushing for achieving production of 75 lakh metric tonnes of paddy, the separate budget for agriculture laid much emphasis on organic farming and the need to encourage youngsters to take up agriculture. The minister said the government has decided to bring 11.75 lakh hectares into cultivation to grow crops like millets, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and fruits to increase the net sown area to 75 per cent. Panneerselvam announced a scheme named after late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi which aims at achieving self-sufficiency and overall agricultural development in all villages in five years. Through this project, which will be undertaken in collaboration with over a dozen government departments, the government will identify one-fifth of village panchayats every year. The scheme will be launched in 2,500 villages in 2021-2022 fiscal.  Contending that indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides have affected the soil fertility and environment, the Budget focussed on the realisation among the people about organic produce to enhance immunity. A separate wing for Organic Farming will be established in the Agriculture Department, Panneerselvam announced, adding that organic farming will be encouraged with the provision of inputs subsidy. “Inputs for organic farming are essential. Arrangements will be made to make them available in Agricultural Extension Centres. Quality control regulations will be enforced effectively to ensure the quality of organic inputs sold by the private shops,” he added.   Since a lot of youth in the state go for agricultural education, the budget said, the government has turned its focus to transform these graduates into entrepreneurs through capacity building training with the help of Agri-Business firms and alumni.  “During their final year, they will be motivated to develop an ambition to become entrepreneurs. On completion of studies, they will know the gaps in the market, business techniques and strategies with their certificates in hand and implementable action plan to become as an entrepreneur in their mind,” the minister said.  Announcing the launch of the Rural Youth Agricultural Skill Development Mission, the Budget said 2,500 youth will get training for grafting, layering, pruning, maintenance of the poly greenhouse, and establishment of micro-irrigation system this year. The government will also introduce Tamil as a medium of instruction in agricultural and horticultural education, the minister said.  Among other things, the minister promised measures to distribute palm jaggery, a value-added palm product, derived from palm trees through Fair Price Shops, a Special Paddy Production Plan, ensure the availability of millets in plenty, and a scheme for making pulse production profitable. The minister also announced rewards for best performing farmers who excel in Agriculture, while a high-level committee for Agriculture will be constituted at the State level under the chairmanship of the Chief Secretary to review farming-related schemes and to suggest solutions for the problems faced by farmers. The budget also announced the setting up of Chief Minster's solar-powered pump sets scheme to be implemented at an outlay of Rs.114.68 crore with State, and Union Government funds. The minister also announced the revival of Uzhavar Sandhais (Farmers’ Markets) and the establishment of a new Horticulture College. To undertake research on organic farming in various crops, a research centre in the name of natural farming scientist Nammazhvar will be created by expanding the existing Department of Sustainable Organic Agriculture functioning under Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore. An amount of Rs.3 Crore will be allocated initially from the State Government, Panneerselvam added.  The government also said the Cauvery delta region will be declared as an Agro-Industrial Corridor to promote agro-based industries by plugging infrastructure gaps, creating new industrial infrastructure and by attracting private investments to the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-government-presents-tamil-nadu-s-first-agriculture-budget-1019687.html
14-08-2021||South||Kerala court allows Sister Lucy to stay at FCC convent||A court in Wayanad has allowed sister Lucy Kalappura to stay at the convent of the Franciscan Clarist Congregation (FCC) until the case regarding her eviction is decided. Sister Kalappura told PTI that the Munsiff court at Mananthavady on Friday allowed her prayer to stay at the convent till the matter before the court is disposed of. She further said a detailed order is awaited. Recently, the Kerala High Court had said police protection against eviction cannot be provided to Kalappura, who has been expelled from the FCC for alleged violations of its rules, at the Karackamala convent, where she is presently staying. The nun, who had argued her case in person, told the high court that she has challenged the order of eviction against her before a civil court and till that is decided she wishes to continue staying at the convent. The court had referred the case back to the Munsiff court. The High Court had said that her life and property can be protected by the police at any other place of residence, but not at the convent. She had told the High Court that it may withdraw the police protection granted to her, but she should be allowed to stay at the convent as she has no other place to go to. Sister Kalappura, who took part in a protest by nuns belonging to Missionaries of Jesus Congregation seeking the arrest of Bishop Franco Mulakkal, accused of raping a nun, was expelled by the FCC under the Roman Catholic Church in August 2019. The congregation, in its notice, had termed as "grave violations" Sister Lucy possessing a driving licence, buying a car, taking a loan for it and publishing a book and spending money without the permission and knowledge of her superiors and the Vatican had ratified the decision. However, Sister Kalappura has denied the charges levelled against her by the congregation, saying many of them were a "deliberate attempt to paint her in bad light.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-court-allows-sister-lucy-to-stay-at-fcc-convent-1019689.html
14-08-2021||South||Kerala opposition leader launches anti-dowry help desk||Amid concerns across the state over recurring incidents of alleged dowry harrassment, the Leader of Opposition in the Kerala Assembly, V D Satheesan on Friday launched an 'anti-dowry help desk' at his office here to help affected women. Women who suffer mental and physical abuse in connection with dowry can avail free legal aid at the help desk after calling on the designated toll-free number. A network of 87 lawyers, attached to various courts in the state, would provide necessary legal support at the desk for the needy, Satheesan said after inaugurating the initiative jointly with state Congress veteran and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and playback singer Aparna Rajeev here. The Leader of Opposition urged institutions and outfits in the state to open similar help desks. Criticising the practice of giving and receiving dowry, he said murders and suicides related to the menace had been reported in the southern state recently. "Marriages after giving and accepting dowry should no longer take place in Kerala. Boys and girls should decide not to take or give dowry," the Congress leader said. He added women should be convinced divorce is better than suicide in the name of dowry and the society should give them confidence to fight challenges in life. The help desk was launched as part of the second phase of the "With Our Daughter" campaign organised by Satheesan against the dowry menace, Congress sources said. Recently, the death of Vismaya, an Ayurveda medical student who was found dead in her husband's house under mysterious circumstances after she had complained of dowry harassment, had triggered a widespread outrage against the menace in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opposition-leader-launches-anti-dowry-help-desk-1019719.html
14-08-2021||South||President Kovind hosts Olympians for high tea||India’s performance in the Tokyo Olympics was outstanding, not only in terms of achievements but also in terms of potential, President Ram Nath Kovind said, as he hosted a high tea at the Rashtrapati Bhavan for the players who represented the nation in the games. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu was also present during the event at the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The President told the players that the entire country was proud of them for bringing glory to the nation. “This team has won the highest number of medals in the history of our participation in Olympic so far. Their achievements have inspired the youth to take part in sports,” he said, adding that a positive attitude towards sports has also been created among the parents. He said that given the spirit and skill with which all of them had performed in Tokyo, India would have an impressive presence in the world of sports in the times to come. The President congratulated the entire Indian contingent for their excellent efforts. He also appreciated the role played by the coaches, support staff, family members and well-wishers who contributed to their preparations, according to a press release issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/president-kovind-hosts-olympians-for-high-tea-1019791.html
14-08-2021||South||Moral policing allegation over Kerala art director's death||The death of an art director and teacher in Kerala has triggered allegations of moral policing. Suresh Chaliyath, 44, was found hanging in his house at Asarippadi near Vengara in the suburbs of Malappuram district on Saturday morning. Some of his relatives and friends said that he was facing severe mental depression after a gang attacked him a few days back on charges of chatting with a woman. He was attacked in front of his family. Suresh, who was the art director of a film, was also a school teacher. He was also actively involved in cultural activities in the district. The local police said that no complaints regarding the attack on Suresh were received earlier. But some of his relatives and friends have now made allegations about an attack he faced. A case of unnatural death was registered and further investigation was on, officials of the Vengara police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/moral-policing-allegation-over-kerala-art-directors-death-1019814.html
14-08-2021||State||Rigorous, continuous assessment for class 10, 12 students||Grade 10 and 12 students will be evaluated through rigorous, continuous assessment by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education, which has decided to conduct class-level examinations every two months and a mid-term examination equivalent to final exams. The department is introducing the assessment methods after taking into account the difficulties faced during the previous academic year in conducting annual examinations as well as announcing the results when the second wave of Covid-19 was at its peak. "This is a precautionary measure we have taken for grade 10 and 12 during these extraordinary times," said an official from the department. Due to a spike in Covid-19 cases, the state government had decided to cancel PUC-2 examinations during the 2020-21 academic year. The department had to consider students' performance in grade 10 and 11 to declare the results. But when it came to class 10, there were no choices before the department to promote students rather than conducting examinations. Speaking to DH, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said, "We do not want that situation to repeat. We have insisted on schools and colleges to conduct four exams in the remaining months and two class-level examinations. If something goes wrong, the performance in these examinations should be considered."  The minister has advised students to take these examinations seriously "as no one can predict what will happen by next March/April because of the pandemic".  Snehal R, director, department of pre-university education, said they have issued a circular to all colleges, asking them to follow the instructions seriously. With this decision, if offline classes for grade 9 and above resume, the first class-level examinations will be held in October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rigorous-continuous-assessment-for-class-10-12-students-1019573.html
14-08-2021||State||Colours of India at Mangaluru airport till Aug 15||An interactive art exhibition and camp 'Colours of India' was inaugurated by Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai at Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) on Friday. The camp, organised by MIA in association with Gallerie Orchid, will end on August 15. The passengers will be requested to paint the canvases kept in the Airport's waiting lounge. The canvasses painted by many passengers will culminate into one painting. The concept is built on the theme 'Unity in diversity' representing the multi-hued culture of India. The canvases thus painted will be later displayed at the airport.  As many as eight paintings in medium to big size canvases painted by well-known artists will also be on display at the exhibition. Director of Gallerie Orchid William Pais curated the programme in association with MIA. The CM drew India's national bird, peacock during the exhibition. Passengers appreciated MIA's initiative. "This initiative gave us an opportunity to express ourselves by painting on the eve of Independence Day," a passenger stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/colours-of-india-at-mangaluru-airport-till-aug-15-1019574.html
14-08-2021||State||Now, white ragi gives nutritious food a makeover||You could soon treat yourself at the bakery without guilt as the dainties from the oven come with the goodness of ragi but without losing any of their allure. This is possible with the white variety of ragi (finger millet), which is traditionally known to be reddish-brown in colour. Until very recently, bakers did not even consider ragi as a potential alternative to maida because of its colour. With a suitable substitute available, researchers at V C Farm Krishi Vijnana Kendra in Mandya, a regional research station under the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru, believe that by incorporating white finger millet flour in bakery products, bakers can retain the preferred golden hue of their products and also provide nutrition. White ragi, or the KMR-340 variety, presents new possibilities for not only bakeries, opening doors to healthier biscuits, mixtures and breads but also outlets serving dosas, idlis and upma. Often called ‘superfoods’, millets, which contain protein, fibre, essential amino acids, phytochemicals and micronutrients, are more nutritious than food grains like wheat and rice. The KMR-340 variety has 12 g of protein, an even higher protein content than commercially available varieties of ragi that have about 10 g of protein per 100 g.“These snacks or foods with ragi are also gluten-free, providing a substitute for people with gluten allergies,” says Dr Raveendra H R, senior scientist in Plant Pathology at V C Farm. The UAS bakery training unit is also testing the variety’s shelf-life, rancidity, taste and texture for commercial viability. Finger millets are traditionally restricted to dishes like mudde, rotti, malt and porridge and consumed by those familiar with the cereal. “With diabetes and hypertension on the rise, we wanted to find a way to diversify food habits and ensure that the familiar colour will help them try healthier alternatives,” said Dr C R Ravishankar, retired breeder (small millets) at V C Farm, Mandya. His team introduced the KMR-340 variant of the ragi commercially in 2018. Just 20 days ago when Nagaraj R, a farmer in Mysuru district, harvested his first crop of white ragi, he could not believe his eyes. Standing out in a field of green, the white ears of ragi were a sight to behold, he recalls. “Normal ragi sells for Rs 37 a kg while white ragi fetches Rs 50. There was some benefit in trying out this crop,” says, Nagaraj, who was approached mostly, by private buyers, including those through social media. White ragi yields 45 quintals a hectare during late kharif and can be grown in similar climatic conditions and time frames (95-100 days) like other ragi varieties. In Thovinakere in Tumakuru district, Siddaganganna T L grew the crop on one-and-a-half acres of land two years ago. He recalls that about 50-60 years ago, there was a similar variety called majjige ragi, “I am happy that a similar variety has come back,” he said. The yield was used at home, but he did sow the crop again. “The seeds are recommended for sowing during late kharif, but that is too late. I was also unable to procure seeds the next season,” he said. Many like Siddganganna acquire their seeds from farmer collectives and don’t receive instructions or support from scientists. While the crop has the potential and farmers are interested, Dr Raveendra fears that the market chain is not yet well-established. Many people are unaware of the existence of this variety and consequently, the demand for the crop is still in its nascent stages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-white-ragi-gives-nutritious-food-a-makeover-1019577.html
14-08-2021||State||Male tiger found dead in Kundukere||A 15-year-old male tiger was found dead in the Kundukere range at Aladamarahalli forest area in Bandipur Tiger Reserve in the taluk on Friday. The Forest department personnel on patrol found the carcass. Tiger Project Director S R Natesh said it is suspected that the tiger might have died during the fight with another tiger as external injuries were found on its body. Claws, teeth and other parts of the animal are intact, he said. Veterinarian Dr Wasim Mirza and Dr Samath conducted the post mortem and the carcass was cremated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/male-tiger-found-dead-in-kundukere-1019585.html
14-08-2021||State||Karwar day train service restored with Vistadome coaches||The services of Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur tri-weekly (daytime) express train between Mangaluru Junction and Karwar, (06211/06212), which was partially cancelled in May this year due to Covid-19, will resume its services with Vistadome Coaches from Monday onwards. Union Minister and Udupi-Chikmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje tweeted about the resumption of the train services. She had tweeted, "Good news. Residents of Udupi and Karwar can enjoy the scenic view of the magnificent Western Ghats and the tranquil Arabian Sea.”  The South Western Railway (SWR) issued a notification on Friday announcing the resumption of services from Monday up to November 26. The pairing train, no 06212, will resumes services between Karwar and Mangaluru Junction from Tuesday till November 27. The trains will run as fully reserved special services. The train services connecting Karwar and Bengaluru was introduced in 2010 after activists filed a public interest litigation (PIL) before High Court of Karnataka. With the government relaxing Covid-19 restrictions since June, activists had been demanding reintroduction of the partially cancelled train service. Elected representatives, including Uttara Kannada MP Anantkumar Hegde, Udupi-Chikmagalur MP and Union Minister Shobha Karandlaje, MLAs Dinakar Shetty and Halady Srinivas Shetty and others had supported the demand. Yet, Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd (KRCL) was unrelenting and justified the cancellation saying the train was running under huge loss, prompting rail patrons to contemplate initiating contempt of court proceedings against the railway. Vistadome coaches Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur tri-weekly special (daytime) express train service with two Vistadome coaches is sure to enthrall passengers with the pristine beauty of coastal Karnataka. The vistadome coaches attached to trains between Yeshwantpur and Mangaluru was a huge hit with passengers since its introduction in mid-July. The coastal stretch of Konkan Railway network between Mangaluru and Karwar criss-crosses rivers, coconut grooves and vast tracts of green paddy fields.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karwar-day-train-service-restored-with-vistadome-coaches-1019606.html
14-08-2021||State||No ‘zero traffic' movement for Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has asked the police not to provide ‘zero traffic’ facility to his motorcade or convoy. Instead of ‘zero traffic’, Bommai will have a signal-free movement. The ‘zero traffic’ facility is frowned upon by citizens who are made to wait as police stop all vehicular movement for VIPs. Bommai’s latest directive comes days after he said no to receiving a guard of honour (ceremonial welcome) in public places. According to a circular issued by DGP Praveen Sood, the guard of honour will now be confined to the premises of government offices. Also, the guard of honour will be given only once a day when the VIPs arrive. Sood’s circular, however, will not apply to visits made by the Governor, judges of the Supreme Court and the High Court. Earlier in the week, Bommai ordered doing away with the practice of giving gifts and memorabilia during government events. As an alternative, Kannada books can be given.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-zero-traffic-movement-for-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1019740.html
14-08-2021||State||Irrigation project users must pay minimum 1% tax: Karjol||Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol stated that users of irrigation projects must pay a minimum of 1% tax to the government. Speaking to media persons after offering bagina to the river Bhadra dam as it reached the maximum level on Saturday, he said, the government is spending a huge quantum of money for the implementation of irrigation projects. It has spent over Rs 4,900 crore for various irrigation projects in the last two years. So, users of irrigation projects must pay a minimum of 1% tax.  There is a huge demand for the execution of irrigation projects. The government will take it up on a priority basis. He also promised that more projects would be executed in the coming days. He said the encroachment of rivers, lakes are the reason for flooding in the state. The length of the river Malaprabha has come down from 146 metres to 46 metres due to encroachment.  This is the condition of many water bodies in the state. This is leading towards flooding in the state. He said Bhadra dam has reached a maximum level of 23 times in the last 69 years. This is the first bagina he offered after Bommai-led government came to power in the state. He promised that Bhadra dam area would be developed on the lines of Brindavan garden in KRS dam, Mandya district. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/irrigation-project-users-must-pay-minimum-1-tax-karjol-1019741.html
14-08-2021||State||Two scholars resign from PMB of Classical Kannada centre||T V Venkatachala Shastri and N S Taranath, the two scholars, who played a major role in the establishment of the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Kannada (CESCK) in Mysuru, have resigned from its Planning and Monitoring Board (PMB) citing age factor and health issues. The term of the two expires in a couple of months. Another scholar, B A Vivek Rai resigned nine months ago. Shastri said that he was 88 years old and could not move out of the house for meetings of the PMB of the CESCK. “I have resigned due to age and health issues,” he said. Taranath said that he was resigning due to health issues. CESCK Project Director B Shivarama Shetty said that the scholars cited health issues for their resignation. “Meetings are held online due to the Covid crisis. Adapting to the new format is difficult as they are elderly persons. We take all PMB members into confidence in our functioning. There is no discord,” he said. Some professors and scholars suspect that they might have resigned due to the negligence of the officials of Central Institute of Indian Languages (CIIL) and also the project director of CESCK. “The scholars are disillusioned as the CESCK could not be developed into an autonomous institution. They are not getting support from either officials or politicians,” they said. They said that the CIIL, which was planning to evolve into a university, was intending to convert the CESCK into one of its departments. The dream of autonomy for the CESCK would not be fulfilled. The State government was not prevailing upon the Centre to get autonomous status like Tamil and Odiya. R V S Sundaram, a member of the PMB, said that even he was not happy with the recent developments. "The CESCK was established with the efforts of many people. It should have got a permanent address. The University of Mysore (UoM) had offered to give necessary land. We do not know its status. The centre has not got autonomy. Many works and projects are pending,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-scholars-resign-from-pmb-of-classical-kannada-centre-1019764.html
14-08-2021||State||Karnataka to open schools for classes 9 to 12 in districts where positivity rate is less than 2%: CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka on Saturday chose to remain cautious by deciding not to reopen schools in districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate is over 2%. Bengaluru will be kept on a leash. The city will face stringent curbs if and when the positivity rate touches 2%. It is currently 0.66%. This was discussed in a meeting Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai chaired with experts and officials to chart out the next steps to deal with the pandemic, especially in Bengaluru and districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra. The positivity rate is more than 2% in five districts - Dakshina Kannada (3.98%), Chikmagalur (3.24%), Kodagu (2.71%), Udupi (2.42%) and Hassan (2.23%), according to the government. The government had plans to reopen Classes 9-12 from August 23. “In the districts where the positivity rate is more than 2 per cent, the schools will not reopen for now,” Bommai said. Schools that are set to reopen will have to see that parents, teachers and non-teaching staff are vaccinated. “In case a particular district sees an increase in positivity rate beyond 2% after the schools reopen, the schools will have to shut for one week and be sanitised,” Bommai said. The government will ramp up testing and vaccination in districts bordering Kerala and Maharashtra. Specifically, the government will prioritize vaccination in villages situated in a 10 km radius from the Kerala and Maharashtra border. Bommai said the government's focus was to ensure that the second wave of Covid-19 was completely gone. "Experts have said the second wave hasn’t gone still. We’re still in the second wave. There are still about 1,800 cases being reported daily, unlike the first wave where we saw only 200-300 cases towards the end," Bommai explained. Since the cases vary in each district, there will henceforth be ‘no one rule that fits all’ for the entire state, Bommai said. “The state government will come up with a district-wise plan to curb cases,” he said. The government will regulate all border districts where the positivity rate is high. These include Mysuru, Hassan, Chikmagalur, Udupi, Bengaluru Rural, Shivamogga, Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar. Testing and vaccination will be increased in these districts. In Bengaluru, Bommai said the BBMP chief commissioner was authorized to impose additional measures if the positivity rate touched 2% and 40% of oxygenated beds get occupied.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-open-schools-for-classes-9-to-12-in-districts-where-positivity-rate-is-less-than-2-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1019768.html
14-08-2021||State||Beginning offline classes for 1 to 8th standard depends on feedback for classes 9 to 12: B C Nagesh||Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said on Saturday that a call on opening schools from the first standard to eighth standards will be taken based on the feedback for the classes from the ninth standard to the 12th standard which will be opened from August 23. Speaking to media persons here, he said all preparations are being made to commence classes from the ninth standard to the 12th standard as the scourge of Covid-19 has come down drastically in most of the districts. The infections are high in some border taluks. If opening classes delays, it will have a bearing on the future of children. Several children are already working as child labourers as schools were locked. A future course of action will be taken after observing the situation for a week, the minister explained. Stating that more parents are in favour of beginning physical classes. Nagesh said as the government has taken all precautionary measures, the parents should send their wards to the school without any fear. Both offline and online teaching modes will be in force, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/beginning-offline-classes-for-1-to-8th-standard-depends-on-feedback-for-classes-9-to-12-b-c-nagesh-1019774.html
14-08-2021||State||Covid curbs in C'magaluru: Hundreds of tourists turned back||Following the decision of the district administration to restrict the number of vehicles entering the hilly ranges of Chikkamagaluru to 300 a day in the wake of Covid-19, hundreds of tourist vehicles returned from the Kaimara checkpost on Saturday. Vehicles had remained stranded in a queue for nearly one and a half kilometre from Kaimara check post towards Chikkamagaluru. A few vehicles returned on learning about the restrictions, while people in others were seen pleading with the personnel at the check post to allow them to enter the tourist spots. Normally, more than 1,500 tourist vehicles enter the hilly areas during weekends.  A total of 150 vehicles each will be allowed to visit Seethalayyanagiri, Mullayyanagiri, Guru Dattatreya Bababudanswami Dargah, Manikyadhara waterfalls in two shifts. The vehicles are allowed to visit these areas from 6 am to 9 am and 2 pm to 4 pm. With this, around 1,200 tourists can visit these places in a day, said deputy commissioner K N Ramesh. Only 200 visitors are  allowed to visit Rathnagiri Bore Park, 100 people each to Hirekolale Kere and Ayyanakere in a day. These places will remain open from 6 am to 6 pm. There are no restrictions for local vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-curbs-in-cmagaluru-hundreds-of-tourists-turned-back-1019806.html
14-08-2021||State||Karnataka orders enhanced relief for flood victims||The state government has ordered that households that lost their clothes and belongings due to the July floods will receive a compensation of Rs 10,000. This includes Rs 3,800 under State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) and Rs 6,200 paid by the state government from its coffers.  At least 10 people died and thousands were displaced following heavy rainfall that caused floods in 47 taluks across 11 districts.  The government also ordered compensation to people whose homes sustained damages due to floods.  The damages have been categorised into four to determine compensation. Homes that suffered 75% and more damage (Category A) will get Rs 5 lakh against the norm of Rs 95,100. Homes damaged between 25-75% (Category B, requiring complete reconstruction) will also get Rs 5 lakh against Rs 95,100. Homes damaged between 25-75 per cent requiring repairs (Category B-1) will get Rs 3 lakh against Rs 95,100. Homes with 15-25 per cent partial damage (Category C) will get Rs 50,000 against Rs 5,200.  This was the compensation structure the government followed last year. “A fresh order has been issued as the state government is paying over and above the NDRF/SDRF norms. The order will ensure deputy commissioners stick to the compensation figures decided upon by the government instead of those prescribed as per the NDRF/SDRF norms,” Principal Secretary (Revenue) Tushar Girinath said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-orders-enhanced-relief-for-flood-victims-1019807.html
14-08-2021||State||Priyank hits back at BJP, says Vajpayee consumed liquor||KPCC spokesperson Priyank Kharge on Saturday hit back at BJP national general secretary C T Ravi over the latter's comments against Jawaharlal Nehru, saying that former prime minister, the late Atal Bihari Vajpayee was consuming liquor. Replying to the remarks made by Ravi that the Congress leaders should open a Nehru hookah bar, he asked if smoking cigarette was a crime. If yes, Vajpayee was also drinking alcohol or whisky. Should a bar be opened in the name of Vajpayee?, he said.  "Do the BJP leaders not smoke cigarette? No one should make comments on either Vajpayee or Nehru as they are statesmen. The BJP government at the Centre has achieved nothing for the past seven-and-half years and it has not built even a single institution. The institutions which were established during the period of Nehru have been named after him," he said. Noting that BJP's contribution to the nation's Independence was a big zero, the MLA asked how Savarkar, who did not fight for Independence, became Veer Savarkar? How was a flyover in Bengaluru named after him? The BJP leaders now want the name of Indira canteens changed. They don't know the history of the country and are giving irrelevant statements to become ministers, Kharge said. Reacting to Priyank's remarks, Major Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said it was not right to speak about tall leaders like Vajpayee, who had no enemies. Instead, we need to concentrate on development works, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/priyank-hits-back-at-bjp-says-vajpayee-consumed-liquor-1019808.html
14-08-2021||State||No ‘zero traffic’ movement for CM; only signal-free movement||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has asked the police not to provide 'zero traffic' facility to his motorcade or convoy.  Instead of 'zero traffic', Bommai will have a signal-free movement. The 'zero traffic' facility is frowned upon by citizens who are made to wait as police stop all vehicular movement for VIPs.  Bommai’s latest directive comes days after he said no to receiving a guard of honour (ceremonial welcome) in public places. According to a circular issued by DGP Praveen Sood, the guard of honour will now be confined to the premises of government offices. Also, the guard of honour will be given only once a day when the VIPs arrive. Sood’s circular, however, will not apply to visits made by the Governor, judges of the Supreme Court and the High Court.  Earlier in the week, Bommai ordered doing away with the practice of giving gifts and memorabilia during government events. As an alternative, Kannada books can be given.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-zero-traffic-movement-for-cm-only-signal-free-movement-1019813.html
14-08-2021||State||Child Covid-19 cases not high enough to suggest third wave: Experts||In line with predictions about an “age-shift” in the people contracting Covid-19, the proportion of cases of children being infected has risen in the last two weeks. However, experts stressed that this does not indicate that a third wave is imminent. The consensus among experts advising the government is that the third wave will largely affect children due to increasing vaccination coverage among adults. A recent Karnataka government report on third wave preparations noted an increase in child case proportions in countries with a high vaccination rate: “In the United States, the proportion has increased from 14 per cent to 24 per cent as in May second week and changed to 19.8 per cent in the third week.” This “age shift” increase towards teens and pre-teens became noticeable three weeks ago. From mid to late July, pre-teens in Bengaluru comprised an average of 3.8 per cent of daily cases. From July 25 to August 13, child cases have started to comprise 4.8 per cent, data from the BBMP War Room shows. Statewide, the proportion of pre-teens being infected has risen from 4.2 per cent to 4.95 per cent. In actual numbers, the state recorded 1,003 pre-teen cases of Covid-19 and 2,004 cases of teens (aged 10-19) over 14 days between 11 and 24 July. Comparatively, in the last 14 days, it has recorded 1,078 pre-teen cases and 2,539 teen cases. Experts said these figures are not enough to suggest a way to the third wave.  “Yes, about 45 per cent of the population is still susceptible to the virus. But as per trends established in the first and second waves suggest the proportion of susceptible population infected should be between 12 to 14 per cent. We are not yet at those levels,” explained paediatrician Dr G V Basavaraj, a member of the third wave committee. Catalyst missing Another reason for expert skepticism about the onset of the third wave is that the necessary catalyst to drive a new wave is missing - notably a new variant of the novel coronavirus. According to data from GISAID and CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) in New Delhi, nearly all genomic samples processed from paediatric cases have shown infection by baseline ‘Delta’ variant. “All of the pediatric samples processed by Insacog and by the state are showing that children are being infected with the Delta variant of the novel coronavirus. If there is a new variant of the virus out there, our surveillance will catch it. So far, there has been nothing new,” said the noted virologist, Dr V Ravi, head of Karnataka’s Genomics Surveillance Committee. He added that only the onset of a dangerous mutant such as the Lambda variant (otherwise known C.37), which has largely been found in the Americas, can potentially kick-start a third wave. The variant is known for being highly transmissible. The US-based Scripps Research Translational Institute states that only six cases of “Lambda” have been found in India so far: three in Delhi, two in Uttarakhand and one in Madhya Pradesh. As per official data, 52 per cent of the adult population in Karnataka has received at least one dose as of August 13, while 15 per cent have received both the doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/child-covid-19-cases-not-high-enough-to-suggest-third-wave-experts-1019825.html
14-08-2021||State||KSRTC rakes in Rs 3.6 lakh as fine||As many as 2,288 passengers were found travelling without valid ticket in KSRTC buses in the month of July with officials collecting a fine of Rs 3.6 lakh. The KSRTC staff checked 41,932 buses and the violators were fined then, according to a press release issued by the Corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ksrtc-rakes-in-rs-36-lakh-as-fine-1019830.html
14-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,632 new Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths||Karnataka on Saturday logged 1,632 fresh Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths taking the total infections and fatalities to 29,28,033 and 36,958, the health department said. There were 22,695 active cases in the state while the recovery of 1,612 patients took the total recoveries to 28,68,351. The positivity rate for the day was 1.04 per cent and case fatality rate 1.53 per cent, the department said. Dakshina Kannada district, which borders Kerala, remained the major Covid-19 hotspot. The district reported a maximum of 411 infections and seven fatalities, which was highest among all the districts. Bengaluru Urban district recorded 377 fresh infections and one death. The Karnataka capital has so far reported 12,32,597 infections and 15,934 deaths. There were 8,200 active cases. Other districts too reported new Covid-19 cases including 169 in Udupi, 112 in Mysuru, 97 in Hassan, 60 in Shivamogga and 53 in Chikkamagaluru. According to the department bulletin, there were fatalities in 12 districts including Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru, Chitradurga, Hassan, Kolar and Mandya. Yadgir, Gadag and Bidar districts recorded zero infections and zero fatalities. There were zero fatalities in 19 districts. The department said the state conducted 1,55,989 Covid tests on Saturday including 1,24,995 RT-PCR tests and other methods. So far 4.07 crore tests have been done cumulatively, it added. There were 2,66,674 inoculations done today taking the total vaccinations to 3.44 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1632-new-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-1019792.html
14-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||21 Karnataka police officers get President's Medal ||Around 21 police personnel, including IPS officers Umesh Kumar and Arun Chakravarthy, have been awarded the President's Medal for 'Distinguished and Meritorious service' announced on the occasion of Independence Day.  Umesh Kumar serving as additional director general of police (ADGP), Economic Offences, Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and Arun Chakravarthy J, serving as ADGP, Internal Security Division (ISD) have got the president medal for their Distinguished service.  The other 19 police officers are: M V Ramakrishna Prasad, Commandant of 3rd Battalion, Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP); Venkatesh Naidu K S, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Malleswaram sub-division; Ravi P, ACP Chickpet sub-division; Naveen Kulkarni, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DySp), State Intelligence; Siddaraju G, police inspector (PI) Talaghattapura police station; M J Dayanand, PI, Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB); Shankaragouda Patil, Circle Police Inspector (CPI), Kalaburagi Rural police station; S B Malagi, Special Reserve Sub-Inspector (RSI), KSRP Training School, Belagavi; S E Geetha, Woman Police Sub-Inspector (WPI) State Intelligence, Bengaluru; D S Govardhana Rao, Special Assistant RSI, 3rd Battalion; Mohana, assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Cyber Crime police station, Mangaluru; Rama Naik ASI Wireless, Bengaluru; Mohammed Munnavar Pasha, head constable (HC), Jayanagar PS; S P Kerutagi, Special RHC, KSRP Bengaluru; B S Dada Ameer, HC, District Armed Reserve (DAR), Ballari; V Somashekar, HC, Armed Police Training School, Bengaluru; R Kumar, computer section, Chikkamagaluru; Syed Abdul Khader, Special RHC, KSRP, Bengaluru, and Gopalappa Devendrappa Kotabagi, City Crimes Record Bureau (CCRB), Hubballi-Dharwad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/21-karnataka-police-officers-get-presidents-medal-1019804.html
14-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Never a fair deal for the fairer sex in Karnataka Cabinet||The lone woman in Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s Cabinet, Shashikala Jolle,  has, arguably, received a demotion with Muzrai, Haj & Wakf portfolio.  Jolle was the women and child development minister in the previous B S Yediyurappa government. This portfolio is now with Halappa Achar, in an apparent move to keep Jolle away as she faced corruption allegations. Jolle’s induction disappointed Hiriyur MLA K Poornima. She went on to claim that the party had “forgotten her efforts” in ensuring the BJP’s victory in the recent Basavakalyan and Tumakuru Lok Sabha elections, by consolidating votes of the Golla community to which she belongs. A lone woman minister is more a norm than an exception. However, Jolle’s demotion and the missed opportunity for Poornima have sparked a debate on the scant opportunities for women politicians to serve as ministers. Karnataka has 10 women MLAs, of which three are from BJP in the 224-member Assembly. There are three women MLCs in the 75-member Legislative Council.  Women who become ministers are often given the women & child development portfolio, Congress leader and former minister C Motamma points out. “There is much work to be done in this post. However, women are rarely considered for other portfolios,” she says, recalling that when she served as the women & child development minister in the S M Krishna Cabinet, she was keen on RDPR and social welfare. “Having come from a humble background, I was interested in social welfare. I was also interested in developing rural infrastructure. I had even asked for a change in portfolio once, but it didn’t materialize.” Union minister of state for agriculture and farmers’ welfare Shobha Karandlaje is a rare instance in the state, where a woman was given the coveted energy portfolio as well as RDPR. Karnataka pales in comparison with its neighbours: Tamil Nadu had a woman chief minister in J Jayalalithaa, whereas Andhra Pradesh has Mekathoti Sucharita as home minister. Also, women rarely become ministers twice. Motamma took part on a par with male leaders in the Ballari padayatra against illegal mining in 2010, an issue on which the Congress rode to power. But, she did not make it to the Cabinet. “Take a look at posters of all political parties. Do you see senior women leaders,” she asks. Former minister Umashree adds, “By the time all the caste and regional equations are balanced, the axe falls on women. There’s no space left.” Apparently, it’s difficult for women to match the manner of socialising and networking male politicians do. So, women hardly lobby to be ministers. A Bill seeking 33% reservation for women in Parliament and State Assemblies is pending for more than a decade. While the 50% reservation mandate in Panchayat Raj institutions has ensured more women in local bodies, reservation in Assemblies could compel parties to include women. Journalist and political analyst Preethi Nagaraj observes that numerical increase of women in panchayats does not translate into active participation. Also, while region and caste are parameters to choose a male minister, gender itself becomes the category with women leaders. “As a result, we have not even come close to giving representation for women from marginalized communities,” she says.  Tara Krishnaswamy, the founder of women’s collective Shakti, has extensively researched the issue of political representation for women. She observes that lesser developed states such as Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have a greater number of women legislators and ministers. In more developed states, women are perceived as a fierce competition and hence, they tend to be kept away. Krishnaswamy makes a fundamental point: Political parties have to start giving more tickets to women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/never-a-fair-deal-for-the-fairer-sex-in-karnataka-cabinet-1019810.html
14-08-2021||West||NCB team attacked yet again in Mumbai||In a shocking incident, five members of a raiding team of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) were attacked by a group of drug peddlers in Mumbai, a second such incident within in a week and a third such offence this year.  The attack was carried out in a forest patch off the suburban railway tracks on the Harbour line in Mankhurd, Mumbai. "The NCB team was following a tip-off of a gang of foreigner drug peddlers operating from the forests near the railway lines," said NCB’s Zonal Sameer Wankhede. When the team reached there, the gang, mostly Africans, suddenly pounced on the NCB team with weapons, machete and stones. “While one of the officials suffered a head injury, four others suffered superficial wounds,” said Wankhede.  During the operation, the NCB managed to nab one Nigerian and seized a huge haul of drugs comprising 7.5 g Cocaine, 254 g heroin and 52 g Mephedrone worth over Rs 1 cr in the illicit markets. Following secret tips that a gang of 4-5 foreigners was conducting an illicit drug peddling business, the NCP laid a trap and intercepted one foreigner, Obiorah Ekwelar of Anambra West, Onisha, Nigeria.  "The gang, carrying weapons, had become a nuisance for the entire area as they operated from the swampy area near the Mankhurd railway lines,” officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-team-attacked-yet-again-in-mumbai-1019571.html
14-08-2021||West||Gujarat to hold 75th Independence Day function at Junagadh||The Gujarat government on Saturday said the state-level celebration of the 75th Independence Day will be held in Junagadh. As per an official release, Governor Acharya Devvrat and Chief Minister Vijay Rupani will unfurl the tricolour at Junagadh on Sunday and address the people of the state. The chief minister and governor will reach Junagadh on Saturday evening and will attend a cultural programme on the eve of Independence Day, it was stated. During the function on Sunday, Rupani will hand over 10,000 body-worn cameras and 15 drone camera systems to the Gujarat police to make them more efficient in serving citizens, the release said. Each year, the Gujarat government organises state-level Independence Day functions in different cities of the state, instead of capital Gandhinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-to-hold-75th-independence-day-function-at-junagadh-1019699.html
14-08-2021||West||Uddhav Thackeray's secretary gets WhatsApp threat warning him of probe by central agencies||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's personal secretary Milind Narvekar has complained to the police, saying that he has received a threat on a social messaging platform, in which he was warned that central investigative would be after him if he did not fulfil certain demands, an official said on Saturday. Narvekar has submitted a written complaint to Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale about it, he said. "Based on it, the crime branch has launched an investigation into the matter and a search is on to nab the suspect," the police official said. In the complaint, Narvekar has said that he received a WhatsApp message from the number of an unidentified person, in which the latter threatened him about the action by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED), National Investigation Agency (NIA) and other central agencies if he did not fulfil certain demands, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackerays-secretary-gets-whatsapp-threat-warning-him-of-probe-by-central-agencies-1019727.html
14-08-2021||West||Protesting Goa islanders relent; participate in Indian Navy flag-hoisting event||After a brief stand-off with the authorities and a none-too-subtle threat by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, villagers from South Goa's St. Jacinto island on Saturday participated in a flag-hoisting ceremony organised by the Indian Navy on the island as part of the Defence Ministry's 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' initiative, on occasion of the 75th anniversary of the country's independence. On Friday, there was a stand-off of sorts between the Indian Navy and the islanders, who had agreed to host a flag hoisting ceremony without the participation of the Indian Navy, until the Chief Minister in a strong missive earlier on Saturday vowed to deal with the protest with an "iron fist". "After a slight misunderstanding yesterday (Aug 13), a team from Goa Naval Area and residents amicably participated in National Flag hoisting at St. Jacinto island... The residents also sang the National Anthem along with the Naval team during the event," the Indian Navy said in a statement after the flag-hoisting ceremony in which the local village priest and other residents participated. On Friday, the villagers led by Goa Nationalist Congress Party president Jose Phillip D'Souza had protested against the Indian Navy's plans to organise the ceremony, while also accusing the navy and other central government authorities of plotting a takeover of the island. Following the protests, the Indian Navy had announced the cancellation of the event. The Chief Minister, however, intervened on Saturday morning, warning the villagers that police force would be used to quell the protests and urged the Indian Navy to rethink its decision to cancel the event. "It is unfortunate and shameful that some individuals at St Jacinto Island have objected to the hoisting of the national flag by the Indian Navy on the occasion of India's independence day. I condemn this and want to state on record that my Government will not tolerate such acts," Sawant said on Saturday. "I have requested the Indian Navy to go ahead with their original plan and have assured full cooperation from Goa Police. These attempts of anti-India activities shall be dealt with an iron fist. It will always be 'Nation First'," the Chief Minister also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/protesting-goa-islanders-relent-participate-in-indian-navy-flag-hoisting-event-1019826.html
