15-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada records highest Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||Coronavirus cases continued to increase in Dakshina Kannada with the district reporting 411 cases on Saturday. On Friday, the district had reported 390 cases and three deaths. The district’s cases are highest in the state including Bengaluru Urban. According to the bulletin from the Family and Welfare Department, Bengaluru Urban had recorded 377 cases followed by Udupi with 169 cases. Out of 411 cases, 65 cases were reported across 10 Urban Primary Health Centres in Mangaluru City Corporation limits. On Saturday, the discharges stood at 371 while the total discharges in the district stood at 1,00,354. So far, the district has reported 1,05,533 cases. The district has 3,682 active cases with patients undergoing treatment. Seven more Covid-19 deaths were reported in the district on Sunday, thus taking toll to 1,497. As many as 10,992 samples were tested in the district on Saturday. The positivity rate has increased to 3.73 per cent. So far, the officials have booked a total of 84,663 cases for violation of covid guidelines, like wearing a mask in public places and collected a fine of Rs 1,03,01,970 since March 2020. Weekend curfew On account of the weekend curfew, shops selling essential commodities remained open till 2 pm. The shops selling non-essential commodities remained closed. A few of the city and service buses operated in Mangaluru city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-records-highest-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-1019876.html
15-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||1 held for selling fake RT-PCR certificate||Gundlupet police have registered a case against a person for allegedly selling fake RT-PCR negative certificates to the passengers entering the state from Tamil Nadu and Kerala. The accused is Anilkumar, 35, of Hangalapura village, in the taluk. Acting on a tip-off, the Gundlupet Police, under the guidance of Superintendent of Police Divya Sara Thomas, raided the computer shop at the village and found models of RTPCR certificiate on his computer system. It is alleged that Anil had downloaded the replica of the Covid negative report and sold the reports to the passengers from Tamil Nadu and Kerala, who did not possess the certificates, by filling their names and other details. The fake report racket came to the fore when the officials were checking the certificates of the passengers near the Tamil Nadu border check post on Friday and found one fake certificate. Upon inquiry, they came to know that Anil of Hangala village was selling fake negative reports with Government of Karnataka logo and Gundlupet taluk hospital address for the last 20 days. They immediately alerted Gundlupet police. Police raided the shop and took the youth into custody and seized the computer system and other materials. It is alleged that he was selling the fake certificate for Rs 300 to Rs 500. A case was registered against him on Saturday, according to police. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1-held-for-selling-fake-rt-pcr-certificate-1020062.html
15-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mahila Congress members gherao Shashikala Jolle||The members of Mahila Congress and various women's organisations on Sunday gheraoed Muzrai and Haj and Wakf Minister Shashikala Jolle in a bid to prevent her from hoisting flag at the Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women's University in the city. The Congress party has accused the minister of taking bribe in procurement of eggs meant for anganwadi children. The agitating Mahila Congress members barged to the stage and shouted slogans saying the tainted minister should not hoist the flag. The police personnel stopped the protesters and detained them. Meanwhile, Jolle during her Independence Day address said that she'd committed no wrong and that it was the conspiracy of vested interests to malign her name. "I won't succumb to pressure tactic. I am clean and ready for any probe," the minister said. Further she recited Shivasharane Akkamahadevi's vachana 'Bettada Melondu Maneya Maadi...' saying criticism, censure common in public life and that she would face it with courage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mahila-congress-members-gherao-shashikala-jolle-1020108.html
15-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Attack on democracy, Constitution relentless: D K Shivakumar||Owing to the relentless attack on democracy and the Constitution, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said that the nation was staring at a situation where people will have to struggle like the Independence movement. Speaking at the Independence Day event organised by the Congress, he said that the BJP was maligning leaders like Mahatma Gandhi and others who led the movement. "They are hailing Gandhi's killers as patriots. Another movement is essential to save the country from them," he said. Congress would go door-to-door and create awareness on how people were suffering due to bad administration, he said. In October, leaders of the party will visit every panchayat, while a programme to fight for democratic values is scheduled for November. On account of the Congress Foundation Day in December, a training camp will be held for party workers and leaders, the KPCC president said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/attack-on-democracy-constitution-relentless-d-k-shivakumar-1020112.html
15-08-2021||National||Gujjar leader, Padma Bhushan awardee Mian Bashir Ahmed dies at age 98||Veteran Gujjar leader and Padma Bhushan awardee Mian Bashir Ahmed, a resident of Ganderbal district of Jammu and Kashmir, passed away on Saturday night after a prolonged illness. He was 98. Ahmed, a resident of village Wangat in Kangan area of the central Kashmir district, breathed his last at about 10 pm, family sources said. His Nimaz-e-Jinazah (funeral prayers) will be performed on Sunday at Mizar Shrief Baba ji Sahib Larvi located at Baba Nagari Wangat, they said. Ahmed was the son of top Gujjar leader and saint Mian Nizam Din Larvi and father of former Minister and National Conference (NC) leader Mian Altaf Ahmad. Born in November 1923, Mian Bashir Ahmed was a minister in Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah's cabinet. Later, he left politics and started working for Islamic Sufi tradition and to help downtrodden people. In 2008, he was honoured with Padma Bhushan award for his extraordinary service for Gujjar-Bakarwal community and other downtrodden groups. Condolences to his family poured in from various quarters. "Just heard about the sad demise of Mian Bashir Sahib, a spiritual leader & a mass leader revered by many especially in the Gujjar community. His demise will be deeply felt by many of us. My condolences to my colleague Mian Altaf Sb & his family," NC vice president Omar Abdullah said in a tweet. His party said Ahmed's death has felt a void that cannot be filled. "Grieved over the passing of Mian Bashir Ahmad Laaravi, a renowned spiritual leader & political figure. His death has felt a void that can't be filled. Our condolences go out to Mian Altaf Laaravi, the entire family & Bashir Sb's admirers. May Allah grant him a place in Jannat," the NC wrote on Twitter. Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress committee (JKPCC) expressed profound grief over his passing, describing it as a great loss to the UT. In his condolence message, JKPCC president Ghulam Ahmad Mir expressed deep sorrow over the passing of the eminent religious scholar, socio-political figure, saying Ahmed was known for his spirituality and social work he rendered to the people of Jammu and Kashmir. "Saddened to learn about the passing away of Mian Bashir Saheb. I have no words to express my grief," Mir said. He expressed deepest condolences to Mian Altaf and other members of the bereaved family and Ahmed's followers. Praying for the eternal peace to the departed soul, the JKPCC president said, adding that Ahmed's guidance and teachings shall continue to inspire generations. Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Conference chairman Sajad Lone described Ahmed as an inspirational leader. "Deepest and heartfelt condolences to the family of Mian Bashir Sahab. An inspirational leader, defined by simplicity who had a humbling effect on people he interacted with. May his soul rest in peace," Lone said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujjar-leader-padma-bhushan-awardee-mian-bashir-ahmed-dies-at-age-98-1019882.html
15-08-2021||National||Delhi Assembly to be illuminated for Independence Day||The Delhi Legislative Assembly will be illuminated on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, the Assembly Secretariat announced on Saturday. According to an official statement, the assembly will be thrown open from 5 pm to 7 pm for visitors on Sunday. "It is going to be a delightful experience to witness the beauty of the illuminated historical building of the Old Secretariat along with special performances by the musical band of the Delhi Police and various other artistes of the Sahitya Kala Parishad," it said. The building was illuminated for the first time during the Republic Day celebrations in 2016. While extending his greetings on the eve of Independence Day, Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel expressed hope that "every citizen would continue to work sincerely to make Delhi and India prosperous and strong". "Our future is linked to the stability of the country and cementing of the democratic system," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-assembly-to-be-illuminated-for-independence-day-1019884.html
15-08-2021||National||Protesting farmers attack BJP MLA in UP's Muzaffarnagar||Farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws allegedly attacked BJP’s Budhana MLA Umesh Malik, pelting his car with stones and smearing it with black ink at Sisauli village here on Saturday. A video of the incident has surfaced on social media. In another purported video, the MLA is seen telling that the attackers had affiliation to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Incidentally, Sisauli is the village of BKU leader Rakesh Tikait and the headquarter of the farmers' body. Police said the incident took place when the MLA reached the village for a programme. Police rescued the MLA, they said. After the incident, BJP supporters gathered at the local police station, demanding action against the culprits. Union minister Sanjeev Balyan also reached the police station after the incident. Circle Officer S C Sharma said they have booked several booked, nine of whom have been named in the FIR. He said the case has been registered under Sections 147, 148, 149, 452, 307, 332, 323, 353 and 427 of the IPC. According to FIR, the mob attacked with lathis, pelted the MLA’s car with stones, injuring two gunners Kapil and Ravinder. Meanwhile, security has been tightened in the area and police are searching for those named in the FIR. Farmers have been protesting against the Centre’s farm laws for the past over eight months. A large number of them are protesting at Delhi borders, demanding the repeal of the laws, which have been dubbed as pro-farmer by the Union government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protesting-farmers-attack-bjp-mla-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-1019886.html
15-08-2021||National||Two J&K cops posthumously get nation's top honours||Two brave policemen from Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday named as the top recipients of the nation's two highest peacetime gallantry awards but unfortunately both will receive the awards posthumously. Babu Ram, an assistant sub inspector in Jammu and Kashmir Police have been awarded with an Ashoka Chakra – the highest peacetime gallantry award – while Altaf Hussain Bhat, a constable in the JKP is the sole winner of Kirti Chakra, the second highest award, for the bravery they showed in anti terror operations. Forty-eight-year-old Ram, who was killed in a gunfight at Pantha Chowk on the outskirts of Srinagar last year, had volunteered to join the Special Operations Group — the elite counter-insurgency unit of the J&K Police — nearly 18 years ago. While he was recruited as a constable in 1999, he had got two out-of-turn promotions in view of his “exceptional performance in various anti-militancy operations” in Srinagar, the Jammu and Kashmir Police had tweeted soon after his death. Director General of Police, J&K, Dilbag Singh described the slain officer as a “very brave member of the SOG team, who had been a part of counter-insurgency operations for a long time”. The Kirti Chakra awardee constable Altaf sacrificed his life while saving the life of a protected person who was attacked by terrorists in Ganderbal. Fifteen other brave hearts received the Shaurya Chakra – the third highest gallantry award. They include six men from the Army, one from the Navy, two from the Air Force and six from various police organisations. Four of them would receive the award posthumously. The list from the police force includes Special Police Officer Shahbaz who awarded Shaurya Chakra posthumously for his gallant action against terrorists in a counter-terrorist operation at Khrew in Awantipora last year. President Ram Nath Kovind, who is also the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, approved 144 Gallantry awards to Armed Forces, police and paramilitary personnel on the eve of Independence Day. These include one Ashok Chakra, one Kirti Chakra, 15 Shaurya Chakras, four Bar to Sena Medals (Gallantry), 116 Sena Medals (Gallantry), five Nao Sena Medals (Gallantry) and two Vayu Sena Medals (Gallantry). The President has also approved 28 Mention-in-Despatches to the Army personnel for their significant contributions in different military operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-jk-cops-posthumously-get-nations-top-honours-1019889.html
15-08-2021||National||DH Toon | All play, no work makes Parliament dull||Nearly 200 hours were to be spent cumulatively by Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha in 17 sittings during the just concluded Monsoon Session of Parliament.  Of this, the Houses could run for just 49.35 hours and the remaining 150.72 hours were lost in disruption, as the government and the Opposition remained adamant on not meeting mid-way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-all-play-no-work-makes-parliament-dull-1019897.html
15-08-2021||National||Independence Day: Where to watch PM's speech, celebrations||India is celebrating its 75th Independence Day today, and as per tradition, there will be a speech by the Prime Minister at Red Fort followed by a parade at Rajpath in New Delhi.    This year marks PM Narendra Modi's eighth consecutive Independence Day speech and the second speech since the outbreak of Covid-19. The speech is likely to start at 7:30 AM after the PM unfurls the tricolour at the Red Fort. Where to watch the Independence Day speech and celebrations You can follow PM Modi's speech and the Independence Day celebrations live on the national broadcasters Doordarshan, while the All India Radio will broadcast his speech live. You can also tune into Doordarshan and AIR's YouTube channels for the same. Doordarshan’s live coverage of Independence Day celebrations this year will feature more than 40 camera views to give a rich and wide perspective of the moment when PM Modi unfurls the tricolour at the Red Fort. Additionally, the broadcast will be available on indianidc2021.mod.gov.in, a new website created by the Ministry of Defence. The website and its corresponding app will provide live and a 360-degree VR presentation of the celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-where-to-watch-pms-speech-celebrations-1019900.html
15-08-2021||National||Heavy security cover in Delhi on Independence Day||A hawk-eyed vigil will be maintained across the national capital on the 75nd Independence Day on Sunday with a multi-layered security cover in place at the historic Red Fort from where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation. Security cover has been beefed up in the city and forces are on high alert to thwart any untoward incident as police have intensified patrolling and deployed extra pickets at vital installations. Borders have also been sealed to ensure no untoward incident takes place in the national capital and strict action will be taken against anyone who tries to disrupt the law and order situation, police officials said. The multi-layered security ring, including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos, kite catchers, canine units and sharpshooters on high-rise buildings, has been placed around the Mughal-era fort, and adherence to social distancing norms will be must like last year due to the Covid pandemic. According to the police, anti-drone systems have also been installed at the Red Fort in view of the recent terror attack at the IAF station in Jammu airport where Pakistan-based terrorists used drones to strike the vital installation for the first time. India's Olympic contingent are the special guests at the Red Fort on August 15. Over 350 cameras have been installed and their footage is being monitored round-the- clock through two police control rooms situated in and around the fort area, police said. There are around 5,000 security personnel at the monument and they will adhere to social distancing norms, they said. The Delhi Police had erected a huge wall of shipping containers decorated with graffiti for the first time earlier this month at the main gate of Red Fort for security reasons. The containers have been placed in such a way that no one will be able to see inside the premises of the fort when the prime minister addresses the nation. Nobody will be able to peek inside the fort from Chandani Chowk and adjoining areas, the police said. The move comes after many farmer protesting against farm bills reached the Red Fort driving tractors and entered the monument on January 26 and hoisted a religious flag. Over 70 police vehicles -- including PCR vans, 'PRAKHAR' vans and QRT (Quick Reaction Team) vans -- have been stationed at the area as part of the security deployment along with intensified patrolling by police personnel on motorcycles, the police said. Patrolling on motorboats is being carried out in the Yamuna river by the Delhi Police to ensure no untoward incident takes place in the city. Security arrangements have also been tightened at the Delhi borders where thousands of farmers have been protesting for over seven months against the centre's new agri laws. The police have already carried out anti-sabotage checks in the area and visited hotels in the vicinity in search of suspicious elements, officials said, adding security verification of the residents, including tenants and servants, has also been conducted. The Red Fort has already been closed for public, officials said. Police personnel have been asked to keep an eye in the sky to ensure that no stray kites are seen in the area during Independence Day celebrations. The Delhi Traffic Police had also issued an advisory for the function at the Red Fort to ensure safe and smooth flow of vehicles across the city. Eight roads -- Netaji Subhash Marg, Lothian Road, SP Mukherjee Marg, Chandni Chowk Road, Nishad Raj Marg, Esplanade Road and its Link Road to Netaji Subhash Marg, Ring Road from Rajghat to ISBT and Outer Ring Road from ISBT to IP flyover -- will be closed for general public from 4 am to 10 am, the advisory said. Flying of sub-conventional aerial platforms like para-gliders, para-motors, hang gliders, UAVs, micro light aircraft, remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, small size powered aircraft, quadcopters or para-jumping from aircraft are prohibited over the jurisdiction of National Capital Territory of Delhi up to August 16. The Delhi Police had seized a drone flying near Vijay Ghat, the backside of the Red Fort. The Jaguar highway patrolling team of north district was keeping a vigil in the area on Monday when it saw the drone near Vijay Ghat. A web series was being shot there, police said, adding permission was granted to shoot the show but sanction had not been given to fly a drone. A case was registered under relevant sections at Kotwali police station and the device seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heavy-security-cover-in-delhi-on-independence-day-1019901.html
15-08-2021||National||Democracy basis of special bond between India and US: Biden on Independence Day||Greeting Indians on the occasion of India’s 75th Independence Day, US President Joe Biden has said that the foundational commitment to respecting the will of the people through democracy continues to inspire the world and is the basis of the special bond between India and the United States. “On this day, August 15, 1947, India achieved its long journey toward independence, guided by Mahatma Gandhi’s message of truth and non-violence,” Biden said in his message to India on the occasion of India’s 75th Independence Day. “Today, that foundational commitment to respecting the will of the people through democracy continues to inspire the world and is the basis of the special bond between our two nations. Over the decades, the ties between our people, including a vibrant community of more than four million Indian-Americans, have sustained and strengthened our partnership,” Biden added. He said in the past one year, the two nations have come together in new ways as we tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, including working in partnership with Japan and Australia—through the Quad—to expand global manufacturing of safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines and to strengthen the “last-mile” coordination to reach people throughout the Indo-Pacific. “In this moment of great challenges and opportunities, the partnership between India and the United States is more important than ever. Together, we must show the world that our two great and diverse democracies can deliver for people everywhere. And as we do, the friendship between our nations will continue to flourish and grow,” Biden said. “I wish all those celebrating today, in India, in the United States, and throughout the world, a safe and happy Indian Independence Day,” he said in his message. Extending warm wishes to the people of India on their 75th Independence Day, Secretary of State, Tony Blinken, said that the bonds between the United States and India began over seven decades ago and have transformed into a growing partnership. “Our regional cooperation is expanding at an exponential pace as we continue to work together, alongside our partners, to advance our shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific. From climate action and clean energy to space technologies, US-India bilateral cooperation is wide-ranging and stronger than ever before,” he said. “As I said during my visit to New Delhi, there are few partnerships more vital than the one between the United States and India. Mindful of our seventy-four years of friendship, our two democracies will continue to build a better tomorrow. Happy Independence Day!” Blinken said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/democracy-basis-of-special-bond-between-india-and-us-biden-on-independence-day-1019903.html
15-08-2021||National||Truck explosion kills 11; injures several in Pak: Officials||At least 11 people, including 6 women and 4 children, were killed and several others injured when a truck they were travelling in exploded allegedly after a hand grenade attack by unidentified men in Pakistan’s port city of Karachi, police said. The incident happened on Saturday in Karachi’s Baldia town when the victims were returning home in the truck after attending a marriage ceremony. Conflicting reports appeared as to how the explosion took place. One report said that some unidentified people had thrown hand grenades at the truck while others said the truck exploded from inside, police said. “Eleven people had been killed in the explosion which was thought to be the result of a grenade attack,” Imran Yaqoob Minhas, Capital City Police Officer, told reporter. “I can confirm that 11 bodies have been recovered including six women and four children from the explosion site while 12 have been injured and some are in critical condition,” he added. Minhas said they don’t know the exact nature of the blast and investigations have started but eye witnesses say they saw some people on a motorcycle throw the hand grenades and speed away. Senior official of the Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD), Raja Umer Khattab said it appeared to be a terrorist attack to spread fear and panic in the city. “From what we know is that the truck was loaded with 20-25 people when the explosion took place. These people were returning home after attending a marriage ceremony,” he said. Khattab said 10 bodies had been moved to the hospital while the injured were also shifted for treatment. “The dead bodies include four boys aged between 10-12 years of age,” he said. He said the hand grenade had apparently exploded before it hit the floor of the truck. Jang newspaper quoted an official of the Bomb Disposal Squad as saying that they suspected the explosion was the result of a bomb blast as they had found shrapnels, nails and bolts in the wreckage of the truck and these are commonly used in locally made bombs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/truck-explosion-kills-11-injures-several-in-pak-officials-1019904.html
15-08-2021||National||Highlights from PM Modi's Independence Day address||Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded healthcare workers in his address to the nation on Independence Day, saying that they deserve the nation's gratitude for fighting Covid-19 dilgently. In his eighth Independence Day address from the Red Fort, PM Modi also congratulated and appreciated the Indian Olympic contingent for their performance at the Tokyo Games. India gave its best-ever performance in Tokyo with a haul of seven medals including one gold. Here are some key quotes from his Independence Day speech: "Indians have fought this battle (Covid-19) with a lot of patience. We had many challenges but we worked with extraordinary pace in every area. It's a result of the strength of our industrialists and scientists that today India doesn't need to depend on any other nation for vaccines."  "Benefits of many schemes that started in the last 7 years have reached the doorsteps of crores of poor. From Ujjwala to Ayushman Bharat, the poor of the nation knows their (schemes') strength. Today, government schemes have picked up pace and are reaching their goals."  "India needs to ensure that the Dalits, the backward classes and the EWS walk ahead. Recently, OBC reservation has been ensured in medical education. OBC lists can now be made by states hereon. We need to make sure that development happens to everyone." "Under the Jan Ausadhi Yojana, the poor and needy are getting affordable medicines. Till now, over 75,000 Health & Wellness Centres have been built. Now, we are working on a network of modern labs and good hospitals at the block level." "Malnutrition has been a barrier in development of poor women and poor children. We have, thus, decided to give the poor nutrient-added rice to the poor. By 2024, from ration shops to mid-day meals, all rice being provided to the poor will be fortified." "The government is set to develop an e-commerce platform for the products being developed by Self-Help groups. Today, when India is walking with the mantra of 'Vocal for Local', this platform will take these products to both domestic and global markets." "In this decade, we will have to work dedicatedly to provide a new economy in rural India. Today, we are witnessing our villages getting transformed." "We're promoting roads, healthcare, education, employment and nutrition in over 110 Aspirational Districts - that had remained lacking on the development matrix. We're working hard to ensure these districts reach the levels of all other districts in India." "We must make full use of the potential of aqua culture to sea-weed farming to further propel our Blue Economy. Deep Ocean Mission is proof of our aspirations to find new opportunities under the seas." "Delimitation Commission has been formed in J&K and we're making preparations for Vidhan Sabha elections. Ladakh, too, is walking its road towards development." "A new chapter is being written in the history of Northeast connectivity. Rail services will be connecting every capital of the Northeast very soon. Under the Act East Policy, NE is being connected to Bangladesh, Myanmar and South East Asia." "The country is working on the 'Har Ghar Jal' Mission. Over 4.5 crore families have started to receive piped water in just 2 years." "Now, the government has decided that all the Sainik schools in the country will also be open for the daughters of the country." "The country has resolved that 75 Vande Bharat trains will be connecting every corner of the country in 75 weeks of Amrit Mahotsav of Independence."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/highlights-from-pm-modis-independence-day-address-1019910.html
15-08-2021||National||India has to march ahead with new pledges for the next 25 years: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday laid out a development roadmap for the country for the next 25 years, aiming to bridge the gaps between villages and cities, reduce government interference in people’s lives and emerge as a leading nation in the world. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort to celebrate 75th Independence Day, Modi also announced a Rs 100 lakh crore infrastructure development action plan ‘Gati Shakti’, National Hydrogen Mission to make India energy independent. The Prime Minister hoisted the national flag and at the outset paid homage to all the leaders who fought for Independence – Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel and B R Amedkar and countless others who showed the path to the future. “There comes a time in the development journey of every nation when it redefines itself and moves ahead with new resolutions. In the development journey of India, that time has come today,” the prime minister said addressing a gathering that comprised corona warriors and India’s Olympics squad. Modi made a strong pitch for a “100% India” to fully utilise the country’s capabilities to take it to new heights in the 21st century and urged everyone to contribute towards achieving the goals. “Now we have to move towards making 100% efforts. We have to make sure that 100% of villages have roads, 100% of households have a bank account, 100% of beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat cards and 100% of eligible people should have a gas connection under the Ujjwala scheme,” he said in his 90-minute speech. Modi said the next 25 years were 'Amrut Kaal' (auspicious period) for India and its citizens and it would be the priority of the government to ensure that essential services reach the last person seamlessly. “The purpose of Amrut Kaal is to better the lives of citizens, lessen the development divide between villages and cities, reduce government interference in people's lives, and have the latest technology so that we are not behind any country in the world,” Modi said. The Prime Minister dwelt on a range of issues, including India’s deprived poor, its farmers and the pain of Partition and the challenges of terrorism and expansionism. By conducting surgical and air strikes, the country had sent out the message of a 'New India', he said. “This shows India is changing and can take difficult decisions,”   Modi said. “Today, the world views India with a new perspective. There are two important perspectives to it. One is terrorism and another is expansionism. India is fighting these two challenges and responding to them astutely and with courage,” Modi said without naming China and Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-to-march-ahead-with-new-pledges-for-the-next-25-years-pm-modi-1019912.html
15-08-2021||National||PM greets people on 75th Independence Day, pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted people on Sunday on the occasion of 75th Independence Day and expressed the hope that the year of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' will infuse new energy in the country. India is commemorating 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', a year-long celebration to mark 75 years of Independence. "Greetings to you all on Independence Day. Wishing you all a very Happy 75th Independence Day. May this year of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' infuse new energy among the people of the country. Jai Hind!" Modi tweeted. Greetings to you all on Independence Day. आप सभी को 75वें स्वतंत्रता दिवस की बहुत-बहुत बधाई। आजादी के अमृत महोत्सव का यह वर्ष देशवासियों में नई ऊर्जा और नवचेतना का संचार करे। Modi also paid tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Rajghat on Independence Day on Sunday. The prime minister will unfurl the national flag and address the nation from the historic Red Fort on the occasion. Modi also greeted people and expressed the hope that the year of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' will infuse new energy in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-greets-people-on-75th-independence-day-pays-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi-1019913.html
15-08-2021||National||Hand-holding of deprived communities necessary, reservation being ensured: PM at Red Fort||Reservation is being ensured for Dalits, STs, backwards and general category poor, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday in his Independence Day address and stressed that the hand-holding of deprived communities is necessary. "We have to bridge the gap between lives in villages and cities," the prime minister said. Over 4.5 crore new households have received piped water supply within two years of 'Jal Jeevan Mission', he said. The prime minister, who hoisted the tricolour at the Red Fort before his speech, gave a call for 'Sabka Prayas' along with 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas' for building a new India. India has to march ahead with new pledges for the next 25 years, Modi said. "We have to ensure we meet our goal of building Aatmanirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence," the prime minister said. Modi stressed that the day should not be merely a ceremony. People can take pride that the world's largest Covid vaccination programme in going on in the country, he said. He lauded doctors, nurses as well those involved in vaccine manufacturing and others involved in fighting Covid-19. Pain was one of greatest tragedies of last century, the prime minister said while asserting that August 14 will be remembered as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. He also lauded India's Olympic contingent, which was present at the Red Fort, and said their performance encouraged the youth of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hand-holding-of-deprived-communities-necessary-reservation-being-ensured-pm-at-red-fort-1019917.html
15-08-2021||National||PM Modi lauds India's Olympic contingent||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extolled the country's athletes for achieving spectacular Olympic success, saying their tremendous show has inspired the youth of the country. The Indian contingent produced its best ever result at the Tokyo Games, winning seven medals, including a historic gold in track and field through javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra. The Tokyo Olympics participants, including medallists like Chopra, PV Sindhu and Mirabai Chanu, were present during the 75th Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort. "The young generation made India proud at the Olympics. Those athletes are present here today," Modi said and then requested everyone assembled at the function and people across the country to applaud the achievers of the Tokyo Games. He himself began applauding the athletes and the gathering joined him. "We can be proud of the fact they have not only won our hearts but inspired the youth of this country," Modi said. The India men's hockey team won a bronze after 41 years while the women's side reached the semifinals, exceeding the expectations. Star shuttler PV Sindhu claimed a bronze this time to add to the silver she won in 2016 Rio Games and become only the second Indian and first woman to win two Olympic medals. Ravi Dahiya won a silver and Bajrang Punia a bronze as wrestlers matched the show of 2012 London Games where Sushil Kumar and Yogeshwar Dutt had won a silver and bronze medal respectively. With a bronze medal, boxer Lovlina Borgohain ensured that the boxing contingent does not return empty-handed from Tokyo Olympics after favourites Mary Kom and Amit Panghal suffered shock early exits. Weightlifter Mirabai Chanu lived up to the expectations by winning a silver on the opening day of the competition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-lauds-indias-olympic-contingent-1019918.html
15-08-2021||National||Doctors, scientists, paramedics must be worshipped for their work during Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday lauded scientists, doctors and paramedical staff for their role in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. "During the coronavirus global pandemic, our doctors, our nurses, our paramedical staff, scientists engaged in making vaccines, citizens engaged in the fight, they all deserve to be worshipped," he said during his Independence Day speech. He paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel, Rani Lakshmibai, Subhas Chandra Bose and other freedom fighters for their roles in the freedom struggle. Modi also praised India's Olympic players for making the country proud during the recently concluded Tokyo Games.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-scientists-paramedics-must-be-worshipped-for-their-work-during-covid-19-pandemic-1019919.html
15-08-2021||National||India records 36,083 new Covid cases, 493 deaths||India saw a single-day rise of 36,083 new coronavirus infections, raising its tally to 3,21,92,576, while the death toll has climbed to 4,31,225 with 493 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 3,85,336 and comprise 1.20 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.46 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A reduction of 2,337 cases has been recorded in the active coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours, it stated. The ministry said less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for forty-nine consecutive days. As many as 19,23,863 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests done so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 49,36,24,440. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.88 per cent. It has been less than 3 percent for the last 20 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,13,76,015, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. A total of 73,50,553 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours. Cumulatively, 54.38 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Sunday morning, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 493 new fatalities include 179 from Maharashtra and 105 from Kerala, the data stated. A total of 4,31,225 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,34, 909 from Maharashtra, 36,958 from Karnataka, 34,496 from Tamil Nadu, 25,069 from Delhi, 22,783 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,499 from Kerala and 18,291 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-36083-new-covid-cases-493-deaths-1019922.html
15-08-2021||National||Sainik schools now open for girls also: PM Modi||All Sainik Schools across the country will now open doors for girls, like the ones in Kodagu and Bijapur in Karnataka. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced during his Independence Day speech on Sunday that all the Sainik Schools across the country would now enrol girls. “Today I am sharing good news with the countrymen. I used to get lakhs of messages from our daughters that they want to study in the Sainik Schools. The doors of the schools should be opened for them,” Modi said while addressing the nation from the rampart of the Red Fort in Delhi. The Ministry of Defence had in 2018-19 launched a pilot project at the Sainik School at Chhingchhip in Mizoram, admitting six girl students. Six more girls got enrolled in the school in 2019-20 and seven in 2020-21. The success of the pilot project prompted the government to start admitting girls at five more Sainik Schools from the 2020-21 academic session – the ones in Kalikiri in Andhra Pradesh, Ghorakhal in Uttarakhand Chandrapur in Maharashtra and Kodagu and Bijapur in Karnataka. “Now the Government has decided that all the Sainik Schools will be open for the girls. The daughter too will study in all the Sainik Schools of the Country,” said the Prime Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sainik-schools-now-open-for-girls-also-pm-modi-1019924.html
15-08-2021||National||75th I-Day: Google doodle captures spectrum of India's diversity, its dance forms||India's cultural diversity and multi-faceted dance forms, ranging from Bharatanatyam to Purulia Chhau, have come alive in a vibrant doodle by the internet search giant Google to mark the country's 75th Independence Day. The digital artwork is a veritable palatte of colours with dancers or the props held by them, representing the letters of 'Google'. The doodle made by Kolkata-based artist Sayan Mukherjee "celebrates India's Independence Day and its cultural traditions forged in centuries of historical progress," according to information shared by Google on its website. The six artistes, donning colourful traditional costumes, stand in a row, on a platform adorned with old heritage designs, to add to the festive atmosphere. The one portrayed on the extreme left of the doodle is a Bharatanatyam dancer in a resplendent dress and an evocative 'mudra' forming the 'G' of 'Google', while a Kathakali dancer in dazzling costume syabda is on the other end of the spectrum with folded hands. After the Bharatanatyam dancer, stands a woman in Bihu costume, holding a jaapi -- the traditional hat of Assam -- forming the letter 'O', followed by a Bhangra dancer from Punjab, beating a 'dhol', the percussion instrument forming the second 'O' in the search giant's name. Purulia Chhau dancer with the colourful headgear is the next in line followed by a 'garba' dancer from Gujarat with a pair of sticks in her hands, completing the line-up. “India is inhabited by one-sixth of the total global population and is characterized by the thousands of distinct languages and ethnic groups within its borders. Indians across the subcontinent's 29 states celebrate their freedom and multicultural spirit with customs such as traditional dance performances, which vary depending on regional culture," the search giant said. The doodle artwork illustrates these diverse forms of dance. Depicted on the far right, the masked reenactments from Indian epics known as Chhau dance have origins in the eastern state of Jharkhand, the Purulia Chhau, and the Seraikella Chau regions, it added. On Saturday, the US-based firm, known to commemorate key historic events and celebrate iconic personalities, had also showcased a doodle -- inspired by an ancient fort, marking 75th Independence Day of Pakistan. "In honour of this historic day, today's doodle artwork depicts the medieval Derawar Fort, a massive square edifice with a symmetrical perimeter of 40 massive circular bastions built in the 9th century," the search engine major wrote on the artwork on August 14. “Located in the vast expanse of western Pakistan's Cholistan Desert, each of these ancient stone fortresses rises nearly 100 feet from the sand and comprise an imposing symbol of Pakistani adaptability and antiquity," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75th-i-day-google-doodle-captures-spectrum-of-indias-diversity-its-dance-forms-1019927.html
15-08-2021||National||PM announces Rs 100 lakh crore Gati Shakti scheme for holistic infra growth||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday unveiled a Rs 100 lakh crore national infrastructure plan – Gati Shakti to spur growth in jobs, increase the use of green fuels and help local manufacturers to become globally competitive. The details of the Gati Shakti initiative or the sources of funding were not immediately known. The Prime Minister had made a similar big-ticket announcement regarding the National Infrastructure Pipeline during his Independence Day speech in 2019. Announcing the new initiative during his Independence Day address on Sunday, he also announced the National Hydrogen Mission and an e-commerce platform for women self-help groups and asserted that there was no dearth of political will to see the reforms through. From the Prime Minister's speech, it appeared that Gati Shakti was related to drawing up synergies in the transportation sector. “Right now, there is no coordination between our means of transport. Gati Shakti will break the silos, and will remove all these obstacles. This will reduce the travel time for the common man and the productivity of our industry will also increase,” Modi said. He said ‘Gati Shakti’ will help boost the productivity of industries and boost the economy. “We are set to launch the Gati Shakti National Master Plan in the near future. This new initiative worth Rs 100 lakh crore will bring employment opportunities to the youth,” he said. He said the Gati Shakti plan will help raise the global profile of local manufacturers and help them compete with their counterparts globally. “Every product that is sold globally from India is attached to India, which is why I am saying that every product of yours is a brand ambassador for India”, he said The Gati Shakti plan also envisages possibilities of new future economic zones. The Prime Minister also set a target to become energy independent by 2047, saying the goal can be achieved through a mix of electric mobility, moving to a gas-based economy and making the country a hub for hydrogen production. Modi said the country spends more than Rs 12 lakh crore every on energy imports and becoming energy independent was critical, as he also announced the launch of a National Hydrogen Mission to boost the government's clean energy plans. “For India to progress, for Atmanirbhar Bharat, energy independence is necessary. India has to take a pledge that it will be energy independent by the year we celebrate the 100th year of Independence,” the Prime Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-announces-rs-100-lakh-crore-gati-shakti-scheme-for-holistic-infra-growth-1019932.html
15-08-2021||National||75 Vande Bharat trains to connect different parts of country in 75 weeks of 'Amrit Mahotsav': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Sunday announced that the new 75 'Vande Bharat', ultra-modern trains, will be launched by August 15, 2023. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day, he said "The country has resolved that 75 Vande Bharat trains will be connecting every corner of the country in 75 weeks of Amrit Mahotsav of Independence." At present, two Vande Bharat, the indigenous semi-high speed train sets, are being operated in the country. The first Vande Bharat Express operates between Varanasi and New Delhi while the second Vande Bharat Express operates between Katra and New Delhi. The Indian Railways is gearing to roll out at least 10 of them, linking around 40 cities, by August 2022.   Hyderabad-based engineering firm Medha, which in February secured the contract to supply the electrical systems for 44 Vande Bharat trains, has now been told to advance its production plan so that at least two prototypes can be rolled out by next March following all trials. Talking about boosting rail connectivity in the northeast region, the PM said, "Very soon the job of connecting the capital cities of the northeastern states by rail will be completed." As of today, except Sikkim, all northeastern states are connected to the rail network. The capital cities of Assam, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh are already connected, while the work to link the capital cities of Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Meghalaya is underway. Keeping coronavirus-induced delays in mind, officials said that connectivity to the region will be achieved by 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75-vande-bharat-trains-to-connect-different-parts-of-country-in-75-weeks-of-amrit-mahotsav-pm-modi-1019933.html
15-08-2021||National||New history of connectivity being written in northeast: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said a new history of connectivity is being written in the northeast, and announced that the work to connect the state capitals in the region with rail services will be completed soon. During his Independence Day speech, Modi said multiple parts of the country -- whether its east, northeast, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh including the entire Himalayan region, the coastal belt or the tribal region -- will become a big base for India's development in the future. "Very soon, the work of connecting all the state capitals of the northeast with rail services is going to be completed," Modi said, adding that the region is getting connected with Bangladesh, Myanmar and Southeast Asia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-history-of-connectivity-being-written-in-northeast-pm-modi-1019934.html
15-08-2021||National||Over 4.5 crore new households got piped water connection under Jal Jeevan Mission in last 2 years: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said over 4.5 crore new households received piped water connection under the Jal Jeevan Mission in the last two years. The scheme aims to provide tap water connections to all rural households by 2024. "Over 4.5 cr new households have received piped water supply within two years of Jal Jeevan Mission," Modi said in his Independence Day speech from the historic Red Fort. The ambitious scheme was announced by Modi during his Independence Day speech in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-45-crore-new-households-got-piped-water-connection-under-jal-jeevan-mission-in-last-2-years-pm-1019936.html
15-08-2021||National||Centre will develop ecommerce platform for products made by women SHGs in villages: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday the government will develop an ecommerce platform for the products made by women self-help groups (SHGs) in villages. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day, Modi said the government has also awakened the aspirations of those districts which were believed to have been left behind in the development journey. "We are promoting roads, healthcare, education, employment and nutrition in over 110 Aspirational Districts that were lacking on the development matrix. Many of these districts are in tribal areas "We are working hard to ensure these districts reach the level of all other districts in India," the prime minister said. In the last few years, villages have been rapidly changing and have been provided with facilities like roads and electricity, he said. Talking about the digital connectivity in rural areas, Modi said now the villages are connected with optical fibre network. Internet is reaching villages and digital entrepreneurs are being prepared in villages too. Praising women self-help groups, Modi said there are more than eight crore women in the villages who are associated with them. These women make various products and now the government will prepare an ecommerce platform for their products to get a big market in the country and abroad, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-will-develop-ecommerce-platform-for-products-made-by-women-shgs-in-villages-pm-1019938.html
15-08-2021||National||Democracy basis of US-India special bond, says Joe Biden||Democracy is the basis of the special bond between the United States and India, President Joe Biden said on Sunday. Biden recalled Mahatma Gandhi’s “message of truth and non-violence” as he greeted India on its Independence Day. “Today, that foundational commitment to respecting the will of the people through democracy continues to inspire the world and is the basis of the special bond between our two nations,” said the US President. The Biden Administration has of late been subtly nudging Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to continue to uphold democratic principles and arrest the perceived backsliding in freedom of speech and religion in India, notwithstanding displeasure in New Delhi. This has been emerging as an irritant in India-US relations, despite growing strategic synergy between the two nations, along with other democracies like Japan and Australia, to counter communist China’s hegemonic aspirations in the Indo-Pacific region. “In this moment of great challenges and opportunities, the partnership between India and the United States is more important than ever,” Biden said on Sunday, adding: “Together, we must show the world that our two great and diverse democracies can deliver for people everywhere.” Biden’s Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, during his recent visit to New Delhi had tacitly prodded the Modi Government to support media, judiciary and civil society to continue to freely uphold democratic principles in India. He had also underlined that the shared “commitment of India and the United States to democratic values” was part of the “bedrock” of the relationship between the two nations. He had also acknowledged all democracies, including the one in the US, too had flaws. “Over the decades, the ties between our people, including a vibrant community of more than four million Indian-Americans, have sustained and strengthened our partnership,” the US President said in his message on the occasion of the Independence Day of India. He noted that the US and India had come together in new ways as they dealt with the Covid-19 pandemic, including working in partnership with Japan and Australia through the Quad to expand global manufacturing of safe and effective vaccines against the coronavirus and to strengthen the “last-mile” coordination to reach people throughout the Indo-Pacific region. Blinken also on Sunday underlined that the cooperation between the US and India was expanding at an exponential pace as the two nations continued to work together, alongside other partner nations, to advance the shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific. “The bonds between the United States and India began over seven decades ago and have transformed into a growing partnership. From climate action and clean energy to space technologies, US-India bilateral cooperation is wide-ranging and stronger than ever before,” Biden’s Secretary of State said. “As I said during my visit to New Delhi, there are few partnerships more vital than the one between the United States and India. Mindful of our seventy-four years of friendship, our two democracies will continue to build a better tomorrow. Happy Independence Day!” Blinken said in his message on the occasion of the Independence Day of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/democracy-basis-of-us-india-special-bond-says-joe-biden-1019939.html
15-08-2021||National||'Yahi samay hai, sahi samay hai': PM Modi ends Independence Day speech with poem||Believing in the potential of the youth, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that this is a "can do generation" and ended his Independence Day speech with a poem. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day, he said that no obstacle can stop us from achieving the 21st-century dreams of development of the country. "Our strength is our vitality, our strength is our solidarity. Our life force is the spirit of the nation first,” he added. Modi ended his speech with a poem that encourages the citizens to make the most out of the current situation.  “यही समय है, सही समय है, भारत का अनमोल समय है। कुछ ऐसा नहीं जो कर ना सको, कुछ ऐसा नहीं जो पा ना सको, तुम उठ जाओ, तुम जुट जाओ (This is the time, this is the right time, this is India's precious time. There is nothing that cannot be done, there's nothing that you can't get),” he said in his poem. यही समय है, सही समय है, भारत का अनमोल समय है। कुछ ऐसा नहीं जो कर ना सको, कुछ ऐसा नहीं जो पा ना सको, तुम उठ जाओ, तुम जुट जाओ, सामर्थ्य को अपने पहचानो, कर्तव्य को अपने सब जानो, भारत का ये अनमोल समय है,||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yahi-samay-hai-sahi-samay-hai-pm-modi-ends-independence-day-speech-with-poem-1019940.html
15-08-2021||National||Sorry state of affairs in Parliament: CJI Ramana at Independence Day event||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Sunday pointed towards a "sorry state of affairs" as lack of adequate and quality debates in Parliament resulted in the passing of laws with a "lot of ambiguity and gaps". He expressed concern on "falling standards of debates and discussion in Parliament in recent time, in comparison with initial years after independence." “Different laws used to be debated and deliberated upon then. So, the burden of the courts in interpreting or implementing the laws used to be less. We had a clear picture (of) what the legislature wanted to tell...why they were making such a legislation. Now (there is a) sorry state of affairs," Justice Ramana said.   "We see a lot of ambiguity and gaps in legislations (now), there is no clarity in laws, we don't know what purpose law is being made, this is causing of lot of litigation, inconvenience to the people and loss to government," he said.  The CJI felt that this was so since there were not enough intellectuals, professionals and lawyers in the House.  He recounted how India’s independence struggle was led by lawyers like Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru, Babu Rajendra Prasad. "If you take into consideration the first members of the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and state Assemblies. They were filled with lawyers. Unfortunately over a period of time, you know what has been happening in Parliament...This is what happens if intellectuals and professionals like lawyers are not there in the Houses,” the CJI regretted.  He called upon the lawyers to contribute more towards public causes and actively participate in public life. "It is time the legal community and lawyers have to lead. They should not confine themselves to the profession, earning money and living comfortably. They must actively participate in public life," he said.  He was speaking at a flag hoisting ceremony organised by SCBA on 75th Independence Day at the SC premises. In his address, the CJI also highlighted the role played by the Supreme Court in protecting the rights of people.  “The Supreme Court has given more than what the Constitution thought of. Not only by interpreting the Constitution but also by expanding the scope and providing rights to the people taking into consideration problems of the citizenry. The Supreme Court has taken an active role and I hope and expect we will contribute more,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sorry-state-of-affairs-in-parliament-cji-ramana-at-independence-day-event-1019947.html
15-08-2021||National||PM Modi unveils roadmap of new India with ambitious schemes; warns of terrorism, expansionism||Outlining the roadmap for a new and assertive India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced a slew of development programmes, including a landmark Rs. 100 lakh crore "Gatishakti" initiative to boost infrastructure and employment opportunities. In his eighth consecutive address from the ramparts of Red Fort on the 75th Independence Day, Modi called for making the next 25 years glorious for India with "new thresholds, aspirations and dreams" in the run up to the centenary of its independence from British colonial rule. Modi also said India is fighting the challenges of terrorism and expansionism with great courage and astuteness. He asserted that India does not hesitate in taking tough decisions and has political will to do so. "India has given a stern signal to its enemies by conducting surgical and air strikes. This tells us that India is changing and can take the most difficult decisions and isn't reluctant to implement them," he added. During his nearly 90-minute speech, the prime minister, who wore a traditional kurta and a churidar complemented by a blue jacket and a red-patterned saffron headgear, also called for a review of rules and procedures across the country so that every process that creates a hindrance for people and the country is removed. "Yahi samay hai, sahi samay hai, Bharat ka anmol samay hai (This is the moment, it is the right moment, It is precious time for India)," he said, reciting a poem at the end of his speech. Modi also added weight to his oft-quoted slogan 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas', by adding a new call -- Sabka Prayas (everyone's effort), saying this would be very important for the achievement of all the country's goals. Stating that the world acknowledges India's political will for big reforms, he noted that the country has received record foreign investment with its forex reserves at an all-time high. Drawing a roadmap for the all-round development of India and its people, he said India has to march ahead with new pledges for the next 25 years. "We have to ensure we meet our goal of building Aatmanirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence.” Modi said the 'Pradhan Mantri Gatishakti National Master Plan' will develop the possibilities of new future economic zones. The Rs. 100 lakh crore programme will lay the foundation of the overall infrastructure in the country including in transport, reducing travel time and productivity, he said. The initiative will lead to development of future economic zones. He also announced the setting up of a National Hydrogen Mission to make India the new global hub of green carbon-free hydrogen fuel and its largest exporter, as he set a target of 2047 for India to achieve self-reliance in energy. In other announcements, Modi said the government will fortify the rice distributed to the poor via different schemes such as Midday Meal in a bid to address the problem of malnutrition. He also said 75 'Vande Bharat' trains will connect different parts of the country in 75 weeks to mark the ongoing 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'. Stressing that he has full faith in the youth of the country, Modi said this is a "can-do generation" which can achieve every goal. Giving the slogan of 'Chhota kisan bane desh ki shaan (small farmers should become India's pride)', Modi cited various schemes including transfer of money to assert that his government has prioritised the interest of small farmers who account for more than 80 per cent of the farming community. Keeping small expenses in mind, the government is implementing the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) under which more than Rs 1.5 lakh crore has been transferred into the bank accounts of over 10 crore farmers, he added. The prime minister also said reservation is being ensured for Dalits, STs, backwards and general category poor, and emphasised that the hand-holding of deprived communities is necessary. He also talked about boosting rail connectivity in the northeast region, saying very soon the job of connecting the capital cities of the northeastern states by rail will be completed. Asserting that the Jal Jeevan Mission aims to provide tap water connections to all rural households by 2024, Modi said over 4.5 crore new households received piped water connection under it in the last two years. On other issues, he said the development of Jammu and Kashmir is visible on the ground, adding that the delimitation exercise is on and preparations are underway for assembly polls there. He also said it is unprecedented the way UDAN scheme was connecting far-flung areas of the country and the speed at which new airports are being built. Describing the New Education Policy as a means to fight poverty, he said it will focus on encouraging teaching in regional languages. The nature of international relations, Modi said, changed after the Second World War and there is a possibility of a new world order in a post-coronavirus pandemic scenario. Addressing the gathering held under the shadow of Covid with social distanced seating, Modi stressed that the day should not be merely a ceremony. People can take pride that the world's largest Covid vaccination programme in going on in the country, he said. He lauded doctors, nurses as well those involved in vaccine manufacturing and others involved in fighting Covid-19. The pain of partition was one of the greatest tragedies of the last century, the prime minister said while asserting that August 14 will be remembered as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. Modi began his address, hailing the contribution of Mahatma Gandhi, Subhas Chandra Bose, India's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and B R Ambedkar, among others, in nation building. He also lauded India's Olympic contingent, which was present at the Red Fort, and said their performance encouraged the youth of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-unveils-roadmap-of-new-india-with-ambitious-schemes-warns-of-terrorism-expansionism-1019948.html
15-08-2021||National||Independence Day: Hand fans made by tribals help keep heat at bay||Colorful handmade fans sourced from tribal artisans across the country provided relief to dignitaries and guests at the Independence Day function from the scorching sun beating down on the Red Fort on Sunday. Amid the high heat and humidity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was also seen wiping his face with a towel while addressing the nation on the 75th Independence Day. The national capital recorded a temperature of 30.6 degrees Celsius around 8:30 am. The maximum temperature is predicted to settle around 37 degrees Celsius. As the sun rose in the sky, several invitees were seen covering their face and head with a towel, while others blew the handmade pankhas to keep the heat at bay. TRIFED, the nodal agency which markets and promotes tribal products, collaborated with the Ministry of Defence to make handmade pankhas available to the guests attending the event. This is the fourth year of this collaboration. It’s a token to recognise the craftsmanship of the tribal artisans and give a fillip to their livelihoods, the Tribal Affairs Ministry said in a statement. Sourced from artisans from states such as Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, Gujarat and Jharkhand, these pankhas are ecofriendly and have been made out of natural, organic materials, it said. As a memorabilia, these pankhas help revive memories of the past when these were an integral part of Indian households and offered comfort in the scorching heat. The Tribes India pankhas are also available for sale in TRIBES India retail outlets across the country and also on its e-commerce platform.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-hand-fans-made-by-tribals-help-keep-heat-at-bay-1019949.html
15-08-2021||National||Will have to bow before China if dependence on it increases: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat||If dependence on China increases, we will have to bow before it, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Sunday. Speaking after hoisting the national flag at a Mumbai school on the 75th Independence Day, the RSS chief also said "swadeshi" means doing business on India’s terms. “We use the internet and technology a lot. Our country does not have the original technology. It comes from outside,” Bhagwat said. “No matter how much we shout as a society about China and boycott Chinese items, but from where does everything that is in your mobiles come from? If the dependence on China increases, then (we) will have to bow before China,” Bhagwat said. Economic security is important, he said, adding the adaptation of technology should be based on our terms. "We have to be swa-nirbhar", he said. “Swadeshi does not mean ignoring everything else. International trade will remain, but on our terms,” he said. We have to be self-reliant for that, he added. " What we can manufacture at home should not be brought from the market," he said. He said the economic vision should be to produce more and competition should be for the best quality of produce. “We are not against international trade and commerce but our production must be in villages. It should not be mass production but production by masses," he said. A decentralised production will help India’s economy to generate employment and self-employment opportunities, he said. With more producers, more people will be self-reliant, he said, adding the revenue generated should be distributed equitably. Industries should get encouragement from the government, Bhagwat said. The government should act as a regulator and not do business itself, he added. “The government will appeal and urge industries to manufacture what is important for the development of the country and formulate policies to encourage industries,” he said. “We don't believe in complete nationalisation but it is also not true that the nation has nothing to do with industries. All these should function together as a family unit," he said. Small industries should complement bigger industries, he said, adding the focus should be people-centric and not profit-centric. The focus should be on research and development, MSMEs and cooperation sectors, he added. "Considering the economic unit as a family will help the economy to be an employment generator," he said. The government’s job has to be to support and encourage industries. The government should give directions to produce what is important for the development of the country. A “controlled consumerism” is necessary to ensure there is no exploitation of natural resources, he said. “The standard of living should not be decided by how much we earn, but by how much we give back,” the RSS chief said. “We will be happy when we consider the welfare of all. To be happy, we need sound finances and for this, we need financial strength," Bhagwat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-have-to-bow-before-china-if-dependence-on-it-increases-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-1019953.html
15-08-2021||National||Strengthen voices against all forces that try to stifle freedom: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday called for strengthening voices against all forces that try to stifle freedom. She unfurled the National Flag and took salutes from various police wings during a parade on Red Road here on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. The chief minister also awarded various police personnel for their gallantry and paid floral tributes at the Police Memorial and a statue of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, whose 125th birth anniversary was celebrated this year. Though Banerjee did not address the people, she tweeted, "On the 75th Independence Day, let us all come together to strengthen our voices against all forces that aim to stifle our freedom. We must never forget the sacrifice of those who fought a long and hard battle for this day. Warm wishes to all my brothers and sisters. Jai Hind!" On the 75th Independence Day, let us all come together to strengthen our voices against all forces that aim to stifle our freedom. We must never forget the sacrifice of those who fought a long and hard battle for this day. Warm wishes to all my brothers and sisters. Jai Hind! Colourful tableaux themed on various schemes and campaigns of the state government were taken out at the event. Many dignitaries, including Chief Secretary H K Dwidevi, Home Secretary B P Gopalika and Kolkata Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra, were present at the programme. Meanwhile, community clubs and social organisations also took out rallies, while the National Flag was hoisted at educational institutions and government offices. Various political parties also observed the day their offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strengthen-voices-against-all-forces-that-try-to-stifle-freedom-mamata-banerjee-1019955.html
15-08-2021||National||Take pledge to get rid of Covid-19: Maharashtra CM appeals to people on Independence Day||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the Covid-19 pandemic took everyone to "pre-independence days", and appealed to people to take the pledge to make the state and the country free of the disease. In his address after unfurling the national flag at the state secretariat 'Mantralaya' on the country's 75th Independence Day, Thackeray said the state was fighting Covid-19 with determination and the vaccination drive against the disease was also being expedited. "Just yesterday, we achieved a milestone of vaccinating 9.5 lakh citizens on a single day," he noted. The CM said the country achieved independence due to people's struggle and movement. "We are now celebrating 75 years of freedom, and we have to take the pledge that we will make our state and the country free of coronavirus and celebrate the Independence Day next year freely. The pandemic had taken everyone back to the pre-independence days and we all were experiencing the same in the last one-and-a-half years," he said. Thackeray said most of the Covid-19 restrictions are now being relaxed. "But the threat is far from over. New strains of the virus are being detected in other countries...we have to take care that the threat doesn't hit us," he said. The CM said even though medicines and vaccines are available, "there is still shortage of oxygen". "We are easing restrictions based on the availability of oxygen. I appeal to citizens to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour," he said. Thackeray said the state will be put under lockdown if there is a spike in daily Covid-19 cases and taking into account the availability of oxygen. The chief minister also paid tributes to Covid-19 warriors and citizens who lost their lives to the viral infection. He said celebrating the Independence Day keeping in mind the history is not enough, but the need of the hour is to preserve the freedom secured due to sacrifices of several people. "It is our duty to preserve the values of freedom," he said. Thackeray also paid tributes to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, saying the warrior king sowed the seeds of struggle for independence from foreign rule. The CM also attended the flag-hoisting ceremony at the Bombay High Court. The tricolour was unfurled at the HC by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, who also handed over a cheque of Rs 3.41 crore for the chief minister's fund for Covid-19 relief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-pledge-to-get-rid-of-covid-19-maharashtra-cm-appeals-to-people-on-independence-day-1019956.html
15-08-2021||National||Gandhian ideals the 'greatest weapon' to give direction to the country, says Stalin||Gandhian ideals are the "greatest weapon" to give direction to the country which is facing challenges related to caste, religion and creed and this should be instilled in the minds of the youth, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin said on Sunday. In his address after unfurling the Indian tricolour at Fort St George, seat of the government here on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day, the first as chief minister, he also recalled Mahatma Gandhi's "deep relationship" with Tamil Nadu and how the state made him give up his "high quality" outfit for a more simple one. "Let's take a vow to instil in the youths' mind that Gandhian ideals are the greatest weapon to lead India which is facing challenges related to caste, religion and creed," he said. Mahatma Gandhi had a "deep relationship" with Tamil Nadu and it was during one such visit to the state that he decided to opt for simpler outfit. It was during his visit to the southern city of Madurai and seeing the poor people there that Gandhi decided to switch over to a more simpler, the trademark outfit, the Chief Minister said. "Mahatma Gandhi had visited Tamil Nadu 20 times in his lifetime. When he came to Madurai 100 years ago, Tamil Nadu gave him a farewell where he returned as a Mahatma who gave up any dress covering his upper body," he said. To remember this, Stalin announced the Mahatma Gandhi museum in Madurai, which has rare antiques, will be renovated at a cost of Rs six crore to attract people and the younger generation. Further, Tamils were at the forefront in all the struggles led by Gandhi in South Africa and he called them, "who bore the brunt of racism," as his brothers. "Tamils loved Mahatma Gandhi from their heart. Mahatma Gandhi had great love not just for Tamils but also the Tamil language and said it was to India much like Italian was to Europe. He insisted on it being included in as an elective in London University. He also wanted people from other prts of India to learn Tamil," Stalin said. Stalin later inaugurated a pillar erected here to commemorate India's 75 years of indepedence. The pillar was constructed not just using brick and mortar "but with the blood, bones and flesh of our freedom fighters." Hailing the role of freedom fighters from Tamil Nadu, he said efforts will be made to document the contribution of the state in the country's independence struggle. Further, he announced increasing the pension for freedom fighters from Rs 17,000 to Rs 18,000 and the family pension from Rs 8,500 to Rs 9,000. While India was celebrating its 75th year of independence, the movement had gained ground in the state 150 years ago, he said and paid rich tributes to freedom fighters like Poolithevan, Velu Nachiyar, Veerpandia Kattabomman, VO Chidambaram Pillai, Subramania Bharathy, Thanthai Periyar EV Ramasamy, K Kamaraj and CN Rajagoplachary among others. Plans were afoot for grand celebrations of the 150th birth anniversary of Pillai, who had operated a Swadeshi shipping company against the then British rulers, he said. Recalling his party DMK's contributions in the past, Stalin said its founder and former chief minister, the late CN Annadurai had collected funds during the Indo-China war in 1962. Later, his father and late M Karunanidhi, as CM, collected Rs six crore during the Indo-Pak war of 1971 and also piloted an Assembly resolution against the neighbour's aggression. The total contribution received from the country then was Rs 25 crore, he said. Later, during the Kargil war in 1999, the then DMK government led by Karunanidhi gave Rs 50 crore to the Centre in three instalments, he added. Further, it was his father, a "free thinker," who ensured the Chief Ministers of the day unfurled the tricolour on August 15 after taking up the matter with the then Prime Minister, the late Indira Gandhi, Stalin recalled. In his first Independence Day address as chief minister, Stalin, also at the helm in for the first time, expressed joy he had been accepted by the people after 50 years of public work. While 2021 had many special occasions, he was personally happy the DMK has come to power and recalled its work in the areas of Covid management and other public welfare initiatives, including appointing members of all castes as temple priests, besides providing Rs 4,000 pandemic assistance. "The Covid pandemic has taught us many lessons. It has led to medical, mental and economic crises among others and the government is taking various steps to rescue people from these," he said and credited frontline workers including medical professionals for their dedication during these times. He gave away various awards, including the one named after the late Kalpana Chawla and given for daring acts and another after former President, the late APJ Abdul Kalam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gandhian-ideals-the-greatest-weapon-to-give-direction-to-the-country-says-stalin-1019959.html
15-08-2021||National||Women must feel safe and respected from street to workplace: PM Modi||Women must feel safe and respected from street to workplace and for ensuring this, the administration, police and judicial system, along with every citizen, need to fulfil their responsibility, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday in his Independence Day address. Prime Minister Modi also announced that all Sainik Schools in the country will now be open for girls also. It is a matter of pride that whether it is education or sports "our daughters are giving unprecedented performances. India's daughters are eager to take their space. We need to ensure that in every career and field of work, women have equality," he said. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day, Prime Minister Modi said the country should pledge to ensure that women are provided safety and treated with respect. "We need to ensure that from street to workplace, at every place, women have a sense of security, a feeling of being respected and for this, the country's administration, police and judicial system, and every citizen need to fulfil their responsibility hundred percent," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-must-feel-safe-and-respected-from-street-to-workplace-pm-modi-1019961.html
15-08-2021||National||In a first, IAF choppers shower flower petals after tricolour unfurled at Red Fort||In a first, two Mi-17 1V Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters showered flower petals at the venue of main Independence Day celebration at the Red Fort here after Prime Minister Narendra Modi unfurled the national flag. The petals were showered in the Amrut formation drawing loud applause and cheers from the audience. While the first chopper was controlled by Wing Commander Baldev Singh Bisht, the second was commanded by Wing Commander Nikhil Mehrotra. After the showering of flower petals, Prime Minister addressed the nation. Thirty-two Olympians who made the country proud at the Tokyo Games and two officials of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) were invited to participate in the Independence Day celebrations. Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who created history at the recently-concluded Olympics by winning the country's first track-and-field gold medal, was among the 32 athletes. Talking about the IAF choppers showering flower petals, Ritika Joshi, who was present in the audience, said, "It was a sight to witness when flower petals dropped on each of us. We saluted the commanders." For Shubhanshu Sharma, tricolour balloons released in the air was among the highlights of the celebrations. "This year having flower petals showered by IAF helicopters was a pleasant surprise which filled our hearts with respect for our forces," he said. A separate block was created on the south side of the Red Fort's ramparts for “Corona warriors” such as healthcare workers to honour them for the pivotal role they played in fighting the pandemic. India is commemorating its 75th Independence Day as 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' under which a series of events have been organised across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-iaf-choppers-shower-flower-petals-after-tricolour-unfurled-at-red-fort-1019967.html
15-08-2021||National||Sidelights of Independence Day celebrations at Red Fort||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday delivered his ​eighth consecutive address from the Red Fort on the 7​5​th Independence Day during which he announced a Rs 100 lakh crore 'Gatishakti' initiative to bring employment opportunities for the youth, help local manufacturers become globally competitive and aid in holistic infrastructure growth. -- Modi arrived at the Red Fort at 7:18 am. -- The prime minister, who unfurled the national flag at the 17th-century Mughal monument, paired a ​saffron turban with red patterns and a ​full-sleeve kurta. -- Modi was received by ​Minister of Defence Rajnath Singh, Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar. -- The secretary introduced the General Officer Commanding (GOC), Delhi area, to Modi. -- The prime minister, accompanied by the GOC, proceeded towards the saluting base where a combined Inter-Services and Police Guard presented a general salute to him. -- He walked to the ramparts of the Red Fort and unfurled the tricolour around 7.30 am. L​ieutenant​ Commander P Priyambada Sahoo assisted PM Modi in unfurling the national flag. -- The guards presented the national salute as the band played the national anthem amid a 21-gun salute. -- For the first time, two Mi-17 1V Indian Air Force (IAF) helicopters showered flower petals at the venue. They did so in the Amrut formation drawing loud applause and cheers from the audience. -- The prime minister addressed the nation for 8​8​ minutes. For the ​eighth​ year in a row, he spoke from an open-air podium and not a bullet-proof glass enclosure. -- The coronavirus pandemic cast a shadow on this year's celebrations. The guest list was pruned significantly. -- The attendees, including the guests, ministers, diplomats, officials and security staff, all sported masks and followed physical distancing measures. -- Security personnel frisking invitees were wearing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits. -- The school children, who have been an important element of the celebrations every year, were missing this time too like last year. Five hundred NCC cadets were present at the event. -- Usually, the Red Fort lawns are filled to the brim during the Independence Day. But this time, some chairs remained empty. -- Among the dignitaries present on the occasion were Union ministers ​Amit Shah, ​ Rajnath Singh, ​Nirmala Sitharaman, Nitin Gadkari, Piyush Goyal, ​Hardeep Singh, Puri and Smriti Irani​. -- Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, and chiefs of the three services Gen Manoj Mukund Naravane, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria and Admiral Karmabir Singh were also present on the occasion. -- ​The sun was shining clearly​ and high humidity levels caused some inconvenience to the attendees. -- The Delhi Police had erected a huge wall of shipping containers decorated with graffiti at the main gate of the Red Fort for security reasons. This arrangement was done at the venue for the first time. The containers were placed in such a way that no one could see inside the premises of the fort when the prime minister addressed the nation. -- Anti-drone systems were also installed at the Red Fort in view of the recent terror attack at the IAF station in Jammu airport where Pakistan-based terrorists used drones to strike the vital installation for the first time. -- A separate block was created on the south side of the Red Fort's ramparts for Corona warriors such as health workers to honour them for playing a vital role in fighting the pandemic. -- Thirty-two Olympians who made the country proud at the Tokyo Games and two officials of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) were invited to participate in the Independence Day celebrations. -- Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra, who created history at the recently-concluded Olympics by winning the country's first track-and-field gold medal, was among the 32 participants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sidelights-of-independence-day-celebrations-at-red-fort-1019969.html
15-08-2021||National||PM Modi recalls freedom fighters, revolutionaries in Independence Day speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday paid tributes to freedom fighters and revolutionaries such as Jawaharlal Nehru, BR Ambedkar, Queen Chennamma, Bhagat Singh and others from across the country for their efforts towards independence and nation-building. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the 75th Independence Day, Modi said the country recalls its freedom fighters and bows before them. "...whether it is Mahatma Gandhi who transformed the freedom struggle into a mass movement, or Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose who sacrificed everything for freedom of the country, or the great brave revolutionaries such as Bhagat Singh, Chandra Shekhar Azad, Ashfaqulla Khan and Bismil (Ram Prasad Bismil), the country remembers all of them," Modi said. During his 90-minute speech, Modi said, "Be it Nehru ji, the first prime minister of India, Sardar Patel, who united the nation, or Babasaheb Ambedkar, who showed India the way to the future, the country remembers every such personality. The country is indebted to all of them." Modi also emphasised the role of women revolutionaries from across the country and specifically mentioned queen of Jhansi Rani Lakshmibai, queen of Chittoor (in Andhra Pradesh) Chennamma, Queen Gaidinliu (from Nagaland) and Assam brave-heart Matangini Hazra and expressed the country's gratitude for their contribution. He said the country remembers each person and each personality who contributed in the freedom struggle, and will forever remain indebted to all of them. Underlining that for centuries India struggled for preserving its culture, land and freedom, Modi said many names might not have been not registered in the pages of history, but the nation bows to all who fought for it.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-recalls-freedom-fighters-revolutionaries-in-independence-day-speech-1019971.html
15-08-2021||National||With several big projects under its belt, Gujarat now competing with world: CM Rupani||With several projects in Gujarat being among the largest globally, the state's competition is now with the world and not other states in the country, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Sunday after hoisting the national flag on Independence Day. He also claimed that Gujarat was the only state that successfully tackled the Covid-19 pandemic during the second wave without going for a complete lockdown. Rupani said his government is committed to fighting the possible third wave of Covid-19 and has made preparations for the same. It is a matter of happiness that four crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be administered to people of the state by Sunday, he said during the state-level function to celebrate the country's 75th Independence Day at Junagadh in the Saurashtra region. “Gujarat's competition now is not with other states, but with the world," he claimed. "The world's tallest 'Statue of Unity' is constructed in Gujarat. The world's largest cricket stadium, the Narendra Modi Stadium, is in Gujarat. The world's largest 30,000-MW renewable energy park is in Gujarat…the world's largest CNG port is at Bhavnagar in Gujarat,” Rupani said. He further said the country's first bullet train will start from Gujarat, and the state attracted the highest amount of foreign direct investment (FDI) in the country. The country's largest commercial complex in Surat, the first International Financial Services at GIFT City, the largest smart industrial city at Dholera SIR Park, are all in Gujarat, he added. Rupani said Gujarat tops the country in the production of cumin, cotton and groundnut, and has the lowest unemployment rate. The state tackled the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic through “collective leadership”, daily monitoring and decision-making of the core committee, he said. “Gujarat is the only state in the entire country which did not go for a complete lockdown. We tackled the first and second waves of coronavirus with limited control. Now, with the experiences of the second wave, we are ready for the third wave,” he said. “Let us pray to God that we don't get to face the third wave. But in case we do, we are committed to fight the third wave and have made all preparations,” he added. Rupani said his government is committed to vaccinating all people aged 18 and above in the state at the earliest. "It is a matter of happiness that four crore Covid-19 vaccine doses will be administered by today. Gujarat is first in the country in terms of per million doses. We have achieved a recovery rate of 98.5 per cent,” he said. The chief minister said his government was committed to all-round development of all the sections of society, and had promptly passed on the benefits of government schemes for the welfare of the weaker sections. The state government had taken several decisions for the benefits of farmers, women, tribals, and other sections of society, he said, adding that as many as "1,700 decisions were taken fast and without pendency" in the last five years. He said the Gujarat government implemented tough laws to tackle “love jihad", liquor prohibition, drug menace, and anti-social elements of society. The state government also equipped the police with 10,000 'body-worn' cameras and other technologically advanced facilities like drone cameras, so as to make the security force strong and effective, he said. The CM also announced benefits like five lakh gas connections to the poor under the 'Ujjawala scheme's second phase, Rs 780 crore to ensure daily water supply in areas under municipalities in the state, 'star ranking' system to encourage municipalities, and a subsidy of Rs 50,000, instead of Rs 30,000, to farmers under the 'Mukhya Mantri Paak Sangrah Structure Yojana'. He also urged people to contribute 60 per cent for a developmental project under the state's 'Vatan Prem Yojana', while the remaining 40 per cent amount will be contributed by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-several-big-projects-under-its-belt-gujarat-now-competing-with-world-cm-rupani-1019975.html
15-08-2021||National||India yet to be free from shackles of discrimination, poverty, says Kerala CM||While India has achieved many things post independence, social and economic inequalities, poverty, failure to ensure women's safety, racial discrimination and threat of religious sectarianism are "shackles" from which the country is yet to be liberated, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in his Independence Day message on social media. The Chief Minister, on his Twitter handle, urged the people to pledge to liberate the country from these shackles and "recapture the meaning of freedom in all its glory". "Today, let's take the pledge that we will liberate our country from the shackles of poverty, caste discrimination, gender inequality, communal ideologies, sectarianism & all social injustices to recapture the meaning of freedom in all its glory." he tweeted. He also posted Independence day wishes on his Facebook page in which he said, "As an independent nation, we have achieved many things. There is still room for improvement in many areas. Economic and social inequalities are strongly prevailing in the country. Poverty has not been eradicated. "The country is also lagging behind in ensuring women's freedom and security. Racial discrimination and oppression continue. Religious sectarianism has grown into a major threat. A significant percentage of young people are unemployed. Ordinary people, including farmers, have to struggle for survival." In such times, the 75th Independence Day celebrations should focus on transforming into an independent sovereign nation where our Constitution envisions socialism, secularism and democracy, he said in his Facebook post. He further said that it was time to reclaim our nationalism, which envisioned liberation, anti-imperialism and equality, and expel fascist nationalism that was sectarian, communal, inhuman and religious. "Let us pledge to move forward with the necessary political will. The word freedom can be made meaningful. Let us make our country a model of peace and prosperity. Happy Independence Day everyone," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-yet-to-be-free-from-shackles-of-discrimination-poverty-says-kerala-cm-1019977.html
15-08-2021||National||New airports being constructed in India at unprecedented speed: PM Modi||The speed with which new airports are being constructed and the UDAN scheme is covering the far-flung areas of the country is unprecedented, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in his Independence Day speech on Sunday. The Centre has accorded in-principle approval for setting up of 21 greenfield airports across the country of which six have been constructed and operationalised till now, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh had stated on August 5 in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha. Under the regional connectivity scheme UDAN, financial incentives from the Centre, state governments and airport operators are extended to selected airlines to encourage operations from unserved and underserved airports, and keep airfares affordable. The scheme was started in 2016. In his speech, the PM said "Today, the speed with which new airports are being constructed in the country, and the way UDAN scheme is connecting the far-flung areas, it is unprecedented." "Today, we are seeing how better air connectivity is giving wings to people's dreams," he added. The Centre has accorded in-principle approval for setting up of 21 greenfield airports across the country: Mopa in Goa; Navi Mumbai, Sindhudurg and Shirdi in Maharashtra; Bijapur, Hassan, Kalaburagi and Shimoga in Karnataka; Dabra (Gwalior) in Madhya Pradesh; Kushinagar and Jewar (Noida) in Uttar Pradesh; Dholera and Hirasar in Gujarat; Karaikal in Puducherry; Dagadarthi, Bhogapuram and Orvakal (Kurnool) in Andhra Pradesh; Durgapur in West Bengal; Pakyong in Sikkim; Kannur in Kerala; Hollongi (Itanagar) in Arunachal Pradesh.  Singh had also said on August 5 that out of the aforementioned 21 airports, six greenfield airports namely, Shirdi in Maharashtra, Durgapur in West Bengal, Pakyong in Sikkim, Kannur in Kerala, Orvakal(Kurnool) in Andhra Pradesh and Kalaburagi in Karnataka have been operationalized.  "Proposals for Mandi in Himachal Pradesh, Kottayam in Kerala, Pantnagar in Uttarakhand and Purandar (Pune) in Maharashtra have also been received under the Greenfield Airports Policy," Singh had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-airports-being-constructed-in-india-at-unprecedented-speed-pm-modi-1019982.html
15-08-2021||National||Sonia Gandhi unfurls national flag at Congress headquarters||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday unfurled the national flag at the party headquarters here to mark the country's 75th Independence Day. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and senior party leaders including AK Antony, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Mallikarjun Kharge, Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Anand Sharma were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-unfurls-national-flag-at-congress-headquarters-1019987.html
15-08-2021||National||From IOC to Reliance: India's hydrogen push gains traction||From firms run by billionaires Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani to state-owned oil refiner IndianOil and electricity producer NTPC, Indian firms have announced ambitious plans to embrace hydrogen as fuel as the nation transitions towards carbon-free fuel. Hydrogen is the latest buzz for meeting the world's energy needs. Being the cleanest form of energy, it can be produced from a variety of resources, such as natural gas, biomass, and renewable power like solar and wind. It can be used in cars, in houses, for portable power and in many more applications. No doubt, it is gaining currency in India like other places in the world. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced a National Hydrogen Mission. "Green Hydrogen is the future of the world. Today, I announce the setting up of the National Hydrogen Mission with the aim of becoming the new global hub of Green Hydrogen, and also its largest exporter," he said in his Independence Day address. The Mission was first announced in this year's Union Budget in February and companies have since then queued up to announce projects. But neither that announcement nor Modi's speech on Sunday defined production or capacity targets. Besides the transport sector, hydrogen can find its use in a range of sectors such as chemicals, iron and steel, heating and power. Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries Ltd, recently announced hydrogen plans as part of the biggest private refiner's move to become a net carbon-zero firm by 2035. "While Reliance will remain a user of crude oil and natural gas, we are committed to embracing new technologies to convert our CO into useful products and chemicals," he had told shareholders on June 24. "Reliance also has proprietary technology to convert transportation fuels to valuable petrochemical and material building blocks. And at the same time, we will replace transportation fuels with clean electricity and hydrogen," Ambani had said. In March, Adani Group had announced a partnership with Maire Tecnimont to develop green hydrogen projects in India. Indian Oil Corp (IOC), which controls about a third of India's 250 million tonnes of oil refining capacity, plans to build a green hydrogen plant at its Mathura refinery in Uttar Pradesh. "IndianOil has a wind power project in Rajasthan. We intend to wheel that power to our Mathura refinery to produce absolutely green hydrogen through electrolysis," IOC Chairman Shrikant Madhav Vaidya said last month. Green hydrogen, derived from water electrolysis using renewable energy such as solar or wind, will replace carbon-emitting fuels used in the refinery to process crude oil into value-added products, such as petrol and diesel. NTPC, the nation's largest electricity generator, has also announced plans to set up India's first green hydrogen fuelling station in Leh, Ladakh. NTPC is looking to set up a pilot project for blending hydrogen with national gas for use in city gas distribution. In a tweet, ACME Group said it "has taken the 1st step to set up world's first green hydrogen and ammonia plant in Rajasthan." "Clean electricity is the future! India stands 5th globally in installed solar capacity. Renewable sources contribute 1/4th of the capacity here," it said. Hydrogen is produced predominantly through Steam Methane Reforming, or SMR, which utilises fossils fuels, such as natural gas or coal, and through Proton Exchange Membrane Electrolysis, which splits water into hydrogen and oxygen using a current of electricity. Currently, all hydrogen consumed in India comes from fossil fuels. By 2050, three-fourth of all hydrogen is projected to be green -- produced by renewable electricity and electrolysis. IOC is also working on technology to develop hydrogen-spiked compressed natural gas, or H-CNG. This H-CNG will be used to run buses. However, hydrogen production currently is expensive when compared with alternatives. Also supply and distribution is a challenge. Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who as the minister for petroleum and natural gas had taken initiatives to push for building hydrogen infrastructure, on Sunday said he welcomed the announcement for a National Hydrogen Mission. "A clear cut roadmap for energy transition involving a gas-based economy, network of CNG & PNG across the country, 20% ethanol blending will help realise the goal of becoming energy independent when India turns 100," Pradhan, who is now the HRD Minister, tweeted. The current oil minister, Hardeep Singh Puri, said, "On this historic occasion PM Modi Ji has announced the National Hydrogen Mission which aims to make India a green hydrogen production & export hub & will give rise to green jobs. He shared his vision to make India energy independent before completing 100 years of independence." At present, oil refineries are the largest producer of hydrogen, which is used in various processes of refining crude oil. The government plans to make it mandatory for refineries and fertiliser plants to use some green hydrogen. Hydrogen also helps India meets its climate commitment. In the past six years, India has increased its renewable power portfolio from 32 gigawatts to almost 100 GW and is on track to achieve the target of 450 GW of renewable energy generating capacity by 2030.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-ioc-to-reliance-indias-hydrogen-push-gains-traction-1019990.html
15-08-2021||National||BSF offers sweets to Pakistani Rangers on Independence Day||The Border Security Force on Sunday offered sweets to the Pakistani Rangers at the Attari-Wagah border on the occasion of Independence Day, officials said. Indian troops on Saturday had greeted their Pakistani counterparts on their nation's Independence Day and exchanged sweets along the Line of Control and the International Border in Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir. Pakistan Rangers had offered sweets to the BSF at the Attari-Wagah border. The Indian border guarding force reciprocated the gesture on Sunday. Security personnel of both sides shook hands with each other, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-offers-sweets-to-pakistani-rangers-on-independence-day-1019992.html
15-08-2021||National||Patriotic fervour grips Delhi on 75th Independence Day||Men and women dressed in saffron, white and green clothes and children got the national flag painted on their cheeks as Delhi soaked in the colours of "desh bhakti" on the 75th Independence Day on Sunday. A number of people gathered in central Delhi's Connaught Place and on the roads leading to the iconic India Gate in the afternoon despite muggy weather to participate in the celebrations. Groups of men and women dressed in tricoloured clothes clicked selfies with the 207-ft high national flag, the star attraction of Central Park, in the background. Many saluted the fluttering flag and hummed patriotic songs. The tricolour was also seen on many DTC buses, autorickshaws and motorcycles on the roads, while government buildings and other establishments stood adorned with patterns created using flowers and leaves that resembled the tricolour. Most establishments in central Delhi remained closed, while bars did not serve alcohol. For hawkers selling plastic flags, the sales were hit as fewer people stepped out due to the Covid-19 pandemic and government restrictions. "We would sell a good number of cloth and plastic flags in the week leading to Independence Day, but the sales have gone down. On normal days, there would be larger crowds than this," 13-year-old Pradeep said. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered his eighth consecutive address from the ramparts of Red Fort, calling for making the next 25 years glorious for India with "new thresholds, aspirations and dreams" in the run-up to the centenary of its independence from British colonial rule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/patriotic-fervour-grips-delhi-on-75th-independence-day-1019994.html
15-08-2021||National||Chhattisgarh to have 4 new districts, says CM Baghel on Independence Day||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday greeted people on the country's 75th Independence Day and announced the creation of four new districts in the state as well as development of parks exclusively for women in all districts of the state. The CM also said that steps taken to curb the Naxal menace in the state were "showing encouraging results". "Taking the process of decentralisation further, four new districts will be created - namely Mohla-Manpur, Sakti, Sarangarh-Bilaigarh and Manendragarh, while 18 new tehsils will also be formed,” Baghel said addressing an Independence Day function at the police parade ground here. The four new districts will take the total number of administrative districts in the state to 32. Baghel also said that in every district headquarters and municipal corporation, a park will be developed exclusively for women, which will be known as the 'Minimata Udyan'. In another decision, the CM announced removal of the age limit for admissions in undergraduate and postgraduate courses in colleges. “Under the prevailing system, there is an age-limit for admissions in colleges for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The age limit will be removed in the interest of the youth seeking to pursue higher education,” he said. He also said the process of ownership transfer (of land) will be simplified to ensure relief for the public from the complexities of revenue related work. In order to provide medicines at concessional rates to people of the state, the 'Mukhyamantri Affordable Medicine Scheme' is underway in urban areas and from now onwards, it will be known as 'Shri Dhanwantri Yojana', he said. The CM further said steps taken to eliminate the menace of Naxalism were showing encouraging results. Baghel said he was happy to say that the problems which were pending for many years in Chhattisgarh were resolved since his government was elected in 2018. “The success being achieved in curbing the inherited problem of Naxalism is encouraging. Under the 'Bastar Fighters' battalion, new recruitment of 2,800 personnel will be done,” he said. As many as 63 fortified police station buildings are being constructed in Naxal-affected districts, he said, adding that an action plan for modernisation of the police force has also been approved. Considering the usefulness of 'Dial 112', an emergency helpline service, it will now be extended to the entire state, the CM said. At present, the emergency helpline service is available in some districts of the state, including Raipur. Several steps have been taken to keep police personnel stress-free and to make them more aware of public concerns, the CM said. Without naming anyone, Baghel said, “It is an irony that even while observing the country's 75th Independence Day, we have to face some or the other trends and reactionary forces which were on the rise in 1947,” he said. To understand from where such forces, that undermine the foundations of peace, non-violence and communal harmony, are nurtured would tantamount to understanding the "values of our freedom,” he said. "It was our need then to follow the path of fraternity that ensured social, economic and political justice to all citizens, freedom of expression, belief, religion and worship, equality of status and opportunity, dignity of the individual and unity and integrity of the nation, and we need it even today," Baghel said. "Today, we once again take the pledge that we will follow principles of the Constitution and the path of Gandhi-Nehru-Ambedkar, no matter how difficult and full of challenges it may be," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-to-have-4-new-districts-says-cm-baghel-on-independence-day-1019995.html
15-08-2021||National||PM Modi on youth: This is 'can do generation', can achieve every goal||Stressing that he has full faith in the youth of the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said this is a "can do generation", which can achieve every goal. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on 75th Independence Day, Modi said he is not a soothsayer but believes in action. Underlining his faith in the youth of the country, Modi said, "This is a 'can do generation' and it can achieve every goal." "I believe in the fruits of action. I have faith in the youth of my country. I believe in the sisters of the country, daughters of the country, farmers of the country and professionals of the country," he added. Modi further said no obstacle can stop India from fulfilling its 21st-century dreams and aspirations. "Our strength is our vitality, our strength is our solidarity. Our life force is the spirit of nation first," Modi said. Prime Minister Modi ended his speech with a poem. The poem roughly translates to, "This is the time, the right time, precious time of India, there's a power of innumerable arms, there is patriotism everywhere, get up and wave the Tricolour, hoist India's fate, this is the time, the right time, precious time of India, there's nothing that you can't achieve, get up and start working, know your potential, know your duty to all, this is the precious time of India, It's time, right time....You get up, know your potential, know your duty to all!."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-on-youth-this-is-can-do-generation-can-achieve-every-goal-1020002.html
15-08-2021||National||L K Advani unfurls national flag at residence||Veteran BJP leader L K Advani on Sunday unfurled the national flag at his residence here on the 75th Independence Day. The 93-year-old leader, a former deputy prime minister, has been unfurling the tricolour on August 15 here every year except when he had been away. In a statement on Saturday, he had said that the essence of Indian democracy is respect for diversity and freedom of expression. He expressed the wish that all people collectively strive in strengthening this "important democratic ingredient".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/l-k-advani-unfurls-national-flag-at-residence-1020007.html
15-08-2021||National||Rane working towards boosting coconut production in Konkan ||In a major initiative, union minister Narayan Rane has started working on a major plan to boost up coconut production in the coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra.  Rane, the Minister of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, in the Narendra Modi-government held back-to-back meetings with Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar and Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. Rane, who is a former Maharashtra Chief Minister and ex-Leader of Opposition, is one of the tallest leaders from the Konkan region of the state.  During the meeting with Vaishnaw, Rane handed over a letter urging him to allow coconut plantation on land available at both sides of Konkan railway track to boost coconut production and also the coir industry in Konkan. At his meeting with Tomar, he requested him to open a regional office of Coconut Development Board in Sindhudurg district. “The aim is to enhance coconut production in Konkan and also to give  boost to the coir industry, which will help immensely in generating employment and uplifting standard of life,” said Rane.   with a view to enhancing coconut production in Konkan and also to give boost to coir industry, which will help immensely in generating employment and uplifting standard of life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rane-working-towards-boosting-coconut-production-in-konkan-1020009.html
15-08-2021||National||India's warships celebrate Independence Day near South China Sea||Two Indian Navy warships celebrated Independence Day – far from the shores of India and near the centre of maritime belligerence of China. Even before Prime Minister Narendra Modi hoisted the national flag at the Red Fort in Delhi, the celebration started onboard the two Indian Navy warships, INS Ranvijay and INS Kora, currently on port call at Cam Ranh Bay, a deep-water bay on an inlet of the South China Sea and on the southeastern coast of Vietnam. “With the first rays of the sun at Cam Ranh Bay #Vietnam #MissionDeployed warships of #IndianNavy in the far East, #INSRanvijay & (and) #INSKora mark the commencement of the #historic celebrations of #IndiaIndependenceday,” the Indian Navy posted on Twitter, along with the picture of the national flags flying on the ships. Independence Day was celebrated on board two other Indian Navy ships -- INS Shivalik and INS Kadmatt -- sailing in the vicinity after participating in a bilateral exercise with warships of the Royal Brunei Navy. The South China Sea is a major waterway and the sea lanes in this region account for over US $ 5 trillion of international trade. It has been at the centre of a territorial conflict between China and many of its maritime neighbours. Though an Arbitral Tribunal constituted under the 1982 United Nations Convention on Law of Sea (UNCLOS) delivered a unanimous decision five years ago rejecting China’s expansive claims on South China Sea, Beijing has been steadfastly refusing to adhere to it. The INS Ranvijay, INS Kora, INS Shivalik and INS Kadmatt comprise a task force the Indian Navy recently deployed on a two-month-long mission to South East Asia, South China Sea and the Western Pacific. Apart from the navies of Vietnam and Brunei, the four Indian Navy warships will have bilateral drills with the navies of Philippines, Malaysia, Australia and Indonesia, which all have maritime disputes with China. It will also sail to Western Pacific to take part in the ‘Malabar 21’, a multilateral drill by the navies of the ‘Quad’ – a coalition forged by India, Australia, Japan and the United States to counter the hegemonic aspirations of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The Indian Navy vessels have been holding joint drills with the US Navy’s warships returning from deployment in South China Sea – more regularly since the Chinese PLA’s aggressive move to unilaterally change the status quo along the China-India Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and counter-deployment by the Indian Army in April and May 2020 resulted in a stand-off. India’s warships and fighter aircraft had last month a joint drill with the United States Navy’s Ronald Reagan Carrier Strike Group, which recently conducted “maritime security operations” in the South China Sea, riling up China. The Indian Navy ships had joint drills with the Nimitz Carrier Strike Group of the US Navy in the Indian Ocean in July 2020. The Indian Air Force’s aircraft joined the Indian Navy ships for another joint drill with the US Navy’s Theodore Roosevelt Carrier Strike Group on March 27 and 28 this year. New Delhi has been opposing Beijing’s move to press the South-East Asian nations to insert in the proposed Code of Conduct on South China Sea certain clauses that would help China keep its rivals like India, the United States and other nations outside the region away from the disputed waters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-warships-celebrate-independence-day-near-south-china-sea-1020012.html
15-08-2021||National||Draft notification on banning plastic of less-than-100-micron thickness issued, Centre tells Supreme Court||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that a draft notification has been issued inviting objections from all the stakeholders for banning different categories of plastic, including PVC, that have a thickness of less than 100 microns. The submission was made by Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati before a bench comprising Justice L Nageswara Rao and Justice Aniruddha Bose. "We hope and trust that the Union of India will proceed to pass suitable orders and directions after finalising the objections to the draft notification," the bench said. The top court was hearing an appeal against an order issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the use of PVC and chlorinated plastic for banners or hoardings used during elections. The NGT had directed for appropriate steps to comply with the directions issued by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) on January 17, 2019 to the chief secretaries and chief electoral officers of all the states and Union territories. The petitioner, W Edwin Wilson, contended that it is necessary for the MoEF to issue certain directions under section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986 to ban the use of PVC and chlorinated plastic for advertisements during elections. The petitioner also said the Election Commission (EC) should take pro-active steps in including this in the Model Code of Conduct and give suitable directions to all concerned. Senior advocate Rakesh Dwivedi, appearing for the EC, stated that it is for the Centre to make necessary amendments to the Act and there is nothing for the poll panel to address at this stage. The NGT had directed the EC and the chief electoral officers of the states to monitor the compliance of the advisories against the use of plastic, especially banners and hoardings, during elections. The NGT order came after it was informed that the MoEF has asked the chief secretaries and chief electoral officers of the states to use alternative options during poll campaigns. The ministry said it has written letters to them asking to use compostable plastic, natural fabrics, recycled paper and other eco-friendly material. "In view of the fact that the MoEF as well as the Election Commission have taken the view that use of plastic during elections, particularly banners or hoardings, needs to be avoided, it will be appropriate that the compliance of advisories or directions mentioned above is appropriately monitored by the Election Commission of India, the chief electoral officers of all the states and Union territories and the Central Pollution Control Board," the tribunal said. The green panel had passed the directions on a petition seeking a direction to the MoEF and the states to prohibit the use of short-life polyvinyl chloride (PVC), synthetic plastic polymer and chlorinated plastic, which includes banners and hoardings for promotion and advertising during poll campaigns. The petition, moved through advocates Sanjay Upadhyay and Salik Shafique, had claimed that campaigning material made of plastic is used during elections and later, discarded as waste, which is detrimental to the environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/draft-notification-on-banning-plastic-of-less-than-100-micron-thickness-issued-centre-tells-supreme-court-1020022.html
15-08-2021||National||India only country in G20 which is moving fast towards achieving its climate goals: PM||India is the only country in the group of G-20 countries which is moving fast towards achieving its climate goals, Prime minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, asserting that it is giving equal emphasis to environmental security as to national security. Modi said India has also made a move towards electric mobility and the work on 100 per cent electrification of the railways is also progressing at a fast pace. The Indian Railways has set a target of becoming Net Zero Carbon Emitter by 2030. Along with all these efforts, the country is also emphasising on Mission Circular Economy, he said. "Our Vehicle Scrap Policy is a great example of this. Today, India is the only country in the group of G-20 countries which is moving fast towards achieving its climate goals," the prime minister said in his Independence Day speech at the Red Fort. India is a vocal voice in the area of environment security, Modi stressed. "We are giving equal emphasis to environmental security as to national security. Be it biodiversity or land neutrality, climate change or waste recycling, organic farming, India is progressing in all these sectors," he said. "India has increased the forest area or the number of national parks, the number of tigers and the Asiatic lion and it is a matter of happiness for the people. At the same time, one also has to understand another truth that India is not energy independent today," Modi said. He said India spends more than Rs 12 lakh crore annually for energy imports. For the country’s progress, India's energy independence is the need of the hour, necessary to make a self-reliant India, he said. "Therefore, today India has to make a resolution that we will make the country energy independent before the completion of 100 years of Independence and for this, our road map is very clear. Be it a gas based economy, a network of CNG, PNG across the country, a target of 20 percent ethanol blending, India is moving ahead with a set goal," Modi said. He added that India has set a target of 450 GW of renewable energy by the end of this decade and 450 GW by 2030. "Out of this, the target of 100 GW has been achieved by India ahead of schedule. These efforts are also giving confidence to the world. The formation of the International Solar Alliance is a great example of this,” he pointed out. "Whatever work India is doing today. There is the biggest goal which is going to give quantum jump to India in the field of climate, that is the area of ​​Green Hydrogen," Modi said. To achieve this goal of Green Hydrogen, he also announced the National Hydrogen Mission. "We have to make India a global hub for production and export of Green Hydrogen during the Amrit period. This will make India's new progress in the field of energy self-reliant and will also become a new inspiration for clean energy transition all over the world. New opportunities from Green Growth to Green Job are knocking today for our start-ups for our youth," Modi said India will have to augment both its manufacturing and exports. He said just a few days ago, India launched its first indigenous Aircraft Carrier INS Vikrant for trial in the sea. "Today India is making its own indigenous fighter aircraft, its own submarine. Gaganyaan is also slated to hoist India's flag in space. This itself is evidential of our immense capabilities in indigenous manufacturing," he said. The prime minister said India will further accelerate its efforts towards the Blue Economy. "The Deep Ocean Mission is the result of our ambition to explore the unlimited possibilities of the ocean. The mineral wealth which is hidden in the sea, the thermal energy which is in the sea water, can give new heights to the development of the country," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-only-country-in-g20-which-is-moving-fast-towards-achieving-its-climate-goals-pm-1020031.html
15-08-2021||National||Delhi reports 53 Covid-19 cases, zero deaths||Delhi reported 53 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday that took its tally to 14,37,091, while the positivity rate stood at 0.08 per cent, according to a health department bulletin. No fresh deaths were reported. The death toll stands at 25,069, the bulletin said. Sixteen people have succumbed to the disease so far this month. So far, 14.11 lakh patients have recovered in the city, the bulletin said. On Saturday, the national capital had reported 50 Covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent and one death. On Friday, the city had reported 50 cases with a positivity rate of 0.07 per cent and zero deaths. There are 513 active Covid-19 cases in Delhi. Of these, 169 are under home isolation, the bulletin said. The number of containment zones in the city stands at 243, it said. The bulletin said 65,007 tests, including 45,971 RT-PCR tests, were conducted the previous day. Delhi battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a large number of lives, with the shortage of oxygen at hospitals across the city adding to the woes. On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the pandemic started last year. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3. The city government has been ramping up the health infrastructure to prevent a repeat of the crisis witnessed during the peak of the second wave of coronavirus in April and May. Steps have been taken to increase the number of hospital beds to accommodate up to 37,000 patients a day and become self-reliant in terms of oxygen supply. According to officials, around 160 PSA oxygen generation plants with a total capacity of 148.11 metric tonnes are being installed at various government and private hospitals in the city. While 66 plants are being installed at Delhi government hospitals, 10 are being set up at central government hospitals and 84 at private healthcare facilities. According to government data, 1.15 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the national capital since the inoculation exercise started on January 16. Over 32 lakh people have received both doses. The health department had recently told the Delhi Disaster Management Authority that it will take another year to vaccinate against coronavirus all eligible beneficiaries aged above 18 at "the present rate of vaccine supply". Around 1.5 crore beneficiaries are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination in the national capital and three crore doses are required to fully inoculate them. Around 45 lakh doses are required every month to complete the vaccination by December 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-reports-53-covid-19-cases-zero-deaths-1020034.html
15-08-2021||National||7 Union Ministers meet Naidu demanding action against Opposition MPs||Upping the ante against the Opposition, seven Union Ministers on Sunday met Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and demanded action against erring Opposition MPs who scuffled with marshals during the passage of the insurance bill. Sources said the ministers led by the Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal also submitted a memorandum to Naidu demanding action against the MPs for what they called "unprecedented, extreme and violent acts" in the House on August 11. During the meeting, sources said, the ministers also spoke about marshals being "prevented from discharging their duties". Besides Goyal, Deputy Leader of House Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi, Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav and Ministers of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal and V Murleedharan. Deputy Chairman Harivansh was also present in the meeting. Naidu also met presiding panel Vice Chairman Sasmit Patra, who was in the Chair when the ruckus happened during the passage of the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Act 2021. The House witnessed pandemonium on August 11 evening after the Chair announced the taking up of the insurance bill, which is aimed at enhancing private sector participation in public sector general insurance companies. The Opposition said that the government ignored their demand that the Bill be sent to a Select Committee and rushed through to pass the Bill. The Opposition benches also got support from YSR Congress and TDP, which had been soft on the government on passage of bills, in their demand for further Parliamentary scrutiny. However, as Patra continued to go ahead with the Bill, Opposition MPs attempted to climb the reporters' table to register their protest but were outnumbered by marshals. There were allegations and counter-allegations with MPs claiming that they were manhandled while the government claimed that marshals were injured in the scuffle. The Opposition walked out from the House with Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge saying that even women MPs were manhandled by marshals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-union-ministers-meet-naidu-demanding-action-against-opposition-mps-1020063.html
15-08-2021||National||Air India operates Kabul-Delhi flight with 129 passengers, services to Afghanistan not cancelled yet||Air India's return flight from Kabul to Delhi departed on Sunday evening with 129 passengers as Taliban forces entered the national capital of Afghanistan and waited for "peaceful transfer" of power. Officials of Air India said that there is no plan yet to cancel its Delhi-Kabul-Delhi flight as of now and that it is scheduled to operate on Monday too. Currently, only Air India is operating flights between India and Afghanistan. The national carrier operated it Delhi-Kabul leg of the flight (with call sign AI-243) on Sunday afternoon with around 40 passengers, officials said. Officials said AI-243 departed from Delhi at around 12.45 PM (Indian Standard Time) and had to hover for around one hour above the Kabul airport as it did not get permission to land from the air traffic control (ATC). They stated it was not clear what was the reason for the delay in the permission for landing of AI-243. Therefore, the flight time for AI-243 on Sunday was around two hours and fifty minutes instead of usual one hour and forty minutes. The return flight (with call sign AI-244) departed from the Kabul airport with 129 passengers at around 5.35 PM (Indian Standard Time). Officials clarified that there is no plan to cancel the Delhi-Kabul-Delhi flight as of now. They added that the flight is scheduled to operate on Monday. However, they stated that the airline is monitoring the situation closely and it would take appropriate action as required. India has put in place contingency plans to evacuate hundreds of its officials and citizens from Kabul that has been gripped by fear and panic following reports of Taliban fighters entering the outskirts of the Afghan capital city on Sunday. People familiar with the development said the government will not put the lives of its staffers at the Indian embassy and Indian citizens in Kabul at any risk and plans have already been finalised in case they require emergency evacuation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-operates-kabul-delhi-flight-with-129-passengers-services-to-afghanistan-not-cancelled-yet-1020072.html
15-08-2021||National||Shifting from imports, India now exporting mobile phones worth $3 billion: PM Modi||At present, India is exporting mobile phones worth $3 billion while reducing imports significantly, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the occasion of India's 75th Independence Day, Modi said, "Seven years ago, we used to import mobile phones worth approximately $8 billion. Now imports have reduced. Today, we are exporting mobile phones worth $3 billion.” The government has announced a production linked incentive scheme to further the flagship 'Make in India' mission. The Ministry of Electronics and IT has cleared 16 proposals from domestic and international companies entailing an investment of Rs 148 billion under the production linked incentive (PLI) for global majors as well as domestic companies. The Prime Minister said as the country's manufacturing sector is advancing, "We should focus on making the best quality products that can stand in the global market." He said that now startups are getting incorporated in small cities even in tier-II and tier-III cities in various sectors and they have played an important role in taking Indian products to the international market. "Government is standing with full vigour behind our start-ups. Be it giving them financial support (or) simplifying rules, everything is being done," Modi said. Thousands of startups, he said, have emerged during the Covid-19 pandemic and are becoming unicorns. Modi also announced that the government will develop an e-commerce platform for giving women self-help groups (SHG) larger access to countrywide and global markets for their products. He said that there is a rapid transformation taking place in the villages and now the optical fibre network is reaching villages. According to official data, the government has laid over 5.3 lakh kilometre Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) under the Bharatnet project and 1,53,836 gram panchayats (GPs) have been made service ready on OFC media. "The Internet is reaching villages. Digital entrepreneurs are getting ready in villages. Our more than 8 crore sisters, connected to self-help groups, make products. The government will now make an e-commerce portal for giving their products a large market in the country and overseas," the Prime Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shifting-from-imports-india-now-exporting-mobile-phones-worth-3-billion-pm-modi-1020078.html
15-08-2021||National||India responding to terrorism, expansionism with strength, restraint, says Prime Minister||India is responding to the twin threat of terrorism and expansionism strongly, but in a restrained manner, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, tacitly referring to the challenges posed by Pakistan and China to the security and sovereignty of the nation. He was obviously referring to the responses by the Indian Army and the paramilitary forces against cross-border terrorism exported from Pakistan from across the Line of Control (LoC), but also to counter the move by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to unilaterally alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “India has also given the message of the might of New India to the enemies of the country by carrying out surgical and airstrikes.” the Prime Minister said, referring to the Indian Army’s raid on a terror camp across India’s LoC with Pakistan in September 2016 as well as the bombing by the Indian Air Force in another terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan in February 2019. “It shows that India is changing. India can change. India can take the toughest decisions and it does not hesitate and stop in taking even the toughest decisions.” The nation celebrated its 75th Independence Day even as the more-than-16-month-long stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA in eastern Ladakh could not be completely resolved yet. Though long-drawn negotiations resulted in mutual withdrawal of troops from both the banks of Pangong Tso (lake) in February and from Gogra Post this month, the two sides could not yet agree to pull back soldiers from several other face-off points, including Hot Springs, Demchok and Depsang Plains. The Indian Army and the Pakistan Army on February 25 this year agreed to strictly adhere to the 2003 ceasefire pact and avoid firing at each other across the LoC or the undisputed stretches of the border between the two nations. This de-escalated tension along the LoC and fuelled speculation about back-channel talks leading to a thaw. The two sides, however, of late restarted to war of words, with New Delhi blaming Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government and Pakistan Army for exporting terror to India and Islamabad blaming spy agencies of India for terrorist attacks in Pakistan. “I assure the country that we will leave no stone unturned to strengthen the hands of our forces engaged in the defence of the country,” the Prime Minister said on Sunday. India is also worried over the possibility of Pakistan gaining a “strategic edge” in Afghanistan after the resurgence of the Taliban following the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. The Taliban in the past extended support to anti-India terrorists based in Pakistan, including during the hijacking of an Indian Airlines aircraft in December 1999. Modi on Sunday also highlighted his government’s push for raising India’s self-reliance in the defence sector, particularly in manufacturing military hardware. “We are making constant efforts to provide new opportunities to our hard-working entrepreneurs and to encourage Indian companies to make the country self-reliant in the field of defence,” the Prime Minister said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-responding-to-terrorism-expansionism-with-strength-restraint-says-prime-minister-1020088.html
15-08-2021||National||'Sabka Saath...Sabka Prayas', 'Parishram aur Parakram': Key slogans from PM Modi's Independence Day speech||From adding 'Sabka Prayas' to his trademark call of 'Sabka Saath...' to coining the phrase of 'chhota kisan bane desh ki shaan' to encourage small farmers, Prime Minster Narendra Modi used several catchy slogans in his Independence Day speech on Sunday. He also underlined his faith in the youth of the country, and said, "This is a 'can do generation' and it can achieve every goal." During his nearly 90-minute speech, the prime minister, who wore a traditional kurta and a churidar complemented by a blue jacket and a red-patterned saffron headgear, stressed heavily on every citizen to come together to achieve the goals of the 'Naya Bharat' envisioned on the centenary of Independence. Describing the next 25 year as "amrit kaal", a reference to deriving the best in every field, he said the nation cannot wait so long to attain these goals, making it imperative for everyone to make efforts for this. "Yahi samay hai, sahi samay hai, Bharat ka anmol samay hai (This is the moment, it is the right moment, it is precious time for India)," he said, reciting a poem at the end of his speech. The wording of his poem, further went like: "Asankhya bhujaon ki shakti hai, har taraf desh ki bhakti hai. Tum utho tiranga lehra do, Bharat ka Bhagya fehra do... (Power of countless arms it is, everywhere wave of patriotism is. Rise and hoist the flag, wave the fate of India)". Charting the roadmap for the next 25 years, he said the country has to change and citizens too will have to change in conjunction. "To achieve our goals, we need 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas', and also Sabka Prayas (everyone's effort). This is important to accomplish it," Modi said. The prime minster invoked his oft-quoted slogan of 'Sankalp se Siddhi Tak', saying on the threshold of the 75th year of India's Independence, "we have to set our vision for the next 25 years." "The resolves can be realised if we attain heights of hard labour and valour ('Parishram aur Parakram ki Parakashtha')," he said. Emphasising that scientific advancements have to be coupled with agriculture to ensure its advancement, Modi asserted that the government's vision is taking into account the condition of the small farmers who own less than 2 ha of land and account for 80 per cent of the total farmers. Modi cited various schemes of the government, including direct benefit transfer, to assert that his government has prioritised the interest of small farmers, and gave a new slogan, 'chhota kisan bane desh ki shaan (small farmers should become India's pride)'. In his eighth consecutive address from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the 75th Independence Day, Modi called for making the next 25 years glorious for India with "new thresholds, aspirations and dreams" in the run-up to the centenary of its independence from the British colonial rule. This will lead to an India which will have every modern infrastructure of the world, and where there will be no divide between a city and a village, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sabka-saathsabka-prayas-parishram-aur-parakram-key-slogans-from-pm-modis-independence-day-speech-1020092.html
15-08-2021||National||Covid-19: Night curfew extended in 8 Gujarat cities till August 28||The coronavirus-induced night curfew in eight cities of Gujarat was on Sunday extended till August 28, officials said. The curfew will be in place from 11 pm till 6 am in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Junagadh, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar and Gandhinagar, they said. A state government release said all other restrictions laid down in its last order issued on July 29 would continue to remain in force till August 28, including allowing eateries to function till 10 pm and capping the attendance at public functions to 400. The July 29 order had also allowed Ganesh Utsav festivities in public places with the idol height kept at a maximum of nine feet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-night-curfew-extended-in-8-gujarat-cities-till-august-28-1020101.html
15-08-2021||National||Body of a missing Indian Army helicopter pilot found||Twelve days after the fatal crash of an Army helicopter in the expansive Rajnit Sagar dam, the body of one pilot was recovered on Sunday from the water while the search is on for the second pilot. “Mortal remains of Lt Col AS Baath retrieved from a depth of 75.9 m at 1819 hours from the Ranjit Sagar lake. Efforts to retrieve mortal remains of the second pilot continue,” said an Army officer. The weaponised advanced light weight helicopter of the Army Aviation sank into the reservoir in the Punjab-Jammu border on August 3 along with two pilots. The chopper took off from the Pathankot cantonment and crashed within minutes. The armed forces together with NDRF, SDRF and state police forces searched the 25 lm long, 8 km wide and 500 ft deep reservoir for the past two weeks. The underwater operation was a challenging one due to near zero visibility below 50 meters owing to the muddiness of the water because of the rainy season, which adversely impacts accuracy of sonars and other sensors. Last week, the wreckage of the helicopter was found at a depth of nearly 80 mt. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/body-of-a-missing-indian-army-helicopter-pilot-found-1020105.html
15-08-2021||National||India observing Afghan situation, yet to close Kabul embassy||A few senior officials of the Afghan Government however arrived in New Delhi on Sunday. Though some officials of the Embassy of India in Kabul returned to the country on board Air India’s regular Kabul-Delhi flight AI 244 on Friday, New Delhi has not yet evacuated its senior diplomats from the capital of Afghanistan. New Delhi had shut down the Embassy of India in Kabul when the Taliban had taken over power in Afghanistan in 1996. India’s then acting envoy to Afghanistan, Azad Singh Toor, and other officials had left Kabul by a special aircraft of Ariana Airlines on September 26, 1996 – just before the Taliban entered the capital city and taken over power. The Taliban militants had not found any Indian diplomats when they had raided and ransacked the Embassy of India in Kabul. India joined the United States and several other nations to warn the Taliban repeatedly over the past few weeks that if it returned to power in Kabul through violent means without going through a political process or without working out a negotiated settlement, its government would lack legitimacy and Afghanistan would turn into a pariah State. New Delhi, however, has not yet made it clear if a transition government comes to power in Kabul as a result of the Taliban’s negotiations with the coordination council led by Karzai, Abdullah and Hekmatyar. A source in New Delhi, however, said that the Government of India would also factor in the possibility that the transition government could just be a prelude to the complete return of the Taliban to power in Kabul. India evacuated its officials from its consulates in Kandahar, Mazar-e-Sharif, Herat and Jalalabad in Afghanistan over the past few weeks – before the four provincial capitals – along with many others – came under the control of the Taliban. The consulates were not officially shut down, but left to be run only by the local employees, who continued to issue visas to people seeking to leave Afghanistan and travel to India. India’s ambassador to Afghanistan, Rudrendra Tandon, had a meeting with Afghan Foreign Minister Hanif Atmar on Saturday. He was also in touch with senior officials of the Afghan Government as well as with some of India’s old friends in Afghanistan on Sunday, even after the Taliban reached close to the outskirts of the national capital and Afghan President left the country. He was also in touch with Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, who monitored the situation from New Delhi. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-observing-afghan-situation-yet-to-close-kabul-embassy-1020126.html
15-08-2021||National||Jaishankar begins 4-day visit to New York on August 16||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will begin a four-day visit to the US from Monday to attend a number of UN Security Council events including a briefing on terrorism that will be held under India's presidency of the powerful body. Announcing the visit on Sunday, the Ministry of External Affairs said Jaishankar will also preside over an open debate on peacekeeping at the UNSC. His visit to New York is taking place in the backdrop of the Taliban's rapid onslaught in Afghanistan and the issue is likely to figure in his talks with UN officials. "External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will be visiting New York during India's Presidency of the UNSC and will be presiding over two high-level signature events on August 18 and 19," the MEA said. "The first event on August 18 will be an open debate on 'Protecting the Protectors: Technology and Peacekeeping' while the second event on August 19 will be a high-level briefing on 'Threats to International Peace and Security caused by Terrorist Acts'," it said in a statement. The MEA said both the topics are priorities for India during its UNSC innings. India began its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the UNSC on January 1 and it is holding the presidency of the powerful body for the month of August. An MoU between India and the UN in support to the 'Partnership for Technology in Peacekeeping' initiative is expected to be signed during the visit. "On 19 August, the external affairs minister would preside over a briefing session on the six-monthly report of the UN Secretary-General on the threat posed by ISIL/Da'esh, under the agenda item "Threats to International Peace and Security caused by Terrorist Acts," the MEA said. It said Jaishankar will also have bilateral meetings with foreign ministers of other member states on the sidelines of the UNSC events. "The Open Debate on Peacekeeping will focus on the theme of 'Protecting the Protectors', including through the use of modern technological tools to enhance the safety and security of peacekeepers and to aid peacekeeping missions to effectuate their mandates effectively and efficiently," the MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-begins-4-day-visit-to-new-york-on-august-16-1020133.html
15-08-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Is the govt ignoring Gandhiji's 'message'?||Opposition parties took out a joint march from Parliament, accusing the Modi government of "murdering democracy" and bringing in a sort of "martial law" to push through bills in Parliament, whose Monsoon session was adjourned sine die last week— two days before schedule — amid vociferous protests on Pegasus and farmers' protest issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-is-the-govt-ignoring-gandhijis-message-1019898.html
15-08-2021||National Politics||PM Modi giving same speech for seven years, nothing implemented on ground: Congress||The Opposition on Sunday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Independence Day address as full of "rhetoric and empty slogans" and alleged that the "same speech" was delivered for years with several announcements that are not meant for implementation. Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said the country has been listening to the "same speeches" by the Prime Minister since he assumed power but no solutions are offered to those impacted, including farmers. He found fault with the government for not repealing the three contentious farm laws. "Modi announces new schemes but these are never implemented or seen on the ground. He says a lot of things but never adheres to them. And now, by bringing the three new farm laws, he has spelt doom for the farmers," he told reporters. Emphasising that the country will not progress by criticising the Congress, again and again, he said, "The Congress has done a lot of work for this country during its regime like providing irrigation systems for the farmers. Manmohan Singh-ji and Sonia Gandhi-ji waived farmers' debt when the UPA was in power." CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said the Prime Minister's speech was marked by "rhetoric, empty slogans and disinformation". "No reassurance to crores suffering from Covid-19 mismanagement and vaccine shortages. Growing unemployment, poverty, hunger, backbreaking prices and misery. Ominous warning that our lives will continue to be ruined further," he tweeted. Rhetoric, empty slogans & disinformation mark PMs speech.No reassurance to crores suffering from Covid mismanagement & vaccine shortages.Growing unemployment, poverty, hunger, backbreaking prices & misery.Ominous warning that our lives will continue to be ruined further. Senior RJD MP Manoj K Jha said Modi's speech has failed to inspire people especially as it came after the Covid-19 second wave. Families who lost their loved ones and livelihood needed healing touch. Referring to the addition of 'sabka prayas' (everyone's efforts) to his slogan 'sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka viswas', Jha said one should see how Modi goes on to the huge pile of rhetoric. "This sabka prayas (everyone's efforts) sounds so ironic. We have seen people fighting for oxygen themselves. Does he want that kind of situation? Is it that on issues of lives and livelihood, people should do it on their own and the State won't come into the picture?" he said. "What the Prime Minister has given to them is again a set of empty rhetoric. I think he might have been applauded by a select audience there, but the people on the streets, whose livelihood have been lost, lost someone in the family, it means nothing. CPI General Secretary D Raja said the Prime Minister's speech was disappointing as he did not offer solutions to any problems facing the country. Instead, he said, the Prime Minister gave empty slogans while ignoring the plight of unemployed youths and farmers in the country. Referring to the announcement of Rs 100 lakh crore investment in the infrastructure sector,  Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted, "It has been two years since August 15, 2019. At least, the 100 lakh crore figure could have been changed."  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-giving-same-speech-for-seven-years-nothing-implemented-on-ground-congress-1019970.html
15-08-2021||National Politics||Preparations on for Assembly polls in Jammu and Kashmir: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that preparations were underway for holding Assembly elections in the future in Jammu and Kashmir and the work on re-drawing of constituencies was progressing well. “The Delimitation Commission has been constituted in Jammu and Kashmir and preparations are on for holding Assembly elections in the future,” the prime minister said addressing the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort on the occasion of 75th Independence Day. He said the real spirit of democracy was to give fair opportunities to the potential of all. “Be it Jammu or Kashmir, the balance of development is now visible on the ground,” Modi said. He said holding the first-ever District Development Council polls in Jammu and Kashmir reflects the country's determination. In 2019, the government abrogated Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu & Kashmir and bifurcated the state into two union territories – J&K and Ladakh. The Prime Minister said the union territory of Ladakh was also progressing towards its limitless possibilities of development. “On the one hand, Ladakh is witnessing the creation of modern infrastructure, while on the other hand 'Sindhu Central University' is also going to make Ladakh a centre of higher education,” he said. Modi said that whether it is eastern India, the North-East, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh including the entire Himalayan region, or the coastal belt or tribal region, they will become the base for India's development in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/preparations-on-for-assembly-polls-in-jammu-and-kashmir-pm-modi-1019981.html
15-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition parties in Parliament have shown worst possible behaviour: Goyal||The opposition parties in Parliament have probably shown the "worst possible" behaviour that they could and have left nothing to imagination in destroying the foundation of Indian democracy, Union Minister Piyush Goyal has said. The Prime Minister introduced ministers in both the Houses and that is a tradition that's been going on for 70-odd years and the opposition for the "first time" did not even allow that, he said. "They have left nothing to imagination in destroying the very foundation, the very pillar of our Indian democracy, richly earned, richly deserved, but sadly put at this altar of competitive opposition competitive politics," the minister said at the TIMES NOW India at 75: The Freedom Summit. He added that this time around, the opposition has exceeded all limits of tolerance. "That is the reason we demanded action, and there needs to be deterrence... Maybe even stricter deterrence... We are grateful to the honourable Supreme Court for the very strong judgement and strictures in the Kerala Assembly matter. And I do believe that this time around, some of the members will have to suffer the consequences of their actions," Goyal said. Lok Sabha was adjourned sine die on August 11, bringing an end to the stormy Monsoon session which was scheduled to conclude on August 13. Opposition protests over the Pegasus snooping row, farm laws and other issues had continuously marred the proceedings since the start of the session on July 19. The Question Hour witnessed disruptions on most of the days during this session, while the House managed to pass a raft of bills, including the Constitution amendment bill that will allow states to make their OBC lists. Further, the minister said that it truly is a "very unfortunate" situation that when the country is preparing to celebrate India at 75, "we have had this very unfortunate and very unpleasant experience over the last four weeks where some sections of Parliament have demonstrated a deep frustration at the series of losses, a deep sense of insecurity about their future". Goyal alleged that the disruption was a pre-planned strategic decision, which was made well before the session. "And sadly, that gradually translated into a competitive scenario where parties were wild with each other for space not to show good performance, not to show to the people their active participation or high-quality debate, high-quality speeches, important issues which affect the people of India, but really a competition of who can disrupt better, who can harm the temple of democracy more," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-in-parliament-have-shown-worst-possible-behaviour-goyal-1019986.html
15-08-2021||National Politics||India takes pride in world's largest Covid-19 vaccination programme: PM Modi||In his Independence Day address from the ramparts of the Red Fort, the prime minister spoke of the country's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic and praised the scientists, doctors, paramedical staff among others. He lauded those involved in vaccine manufacturing in the country, saying India did not have to depend on others for vaccines due to their efforts. "We can say with pride that the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination programme is going on in India. More than 54 crore people have already taken the vaccine," he said. Modi said had India not developed its own vaccine, its supply from outside would have been uncertain. "The period of coronavirus pandemic presented a big challenge in front of our country and the entire human race in the world. "The people of India exercised restraint and fought the pandemic with a lot of patience. We had many challenges. But in every field, we countrymen have worked at an extraordinary pace. "It is the result of the strength of our scientists, our entrepreneurs that today we do not have to depend on any other country for Covid-19 vaccine," Modi said. "Imagine for a moment what would have happened if India did not have its vaccine. It took years to get the polio vaccine. In such a big crisis, when there is an epidemic across the world, how would we have received vaccines? "India might or might not have received it, and even if it had received the vaccine, there was no certainty of getting it in time," he said. "It is a moment of pride for us that because of our scientists, we were able to develop two make-in-India Covid-19 vaccines and carry out the world's largest vaccine drive," he said. The prime minister stated that online platforms like Co-WIN and the system of giving digital vaccination certificates are attracting the attention of the world. "We have to ensure we meet our goal of building Aatmanirbhar Bharat when we celebrate 100 years of India's Independence," PM Modi said. The prime minister said though it is true that compared to other countries fewer people got infected by Covid-19 in India and also a high proportion of people could be saved from succumbing to the viral disease, it is not a matter of self-congratulation. "It is not something to be proud of! We cannot rest on these laurels. To say that there was no challenge will become a restrictive thought in the path of our own development," he said. "Our arrangements are less as compared to the rich countries of the world, we do not have what the world has, what the rich countries have... and we also have a large population and our lifestyle is also different. "Despite all our efforts we could not save so many people in this fight against Covid-19. So many children have been orphaned. This unbearable pain will always remain with us," he said. He also lauded scientists, doctors and paramedical staff for their role in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. "During the coronavirus global pandemic, our doctors, our nurses, our paramedical staff, sanitation staff, scientists engaged in making vaccines and citizens who devoted their time to public service, they all deserve to be worshipped," he said. The campaign to provide better health facilities to every poor in the country is also going on at a fast pace. For this, important reforms have also been made in medical education, the prime minister said, adding there has been a substantial increase in the number of medical seats in the country. Equal attention has been paid to preventive healthcare.  Under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, quality health services are being provided to every village in the country. Affordable medicines are being made available to the poor and middle class through Jan Aushadhi Yojana, he stated. "So far more than 75 thousand health and wellness centers have been set up. Now work is being done exclusively on the network of good hospitals and modern labs at the block level. Very soon thousands of hospitals in the country will also have their own oxygen plants," he said. Along with the concern of basic needs, reservation is being ensured for the poor of Dalits, Backward, Adivasis, general category. More recently, in the field of medical education, a system of reservation has also been made for the OBC category in the All India quota, Modi highlighted. Talking about the provision of free ration to 80 crore people during the pandemic, he said it has surprised the world and is being talked about. "At the time of epidemic, the way India has kept burning the stove of their poor by giving free food grains to 80 crore countrymen continuously for months, this is also surprising to the world and is also a matter of discussion," he stated. Modi also called for steps to bridge the gap between lives in villages and cities. He batted for reaching a hundred percent coverage of schemes like Ayushman Bharat among the intended beneficiaries. "Just as we have made electricity accessible to 100 percent households, and have made authentic efforts to construct toilets in 100 percent households, similarly, we now have to move ahead with the goal of achieving saturation of schemes, and, for this, we do not have to keep a distant deadline. We have to make our resolutions come true within a few years. "Now, we have to move even further. 100 percent of villages should have roads, 100 percent of households should have a bank account, 100 percent beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat card, 100 percent eligible persons should have gas connection under Ujjwala scheme and 100 percent beneficiaries should have Aawas," the prime minister said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-takes-pride-in-worlds-largest-covid-19-vaccination-programme-pm-modi-1020019.html
15-08-2021||National Politics||Independence Day: Key announcements by PM Narendra Modi||Celebrating the 75th Independence Day on Sunday and outlining the roadmap for a new and assertive India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a slew of development programmes. Here are the key announcements by the Prime Minister: * In his eighth consecutive address from the ramparts of Red Fort on the 75th Independence Day, Modi said India will launch the 'Pradhan Mantri Gatishakti National Master Plan', which will help local manufacturers turn globally competitive and also develop possibilities of new future economic zones. He also said India is fighting the challenges of terrorism and expansionism with great courage and astuteness. He asserted that India does not hesitate in taking tough decisions and has the political will to do so. * Modi said that India takes pride in having the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination programme and more than 54 crore people have already taken the vaccine doses. He lauded those involved in vaccine manufacturing in the country, saying India did not have to depend on others for vaccines due to their efforts. * The Prime Minister said over 4.5 crore new households received piped water connections under the Jal Jeevan Mission in the last two years. * Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that preparations were underway for holding Assembly elections in the future in Jammu and Kashmir and the work on re-drawing of constituencies was progressing well. * Stressing that shrinking farm sizes is a challenge, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said there is a need to increase the "collective power" of small farmers -- who account for more than 80 per cent of the farming community -- with new facilities in the coming years. * He said a new history of connectivity is being written in India’s northeast, is being borne out to a large extent by a slew of railway projects which are being undertaken in the region. During his speech, Modi announced that work to connect state capitals in the region with railway lines will be completed soon. * India is the only country in the group of G-20 countries that are moving fast towards achieving its climate goals, Modi said, asserting that it is giving equal emphasis to environmental security as to national security. * He said that new airports were being constructed and far-flung areas of the country connected through the UDAN scheme at an unprecedented speed. * Women must feel safe and respected from street to workplace and for ensuring this, the administration, police and judicial system, along with every citizen, need to fulfil their responsibility, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. * Stressing that he has full faith in the youth of the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said this is a "can do generation", which can achieve every goal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/independence-day-key-announcements-by-pm-narendra-modi-1020027.html
15-08-2021||National Politics||TMC demands PM Modi's apology for saying freedom fighter Matangini Hazra hailed from Assam||The Trinamool Congress on Sunday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has scant knowledge of history and demanded an apology from him for incorrectly saying that freedom fighter from West Bengal, Matangini Hazra, hailed from Assam. The BJP said that the TMC was unnecessarily creating a controversy over the gaffe made during the prime minister's Independence Day speech, and claimed that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had also made many faux pas in her speeches in the past. West Bengal TMC general secretary Kunal Ghosh said that the prime minister has scant knowledge of history and merely read out a written text in a "dramatic style". The TMC spokesperson tweeted, "@BJP4India Matangini Hazra from Assam? R u mad? U don't know history. U have no feelings. You just read a written speech (that also by others) with drama." "This is an insult to Bengal. You must beg apology. Hope Your LOP from East Midnapore will also condemn such a mistake," Ghosh added, while attaching a purported clipping of the speech. The TMC leader sought a response from Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly and Nandigram's BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari, who had often referred to the contribution of Medinipur, from where Matangini Hazra hailed, to the freedom struggle. The TMC tweeted on its official handle, "Matangini Hazra is a freedom fighter from Bengal, Mr. @narendramodi!" "With such scant regard for our glorious history, you have insulted all of #Bengal once again. Is @BJP4India committed to erasing our history? Mocking it as they please? SHAME," the party said, attaching a purported video with the post. Reacting to the controversy, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said, "It was a minor mistake on the prime minister's part and the TMC is deliberately highlighting it while trying to overlook other parts of his speech where he spoke about many projects initiated by the Centre." BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said, "It was a slip of tongue. What about the series of gaffes made by the chief minister on our freedom fighters and history? Did she ever apologise for those blunders?" Senior Congress leader Pradip Bhattacharya said, "It was a serious mistake by the PM showing his ignorance about Bengal's history and its contribution to the freedom struggle." State Left Front chairman Biman Bose said, "Things like these happen if someone who has grown up with RSS teachings does not care to read or find out on his own and depends on the text prepared by his office without even checking." Hazra (1869-1942), who lived in Tamluk in present-day Purba Medinipur district, was shot dead by the British Indian Police while she was leading a procession as part of the Quit India movement launched across the country by Mahatma Gandhi in 1942. Her death triggered widespread condemnation and steeled Indians' resolve against the British colonialists, giving more impetus to the freedom struggle. Hazra is a familiar figure across West Bengal and there is a statue of her in Maidan area in the heart of Kolkata. She is remembered while paying tributes to freedom fighters and both the TMC and the BJP had invoked her during the high-voltage campaign in Purba and Paschim Medinipur districts during the assembly elections this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-demands-pm-modis-apology-for-saying-freedom-fighter-matangini-hazra-hailed-from-assam-1020045.html
15-08-2021||National Politics||Modi master of meaningless slogans: Jairam Ramesh||Parliament's Monsoon Session ended on an acrimonious note with the government and Opposition moving further apart. Both sides have hardened their stand while questions are being raised against the way the Parliament was conducted. Congress Chief Whip in Rajya Sabha Jairam Ramesh spoke to DH's Shemin Joy. Excerpts: In his Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi added 'sabka prayas' (everyone's effort) to his slogan 'sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vikas'. How do you respond to this? Modi is a master of meaningless slogans. He is sloganeer-par-excellence. I don't take his slogans seriously. Because these are all momentary bursts of eloquence. It doesn't mean anything. He is completely transparent in his insincerity and hypocrisy. He is a Prime Minister who didn't even bother to come and vote for a Constitution (127th Amendment) Bill on restoring powers to states to identify Other Backward Classes (OBCs), which he claims is his great contribution to Indian politics and society. The Prime Minister has announced that August 14 will be remembered as 'Partition Horror Remembrance Day'. Do you agree with this move? This is an attempt to polarise and divide our society. A man who spreads poison, the man who spreads horrors in our society wants to mark August 14 as this. The partition is not just about Punjab, it is also about Bengal. (Jan Sangh's) Syama Prasad Mookerji was the greatest votary of the division of Bengal. Do you want to reopen all chapters of history? These are episodes in history. Partition was a cumulative result of what VD Savarkar started in 1922, the two-nation theory. The Hindu Mahasabha, the RSS, the Muslim League – this was an atmosphere that created partition inevitable. Of course, all Indians are diminished by the displacement of millions of people. People killed each other. You cannot erase facts from history. Any normal leader would look at attempts of reconciliation and use it to strengthen harmony. Some people link it to the Assembly elections early next year. Do you subscribe to that view? Of course, it is linked to the elections in Uttar Pradesh and other states. Modi wants to demean the entire legacy of the freedom movement. Of course, these are things which historians, scholars are working on. Nehru and Patel were ambivalent on partition. The entire Congress was ambivalent on partition. It was forced on them. The people responsible for partition was Savarkar, Hindu Mahasabha, RSS and Muslim League. We witnessed a very stormy Monsoon Session. Has the relationship between the government and the Opposition broken down irreparably? Absolutely. It is completely ruptured. The Chairman (Venkaiah Naidu) did not help in bringing together the government and the Opposition. I have seen Bhairon Singh Shekhawat and Hamid Ansari trying to bring both sides together. This Chairman adds fuel to the fire. He is the third vertex in the triangle and sometimes, the government does not know what he is doing. The Opposition also does not know what he is doing? There is a complete rupture. We cannot trust the Leader of the House (Piyush Goyal). He says one thing and does something else. The Parliament Affairs Minister (Pralhad Joshi) is a completely insincere man. At least with (late Arun) Jaitley earlier, one could work with. If Jaitley said something, it would happen. But one positive thing for the Opposition is that every day at 10 AM, the floor leaders would meet in (Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha) Mallikarjun Kharge's room. I have never seen this happening in the last seven years. I have never seen (previous Leader of Opposition) Ghulam Nabi Azad taking this initiative. Kharge was reaching out to all Opposition parties in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. Rahul Gandhi attended 3-4 meetings. Whatever was decided in these meetings was implemented in both Houses of Parliament. So I think in seven years, this is the first session in which the Opposition has been united, has been by and large cohesive and has worked to a plan. Kharge's stature and seniority as well as his aggression was a major contributory factor. He is standing up for the rights of the Opposition. Do you mean to say that Azad was not that aggressive? I don't want to say anything about him. All I can say is that Kharge is aggressive, he is upfront, he takes no nonsense from the government or the Chair. The fact that he was the Leader in Lok Sabha gives him an added stature. He is very senior, he is very articulate. He doesn't mince \words. You have referred to Jaitley. Do you think there is a difference in its approach on dealing with the Opposition post-2019? Yes, there is. I am sorry to say as Chief Whip (of the Congress) I tried my best to ensure the House run. My job is to cooperate to the extent possible. Many times, I would go to the Chairman or the Deputy Chairman (Harivansh) where the Ministers are present and suggest ways of moving forward so that our point of view is heard. On the last day (August 11) in which a large number of marshals, including the blue-suited 'dabangs', were called, I went to the Deputy Chairman and said the insurance bill has been passed in din and now withdraw the security personnel. The Deputy Chairman was willing but Pralhad Joshi said, we won't do it. The Deputy Chairman called the Rajya Sabha Secretariat. I am telling you this on record. The Secretary General was there. He said we can now withdraw the marshals but Joshi said no. These are people who you cannot do business with. They are insincere. They say one thing but do something else. One the subject chosen as its focus was Pegasus snooping episode. Shouldn't it have been something else, such as farmers' issues or the economy? There were three issues – Covid-19, farm laws and farmers' protest as well as the economy – which we told the Chairman (during a meeting ahead of the Session). The Pegasus issue came up later. So our three issues were there. We had a discussion on Covid-19 because the Opposition wanted it. We all said we will allow the discussion. I was part of the negotiation. Then this meaningless statement was made by the Information and Technology Minister (Ashwini Vaishnaw), who himself was a target of surveillance. What kind of a joke is this? We said no and demanded a full discussion on Pegasus. We told them that we want the Prime Minister or Home Minister (Amit Shah) to reply and they should announce a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry. Then we said keep the Supreme Court-monitored inquiry aside because that can be a demand that can be made during the discussion. The non-negotiable demand was to have a discussion on Pegasus first with the Home Minister replying. They didn't even want a discussion. Then (Defence Minister) Rajnath Singh spoke to Kharge twice. I also spoke to Rajnath Singh. There are only two people in the government who command credibility with the Opposition. One is Rajnath Singh and the other is Nitin Gadkari. Rajnath Singh is the Chairman of the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs. I requested him to call all Opposition parties and listen to them. We will find a way out. In fact, I told him that process is as important as product in democracy. Go through the process. That meeting (of Opposition parties with Rajnath Singh) never took place. He told Kharge he will do something after he returns from an official visit. He should have called the meeting. Do you approve of what happened on August 10 or 11 in Rajya Sabha when Opposition MPs climbed the reporters table and scuffled with marshals? It was the sign of our anguish and frustration. I am not apologetic. The government was not listening to anything we were saying. We said you have been reading out obituaries every day and why don't you mention the farmers who died during the last one year? But that did not happen. But the government demands an apology from the Opposition for the ruckus in the House. Will you? There is no question of an apology. You have a partisan Chairman. Should I apologise for that? You have an insincere ruling party. Should I apologise for that? How did the Opposition agree for a discussion on Covid-19? Opposition agreed to pass the OBC Bill. First of all, you goofed up in 2018 and the Supreme Court takes advantage of the goof-up and passes an order that the state has no right to identify and list OBCs. First you make the mistake, then the Supreme Court compounds that mistake and then says it is the Opposition's compulsion. It was your (government's) compulsion with the Uttar Pradesh elections round the corner. I am deeply disappointed in how the Chairman conducted the House. I am very fond of the Chairman. I have a long association with him. I have a personal relationship with him. We get along exceedingly well. I am deeply disappointed. He should have risen above. Never has he called a meeting to break the logjam. Normally, Shekhawat or Ansari used to adjourn the House for 15 or 30 minutes, call the leaders and try to find a way out. The Monsoon Session also saw Rahul Gandhi taking a proactive role. There are allegations that he is inconsistent in his approach. How do you respond to it? He was very active. He came to three meetings of the Opposition leaders. He organised the breakfast meeting with Opposition MPs and the march to Vijay Chowk. This is a very good signal. I am sure he will take it forward from here. I don't think this is episodic. Can we see the Congress leadership question settled soon? The Congress Working Committee met on 22 January, 2021 and said the entire process of installing a regular president will be finished by June 30. We didn't expect the Covid-19 second wave. When people are fighting for oxygen cylinders, that is not the time to have a party election. We had to postpone the deadline. No new deadline has been set up. Sonia Gandhi, contrary to what people say, is a hands-on president. She herself has said that she is an interim president. But she is full-time, not part-time. What we are now looking for is not interim, somebody who is properly elected. This would have happened had the second wave not come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-master-of-meaningless-slogans-jairam-ramesh-1020051.html
15-08-2021||National Politics||Pegasus row: SC to continue hearing batch of pleas seeking probe into alleged snooping||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a batch of petitions, including those filed by the Editors Guild of India and senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, seeking an independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and justices Suryakant and Aniruddha Bose will continue hearing the matter. On August 10, the top court had taken exception over "parallel proceedings and debates" on social media by some petitioners who have sought independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping issue and said there must be some discipline and they must have "some faith in the system". The top court had said that it would take a call on August 16 on whether to issue notice to the Centre on pleas seeking probe into the Pegasus row and emphasised that it is not against debate but when the matter is pending in the apex court it should be deliberated upon here. The bench had said that it expects that petitioners who are interested in the matter would answer whatever queries the court would put to them by way of proper debate "in the court and not outside". Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had told the court that he needs instructions from the government on the batch of pleas. The apex court is hearing a batch of pleas, including the one filed by the Editors Guild of India, seeking independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. They are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. Earlier, during the hearing of the matter, the top court had said that allegations of Pegasus related snooping are "serious in nature" if reports on them are correct. It had also asked the petitioners whether they had made any efforts to file a criminal complaint on this. The apex court, which had asked the petitioners to serve the copies of the pleas to the Centre, had also questioned why the matter has suddenly cropped up now when it had come to light way back in 2019. Editors Guild of India has sought in its plea that a special investigation team be set up to conduct a probe into reported surveillance of journalists and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pegasus-row-sc-to-continue-hearing-batch-of-pleas-seeking-probe-into-alleged-snooping-1020080.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||Terrorism a curse for peace and development, says J&K L-G on eve of 75th Independence Day||Calling terrorism a curse for peace and development, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said Pakistan has been making malicious attempts to instigate the Indian youth but a befitting reply would be given to those who mislead the youngsters through proxy war. He was speaking on the eve of the 75th Independence Day. “We want to assure all citizens that whoever is trying to mislead the young people through proxy war, shall be given a befitting reply. The neighbouring country, which does not care for its own people, has been making malicious attempts to instigate some of our youth,” Sinha said in his address. “By misguiding the youth from the path of peace and progress, inimical forces are denying them the life of peace and dignity on this pious soil,” he said. Referring to the Centre's decision to revoke the special status of J-K, Sinha had said in 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had marked the beginning of a new era for Jammu and Kashmir. “Carrying forward the four resolutions of the 75th year of independence, namely, power of public participation, resolve of establishing a new Jammu and Kashmir, providing equal opportunities to all and technological development, we along with the youth of the UT can transform the entire Jammu and Kashmir,” he added. The L-G paid tributes to the brave soldiers of Army, paramilitary forces and Jammu and Kashmir Police. “I am proud that the Jammu and Kashmir police has received 257 gallantry awards, including Ashok Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra, on the eve of the Independence Day,” he said. He announced that the administration has decided that various places and institutions will be christened in the memory of freedom fighters, brave soldiers and personalities from different fields who have made invaluable contribution in the progress of Jammu and Kashmir. “This will inspire the coming generations to become their worthy successors. I am sure that the stories of those who have made sacrifices for this elixir of freedom will awaken a new and re-energised Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. Sinha said it is our goal to make Jammu and Kashmir synonymous with success. He added that the celebration of Independence Day 2021 is special for Jammu and Kashmir and the entire country because the celebration, resolve, energy and enthusiasm of today's new generation will shape the formidable base for the centenary celebration of Independence in 2047.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terrorism-a-curse-for-peace-and-development-says-jk-l-g-on-eve-of-75th-independence-day-1019894.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||Two dead after fire breaks out at hotel in Delhi's Dwarka||Two guests died and as many were injured in a fire at a hotel in southwest Delhi's Dwarka on Sunday morning, following which its manager and the owner were arrested, police said. The incident took place around 7.30 am, they said, adding that one of the deceased has been identified as Deepak, a resident of Bagdola, Sector-8, Dwarka. The police refused to reveal the identity of a minor girl who also lost her life in the tragedy. "We received information regarding the blaze in the four-storey hotel building at 7.40 am and eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot," said Atul Garg, Director of Delhi Fire Service. According to the police, the building is owned by Sidharth and Karuna of Ranchi, Jharkhand, who leased it to Nisha Jha (22) of Vijay Enclave, owner of the hotel Shri Krishna Oyo. Police have arrested Jha and the hotels' manager, Harshit Saini (21) of Dashrathpuri. "When our team reached the spot, no hotel staff was found there. Subsequently, FSL and crime team were also called to the spot. After extinguishing the fire, two bodies, including that of a girl, were found on a staircase. Both the bodies were shifted to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital," a senior police officer said. During an inquiry, it was found that the same hotel had been prosecuted under sections of the Delhi Police Act twice earlier and a case was also registered against it under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the officer said. There were around 10 to 12 guests at the hotel when the incident happened. The rest left the building when they saw smoke coming out. Two persons were injured when they tried to jump from the building to save their lives, the officer said. Lokesh (21), an eyewitness, told the police that there was a short circuit around midnight and the power came back around half-an-hour later. "When I woke up around 7 am, I saw smoke inside the hotel and found that a fire had broken out on the ground floor and the reception area. I also heard electric sparks," he told the police. The police said the injured, Harsh Singhla (21) and Bhahkyk Mehra (23) of Uttam Nagar, were hospitalised for treatment. It was found that the deceased, Deepak, used to work as a DJ at the De Forbidden Club, Janakpuri, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said a case was registered under sections 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house, etc.), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 34 (common intension) of the IPC at the Dwarka South police station against the hotel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-dead-after-fire-breaks-out-at-hotel-in-delhis-dwarka-1019921.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||Internet, mobile services unaffected as J&K celebrates Independence Day||For the first time in three years, Internet and mobile services remained unaffected in Jammu and Kashmir on Independence Day which is being celebrated in the Valley in a relaxed atmosphere, officials said Sunday. "There is neither internet shutdown nor #restrictions on the eve of the #IndependenceDay," Inspector General of Police (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar said in a tweet. This is for the first time in three years that internet and mobile services in Kashmir remained unaffected on the Independence Day. These services used to be snapped on Independence Day and Republic Day as part of the security drill. The services were not snapped last in 2018 during governor N N Vohra's tenure. On August 15, 2005, terrorists had used a mobile phone to trigger an IED blast outside Bakshi stadium which was then the main venue for Independence Day celebrations. There were no restrictions on the movement of people across Srinagar and other parts of the valley Sunday, although security forces have been deployed in strength at sensitive places in Kashmir, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/internet-mobile-services-unaffected-as-jk-celebrates-independence-day-1019945.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum to be rolled out in government schools from September 27: Kejriwal||Delhi has emerged as a model of governance, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday announcing the launch of ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum in government schools from September 27 and yoga classes in residential areas from October 2. In his Independence Day address at the Delhi Secretariat, Kejriwal paid homage to freedom fighters as well as to doctors, nurses and paramedics who lost their lives while serving people during the coronavirus pandemic. The Delhi government schools will start teaching ‘Deshbhakti’ curriculum from September 27 as a tribute to freedom fighter Bhagat Singh, he said. "This will be an activity-based course in which the school children will be taught how to contribute to the development of the country and discharge their 'surya' and be ready to sacrifice even their lives for the nation," Kejriwal said. "We were teaching subjects to students but they were never taught Deshbhakti. Now they will learn the essence of patriotism. I urge parents to talk to their children after they return to their homes to talk about Deshbhakti," he added. Listing various initiatives and programmes of the government, he said, "Delhi has emerged as a laborartory of governance and its initiatives are being discussed and adopted not only in India but the world over." Kejriwal saluted the frontline workers who gave their lives during the pandemic and said the government gave Rs 1 crore each to their families as a gesture of gratitude and honour them and tell them that they are not alone. He said the government will start yoga classes in parks, community halls and other such places across the city from October 2. If 40-50 people in any residential colony come forward, the Delhi government will provide them yoga instructors, he added. The chief minister thanked Olympic medalists and said the country has to prepare to win 70 medals next time. He invited sportspersons to join the Delhi government's Sports University. Kejriwal said Delhi is also working on to host the Olympics in the city after 2047. Citing his government's vision of Delhi in 2047, Kejriwal said the city's per capita income should be equal to Singapore and added that it could be achieved if both the government and people work together. He also called the people to make the Delhi world's best and most livable city and India a strong nation in the world by 2047. While announcing that Delhi will have its own education board, he said children in government schools will have access to international level of education since the Delhi Board of School Education inked a pact with International Baccalaureate last week. Delhi will have a Sainik School, something which it did not have earlier, and preparations are also being made for starting a Delhi Armed Forces Training Academy to prepare students for the armed forces, Kejriwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deshbhakti-curriculum-to-be-rolled-out-in-government-schools-from-september-27-kejriwal-1019950.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||Burhan Wani's father hoists national flag in Pulwama||Muzaffar Wani, the father of slain Hizbul Mujahideen militant Burhan Wani, was among hundreds of government teachers who hoisted the national flag at their respective schools on Sunday. Muzaffar Wani, who is a principal of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Tral in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, unfurled the national flag on the premises as part of Independence Day celebrations. Burhan Wani, who glamourized a new wave of militancy through social media in the last decade, was killed in an encounter by security forces on July 8, 2016 in southern Anantnag district. His killing triggered massive five-month summer unrest in Kashmir that left over 100 protesters dead and thousands others injured. Muzaffar’s other son Khalid Wani was also killed in an encounter with the army. The family had claimed that Khalid was not a militant but still killed. Earlier this month, J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha led administration had ordered hoisting of tricolour at all government buildings, including educational institutions and offices across the union territory (UT). Reports said the national flag was hoisted in hundreds of government schools across Kashmir on Sunday. However, among the pictures of flag hoisting in Kashmir schools, Muzaffar Wani unfurling the national flag was widely shared on social media. Even RSS General Secretary Ram Madhav shared the picture on his twitter account. “Muzaffar Wani, father of the slain Hizbul Mujahideen militant Burhan Wani, hoisted the national flag at a school in Tral town of Jammu and Kashmir''s Pulwama district as part of the Independence Day celebrations today (sic),” he tweeted. On Saturday, Muzaffar Wani had refuted the rumors regarding his resignation from the government job. In a video statement, he said: “You have asked me two things…one, that I have to hoist the flag and I have been warned. This is a rumor.” “There is no particular order issued on my name [for unfurling the Indian flag on 15 August] nor I wish to resign. Whatever is on social media is wrong and are rumors,” he added. There was a muted response over the forced nationalism practice of the J&K administration. “By forcing people to unfurl tricolor, the government can’t change their hearts. In a democracy, it is one’s choice whether he wants to celebrate any event or not,” said a teacher, who wished anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/burhan-wanis-father-hoists-national-flag-in-pulwama-1019952.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||Punjab, Haryana celebrate Independence Day||Amid tight security arrangements, Punjab, Haryana and their joint capital Chandigarh on Sunday celebrated Independence Day. Flag hoisting ceremonies were held at district headquarters and other places, officials said. Punjab Governor and Chandigarh Administrator V P Singh Badnore unfurled the Tricolour at a function here. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh hoisted the national flag at a state-level function in Amritsar. “Ushering in 75th Independence Day brings greater responsibility on all of us to make Punjab and India stronger and more developed. Punjabis have always toiled hard to make the nation self-reliant and secure. I salute the spirit and enterprise of all Punjabis, on this historic occasion,” Amarinder said in a tweet. Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar unfurled the flag in Faridabad. Elaborate security arrangements had been made in Punjab, Haryana and UT Chandigarh for the peaceful celebrations of Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-haryana-celebrate-independence-day-1019964.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||J&K admin committed to ensure dignified return of Kashmiri pandits to Valley, says Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir administration is committed to ensure a dignified return of Kashmiri pandits to the Valley, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said on Sunday. He said considerable progress has been made on providing transit accommodation and jobs to Kashmiri pandit migrants in the valley under the Prime Minister's Development Package. "Government is committed to ensure the dignified return of Kashmiri Pandit brothers," Sinha said in his Independence Day address at the Sher-e-Kashmir Cricket Stadium here. "We have made a considerable progress in fulfilling the promise of providing 6,000 transit accommodation and providing 6,000 jobs to the Kashmiri migrant community under the Prime Minister's Development Package," he added. The construction of 849 transit accommodation has been completed and the work on 1,376 others is underway, he said. Transfer of 278 kanals (14 hectares) of land was approved for 2,744 additional flats last month, he added. "Out of the second installment of 3,000 posts, 841 posts have already been filled. On the eve of Independence Day, we have declared the result of 997 posts. I congratulate all the successful candidates. The result for additional 1,000 posts will be notified within a month following the verification process," Sinha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-admin-committed-to-ensure-dignified-return-of-kashmiri-pandits-to-valley-says-lieutenant-governor-manoj-sinha-1019984.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||Exhibition showcases Delhi's role in India's freedom struggle||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia Sunday inaugurated an archival exhibition here to showcase the history of Delhi and its role in the freedom struggle as the country celebrated the 75th Independence Day. The exhibition titled "Freedom Struggle in Delhi", was organised at Delhi Secretariat by the General Administration Department in collaboration with the Department of Delhi Archives. The exhibition showcased events of India's freedom struggle in Delhi starting from the first war of independence in 1857 up to 1947, a statement from the deputy CM's office said. "The exhibition is a showcase of the vibrant history Delhi has, and the great fight put up by our freedom fighters for an independent India. The path to peace and non-violence enshrined by Mahatma Gandhi will continue to be great learning for all of us for years on," Sisodia said. The exhibition displayed the works of freedom fighters, especially Mahatma Gandhi’s struggle for peace and non-violence. It also noted the role played by Hindu-Muslim unity and Delhi women in the freedom struggle. "Satyawati, Parvati Devi Didwania, Aruna Asaf Ali, Ved Kumari, Brij rani, Memo Bai were some of the leading women of Delhi who participated in the movement. They widely participated in the picketing of shops and agitations launched against the sale of foreign goods," the statement said. It said teachers and students of Delhi colleges including St Stephen's College, Hindu College and Ramjas remained at the forefront of the freedom struggle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/exhibition-showcases-delhis-role-in-indias-freedom-struggle-1019991.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||2 held for raising false alarm about attack on JNU||Two men were arrested Sunday for allegedly uploading a video on Facebook, claiming that Jawaharlal Nehru University would be attacked on the 75th Independence Day, police said. The accused have been identified as Vikas Sehrawat (30), who can be heard making the statement in the alleged inflammatory video, and Raja Kumar – both residents of Uttam Nagar, they said. According to police, Sehrawat was arrested earlier for allegedly threatening and using foul language for senior Delhi Congress leader and former MLA Alka Lamba in a video. He told police that he has been associated with Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) since 2018. Police, however, said that they are verifying his credentials. Sehrawat has no association with JNU and made the video to seek attention, they said. Kumar is the owner of the phone from which the video on JNU was uploaded, they added. "We received a PCR call from a JNU student on Sunday at 1.51 am at Vasant Kunj (North) police station stating that a video has been uploaded on Facebook page 'Mahakal Youth Brigade' alleging that the varsity would be attacked," Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said. After receiving the PCR call, police personnel were deployed in plain clothes at all gates. A few other calls were also received in this regard, police said. “The student came to police station and filed the complaint. The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union (JNUSU) office bearers wrote similar complaint where they alleged that the video promotes disharmony and enmity, using inflammatory language and also openly issuing threats of physical hurt," the DCP said. The video on the page was seen and heard and a case registered under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth etc.), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is underway, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-held-for-raising-false-alarm-about-attack-on-jnu-1019993.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||Boulders block Manali-Leh highway in Lahaul-Spiti||The Manali-Leh highway in Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti district was blocked on Sunday after boulders came tumbling down the mountainside, a state disaster management official said. State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said according to the information received from the Lahaul-Spiti District Emergency Operation Centre (DEOC), boulders came down near Killing Sarai in Lahaul valley, blocking the Manali-Leh national highway-3. A team of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) has been deployed by the district administration for clearing the road and the operation is likely to be completed by the evening, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/boulders-block-manali-leh-highway-in-lahaul-spiti-1019997.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||DDC polls in 2020 marked end of 'jungle raj' in J&K: L-G Sinha||Stating that violence -ree District Development Council (DDC) polls in 2020 marked the end of “jungle raj” in Jammu and Kashmir, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha Sunday said August 5, 2019 decision ushered a new era in the union territory (UT). “(Atal Behari) Vajpayee ji's principle of Jamhooriyat (democracy) was not allowed to flourish on the ground for decades (in J&K). There was a famous collectorate tradition of democracy,” he said while addressing the 75th Independence Day function at the highly fortified S K Stadium, here. Without naming any leader or party, the L-G said, the nominations of MLAs of four or five regions were held at his house. “So, on one hand, there were elected representatives of the people and on the other, the representatives of Collector Sahib,” Sinha said. The L-G said the eve of 2020 ended this ‘Jungle Raj’ as the entire J&K participated in the fair, transparent and violence-free elections of DDC. “The people who have been elected are the actual representatives of people and not of Collector Sahib,” he thundered from the stage. Terming the militancy a big hurdle for development and peace in J&K, the L-G said that “our neighbour has been making continuous efforts to instigate youth, but a strong reply is being given to those who are luring youth towards the wrong path.” “We want to assure all citizens that whoever is trying to mislead the young people through proxy war, shall be given a befitting reply. The neighboring country, which does not care for its own people, has been making a malicious attempt to instigate some of our youth,” he said. “I call upon such misguided youngsters, that terrorism is a curse for peace and development. By misguiding you from the path of peace and progress, inimical forces are denying you the life of peace and dignity on this pious soil,” Sinha added. The L-G hailed J&K police for bagging 257 gallantry awards on the eve of 75th Independence-Day stating it was because of the commitment of security forces that J&K was living in a peaceful environment today. He reiterated the government's commitment to ensure dignified return of Kashmiri Pandits. “We have made considerable progress in fulfilling the promise of providing 6000 transit accommodation and providing 6000 jobs to the Kashmiri migrant community under the Prime Minister’s Development Package,” Sinha said. “The construction of 849 transit accommodation has been completed and the work on 1376 is underway. Transfer of 278 kanals of land has been approved for 2744 additional flats last month only. Out of the second installment of 3000 posts, 841 posts have already been filled,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddc-polls-in-2020-marked-end-of-jungle-raj-in-jk-l-g-sinha-1020004.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||Giant mural on freedom fighters, thematic artwork adorn wall of containers at Red Fort||A giant mural on Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters along with thematic artworks depicting India's military might, technological achievements and cultural heritage was on display at the main gate of the Red Fort here for the 75th Independence Day celebrations. The makeshift wall of shipping containers was set up for security reasons but artists had turned the stacked metallic containers into eye-catching canvases with a strong patriotic theme. It was for the first time that such a temporary fortification was done on the occasion of Independence Day, a move that came after farmers protesting against three central agri laws had stormed the Mughal-era monument, which is also a UNESCO heritage site, on Republic Day and hoisted a religious flag. The organisers had ensured that the dull industrial objects served as a backdrop for creating appealing artworks. The face of the towering stack of containers, opposite the 17th-century fort's magnificent front wall was adorned with a mega mural depicting freedom fighters -- Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, Rani Laxmibai, and scores of other unsung heroes who made the supreme sacrifice for the country's freedom from the British Rule. While six containers were stacked up in the middle section of the temporary wall, three to four of those were lined up vertically, flanking the middle section. A standard container is about 8 ft high. On the towering middle section facing the fort, India's technological and engineering achievements and its military prowess were portrayed through colourful images of an LCA aircraft, Delhi Metro train, Atal Tunnel under Rohtang Pass, BraMos missile system. The slogan 'Rashtra Pratham' (in saffron letters), Sadaiv Pratham'(in green letters)' had been mounted in huge size on top of the stack. On the side facing the main street (Netaji Subhas Marg), the middle section had a fabric canvas with thematic artwork printed depicting the cultural heritage and diversity of India, with 75th Independence Day embossed on it. The stack of containers facing the street and flanking the middle section was coloured in saffron-white-green, depicting the tricolour, in succession vertically, and a smaller blue container was kept on top of both the left and right sides. On the front wall of the fort, a decoration was mounted with two peacocks on either side and the numeral 75 adorned on it, marking the 75th Independence Day. The multi-layered security ring, including NSG snipers, elite SWAT commandos, kite catchers, canine units and sharpshooters on high-rise buildings, were placed around the Mughal-era fort, and social distancing norms were in place as last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/giant-mural-on-freedom-fighters-thematic-artwork-adorn-wall-of-containers-at-red-fort-1020018.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM's I-Day announcement: Law soon on earmarking Dalit share in govt spending||Just months ahead of the assembly polls in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced that a law will be enacted soon to ensure budgetary spending on the welfare of Dalits in proportion to their population. In his address here after unfurling the national flag on Independence Day, the chief minister also announced regularisation of sanitation workers who have put in over 10 years of service. He laid out plans to bring in a universal health insurance scheme, spending Rs 1,200 crore on road projects and introducing a set of 1,150 reforms to help medium and small enterprises. Singh announced his government's decision to implement the 85th Amendment to the Constitution that paves the way for faster promotions for Scheduled Caste government employees. The Scheduled Castes, in both Sikh and Hindu communities, form an estimated 30 per cent of Punjab’s population. Last month, Amarinder Singh had given his nod for putting before the cabinet the “Punjab State Welfare and Development of Scheduled Castes (Planning, Earmarking and Utilization of Financial Resources) Sub-Allocation Bill, 2021”, which seeks to earmark a part of the state's annual budget for the welfare of the SC community. The CM announced an increase in the monthly honorarium for “anganwadi” workers and helpers by Rs 300 to Rs 500. He said Rs 1,200 crore will be spent on new projects for the development of link roads. A set of 1,150 reforms will be made public by the Department of Investment Promotion for ease of business in the medium and small industries sector, he announced. A universal health insurance would be launched shortly. Also, certain expensive medical procedures like dialysis and medical tests like X-ray would be available free at government hospitals, Singh said. A sum of Rs 1,170 crore would be spent under the Punjab Nirman Programme for infrastructure development, the CM said. He said the state government would pay out Rs 520 crore to 2.85 lakh landless farmers under the debt relief scheme on August 20, the birth anniversary of former prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Debt relief of up to Rs 50,000 each would be given shortly to about 16,000 SC and backward class beneficiaries, he added. The CM said Rs 5 crore would be earmarked for the development of the area around Guru ki Wadali, the birthplace of the Guru Hargobind Sahib near Amritsar. Paying tributes freedom fighter Madan Lal Dhingra, the Chief Minister announced that a memorial would be established in Amritsar as a mark of homage to the martyr. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cms-i-day-announcement-law-soon-on-earmarking-dalit-share-in-govt-spending-1020025.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||UP attracted investment worth Rs 4 lakh crore, communal riots checked: Yogi Adityanath||Celebrating the 75th Independence Day on Sunday, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath said the state attracted investment worth Rs 4 lakh crore while no communal riot took place under his tenure. "The state, which was the sixth biggest economy in the country, has become the second biggest. Once associated with anarchy and known as a state of riots, UP today has become a role model in terms of law and order," he said after unfurling the Tricolour outside the UP Vidhan Bhavan. "A new era of investment has started in the state and in the past four years, there has been an investment of Rs 4 lakh crore," he said, adding that UP has come out of the BIMARU state tag. Adityanath further claimed, "In the 53 months, not a single communal riot took place and there is a feeling of security in every citizen." The chief minister also spoke of primacy of "rashtra dharm" over all other duties. "Our duty is our biggest 'rashtra dharm'. Our styles of worshipping may be different but our duty towards our nation is 'rashtra dharm'," he said. "After prolonged freedom struggle and countless sacrifices, the country got freedom. The price of Independence can be gauged from the numerous memorials built in the memory of martyrs and freedom fighters across the country. They are living proof of this," he said. He said the first war of independence in 1857 gave the foreigners a taste of India's collective might. "Rani Laxmibai was leading the fight in Jhansi while it was Ballia's Mangal Pandey, who was leading at some other place, as the collective fight was intensified by revolutionaries in Lucknow. And the result is that in barely 90 years, the foreigners were forced to leave the country," Adityanath said. He paid tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and other freedom fighters on this occasion. "It was in Lucknow in 1916, where Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak gave the slogan of 'Swaraj is my birth right and I shall have it'. This became the mantra for the entire nation. Revolutionary activities continued throughout the country and UP was one of the hubs," he said. "The 1922 historic incident of Chauri Chaura in Gorakhpur in which farmers waged a decisive battle against the foreigners is in its centenary year. Who can forget the Kakori train ction in which revolutionaries like Ram Prasad Bismil, Chandrashekhar Azad, Rajendra Lahiri and others had participated," he said. The UP chief minister also said under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the dreams of new India are being realised. "Modiji has envisioned a healthy, prosperous and clean new India, and it will not take time to realise it," the CM said. On Covid, he said the capacity to test four lakh samples has been developed and UP has administered the highest number of vaccines. Deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Kumar, and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh were present on this occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-attracted-investment-worth-rs-4-lakh-crore-communal-riots-checked-yogi-adityanath-1020041.html
15-08-2021||North and Central||More youths will be given tickets in 2022 assembly polls: Navjot Sidhu||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said during the upcoming state assembly polls, youths will be given more tickets than they got during the last one. Sidhu also trained guns at the previous SAD-BJP regime accusing them of patronising mafias in Punjab. Without naming anyone, the cricketer-turned-politician also took potshots at the AAP, claiming that they were after him to join their party. The newly appointed Punjab Pradesh Congress chief was addressing the state Youth Congress workers at the Congress Bhawan here. A march was also taken out by Youth Congress workers on the occasion of Independence Day. Addressing the gathering, Sidhu promised youths that he would honour the merit and added that he wanted youths to get opportunities. Any talent is nothing without any opportunity, he stressed. He further said he has put up a bed at the Punjab Congress Bhavan for addressing the issues of workers, a promise which he made during his installation ceremony last month. He said he had come to change the system which does not acknowledge workers and keep the power confined to a few people. “Youths will get one-and-half times more tickets than what they got earlier,” he announced. The Amritsar East legislator also sought to reply to his political opponents who had accused him of being after the post and power. Asserting that he had left the Rajya Sabha seat and other posts and asked if anybody among those criticizing him had ever left even the post of a sarpanch (village head). He further slammed his opponents who questioned him why he did not become power minister, a portfolio which was given to him after he was divested of the Local Government Department in 2019. Attacking the previous Akali regime, Sidhu said the state used to earn only Rs 40 crore per annum from the mining sector while Telangana earned Rs 47 crore in a week from the same sector. He further said he will eliminate the mafia word from Punjab's map if he ever got “power of people”. He further said Tamil Nadu has been earning Rs 36,000 crore from the liquor business despite 50 per cent of consumption as compared to that of Punjab. “But we have been earning just Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 crore for the last 20 years,” he said. Apparently pointing towards the AAP, Sidhu said they have been accusing him of doing politics for a chair. “You were after Sidhu with chair in their lap. And you came to my house and asked me, Sidhu sahib, what can we do for you?” claimed Sidhu without naming the Aam Aadmi Party. Taking a swipe at the AAP, he added that they would write to him. He said they should send the letter to a “correct address”. On Friday, AAP leader Raghav Chadha had said he had written to Sidhu to remind him about the 2017 poll promises and had asked him to deliver on the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/more-youths-will-be-given-tickets-in-2022-assembly-polls-navjot-sidhu-1020083.html
15-08-2021||Opinion||The August 15, 1947 speeches remain beacons to our desired future||Jawaharlal Nehru made his famous “Tryst with Destiny” speech late in the night on August 14, 1947. It was delivered during one of the most momentous sessions of the Constituent Assembly, one that is well-known and well-recorded. Apart from Nehru’s speech itself, the presentation of the national flag, the singing of the national anthem, the taking of the pledge by all the members of the Assembly at the stroke of midnight are all well-known. Many evocative accounts of that moving day, by members and observers, are present and easily accessible. But the session did not end there. The Constituent Assembly only adjourned to the morning of August 15, 1947. This day, when Nehru flew the Indian flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, saw speeches by Governor-General Louis Mountbatten and Rajendra Prasad, in his capacity as the president of the Constituent Assembly. The speeches are revealing about the immediate circumstances in which India became independent -- what was said being as important as what was left unsaid. The day began with the reading out of congratulatory messages received from nations far and wide. Mountbatten was then invited to speak. The bulk of Mountbatten’s speech covered the events leading up to independence, specifically his role in the whole process. No doubt he played a key role in the exercise, but one notices not only a certain level of self-congratulation, but also self-exculpation. Self-congratulation for having advanced the date of independence from July 1948 to August 1947, when everyone thought that even June 1948 was too early. Self-exculpation for the failings that resulted from such a hasty withdrawal. Mountbatten gave himself credit for the idea behind implementing Partition (“the leaders agreed to discuss a paper which I had laid before them on the administrative consequences of Partition”) while also subtly telling us who to blame for things that went horribly wrong (“To the ministers and officials who have laboured day and night to produce this astonishing result, the greatest credit is due”). Prasad’s speech was almost a riposte to Mountbatten’s, focused as it was on the future, and has no mention of the speaker himself. Prasad, in this vein, outlined an almost utopian vision for what he hoped India would become. He said: “Let us resolve to create conditions in this country when every individual will be free and provided with the wherewithal to develop and rise to his fullest stature, when poverty and squalor and ignorance and ill-health will have vanished, when the distinction between high and low, between rich and poor, will have disappeared, when religion will not only be professed and preached and practised freely but will have become a cementing force for binding man to man and not serve as a disturbing and disrupting force dividing and separating, when untouchability will have been forgotten like an unpleasant night dream, when exploitation of man by man will have ceased…” While articulating this utopian idea, Prasad also mentioned the important task at hand -- the making of the Constitution. Even while the draft Constitution was still being framed, Prasad articulated the hope that it “will enable the people’s will to be expressed and enforced, and that will not only secure liberty to the individual but also reconcile and make that liberty subservient to the common good.” Mountbatten’s and Prasad’s speeches were a neat contrast of old and new, of personal and societal, of individual and institutional. Where Mountbatten looked to the past, his own role and the parts played by specific individuals in getting India to independence, Prasad looked to the future -- of what independence would bring, of what the society and nation would look like, and what individuals could hope to achieve in the new country. Both viewpoints are, however, valid. It is good to remember that India’s independence came about in hasty, confused and, eventually, bloody circumstances that continue to haunt us to this day. Yet, it was also infused with hope for a better future -- one that we have made progress towards but are a long way from achieving.0 (The author is Co-founder, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, uses his legal training to make the case that Harry Potter is science fiction and Star Wars is fantasy)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-august-15-1947-speeches-remain-beacons-to-our-desired-future-1019866.html
15-08-2021||Opinion||China’s crackdown on tech is CCP politics by other means||After the aggressive moves abroad, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) leadership is turning on its own people, with regulatory restrictions on domestic entrepreneurs, especially those in ed-tech, fin-tech, food delivery firms like Meituan and ride-hailing firms like Didi Chuxing. President Xi Jinping’s “new era” is thus jettisoning the “get rich quick” slogan of the Deng Xiaoping era, practised well by Jiang Zemin, and reflects the intensifying factional struggle in the party in the run-up to the 20th CCP Congress in late 2022. In January this year, regulators suspended the $34 billion IPO of Alibaba’s Ant Group. Its head, Jack Ma, had critiqued the country’s outdated banking system last year, which led not only to Vice President Wang Qishan’s retort but to systematic curbs on fin-tech companies. The fact that Jiang Zemin’s son Jiang Zhicheng held shares in Ant Group points to the intensifying factional struggles. Xi had earlier silenced rivals through his ‘anti-corruption’ drive. Now, he is using regulatory mechanisms to the same effect. In April, China fined Alibaba $2.8 billion on charges of monopoly, affecting business confidence in the $700-billion e-commerce platform, causing its shares to fall. Other major firms into fin-tech, such as Tencent and Meituan, too, faced the CCP’s wrath. China’s squelching of ed-tech firms like Gaotu Techedu, New Oriental Education & Technology Group, TAL Education Group and others with a July 24 fiat has drained out over $100 billion in market value. Restrictions were placed on tutoring hours during weekends and vacations. And it was done as a people-friendly move -- the central committee of the CCP argued that this was to reduce the cost of children’s education for parents. This has been linked to the May 31 revisions in the country’s one-child policy to encourage couples to have three children as a measure to counter the ageing of the society. The real reason, however, is to tightly control the ideological State apparatus and delink it from global influences. Yet another victim of the clampdowns is Didi Chuxing, the ride-hailing platform which had a market valuation of over $70 billion and a commuter-base of 500 million people, or 90% of the market share. The Cyberspace Administration of China ordered Didi to remove its apps from domestic online stores, accusing it of sharing data with the US. With these ‘pre-emptive strikes’, the CCP sent out a firm message of political control as private enterprises were turning economic clout into political influence. The CCP began to admit capitalists into its ranks in the 1990s under Jiang Zemin, but all enterprises that employ more than seven people have to have a CCP committee. Also, most business leaders, like Jack Ma, are party members. Yet, the CCP is nervous of their increasing clout and the party leadership fears that its own influence is waning. Chinese entrepreneurs are, of course, no strangers to such restrictions on private enterprise. Indeed, the last seven decades have been a saga of the CCP’s wrath against them, starting with the 1951 “three and five anti campaigns” to break the self-confidence of entrepreneurs; the mid-1960s saw a political campaign to counter “capitalist restoration.” Deng Xiaoping was accused of being a “capitalist roader” and thrown out of the party three times before he was politically restored. However, unlike in the past, capitalists are today entrenched in the system. In the 1990s, China had no billionaires but had as many as 120,000 millionaires; the economic growth of the 2000s resulted in the emergence of 106 billionaires, with 40 individuals owning $120 billion in assets. 16 “Red Capitalists” are even traced to the central committee of the CCP. After private property was recognised in the 1982 constitution and further secured in the 1988 and 1993 amendments, it has contributed to over 70% of China’s GDP, which now stands at over $14 trillion. Yet, the current round of curbs on big private enterprises is more systematic, intense, but politically faction-ridden. While all political factions have links with them, the “Shanghai gang” is obviously the most powerful and ingenious. Though the market value of several companies has now gone down the drain – with over $1 trillion in value wiped out – factional upmanship is more important in the run-up to the party congress in October 2022. The current restrictions will, of course, impact the economy and take a toll on millions. Innovation and creativity in Chinese society is expected to be hit hard, as also business sentiments. Foreign investors are likely to choose to stay away from the current unpredictable and vindictive political environment in China. New Delhi must know exactly what to do in this situation to beef up India’s own growth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/china-s-crackdown-on-tech-is-ccp-politics-by-other-means-1019867.html
15-08-2021||Opinion||Ascent in Tokyo, descent in Delhi||In an inspiring week in Indian Olympics history, when the country won its first track-and-field gold, when both our hockey teams uplifted our hearts, and when we got medals in hockey, weightlifting, boxing, wrestling and badminton, life went on in the country as if we were in the dark ages. During moments that did India proud, especially given how poor we have been in Olympics, many of our lingering carceral mentalities resurfaced as if they were on tap: one dialled X toll-free number and got back to Muslim-baiting; one pressed Y button and casteism got home-delivered. Two men allegedly mocked at and created strife outside the hockey striker Vandana Katariya’s home in Dehradun, claiming that India had lost because the team had “too many Dalit players”. Locals listed experiences in the media proving well-entrenched caste bias in the area. It took a now-famous hockey team and player like Vandana to deliver a home-truth on the region she comes from. Is this the reward for playing for India? Can one even imagine what a younger Vandana must have gone through in her journey into the national team? Through the Olympics fortnight, one sensed pockets of people who have clearly not been made to feel at home in India call out mainland India’s hypocrisies through skits and videos on social media. Indians toasted to Mirabai Chanu’s weightlifting silver. She was hailed as “India’s proud daughter”. There was at least one well-circulated video poking fun at Indian attitudes towards north-easterners, contrasting the appropriation of sports notables from the region while mainland India mocked their facial features or reserved racist jibes for them. It’s common in many parts of India, where people from the north-east live and work. What do they make of this pattern of sudden, sporadic love, when one of their community members brings India laurels? Surely, this isn’t an Indian thing. Another old interview that recirculated was of Muhammad Ali recalling how a restaurant in his hometown of Louisville, Kentucky, refused to serve him for being black. Ali was 18 and had just returned with a gold medal from the Rome Olympics of 1960. Despite bringing such glory, elementary local truths didn’t seem to change. Such experiences damage the individual’s relationship with their country and burn into them a sense of hollowness of their society and of the phoniness of nationalism. You give so much, you struggle so much, for the sport and country and yet it makes you never forget where you belong in its social hierarchy. It takes exceptional social blindness to not see this. Even our brightest moments in the Olympics did not move us away from our realities. If anything, it animated and sharpened them more. Things latent in our society burst forth again, given there was so much occasion to surpass it. Rani Rampal, the hockey women’s captain, minced no words in condemning what happened outside Vandana’s home. But how can we evade the larger, widespread truth the incident signified? Earlier this week, India’s most discredited police force in arguably India’s worst metropolis, watched on as a gathering spewed hatred and called for violence against Muslims. I thought of two fine fast bowlers now playing in the men’s team in England and thought of their ordinary backgrounds and the sweat and effort and talent and luck through which they fought their way into the Indian team, grabbed so many tiny chances to stay there, and how, of late, over the last many months, they have performed so wonderfully in cricket’s toughest format. I wish news of Jantar Mantar did not get to them. They are a small sample of the contribution of the people who profess their faith in Indian sport. Babasaheb Ambedkar once wrote, “We must make our political democracy a social democracy as well. Political democracy cannot last unless there lies at the basis of it, social democracy. What does social democracy mean? It means a way of life which recognises liberty, equality and fraternity as the principles of life”. Our politics in some form may appear democratic, but our society unambiguously isn’t. In Japan and England, we saw India ascend; in Dehradun and Delhi, its immediate descent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ascent-in-tokyo-descent-in-delhi-1019868.html
15-08-2021||Opinion||Money, money happy returns||“How much money did that state government give Neeraj Chopra?” “4 crore rupees…BCCI also gave him a crore, it seems?” “And one more state also gave…Manipur? Wait, I can’t remember.” “Oh, 6 crores?!” “But, for him, it’s all worth it, leave it.” The aunts’ group-call that happens on the dot at 5 every evening ever since lockdown was buzzing with news that each of them had read or viewed from the prestigious educational institution called WhatsApp University. Neeraj, the world’s new javelin-king, had no doubt brought pride and joy to Indians for getting home India’s first-ever Olympic track-and-field gold. Alongside, how much cash prize, what gifts, what kinds of cars, what else did the dashing Armyman get -- were also among the top-interest topics on the internet. What’s new? As a race, we are curious about money, especially other people’s. What could be our neighbour-couple’s total take-home pay? How much money do film actors, sports stars and politicians make? The last category, especially more suspect. Even if an elected leader is honest, in the public mind, s/he must be making beyond what they are paid. Kannada has two words –sambala for salary, gimbala for the extra money made ‘under the table’. When it comes to players, everyone knows cricketers get loads of money, thanks to IPL. The crores each player is ‘bought for’ is in the public realm; money-envy is now legit. Even when traveling in places where you are known to none, it is not out of place to be asked ‘Kitna milta hai?’ (How much do you earn?) by a friendly stranger next seat, after three sentences of conversation. Monthly wages can make or break matrimony, if not cause it. The ‘Brides Wanted’ columns in newspapers flaunt ‘salary in six figures’ of their sons, not the six-pack figure they may have or lack. The girls, you would think, prefer the latter? That myth broke for me when a cousin’s daughter, smart and ‘hands full of salary’ from her IT job, declared she wanted an arranged marriage. The parents were under pressure due to the only condition she had laid down -- that the “boy should earn more than me…at least a rupee more!” That a young person should place money over any other trait in a life partner was disappointing to me, but the reality is that respect does get tied often to the one who earns better, than one who is better. Earning, or making wealth a life goal, is not bad actually, though some may see it as a conflict when Artha, that stands for commerce or money, is behind Kama (Desire) or Moksha (Salvation) in the order of goals as laid down in our ancient texts. That would be a flawed interpretation, but generations of Indians simply know that being pious is preferred to being paisa-chaser. The delicate balance of Indian life is to therefore earn, and earn well, while not flaunting those earnings. That means: get rich enough to buy an aeroplane, or start an aircraft business, but don’t pose with a fleet of models standing next to one. Money that is earned and spent on common good earns public respect; money squandered, even if it is private, evokes public anger. Some communities of India have done exceptionally well in this. The Marwaris, the Parsis, the Shettys are examples of those who look at money and trade in rational terms. Unlike many who think money is bad to be discussed at home, there are traditional families who teach the basics of business, sales, negotiations to their kids, who then grow up having a more practical approach towards money than those who are conflicted and mix emotion with income. As a result, they exult with ego when they earn more, and they lose themselves totally when they lose money. To detach one’s worth in money from self-worth is the bigger journey. Today, when India needs more wealth-creators and entrepreneurs, we need to remove the taboo around talking money. Health is wealth for sure, but the right attitude to financial wealth could also be a path to health. And a healthy-plus-wealthy javelin thrower is nothing less than an “Asset” to the whole country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/money-money-happy-returns-1019869.html
15-08-2021||Opinion||Time to inject climate change consciousness into manufacturing||India is contemplating Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with the UK and the European Union. This, along with the recent scrapping of retrospective tax laws, may well be a gamechanger. Currently, all manufacturing value chains radiate out of China, but now there is widespread alarm regarding China’s intentions and non-China options are being evaluated. Vietnam has already entered into an FTA and an investment protection pact with the EU. India moving along similar lines would be of great interest to the huge list of EU companies presently solely dependent on China. However, signing FTAs in the backdrop of concerns about climate change could create problems for Indian companies. To place matters in context, Indian exporters always speak of encountering ‘non-tariff barriers’ in the EU. These basically are ‘quality, social and environmental protection standards’ imposed on goods wanting to enter EU markets. Illustratively, for chemicals, compliance with REACH regulatory systems is required. For textiles, social and sustainability issues crop up. The list goes on. While these are not insurmountable and many Indian corporates are in full compliance, it is not true for the average Indian company. The bulk of Indian companies are MSMEs, and Indian MSMEs are tiny in comparison to their global peers. Only about 2-3% of Indian factories have ‘annual value added’ of Rs 50 crore (about $8 million) or more. They find it impossibly expensive to install equipment, processes and systems to meet EU/US quality standards. The Indian market has relatively fewer quality standards, and companies mostly compete on price here. The complexity of operating in two differently focused markets has kept the Indian market share in the EU below 1.8%, keeping us a lowly 10th in that market. But this relative non-performance did not really disturb the Indian operations of our corporates. Post-FTA, and common standards, however, it would. Till now, India was sanguine about the climate agenda. Our per capita emissions are only 1.8 tons, compared to the US’ 15 tons, EU’s 9 tons and China’s 7 tons. We have argued that our low income levels force us to balance growth and climate commitments. The Indian commitment under the Paris Accord of 2016 was to reduce emissions or energy intensity of GDP by 35%, from the 2005 level of 0.98 kg/$ of GDP. We are already down to 0.84 kg and are on track to overachieving efficiency targets by a wide margin. However, the EU has recently upped the ante, announcing additional green legislation to make the bloc “fit for 55%” by 2030 -- as the first part of its measures to achieve its Paris Accord target of net-zero emissions by 2050. These new laws will revise EU emission targets in many areas. They are being hailed as part of a ‘European Green Deal’ to define an industrial policy to revive the economy post-pandemic, implying that climate agenda could start driving product choices. Basically, a shifting of goal posts is occurring, with the focus moving beyond national emissions to product-specific emissions. Currently, the absolute and relative CO2 emissions of Indian industrial processes are significantly higher than even those of the US. The US has an industrial GDP (constant 2015 prices) of $3.8 trillion and industrial CO2 emission of 462 million tons (9.4% of its national emission). India, with a much lower industrial GDP of $756.1 billion has almost 20% higher industrial CO2 emission of 588 million tons per year (25.5% of our total). The gaps between Indian and EU efficiencies are even wider. Germany’s industrial GDP is $963.3 billion, but its industrial CO2 emission is only 100 million tons (14.4% of its total). Most of our current successes in emission reduction have happened through investments in renewable energy, shift to usage of LED bulbs, fuel quality, etc., but not in manufacturing processes. While individual success stories of emission efficiencies do exist in Indian manufacturing, it is not the norm. There is currently no focus on benchmarking Indian industrial emissions standards against global norms. The current focus is more on promoting industrial equity using capital employed, to distinguish between priority and other sectors. Perhaps we should now think about changing our stance and start using CO2 emissions to distinguish between manufacturing units. We should also evaluate how to assist our entrepreneurs to catch up with EU efficiencies. In the past, the lack of prior State signalling regarding the Azo Dyes ban or adaption of REACH guidelines resulted in our entrepreneurs getting caught off guard in a fast-changing global environment. This then resulted in a mass of bad loans (NPAs). We should not repeat such errors this time around. Advance signalling of concerns could be accompanied by other measures. Clustering could be made mandatory for emission-generating sectors. Also, just as there is currently an announced intent to solarise cities and agricultural feeders and install green hydrogen plants, etc., schemes for facilitating technological upgradations through a one-time capital subsidy scheme, combined with a pre-announced intent to restrict future State benefits/concessions to globally efficient units in emission-oriented sectors could all be contemplated. Just as vaccination often results in some bodily reaction but is otherwise beneficial for long-term safety, timely emission consciousness must be injected into our entrepreneurial reflexes, much before signing on to FTAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/time-to-inject-climate-change-consciousness-into-manufacturing-1019870.html
15-08-2021||Opinion||Celebrating Independence Day with Children's Books||While August 15, India's Independence Day, is an apt occasion for schools to commemorate our freedom struggle, perhaps we need to also look at events in more recent Indian history so that children can reflect on what we have done with the freedom gained from the British rule. There are three wonderful new books for children, which I would like to dwell on. I hope that parents, grandparents, educators and other caregivers will consider using them to initiate meaningful conversations with the children in their lives. I do not mean sussing out the so-called moral of the story but sitting together, hearing each other, and making meaning. Author Menaka Raman and illustrator Annada Menon's book, Topi Rockets From Thumba: The Story Behind India's First-ever Rocket Launch, published by Puffin Books, is about changes in people's lives in a fishing village in Kerala – and eventually, all of India – when Vikram Sarabhai and his team came to work on India's first rocket launch in 1963. The story foregrounds the perspective of a fictional child named Mary, who loves to ask questions. She asks the physicist and astronomer, "Why do you want to come and do science in Thumba? Why not Bombay? Or Trivandrum? What's so special about our village?" He listens to her query respectfully and tells her that the magnetic equator passes through Thumba and St. Magdalene's church, which Mary and her family visit. Sarabhai says, "It's very important to the work we are going to do. That is why we've chosen your village." This book will make children think about the price paid for development and scientific progress and whether it was worth the trouble. Mary and her friends have to sacrifice their homes and relocate to make way for the space mission. The author writes, "We were a newly independent nation, many of our people went to bed hungry, there was widespread poverty. But Sarabhai knew how crucial it was for the country to build its science and research technologies and not be dependent on other countries." However, India did benefit from the generosity of other countries, at least initially. When Mary feels impatient and approaches Sarabhai to ask why India is taking so long to launch its first rocket, he does not dismiss her curiosity. He tells her that the rocket will help India's scientists study the atmosphere, predict storms and improve communication systems. He also expresses the hope that she might grow up and contribute to their work. He says, "The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) of the United States is sending us a Nike Apache Rocket. They are also training our scientists at their centres in America. The Centre National d’Études Spatiales (CNES) of France is sending us a radar and the rocket's payload. A payload is what the rocket will carry up into the atmosphere. The Academy of Sciences of the USSR is sending us a digital computer." Sushant Singh and Shruti Rao's book, India to the Rescue, illustrated by Shagnik Chakraborty and published by Juggernaut Books, is about a time when it was India's turn to take responsibility and offer help. It tells the story of Operation Cactus, launched by India when Malé – the capital of the Maldives – was attacked by the People's Liberation Organization of Tamil Eelam. The attackers were "funded, recruited, armed and trained" by Abdullah Luthufi. While they managed to capture the television and radio stations and cut off water and electric supplies, the then Maldivian President Maumoon Abdul Gayoom quickly escaped to a safe house in the city. He reached out to India, Pakistan, Malaysia, the United States and the United Kingdom. India stepped in to help avert the coup because "as the largest country in South Asia, India wanted to establish itself as a regional superpower." Arun Banerjee, who was India's High Commissioner to the Maldives, and Brigadier Farooq Balsara played a significant role in this mission's success. The book salutes their contributions.  Though the extensive account of India's war machinery could have been abridged to keep the focus on good neighbourliness and timely solidarity, the authors introduce children to an important function of the armed forces – disaster relief and humanitarian assistance. Does this amount to whitewashing the horrors of war inflicted by the same institutions? The question could open up a dialogue if children are not forced into taking a rigid position. Singh and Rao write, "Large countries spend tonnes of money on a strong defence force…many small countries, especially island nations that mind their own business, get along just fine without a military." They add, "But what if other busybodies don't let them live in peace? Valid question. Some of these small countries have pacts and protection agreements with larger countries for just this kind of scenario." The intention to protect smaller nation-states is honourable and must be accompanied by a commitment to protect minorities within India. This is the subject that author Samina Mishra and illustrator Priya Kuriyan flesh out in their book, Nida Finds a Way, published by Duckbill Books. Though the book is primarily about the relationship between a girl named Nida and her beloved father, who live in Delhi, it also commemorates the Shaheen Bagh protests. The Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens are not mentioned, but the book records a crucial moment from 2019 when people across different walks of life came together to uphold our democratic freedoms. The author writes, "There were speeches blasting from loudspeakers, songs from a group to one side, rhythmic chanting from a group to another side. There was colour and light and energy." Worried about her safety, Nida's father wants her to sit at home, but she sneaks out and goes to the protest site. Neither she nor her grandmother can understand the words being said but being with everyone feels empowering to them. This is a dynamic way to engage with questions of citizenship instead of merely getting nostalgic and resting on our laurels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/celebrating-independence-day-with-childrens-books-1019920.html
15-08-2021||Opinion||Independence Day: The art of moving goalposts||On August 15, 2017, in his fourth speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of building a "new India" by 2022, the year India will mark the 75th anniversary of its independence. Today, on August 15, 2021, as India celebrated the 74th anniversary and entered the 75th year of its independence, the PM spoke of building a "new India" by the year the country celebrates its hundredth Independence Day in 2047. Could it be that the scourge of Covid-19 has impeded the country's progress by as much as 25-years? The PM did not elaborate on why the goalpost has shifted by a quarter-century. However, in his speech four years back, the PM had implored citizens to take the "new India pledge and move ahead". Quoting from scriptures, the PM had said, "If we don't accomplish work within a stipulated time, we shall not be able to get the desired results." Today, the PM said that "we should not limit the occasion of 75 years of the Indian independence to just one ceremony." He said this was a time to "lay the groundwork for new resolutions" and termed it to be a start of a 25-year long journey, from now to 2047, as the "Amrit Kaal", or period, "of creation of a new India". "We have to start now. We don't have a moment to lose," Modi said. The PM seemed to suggest that it was no longer the job of only the government to build this "new India". He asked citizens to change themselves, to adapt to the changing era. Modi gave the slogan of "sabka saath, sabka vikas", or development for all, in 2014. He had added "sabka vishwas", trust of everyone, five years later, on May 26, 2019. Today, Modi said "sabka prayas", or effort by everyone, was vital to achieving these goals. In his speech four years back, Modi had envisioned that India of 2022 would be a country where each family would have a pucca house and access to electricity. Farmers' income would double, the country would be cleaner, healthier, and free of terrorism, communalism, casteism, corruption, and nepotism. These were ambitious targets even for mid-2017. Intriguingly, the Press Information Bureau website, the government's publicity arm, has a section on "promises and delivery". Under this, the PIB posts a table on the promises made in the PM's speeches delivered from the Red Fort and delivery. The last such "fact sheet" relates to the PM's "new India" speech of 2017. The PIB has not updated the section since. It is likely that this failure to update and post "fact sheets" for the PM's subsequent three speeches from the Red Fort, from 2018 to 2020, could be a case of oversight. But in his speech today, the PM seemed conscious that he should present a report card of the seven years of his government's social welfare scheme to the country. However, the PM sidestepped quoting specific numbers of beneficiaries of these schemes, which he did in his earlier speeches. Modi said that millions have benefitted from the many schemes started in the last seven years. He noted every poor of the country knows the importance of Ujjwala to Ayushman Bharat. "But it does not end here. We have to achieve saturation (of the schemes)," the PM said. The PM did not give any deadlines for achieving the hundred per cent saturation in these schemes, nearly all of which are ongoing from the Atal Bihari Vajpayee (1998-2004) and Manmohan Singh (2004-2014) led governments. Modi said that all villages should have roads, all households should have bank accounts, all the beneficiaries should have Ayushman Bharat cards, and all eligible persons should benefit from Ujjwala Yojana and have gas connections. The PM said that "now have to move ahead to achieve saturation of schemes, and, for this, we do not have to keep a distant deadline." While there was no reference to 2022, he said, "we have to make our resolutions come true within a few years." With the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls looming large, the PM referred to his government granting constitutional status to the OBC (Other Backward Classes) commission. He also sought to defend the government's three farm laws. He said his government's agricultural reforms would benefit small farmers, which comprise 80 per cent of the country's farmers who have less than two hectares of land. If in his speech from the Red Fort in 2020, the PM had promised an investment of Rs 100 lakh crore in revamping India's infrastructure, today he promised Rs 100 lakh crore for a newly christened "Gati Shakti' National Infrastructure Master Plan. It will lay the foundation of holistic infrastructure and integrate India's means of transport. He did not detail the progress of the previous promise. The speech was realistic in some other respects too. For example, the PM did not mention making India into a $5 trillion economy by 2024-25. In 2017, the PM had asked citizens that to achieve the goal of "new India", they should replicate the "collective resolve" that was visible during the five years from 1942 (Quit India Movement) to 1947 (Independence). He said that it had forced the British to quit India within five years. "We will have to exhibit the same resolve from now on in the 70th year of independence to 2022, the 75th year of independence," Modi had said. In their way, the people have reprised those five years. Protests had marked the period between 1942 to 1947 to achieve freedom from colonial rule. Some of the biggest protests have taken place from the summer of 2017 to now. The firing and killing of farmers in Mandsaur, in Madhya Pradesh, in June 2017 had triggered countrywide farmers' protests in 2017-18. In 2019-2020, millions hit the roads to protest the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), and the farmers' agitation against three central laws will soon complete a year. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/independence-day-the-art-of-moving-goalposts-1020044.html
15-08-2021||South||Kerala govt working to reduce socio-economic inequalities: CM Pinarayi Vijayan||The Kerala government is working towards reducing the socio-economic inequalities, which still prevail after 75 years of Indian independence, and also to ensure protection of the environment and improving education in the state, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Sunday. In his Independence Day speech, the Chief Minister said his government was working to increase production of necessities and ensure the same was properly distributed among the needy to reduce socio-economic inequalities. He further said that the government has taken steps to ensure social security and availability of basic necessities to the people of the state through various schemes like 'Aardram' mission, Life mission and general education projects. Vijayan said education was most important for people's development and the state government has always encouraged it. He said that technological developments have been used by the government to widen the reach of education in the state and steps have been taken to improve primary education and higher studies. The various schemes and technological development also helped the state to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. He further said that akin to ensuring our national security, we should also protect our environment which is being dangerously affected by carbon emissions from industries and vehicles. The Chief Minister said that presently reduction of carbon emissions and improving the socio-economic situation in the state were the issues being considered by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-working-to-reduce-socio-economic-inequalities-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-1019989.html
15-08-2021||South||Row over unfurling tricolour by parties in Kerala||Allegations of violating the Flag Code of India by the CPM and goof-ups by a minister and a BJP leader marked the 75th Independence Day celebrations of Kerala. The CPM which formally celebrated Independence Day with flag hoisting this time has invited criticism of violating the Flag Code of India while hoisting the tricolour at the party headquarters in Kerala -- AKG Centre in Thiruvananthapuram. Youth Congress state vice president and former MLA Sabarinadhan K S said that the national flag was hoisted close to the CPM's party flag and at the same height. This was a violation of the Flag Code of India. As per National Flag Code 2.2 (viii) no other flag or bunting should be placed higher than or above or side by side with the National Flag, he said. While the Youth Congress lodged a police petition in this regard, CPM sources said that the flag post of the national flag was slightly taller than that of the party flag's flag post. BJP state president K Surendran quipped that only after the Narendra Modi government came to power in India, the CPM realised that the country got freedom and hence they decided to celebrate Independence Day. Meanwhile, Surendran had a narrow escape from a major embarrassment as the flag was upside down when he began to hoist it. But some party workers immediately noticed it and hence it was corrected. Kerala Power Minister K Krishnankutty was trolled for allegedly mentioning Republic Day instead of Independence Day in a social media post. However, it was immediately corrected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-unfurling-tricolour-by-parties-in-kerala-1020024.html
15-08-2021||South||Kerala reports 18,582 fresh Covid-19 cases, 102 deaths||Kerala on Sunday reported 18,582 new Covid-19 cases pushing the total infection count to 36.69 lakh, as the number of people succumbing to the disease rose to 18,601 with 102 additional deaths. As many as 20,829 people have been cured of the infection since Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 34,92,367 and the number of active cases in the state to 1,78,630, a state government release said. In the last 24 hours, 1,22,970 samples were tested and the TPR was found to be 15.11 per cent. So far, 2,94,57,951 samples have been tested, it said. Some of the worst affected districts in the state are Malappuram 2681, Thrissur 2423, Kozhikode 2368, Ernakulam 2161, Palakkad 1771, Kannur 1257, Kollam 1093, Alappuzha 941, Kottayam 929 and Thiruvananthapuram 927. Of the new cases, 68 are health workers, 141 had come from outside the state and 17,626 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 747 cases, the release said. There are currently 4,99,031 people under surveillance in various districts of the state. Of these, 4,71,395 are in home or institutional quarantine and 27,636 in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-18582-fresh-covid-19-cases-102-deaths-1020065.html
15-08-2021||South||Fear of backlash delaying online liquor sale in Kerala||Fear of backlash seems to be forcing the Kerala government from taking forward a pending proposal for introducing online liquor sales even as the state had been repeatedly pulled up by the Kerala High Court for the lack of basic facilities for customers at liquor outlets. While sources in the government said that the option of introducing the online sale of premium brands was now under consideration, the state excise minister's office maintained that there were no such plans right now. It was learnt that the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco), which is the sole distributor of liquor in the state, is in the process of enabling an online payment option. It could enable customers to select their brands and make payments online and then collect the bottles from outlets. Sources said that once this online facility was up, the state government may introduce online sales of liquor from its premium brands in a phased manner. Some states already introduced facilities for online delivery of liquor by online food delivery agencies. Congestion at liquor retail outlets flouting social distancing norms and lack of basic facilities for customers at most outlets had prompted the HC to give strict instructions to the government to either provide adequate facilities to customers or else shut down the retail outlets. Even as Bevco informed the court that 96 of the 310 odd retail outlets across the state were being relocated owing to adequate space for customers, sources said that finding alternative space for liquor by adhering to the distance norms was a challenging task for the state with high population density. A committee constituted by the government had reportedly recommended that in order to avoid congestion, the number of liquor outlets in Kerala need to be increased by at least five to six times. But it would be practically impossible in Kerala to find space by adhering to series of distance norms. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fear-of-backlash-delaying-online-liquor-sale-in-kerala-1020079.html
15-08-2021||South||2 held after doctor attacked in Kerala||Yet another instance of an attack on a doctor on duty was reported in Kerala on Sunday. Resentment has been brewing up among the doctors in Kerala owing to a series of such incidents over the last few months. The resentment aggravated further recently with state health minister Veena George stating in a written reply in the Assembly recently that there was no increase in incidents of attack on doctors. But the minister later maintained that it was a clerical error. In the latest incident, two men in inebriated condition threw slippers at a lady doctor at a private hospital in the suburbs of the district. An instruction of the doctors to remove slippers while entering the treatment room allegedly provoked the accused. The two were held by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-held-after-doctor-attacked-in-kerala-1020110.html
15-08-2021||State||Some doubting, criticising me, but I will march ahead to success: Bommai||In stark contrast to the usual practice of reading out a prepared speech during the Independence Day celebrations at Field Marshal Manek Shaw parade ground, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday surprised many by speaking on the issues that were not part of his prepared speech. Bommai thanked former CM BS Yediyurappa while remembering him in the middle of his Independence Day speech. "I am aware that ​​some people are doubting me and ​a few others are making critical remarks too. I will march ahead on the steps of these doubts and remarks​ to achieve success​," Bommai said. Acknowledging that he has only 20 months of tenure, Bommai said, "I am very well aware that I am left with only 20 months in power. Within that short time, I will work towards implementing short and long term plans in the overall interest of the state." Reiterating that people-friendly administration is the aim of the state government, Bommai vowed to bring reforms in all levels of administration while promising to deliver government services to the doorstep of citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/some-doubting-criticising-me-but-i-will-march-ahead-to-success-bommai-1019958.html
15-08-2021||State||Veteran Yakshagana artiste Poonja passes away||Veteran Yakshagana artiste Bottikere Purushotham Poonja, who worked as 'Bhagavath' for 45 years in several Melas, died late Saturday night, family sources said. Poonja was 68. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Poonja, who had been ailing for some time, was undergoing treatment at a hospital. He had served the first Mela of Kateel as chief Bhagavath. Poonja worked as chief Bhagavath for 45 years in Uppala Mela, Geetambika Mela of Mumbai, Puttur Mela, Karnataka Mela and served in Kateel Mela for the past 30 years. Poonja has written 32 'prasangas' in Kannada and Tulu languages. His prasangas Ma Nishada, Ubhayakula Billoja, Nalinakshi Nandini, Megha Mayuri and Swarnanupura, are very popular in the Yakshagana field. He has received several honours including Muddana award, Yaksha Manasa award of Mumbai, Academy book literature award, Asranna award and Karnoor award. Poonja had converted his home into Gurukula and used to teach hundreds of students about Bhagavathike and Yakshagana literature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/veteran-yakshagana-artiste-poonja-passes-away-1019972.html
15-08-2021||State||India has emerged a world leader, says Karnataka BJP chief Kateel||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel hailed the administration of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the last seven years, due to which India had emerged as a world leader. The future envisioned during the freedom struggle is being realised today. "Modi's leadership is the reason 'World Yoga Day' is observed. After the first Covid-19 wave, India emerged a world leader by supplying vaccines to poor countries which did not have the capacity to produce them," he said. India effectively contained both the first and the second wave of the pandemic. Due to this, today the situation was under control and the government is preparing to open schools and colleges, Kateel said, during the Independence Day programme held at the BJP office in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/india-has-emerged-a-world-leader-says-karnataka-bjp-chief-kateel-1020109.html
15-08-2021||State||'Premier institutions should produce job providers, not job seekers': Battu Satyanarayana||Battu Satyanarayana, who was recently appointed vice chancellor of Central University of Karnataka (CUK), Kalaburagi, says central varsities should become role models for state universities in imparting quality education and taking up research works. Teaching and research should go together to achieve academic excellence. Students who pass out of premier institutions like central varsities, IITs and IISc should become ‘job providers,’ instead of ‘job seekers’, he says. Satyanarayana, a retired chemistry professor from Osmania University, interacts with Gururaja B R of DH about his plans to develop the young central varsity. Excerpts...  What is the purpose of establishing central varsities in all states when we have state varsities? Central Universities (CUs) have all-India characteristics and are centres for the creation of national dignity. Students from different corners of the country come together and interact with each other, exchange their views and work for nation building. IITs, IIScs and NITs are providing providing a platform for this. The CUs have been established to make them centres of academic excellence.  Your vision for the development of the university I am planning to develop CUK with a vision for at least 20 years. Teaching and research should go together to achieve academic excellence. We need to make the teachers work hard for high quality research. The knowledge creation leads to development of skills. It will eradicate poverty and resolve unemployment problem. We will create conducive atmosphere and provide required infrastructure, provide WiFi facility to all stakeholders of the varsity. We will take up outreach programmes and will tie-up with industries to motivate the students to go for startup programmes.  You have challenges ahead to implement National Education Policy(NEP)-2020 in the varsity... NEP is student friendly and emphasises on providing vocational and skilled based-education at all levels. Choice-based education system is the core of the policy. Certificate will be given based on students’ learning. The NEP focuses more on research. Every higher institution should carry out research activities apart from teaching. Every college should become autonomous college in the future. The affiliation system will go away gradually. It can’t be achieved in one or two years. The NEP will be implemented more effectively in the CUK as it should be a role model to state varsities.  What is your opinion about generating own revenue for the varsity It will be possible only if industries come forward to invest in the varsities and if teachers get an opportunity to take up some consultation work. If the industries look towards the varsities to strengthen their research and development (R&D), the varsities will definitely become self-sufficient. The teachers should work to support R&D of the industry. Every industry needs inputs like new technology or knowledge. They want more profit with less investment. That is possible with high-level technology and higher education institutions should support them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/premier-institutions-should-produce-job-providers-not-job-seekers-battu-satyanarayana-1020122.html
15-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai announces 14 new 'Amrith' schemes on 75th Independence Day||Joining the country in celebrating the Platinum Jubilee of Indian Independence, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday announced 14 new programmes aimed at improving infrastructure and services at multiple levels ranging from village to urban centres in select areas. Hoisting the Tricolour and taking part in the Independence Day celebrations at the Field Marshal Manek Shaw Parade Ground in Bengaluru, CM Bommai announced the new projects named 'Amrith' schemes as part of the Platinum Jubilee celebrations of Indian Independence. Planning 'Clean and Beautiful' urban areas, the Amrith Nirmala Nagara programme will be launched in 75 urban local bodies to keep them clean and beautiful, according to Bommai. "Each urban local body will be provided with Rs 1 crore and we will set aside Rs 75 crore for this," he said. Further, a total of Rs 75 crore will be spent on providing basic infrastructure such as library, building, lab and toilets at the select 750 schools at a cost of Rs 10 lakh per school. Infrastructure at the select 750 Anganwadi centres will be upgraded at a cost of Rs 7.5 crore with Rs 1 lakh for each of the Anganwadis. "We will identify 750 gram panchayats where works will be taken up for overall development of the villages including street light, drinking water, 100 per cent segregation and disposal of solid waste, installing Solar Power, digital libraries at schools. Houseless families in select 750 gram panchayats will also be identified and provided with houses," Chief Minister announced. Empowering the farmers by providing a suitable market for their agricultural produce, CM announced, "A total of 750 farmer producer organisations would be set up to promote production and marketing of agriculture, fisheries and weavers products. Each of these organisations will be given Rs 30 lakh for three years and a total of Rs 225 crore will be spent on this programme." The government has also planned to provide Rs 1 lakh to each of the selected 7,500 self-help groups to set up Micro Enterprises. Involving the communities in the development of the neighbourhood, the government will identify 750 schools and colleges and they will be inspired and motivated to involve themselves in productive community services. Keeping in mind the pandemic scenario and requirement of better health care facilities, "A total of 750 Primary Health Care (PHCs) centres will be upgraded at a cost of Rs 20 lakh with an overall expenditure of Rs 150 crore," Bommai explained. Close on the heels of India's remarkable achievement at the recently concluded Tokyo Olympics, Bommmai said, "Amrith Sports Adoption Programme would be implemented to train and encourage 75 talented sportspersons who have potential to win medals at the upcoming Paris Olympics. Further, the Amrith Skill Training Programme to be launched at a cost of Rs 112 crore to train youngsters from SC, ST, OBCs and Minority Communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-announces-14-new-amrith-schemes-on-75th-independence-day-1019960.html
15-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||At current rate, Karnataka can finish vaccinating adults against Covid-19 only in January||Only 33 per cent of people aged 45 and above have received the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine so far in the state and the late start to vaccinations for those aged 18 to 44 means that only 3 per cent have received the second dose to date. With over 4.2 crore adults in Karnataka yet to be fully vaccinated, and with the state administering an average of about three lakh doses daily in the last 14 days, it would take Karnataka roughly about 141 days to wrap up its adult vaccination drive, data shows. Officials said the ongoing limited supplies of vaccines are upsetting previously conceived timetables for vaccinations. Even in Bengaluru Urban, which has the highest vaccination coverage in the state, some assembly constituencies have severely underperformed even when it comes to administering the first dose. Pulikeshi Nagar constituency in North Bengaluru is at the bottom of the charts. As of August 10, only a scant 23.09 per cent of its 3,21,720 target population of adults has received at least one dose. R Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, MLA of the constituency, said that this is because of a severe shortfall of vaccination supplies. “The constituency has a high population density and we have a lot of slums here, but there is no vaccine hesitancy as such. We are just not getting the required amount of doses. For 15 days, we received no doses and of late, we are getting about 1,000 doses per day, which is not enough. Some constituencies are getting more doses than others,” he said. In contrast, equally dense Shivajinagar has attained a first dose coverage of 99.8 per cent, data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) shows. MLA Rizwan Arshad said this was achieved through a grassroots campaign to deploy vaccines and curtail hesitancy deep within neighborhoods. The constituency also tapped into the private sector and CSR to bridge the deficit of vaccine supplies from the government. “Government supplies amount to only about 1,000 to 2,000 doses per day. The private sector was invaluable in providing us with a lot of doses. At the same time, our 2nd dose coverage is currently about 24 per cent, and the picture is not as good as before because supplies of doses are harder to procure now,” Arshad explained. Only about half of the city’s +45 age group has been fully vaccinated so far, partly due to limited stocks of doses and partly because of initial delays in the vaccination programme. In BBMP limits, out of a target population of 21,90,307 people aged 45 and above, 12,89,113 were due to get the second dose as of Sunday - out of which 11,48,217 people (or 89%) had actually been administered their second doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/at-current-rate-karnataka-can-finish-vaccinating-adults-against-covid-19-only-in-january-1020119.html
15-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Environmentalists see red over 1,400 check dams in fragile Western Ghats||Building 1,400 check dams in the eco-sensitive Western Ghats region ‘to hold the water flowing into the sea’ will have disastrous consequences, argue environmentalists. The proposal was floated recently by the Minor Irrigation Department, which sought funds from the Jal Shakti Ministry for the dams. Ecologists point out that such projects are one of the key factors for rampant landslides reported in the Western Ghats region over the past decade or so. The dubious concept of ‘preventing the flow of water to the sea’ has ramifications for marine life also. Speaking to DH, environmentalist A N Yellappa Reddy said that continuing to meddle with fragile eco-system of the Western Ghats was problematic. “Already the existing mini-hydel projects in the region are causing several problems. Constructing these check dams will worsen them,” he said. Areas around such projects cannot hold the water like forests do, and aggravates the landslide problem. Moreover, such projects to prevent flow of river water to sea will likely dry up the estuaries and will impact several species of marine life, he said. Predicting that the government might construct these check dams at the foothills of the Western Ghats to ‘tap the water’, another environmentalist Shivanand Kalave warned that such structures could be dangerous. Building any dams or check dams required a strong rock base for foundation, which is difficult to find in the Western Ghats region. “Even if such structures are constructed, they won’t last long as trees and other debris carried out by rain waters will either choke them or wash them away as witnessed during floods a couple of years ago,” he said. Rather than tapping the sea-bound river water, government should concentrate on diverting flood waters of Krishna and other major rivers to lakes, according to Korase. When contacted, Minor Irrigation Minister J C Madhuswamy said that the check dams will be restricted to irrigate small swathes of land measuring 50-60 acres, and for drinking water purposes. “The check dams will come up in Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada districts,” he said, adding that there won’t be any forest land submergence due to the dams. The check dams, built across streams, will be at a height of five to six feet only and will not cause any environmental problems, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/environmentalists-see-red-over-1400-check-dams-in-fragile-western-ghats-1020120.html
15-08-2021||West||BJP to fight 2022 Gujarat Assembly polls under CM Rupani's leadership, says party state chief||Amid speculation over change of leadership in the Gujarat government, state unit president of the ruling BJP, C R Paatil, on Sunday said the party will contest the next year’s Assembly elections under the leadership of Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and his deputy Nitin Patel. Speaking to reporters, Paatil gave a thumbs up to the leadership of Rupani-Patel duo. "Both Nitinbhai and Vijaybhai are working with full force for the development of Gujarat, and the upcoming election will also be contested under their leadership," he said in response to a question about the speculation over change in leadership in the government. The state BJP chief was speaking after the flag hoisting programme held at the party headquarters Kamalam in Gandhinagar on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day. He made the statement a few days after Rupani celebrated his five years in office as the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-to-fight-2022-gujarat-assembly-polls-under-cm-rupanis-leadership-says-party-state-chief-1020084.html
