16-08-2021||First Edit||Unfair tax demand on citizens||Civic authorities like Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) seem to derive some sadistic pleasure out of subjecting citizens, who are already under financial distress due to Covid-19, to further hardship. BDA’s recent decision to impose a maintenance fee on plot owners without first providing basic amenities for which it has already collected development charges, had led to an outrage. To make matters worse, heavy fines were imposed on allottees who were unable to construct houses within the stipulated three-year period mainly because BDA had failed to provide facilities like drinking water, underground drainage and street lights, not to mention the travails caused by the pandemic. Now, the BBMP has administered another shock to Bengalureans by asking them to pay property tax arrears along with interest and penalty, which in some cases works out to over 200% of the tax amount. The amount ranges from a few thousand rupees to a couple of lakhs. Ironically, most owners who have been served notices have been paying their taxes diligently every year.  The genesis of the issue goes back to 2016-17 when BBMP reclassified zones, with the tax structure revised upwards in some areas. But this was not communicated to individual property owners. As the relevant portal too was not updated, it calculated the property tax based on the existing zone and owners made the payment according to old rates. Had the software been updated in 2016, people would have paid taxes according to the new rates or raised objections at that stage itself. The culpability lies entirely with BBMP and to now demand that owners pay the difference amount for four years, along with interest and a hefty penalty, is arbitrary and unfair. That the notices have come at a time when many are suffering from job cuts, reduction in salary and loss of rental incomes, speaks volumes for the bureaucratic insensitivity. Instead of applying the soothing balm in times like these, BBMP officers have donned the role of Shylock to add to the misery of the people when many property owners had in fact sought a moratorium on payment of taxes considering the prevailing situation. The government should meanwhile clear the confusion over the subsistence of the 2016 notification on zonal reclassification as some resident welfare associations claim it has been withdrawn and as such the notices are illegal. Nonetheless, there is no justification for punishing the people for no fault of theirs by recovering taxes retrospectively. The government should, in the meanwhile, direct BBMP to withdraw the notices immediately and revise taxes prospectively, if need be, in consultation with all stakeholders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/unfair-tax-demand-on-citizens-1020218.html
16-08-2021||In Perspective||HR & CE dept hogs limelight under a ‘rationalist’ govt||Tamil Nadu’s Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) department, which was mostly relegated to the background, has now hit the prime spot since the DMK government led by M K Stalin took charge on May 7. The hitherto low-profile department is in the news almost every day with its pro-active minister P K Sekarbabu, a grassroots politician, and Commissioner J Kumaragurubaran, a tech-savvy bureaucrat, crisscrossing the state inspecting several temples in a bid to ensure greater transparency in their administration and functioning. For Chief Minister Stalin, the functioning of the department is politically significant as his party, the DMK, often fights the “anti-Hindu” tag thrown at it by right-wing groups and the BJP, which is making a concerted effort to make inroads into the Dravidian land that has favoured home-grown kazhagams (DMK and AIADMK) since 1967 over those with a larger national presence. The DMK, a “rationalist party”, and Stalin, were forced to come out and clarify on numerous occasions, especially after the death of political giants M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa, that the party respects all religions. At the helm, Stalin now wants to shed the image that the DMK has acquired over the years. And to send a strong message that he is not against any faith, Stalin chose the HR & CE office in Chennai to launch a drive to plant one lakh saplings on his father M Karunanidhi’s third death anniversary on August 7. On August 13, the day his government completed 100 days, Stalin wrote himself into history books by appointing 24 trained non-Brahmins as priests in temples, fully implementing an order passed by his father during his 2006-2011 tenure. These men were trained under the then Karunanidhi regime as part of the Dravidian movement’s social justice agenda. “What (M) Karunanidhi did quietly, his son M K Stalin is doing with a show is and making his actions visible to the public,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. Several individuals and associations have dragged the HR & CE department to court in the past few years alleging that thousands of acres of lands owned by temples, donated by kings and zamindars in the past, have gone missing and that places of worship are not being maintained properly. The DMK government also faces a huge challenge in ensuring that the “missing lands” are recovered. Within a fortnight of assuming charge, a ‘devout’ Sekarbabu ordered that all documents relating to properties owned by temples managed by the department should be published online, though the AIADMK government had not issued such orders despite the Madras High Court’s prodding. What followed is a slew of announcements like conducting a drone and DGPS survey of all lands owned by temples, chanting of hymns in Tamil, training interested women in priesthood, asking big temples to have a master plan of their own, clearing encroachments on temple lands, and recruiting licensed surveyors to keep a tab on encroachments. “Digitising documents is a major task that consumes a lot of time. We are uploading details of temple lands, buildings, and other records. Besides ensuring transparency, digitisation will leave no room for any further tampering of documents,” a senior government official said. The order by the HR & CE department on May 19 on publishing temple documents online almost blunted the #FreeTNTemples campaign launched by Jaggi Vasudev just weeks before Tamil Nadu went to Assembly polls. The department has also turned its focus on increasing the revenue of temples and enhancing services provided to devotees by asking each temple to have a master plan. Drone and DGPS survey of nearly five lakh acres of land is an ambitious project that aims at allowing people to view properties owned by temples online with accuracy. 3D mapping of lands will be the icing on the cake as the technology allows the internet user to even measure the mapped area. As many as 44,121 temples in Tamil Nadu come under the HR & CE department which manages and controls them. “The steps being taken by the DMK government will not only clean the very corrupt and neglected department although it is supposedly close to divinity, but is aimed at erasing the long-held suspicion among Hindu believers that the party is against their gods,” Bhagwan Singh said. Another top-ranking official told DH that officials will visit the best-administered temples like the one in Tirupati to study the facilities available for pilgrims so that they can be replicated in some of the temples in Tamil Nadu. However, not everyone seems to be happy with the measures. “Some of the measures the new government is taking are completely against rules. The department is asking people who have rented temple properties to pay rent online. How many have smartphones to pay online? The government will have to create infrastructure and then bring in reforms,” a former HR & CE official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/hr-ce-dept-hogs-limelight-under-a-rationalist-govt-1020215.html
16-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Boy electrocuted while erecting flag post||A Class 10 student was electrocuted while erecting a flag post for Independence Day celebrations at his school in Karikere, Tumakuru district. Chandan (16), a student of Chikkathotlukere school, died on the spot while Shashank, a Class 10 student of Renuka Vidyapeeth, suffered burns. The incident occurred when the flag post came in contact with a live wire, which was precariously close to the school building. Locals blamed the Bescom staff for negligence. They alleged that their repeated pleas to maintain a safe distance from school while laying power lines were ignored. Expressing grief over the death of the student, Education Minister B C Nagesh said that he would order a probe into the incident after seeking information on the same from the deputy commissioner. The Tumakuru incident brings back the memories of a similar tragedy at Koppal in August 2019, in which five students were electrocuted while removing the flag post, raised for the Independence Day celebrations at their hostel building.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/boy-electrocuted-while-erecting-flag-post-1020158.html
16-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vijayendra performs puja on his brother B Y Raghavendra's birthday||State BJP vice-president and son of former chief minister BS Yediyurappa, BY Vijayendra performed special puja in Ganapathi temple in the city on the occasion of the birthday of his brother B Y Raghavendra who is currently MP of Shivamogga. Speaking to media persons, here on Monday, he said, "Elder brother (Raghavendra) is following the path shown by our father B S Yediyurappa. Development had become a synonym with my father's name. Now my brother is also moving on the same path." He said the MP has implemented many irrigation projects for the welfare of farmers of the district. He exuded confidence that his brother would carry on the legacy of his father with regard to development and conquer the hearts of people of the constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vijayendra-performs-puja-on-his-brother-b-y-raghavendras-birthday-1020274.html
16-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shobha Karandlaje plants saplings in Mandya on Janashirvada Yatre||Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje grabbed attention by transplanting paddy seedlings at Honaganahalli, in Mandya taluk, on Monday. The Minister was on a tour to Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts as part of  'Janashirvada Yatre'. The enthusiastic Shobha joined a group of women on the paddy field and planted paddy saplings. She also got boarded the tractor, along with District in-charge Minister Narayana Gowda and planted saplings using a machine. She visited the jaggery making unit (Aalemane) in Sathanuru and watched how the jaggery was being made. She also tasted a piece of freshly made jaggery. Speaking to reporters, Shobha said, "I have gathered details on the adulteration of jaggery with chemicals. I have suggested to the jaggery makers not to use chemicals for jaggery production". Shobha launched the Janashirvada Yatra from Nidaghatta in Maddur taluk. She also inspected the fair price shop at Rudrakshipura village. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shobha-karandlaje-plants-saplings-in-mandya-on-janashirvada-yatre-1020356.html
16-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four injured as wild elephant attacks car in Mudigere||Four members of a family from Joladal village in the district suffered injuries when a wild elephant attacked their SUV at Kundur village of Mudigere taluk on Monday. Dharmegowda, who sustained grievous injuries, was rushed to a hospital in Mangaluru. Three of his family members had been admitted to MGM hospital in Mudigere.  The incident occurred when Dharmegowda’s family was on a pilgrimage to Horanadu and Sringeri. At Kundur village near BC Road a wild elephant gored the vehicle, turned it turtle and dragged it for about 10 feet. A few locals and the farm workers chased away the elephant into a forest nearby. Following the incident, residents of Kundur and the villages nearby, staged a flash protest against the official apathy towards elephant menace. The protesters relented after the Forest department officials rushed to the spot and assured them of taking steps to curb the jumbo menace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-injured-as-wild-elephant-attacks-car-in-mudigere-1020473.html
16-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||AAP files complaint against BJP's Arvind Limbavali||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has filed a complaint against BJP MLA Arvind Limbavali for threatening a person who leased a building to set up an AAP office. Addressing a media briefing, AAP Bengaluru president Mohan Dasari accused Limbavali of threatening the building owner of the newly opened party office at Bellandur. "Ashok Mrutyunjay, who is president of Mahadevapura unit of AAP had leased the building at Kasavanahalli Circle and opened the office on Sunday. Limbavali, who knew about this, has threatened the owner and warned of consequences if AAP office was not emptied," Mohan alleged. The party has filed a police complaint about the issue. He accused Limbavali of resorting to goonda-ism and misusing his powers as legislator of the constituency. AAP state media coordinator alleged that Limbavali had issued the threat rattled that his illegalities will surface due to AAPs work in the region. The party will hold state-wide agitations if the legislator continues such behaviour, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/aap-files-complaint-against-bjps-arvind-limbavali-1020344.html
16-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Spending sleepless nights: Karnataka Home Minister||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra stated that he is spending sleepless nights after taking the new responsibility. He is handling home portfolio to maintain his reputation in politics. Speaking after receiving felicitation in a programme organised by Karnataka Areca Sahakara Sanghagala Mahamandala ,here on Monday, he said only he is aware of pressure of home portfolio. He can't even sleep properly. He also made it clear that he would manage it effectively. On the arecanut issue, he said the case that arecanut is injurious to health is in Supreme Court. Areca Task Force would argue on behalf of the growers effectively in the court. He promised that he would give equal importance to aerecanut issue and home portfolio. He said he has honesty and discipline with him taught by RSS leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/spending-sleepless-nights-karnataka-home-minister-1020486.html
16-08-2021||Main Article||Denial of information||The government is exhibiting an anti-transparency attitude in concealing information about the administration while the information commissions are making it difficult to get even the basic information unless it is pursued up to courts. The latest case in point is the Central Information Commission’s (CIC) decision in the Saurav Das vs Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT). An important public authority at the Centre was not willing to share very important public information. One year ago, a nine-member committee was set up under the chairmanship of DPIIT secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra to ensure adequate availability of medical oxygen in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Activist Saurav Das asked under right to information (RTI) for: 1) The list of exact dates on which the said committee has met till date. 2) The certified copies of the detailed agenda of all the meetings. 3) The certified copies of presentations made before the group and detailed information about each of them. 4) The copies of the minutes of each meeting held along with all notes, annexures, etc., put before the committee for consideration. He wanted this within 48 hours because it concerned the lives and liberty of people during the pandemic. The Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) refused the information invoking provision u/s 8(1)(a), which affects national security, and (d) of the RTI Act, which breaches commercial information. Its first appellate authority also followed the CPIO instead of the law. The CPIO contended that the empowered group was set up in a time of crisis to cut across the several arms of the government and ensure that bureaucratic hassles did not impede decision-making, and that these proposals contain highly sensitive information. The applicant argued that the information sought should have been given within 48 hours as it concerned the life and liberty of people. A proper remedial action by way of litigation and public interaction with the government could have been done if the information was revealed at that time, and the action/non-action by this very important committee of the government could result in mass deaths and mass chaos, both of which the country was a witness to during the second wave of the pandemic. As the second surge was the deadliest, several people died and the government could not manage the situation as expected. This mismanagement led to the intervention of several high courts across the country and the Supreme Court to fix the broken system and alleviate the suffering of masses. Afterthought & far-fetched The CIC rejected the defence, saying that the citing of exemption on the grounds of Cabinet discussions “appears to be an afterthought which seems far-fetched also”.  The excuses of national security, commercial confidence and intellectual property rights were held to be unjustified. The commission also rejected the contention of the appellant that the information sought was concerning life and liberty. If there is any delay, the CIC ‘assumed’ it was because of the CPIO’s Covid-19 indisposition. Agreeing that rejection on the grounds invoked was not justified, the CIC left it at that only. The commission did not find it deserving a show-cause notice, at least. In spite of sanctions, approvals and availability of funds, the establishment of oxygen plants was not initiated, and it stopped at the level of tenders for more than eight months. The appellant says early disclosure of information should have stirred the authorities to act quick to augment supply to save lives. The commission was not inclined to agree with this. The unquestioned and unaccountable CPIOs are using the listed grounds of exemption such as national security, strategic interests, commercial confidences, intellectual property and Cabinet papers to deny any information. Almost every exception clause was mentioned by the CPIO in this case, in a cut-and-paste way. Their arrogance and impunity will not allow them to give any justification for invoking exemption clauses. How could the disclosure of oxygen be a threat to national security? What kind of intellectual property is that which deserves to be kept secret? What is commercial confidence? Which Cabinet paper is being sought? The CIC also agreed with this.  India is asking the WTO to exempt vaccines for Covid from IPR bonds, and the IPR wing of DPIIT thinks oxygen supply-related information is IPR-protected! It’s atrocious and unpardonable, but excused and pardoned by CIC. It is undisputed that several patients died not because of coronavirus infection but mainly due to lack of oxygen. The government is afraid of losing its image by disclosing specific data. ‘National security’ is not threatened but their reputation is. The fear of adverse publicity through exposure of truth about inefficiency and recklessness of the administration is a major obstacle to the implementation of the RTI law. The CIC was very critical of the public authority and slammed its blanket denial of information related to the committee overseeing medical oxygen supplies during the pandemic. Information Commissioner Vanaja Sarna directed the government to provide the RTI requested within 10 days. But it was not chosen to start penal proceedings against the CPIO who, as per Section 20, should be punished for unjustifiable denial. It was also not explained why the CIC ignored it. The institution of the information commission has a duty to bring in both answerability and accountability. But rarely does the commission direct the authorities to give information and very rarely are penal proceedings begun, most of which end up without any penalty. Due to this, the state machinery feels free from responsibility or liability for negligence in supplying oxygen. Most of the public authorities exude confidence that the commission will not force them to disclose and hence, deny the information. Unless the applicant is an activist or has plenty of time, he will not approach the CIC and wait at least for a year. (The writer is Dean & Professor, School of Law, Mahindra University, Hyderabad, and former Central Information Commissioner)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/denial-of-information-1020206.html
16-08-2021||National||India's envoy to UN to chair Security Council special session on situation in Afghanistan||The United Nations Security Council (UNSC) will on Monday hold a special session to discuss the situation in Afghanistan, where President Ashraf Ghani’s government collapsed after the militants of the resurgent Taliban entered Kabul after occupying vast swathes of the war-torn country's territory. António Guterres, the UN Secretary General, will brief the Security Council about the situation in Afghanistan during the session, which will be chaired by T S Tirumurti, India’s Permanent Representative to the international organisation in New York. India holds the rotating presidency of the UN Security Council for the month of August. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will also leave for New York on Monday. He will chair a UN Security Council session on “Threats to International Peace and Security caused by Terrorist Acts”. The Secretary General will present the six-monthly UN report on the threat posed by Islamic State terrorist organisation. Jaishankar will also have bilateral meetings with Foreign Ministers of other nations on the sidelines of the UNSC high-level events in New York, the Ministry of External Affairs stated in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-envoy-to-un-to-chair-security-council-special-session-on-situation-in-afghanistan-1020159.html
16-08-2021||National||DH Toon | Not a day goes by without remembering common man's horror||The Union Home Ministry on Saturday issued a notification declaring that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day to salute those who sacrificed their lives during the country's partition, hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the announcement to this effect. The prime minister has said that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day in the memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people, saying the pain of partition can never be forgotten.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-not-a-day-goes-by-without-remembering-common-mans-horror-1020178.html
16-08-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi pays tribute to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his death anniversary||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among the dignitaries who paid tributes to former prime minister and BJP stalwart Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his third death anniversary on Monday. The two leaders besides Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and many Union ministers, including Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh, went to Sadaiv Atal, the memorial to Vajpayee here, to pay their tributes. Modi tweeted, "We remember his warm personality, we remember his endearing nature, we remember his wit and humour, we remember his contribution to national progress. Atal Ji lives in the hearts and minds of our citizens."   We remember his warm personality, we remember his endearing nature, we remember his wit and humour, we remember his contribution to national progress. Born in 1924, Vajpayee remained the most popular face of the BJP till he remained active in politics and was instrumental along with L K Advani in its rise to power in the late 90s. His moderate politics and pleasant personality were seen as key to the BJP winning over new allies in an era of politics when its Hindutva ideology was opposed by almost every party, including those who offered their support to its bid for power. Vajpayee died in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pays-tribute-to-former-pm-atal-bihari-vajpayee-on-his-death-anniversary-1020194.html
16-08-2021||National||Google doodle honours poet Subhadra Kumari Chauhan on her 117th birth anniversary||Google on Monday commemorated the 117th birth anniversary of freedom fighter and poet Subhadra Kumari Chauhan with a striking doodle on its homepage. Illustrated by New Zealand-based artist Prabha Mallya, the doodle shows Chauhan dressed in a saree and sitting with a pen and paper. The background depicts a scene from her poem 'Jhansi ki Rani', one of the most iconic poems in Hindi literature, on one side and freedom fighters on the other. In a statement, Google described Chauhan as a "trailblazing writer and freedom fighter" who "rose to national prominence during a male-dominated era of literature". Chauhan was born on this day in 1904 in Nihalpur village in Uttar Pradesh's Allahabad, now Prayagraj. "She was known to write constantly, even in the horse cart on the way to school, and her first poem was published at just nine years old. The call for Indian independence reached its height during her early adulthood. As a participant in the Indian Nationalist Movement, she used her poetry to call others to fight for their nation's sovereignty," Google said. Her poetry and prose primarily focused on hardships that the Indian women overcame "such as gender and caste discrimination". "In 1923, Chauhan's unyielding activism led her to become the first woman satyagrahi, a member of the Indian collective of nonviolent anti-colonialists, to be arrested in the struggle for national liberation," the internet search giant said. As part of her contribution to the freedom struggle, Chauhan continued to make revolutionary statements on and off the page and she published a total of 88 poems and 46 short stories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-doodle-honours-poet-subhadra-kumari-chauhan-on-her-117th-birth-anniversary-1020238.html
16-08-2021||National||Resign Modi: Groups mark Independence Day with vigil, protest in UK||Different organisations, including some separatist groups, marked India’s 75th Independence Day on Sunday with a vigil and protest outside the Indian High Commission in London. Protesters gathered opposite India House in Aldwych area of the city amid a significant presence of Metropolitan Police officers around barricades erected outside the High Commission building for the pre-planned demonstration. They carried placards reading “Kisan Mazdoor Ekta” and chanted slogans in support of Indian farmers. Some pro-Khalistani banners were also visible in the crowd. South Asia Solidarity Group, a diaspora-led anti-racist organisation, held a small vigil overnight on Saturday and then staged a stunt in the early hours of Sunday by unfurling a banner reading “Resign Modi” from Westminster Bridge overlooking the Houses of Parliament in London. “As India’s 75th Independence Day dawns, the country’s secular Constitution lies in tatters. Communal and caste violence stalk the land,” said Mukti Shah from South Asia Solidarity Group, one of the organisers of the stunt. “Thousands of political prisoners languish in Covid-infected prisons, and hundreds of thousands of people are grieving the loss of their loved ones as a result of the callous negligence and mismanagement of the coronavirus crisis,” she said. The group also released a statement identifying its 10-point agenda behind the action, including incidents of mob lynching, cases of rape and murder and “mismanagement” of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. Separately, Indian diaspora-led organisation called The London Story, based in the Netherlands, released the first so-called EU-India People's Roadmap on Sunday as an assertion of democratic values to mark the Independence Day. “It is of utmost importance that governments are held accountable towards human rights violations in bilateral and multilateral relations in areas. Human rights must not be interpreted narrowly, but must feature centrally in debates all the way from climate change to complex surveillance,” said Amnesty India’s director Aakar Patel. The London Story said it had communicated the roadmap to members of the European Parliament's delegation with India, including Jakop Dalunde; members of the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, including Alviina Alametsa; members of the European Parliament's Subcommittee on Human Rights, including Maria Arena; Members of the German Parliament, including Omid Nouripour, Deputy Chair of the Germany-India Friendship Group; Members of the Dutch Parliament, including Nilufer Gundogan; and others. The roadmap enumerates specific action points in the areas of digital democracy, human rights, and climate change. It calls upon governments to position respect for human rights and human security at the core by incorporating human rights into every clause and also by regularly engaging with civil society through a comprehensive and continued EU-India Human Rights Dialogue. “Given the persecution of dissenting voices in India, we as members of the diaspora and their friends are doing everything, we can to ensure those with political mandates hear what they have to say,” said Ritumbra Manuvie, co-director of The London Story. The People’s Roadmap is said to be endorsed by representatives of the Indian diaspora resident in the European Union (EU), academics and human rights activists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/resign-modi-groups-mark-independence-day-with-vigil-protest-in-uk-1020247.html
16-08-2021||National||Traffickers find new mode to transport children — private buses with dark windows||Private luxury buses, with their tinted, curtained windows and erratic time schedules, have become the preferred mode for traffickers transporting children hundreds of miles from their homes, say families of survivors and activists. Adapting to Covid times, where regular rail services have been cancelled, traffickers have quickly moved from trains to buses and find them a safer option because it is more difficult for activists and government agencies to conduct rescue missions. "We know about train timings, we know the station stops and, most important, we can see children who are alone. But in luxury buses with tinted glasses and curtains, it is very difficult to locate children. Keeping a tab on these buses, intercepting them and locating them is proving to be very difficult and that is something traffickers are taking advantage of,” said Suresh Kumar, executive director of Center Direct, an NGO that works to rescue trafficked children. Luxury buses, he added, do not have a timetable. Drivers park the buses during the day and at night fill them with children and leave. About 75 children from Bihar have been rescued from luxury buses since last year but hundreds more have been trafficked, Kumar added. "In front of our eyes we have seen buses filled with children leaving and speeding away before we can stop them,” he told PTI in a phone interview. The bus that sped Pinku*, a 12-year-old battling for life at a private medical facility in Bihar’s Gaya district, from his village Korma to a bangle factory in far away Jaipur also had dark windows. It was September last year. Had Pinku* been saved, he would not have ended up with a broken leg and severe malnourishment. Pinku* was finally rescued in July this year. His mother, Kanta Devi* who went with him to Jaipur is thankful he is alive, and full of remorse she fell for the promises of the trafficker. "Schools had closed and he was sitting at home. The trafficker promised us that the job in Jaipur is a light one for which he will be well paid and also schooled during his stay. We were told he will be given fruits and good food, a luxury for us,” Kanta* told PTI. Instead, her son was made to work for 16-18 hours a day at a bangle factory, given food once a day and brutally thrashed for any mistake. "When Pinku* was found in July, his leg bones were broken. Doctors are saying his organs are also failing due to lack of food and constant beatings. He is fighting for his life,” said the distraught mother. Pinku* was referred to the Patna government hospital, from there to the Gaya medical college and recently shifted to a private facility. To pay his medical bills, Kanta* said she has taken a loan of Rs 20,000 at a monthly interest rate of 5 per cent from a loan shark. The bangle factory owner was arrested and a case registered against him in Jaipur. Though there are no official numbers, social workers and officials fear Pinku* represents the proverbial tip of the iceberg. Taking cognisance of the issue, Bihar police in June issued a circular asking its personnel o keep a tab and check if needed luxury buses from states, including Rajasthan, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Punjab, through which children might be getting trafficked. "Earlier, too, children were trafficked using these buses. But this has now become rampant because traffickers are seeing how difficult it is for us to intercept them,” Kumar said. Their task becomes more difficult when families, as in Pinku’s* case, go to drop their children. "Parents make excuses like we are taking children to our relatives’ home… and there is no way to know if they are telling the truth," Kumar said. Deena Nath, a social worker with Center Direct, added that the Covid pandemic has increased the desperation of parents. "They think that getting the children jobs will help in supporting the family. What they don't realise is that they are enslaving their child who will be at the mercy of the factory owner," he said. The stories continue as if in an endless loop. Rakesh*, also 12 years old, was one of those lucky to be rescued while he was going from Belaganj in Bihar to Delhi. Recounting his tale, he said, "I was travelling alone in that bus. The 'seth' (trafficker) told us to tell anyone who asks that he is my uncle and we are going to visit our relatives in Delhi. As soon as we were intercepted, the trafficker ran away." And Ramesh*, a resident of Bilav Nagar village in Bihar, said he was promised Rs 8,000 per month for his work and told he will also be given proper food. "But at the bangle factory I had to make 30 bundles (720 bangles) every day. If there was any mistake, we were abused. We were not paid anything and were given food just once a day and a place to sleep. If we slept for more than five-six hours, we were kicked,” said the young boy who was also rescued from a Jaipur bangle factory in July. In the first increase in two decades, the number of children in child labour has risen to 160 million worldwide  with millions more at risk due to the impact of COVID-19, according to an International Labour Organisation and Unicef report released in June. The closure of 1.5 million schools due to the pandemic and lockdowns in India has impacted 247 million children enrolled in elementary and secondary schools and added to the risk of them slipping into child labour and unsafe migration, Unicef has said. According to the ILO, child labour refers to the exploitation of children through any form of work that deprives children of their childhood, interferes with their ability to attend regular school, and is mentally, physically, socially and morally harmful. The Indian Constitution prohibits children below the age of 14 years to engage in any factory or mine or in any other form of hazardous employment. (*Names changed to protect identity) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/traffickers-find-new-mode-to-transport-children-private-buses-with-dark-windows-1020262.html
16-08-2021||National||SC questions Centre for passing Tribunal Bill without debate||The Supreme Court on Monday questioned the Centre for passing the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 without any debate in Parliament and re-enacting provisions struck down by the top court. The court also expressed concern over "disturbing trend" of the government not complying to the directions issued by it. "Inspite of all that (court directions), few days back we have seen, the ordinance which was struck down has been re-enacted. We are not commenting on Parliament proceedings," a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said. "Of course, the legislature has prerogative to make laws. At least we must know why the government has introduced the bill despite being struck down by this court...I have not come across any debate, which took place in Parliament (over the bill). Please show us the debate -- the reasons and all that," the bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The strong observations from the top court comes just a day after the CJI lamented at the lack of quality debates in Parliament, saying the "sorry state of affairs" was resulting in passing of laws with a "lot of ambiguity and gaps" besides leading to increased litigation. On Monday, dealing with a matter related to vacancies in tribunals, the bench told Mehta, representing the Centre, "It is a serious issue...tribunals have to continue or to be shut down." Mehta submitted before the top court that the process was on for appointments to the Central Administrative Tribunal. The bench referred to a judgment passed by a bench presided over by Justice L Nageswara Rao. The bench said the dispensation of justice by the tribunals can be effective only when they function independent of executive control, and this would make them credible and would also generate public confidence. Referring to the judgment, the bench said, "We have noticed a disturbing trend of the government not implementing directions issued by court". Mehta said, "This is the wisdom of Parliament". On this, the Chief Justice asked, "Can you show us ministry note citing reasons for the Bill?" Mehta replied that till the bill has not attained the status of an Act, it may not be proper on his part to respond. "So far as since validity is not in question, I'm not right now in a position to respond," the SG replied. Finally, the top court gave 10 days time to Centre to make appointments and cautioned it about the consequences, even as Mehta sought two weeks time. On August 6, the court had told the Centre to come clean on long list of vacancies in tribunals across the country, and asked if it wanted to continue or close them down. Vacancies on 19 presiding officers, 110 judicial members, and 111 technical numbers are pending in all the tribunals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-questions-centre-for-passing-tribunal-bill-without-debate-1020267.html
16-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: No lockdown in Bengaluru yet but government to remain cautious||If such combination of doses did not work, each vaccine manufacturer will blame the other company, he said. Later, in a statement to clarify his remarks, Poonawalla said such mixing can be resorted to if a particular vaccine is not available at the time of second dose. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-no-lockdown-in-bengaluru-yet-but-government-to-remain-cautious-1020271.html
16-08-2021||National||Ties with US on upward trajectory, more collaboration needed in key sectors: Indian envoy Sandhu||India’s ties with the US are on a steady, upward trajectory, but the two countries need to collaborate more in key sectors like healthcare, education, climate change and defence to achieve the true potential that the relationship holds, Indian ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu has said. Addressing a gathering of Indian-Americans at India House on the occasion of the country’s 75th Independence Day on Sunday, Sandhu said India's Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with the United States remained of key significance in bringing development and prosperity to people of the two countries, as well as to the world at large. The Indian ambassador unfurled the national flag at India House, the official residence of the Indian envoy, in the presence of a select gathering of officials and community leaders due to the Covid-19 protocols. “Our ties with the US are on a steady, upward trajectory – Prime Minister Modi’s telephone calls with President Biden and Vice President Harris; PM’s participation in the Quad, Climate and G-7 Summits; the recent visits at Cabinet and high officials level to both sides all reflect the strength and closeness in our ties. The india-US relationship has indeed come a long way,” Sandhu said. “However, given the true potential that the relationship holds, we still have a lot to achieve together. We need to work towards more and more collaborations in key sectors such as, Healthcare & pharma, Digital & IT, Education & Research, clean energy and climate change, and strategic and defense,” he said at the event that was telecast live over various social media platforms and was watched by a large number of Indian-Americans across the country. Observing that the Covid continues to pose challenges to all, Sandhu underscored the need to remain vigilant. “Today humanity’s very survival is linked to how well we support each other. India extended its helping hand to the US last year. This year during the surge in India the US Government, Congress, Private sector, and diaspora provided overwhelming support to India. I take this opportunity to thank each one of you for your generous efforts. I am confident that with our collective action we will come out of this stronger and more resilient,” he said. The ambassador highlighted 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' that is being celebrated to mark the 75 years of India’s Independence. A message from President Ram Nath Kovind was played during the event followed by a cultural programme. Flag hoisting ceremonies were also held in all the five Consulates of India in New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Houston and San Francisco. Events were also held at iconic and historic locations, including Times Square in New York, Gadar Memorial and City Halls in San Francisco, and State Capitol Building in Providence and Rhode Island. Several events including India Day parades, India festivals, lectures, Battery Dance were organised across the US by diverse community organisations as well as local administration to mark the occasion. Special receptions are being held in Houston, Atlanta and Chicago, with the participation of dignitaries from the US. In honour of India’s 75th Independence Day, prominent buildings in the US including the Empire State Building, New York, One World Trade Centre in Manhattan, the State Capitol Building in Providence, Rhode Island, Twin Towers in Dallas, Governor's mansion in Austin, City Hall of San Francisco and Gandhi Statue at King Center Atlanta are being illuminated in tricolour lights. Commemorative resolutions and proclamations were issued by various US States. The New York State Assembly passed a Resolution commemorating India’s 75th Independence Day on August 15 and recognising August 2021 as Indian American Heritage Month. The Governor of Texas issued a Proclamation on the occasion. Leaders from the US, including senior members of the Senate and the House, State Administrations and legislators and dignitaries from diverse fields such as business, arts, sports and science conveyed their greetings. Prominent members of the Indo-American community, including representatives of various socio-cultural organisations, members of the business community and others also expressed their felicitations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ties-with-us-on-upward-trajectory-more-collaboration-needed-in-key-sectors-indian-envoy-sandhu-1020289.html
16-08-2021||National||Congress eyes UP, leaders to spend 75 hrs in 75 districts as part of outreach programme||Ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, leaders and functionaries of the UP Congress will spend 75 hours in 30,000 villages spread across 75 districts of the state as part of an outreach programme. The programme, which is being held on the 75th year of India's Independence, will begin on August 19 under the three-day 'Jai Bharat Mahasampark Abhiyan', Congress national secretary Dheeraj Gurjar said. "Party leaders and functionaries will spend 75 hours in a village panchayat in each of the 75 districts of the state. They will stay in the village panchayat for a little over three days in the 30,000 identified villages of the state. Through this, the party aims to reach directly to 90 lakh people," Gurjar, co-incharge of UP at the All India Congress Committee (AICC), told PTI. He said various programmes will be organised in the villages during the stay of Congress leaders and they will also do ''shramdaan'' (voluntary community service) for one hour a day. On August 20, 'Sadhbhavna Diwas' will be celebrated on the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, Gurjar said, adding that freedom fighters, their families and senior citizens will be felicitated. Anil Yadav, organisational secretary of the UP Congress, informed that party leaders and functionaries during their stay in the villages will have 'snehbhoj' (feast) with villagers, and in this they will eat food coming from specific houses in the villages, and will not consume any outside food. Meanwhile, Gurjar, when asked as to who will be the chief ministerial face of the Congress in the UP polls, said, "The Congress has never contested elections by declaring its chief ministerial candidate. Our party workers, and our palm (election symbol) will be the face of the party in the assembly polls." "The Congress will contest all the 403 seats of the UP Legislative Assembly. The constituencies in which our candidate is strong, he or she will be given priority. But, the constituencies in which a person who is not in our party today, but believes in the Congress' principles of 'sarvadharma sambhaav' (interfaith equality), and reposes faith in the ideology of the Congress of taking everyone along, we can give them the 'tiranga' (party ticket)," he said. "A number of people who are disgruntled with their parties are in touch with the Congress," Gurjar added. Refuting claims of the opposition that Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is a "political tourist" to Uttar Pradesh, he said, "Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is the national general secretary of the Congress, and not the president of the UP unit of the Congress. She is a national leader, and in-charge of UP." Referring to the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, he said the Congress is the largest opposition party. "All the parties will come with the Congress who feel that democracy can be saved while adhering to the constitutional means. If there is any political party, which is committed to save the unity and integrity of the country, then it is the Congress, which has freed the country from the British," Gurjar said. When asked to comment on the absence of party MP Rahul Gandhi in the recent dinner hosted by party leader Kapil Sibal on August 9, he said, "As of today, Kapil Sibal is in the Congress. If the opposition is turning up at the dinner hosted by a particular political party, then it does not sound alarm bells for us." Top leaders of over a dozen parties met in Delhi on August 9 and reaffirmed their commitment to strengthen the opposition unity and defeat the BJP in the 2022 UP assembly polls and the 2024 general elections, according to sources. The leaders came together at a dinner hosted by Sibal where almost all the members of the G-23 leaders, who had written to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi seeking an organisational overhaul, were also present. The outreach programme will be attended by senior Congress leaders of Uttar Pradesh and senior office-bearers of the party. Former ministers, former MLAs and MPs will be among those attending it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-eyes-up-leaders-to-spend-75-hrs-in-75-districts-as-part-of-outreach-programme-1020297.html
16-08-2021||National||Air India cancels its only Kabul flight, diverts 2 US-Delhi flights to avoid 'uncontrolled' Afghan airspace||National carrier Air India cancelled its Delhi-Kabul-Delhi flight that was scheduled to operate on Monday after Kabul airport authorities declared that its airspace is not in its control. Air India is the only airline that has been operating flights to Kabul. Monday's flight was the lone commercial flight scheduled to operate between both the countries. Air India also diverted two flights coming to Delhi from the US and Vistara one to avoid Afghanistan airspace. The flights -- San Francisco-Delhi and Chicago-Delhi --  were diverted to Sharjah. Both flights will land in Sharjah for refuelling purposes and will then leave for Delhi while avoiding the Afghan airspace. Officials said the Afghanistan airspace has been declared "uncontrolled" by the Kabul airport on Monday. Vistara's flights from Delhi to London also have stopped using Afghanistan airspace. "We have stopped using Afghanistan airspace and are taking an alternate route for our flights to and from London Heathrow. We are closely working with the relevant authorities to monitor and assess the situation and take necessary steps to ensure the safety of our passengers, staff and aircraft," Vistara spokesperson said on Monday. However, the airline, which currently operates four weekly flights on Delhi-London-Delhi route, is not going to reduce the number of services on this route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-cancels-its-only-kabul-flight-diverts-2-us-delhi-flights-to-avoid-uncontrolled-afghan-airspace-1020299.html
16-08-2021||National||To become superpower, India needs BJP govt for 25 years: Union Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar ||Union Minister of State for Skill Development, Entrepreneurship, Electronics & Information Technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar on Monday stated India would become the true superpower by 2047, for which the BJP should remain in power for the next 25 years. "For 60 years after the independence, dynastic rule focused on appeasement, divide and rule, and corruption. BJP government is setting new standards through good governance and micro governance. BJP is the most important party to safeguard the interests of future generations in the country," he said. Speaking at the BJP's 'Janasheervad Yatra' in Hubballi, he stated that the British exploited Indians for 200 years, and later, a dynasty exploited the country in a different way.He also charged that disruption in the Parliament session was a pre-planned one by the Opposition parties, though the government was willing for a proper debate on any issue. Skill development Later, Rajeev also said, discussions have begun to develop Hubballi-Dharwad as the skilling capital of Karnataka. For setting up premier skill training institutes here, the State Government has to submit a proposal, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-become-superpower-india-needs-bjp-govt-for-25-years-union-minister-rajeev-chandrasekhar-1020307.html
16-08-2021||National||IIT Madras crosses 1,000-mark in patents generated by researchers and faculty in India, abroad||Indian Institute of Technology Madras has crossed the 1,000-mark in patents generated by it in India and abroad, officials said. The number of patents filed by the institute has also doubled in the last five years with the US accounting for the highest number of patents filed outside India. As on March 31 this year, the total number of patents filed in India was 1,204 and the total number of international patents filed was 529. Of these, 155 patent applications were filed in the US. IIT-Madras bears 70 per cent of the cost of filing foreign patents with the inventor bearing the rest. "Another significant factor was the large number of international patents (218) filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). The PCT assists applicants in seeking patent protection internationally for their inventions. By filing one international patent application under the PCT, applicants can subsequently seek protection for an invention in all the countries that are party to the PCT (153 countries, as on date)," said Ravindra Gettu, Dean, Centre for ICSR. Gettu said the Centre has undertaken many initiatives in the recent years to drive this increase in patents being filed in India and abroad. "A dedicated IP Cell has been established at the International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation (ICSR), which conducts intellectual property (IP) awareness programme regularly to sensitise students or faculty on the importance of IP protection and monetisation," he said. Gettu said the institute has enabled patent filing through awareness campaigns among faculty members and students. "The processes have also been made easier and faster, without interfering in publications and thesis completion, which are often the primary focus of our researchers. Monetisation of IP is also a recent focus area to promote patenting and fund more developments," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iit-madras-crosses-1000-mark-in-patents-generated-by-researchers-and-faculty-in-india-abroad-1020308.html
16-08-2021||National||Modi extends Parsi New Year greetings||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted the Parsi community on their New Year, and lauded their contributions to the country.   He tweeted, "Parsi New Year greetings. Praying for a year filled with happiness, prosperity and good health". "India cherishes the outstanding contributions of the Parsi community across different sectors. Navroz Mubarak!" he said. Parsi New Year greetings. Praying for a year filled with happiness, prosperity and good health. India cherishes the outstanding contributions of the Parsi community across different sectors. Navroz Mubarak!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-extends-parsi-new-year-greetings-1020311.html
16-08-2021||National||SC asks Centre if it wanted to bring on record whether Pegasus spyware was used||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre if it wanted to bring on record whether Pegasus spyware was used to intercept phones of a cross-section of people in the country. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana noted that the Centre's affidavit of two-page, denying snooping charges and agreeing to form a panel of experts to examine all aspects of the matter, has not satisfied a group of petitioners seeking an independent probe. "We will continue to hear the matter tomorrow. If you have a change of mind, let us know tomorrow (Tuesday). If you decide to file an affidavit, then we have nothing to say, else we will hear all of you," the bench said while adding that it cannot compel the Centre to file an affidavit if it is "reluctant" to do so. In its affidavit, the Centre "unequivocally" denied before the court charges of snooping citizens, activists, politicians, members of the judiciary through Pegasus spyware but agreed to set up a committee of experts to "dispel wrong narrative raised by vested interests". "With a view to dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and with an object of examining the issues raised, the Union of India will constitute a committee of experts in the field which will go in to all aspects of the issue," the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology said. Responding to the court's query, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing for Centre said that the issue involved aspects of national security and was not simple enough to be addressed through affidavits.  Mehta, for his part, asked if the petitioners will withdraw the petitions seeking an independent probe if the government filed an affidavit denying using Pegasus. "We are dealing with a sensitive matter but an attempt is being made to make this sensational. This matter will have national security implications. This matter cannot be handled like furnish an affidavit etc. The Minister concerned has given details as how the Pegasus issue has been raging fire over the past few years. The placing of facts will involve national security issues," Mehta told the bench. Mehta said if the court approved, a committee can be constituted of independent experts and not government officers, and terms of reference can be laid down by the court. Appearing for petitioners, journalist N Ram and others, senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi and others submitted that the Union government has evaded answering the question if it or any of its agencies has ever used the Pegasus spyware. They asked the court to direct the government to come clean on this issue. Sibal said the government has to state on oath that they have never used Pegasus spyware.  "This affidavit does not answer the issues raised by the petitioners," Sibal said, adding that the government has made a sweeping denial of the petitions in generic terms. Sibal said that the issue was not about individuals but about "institutions" and it is the judiciary and the media which protect democracy and both have been attacked by Pegasus. "France has started a national level investigation through court procedures, Israel is also conducting enquiry but Indian government says all is fine. This is wholly unacceptable. Let the government state on oath that they used pegasus spyware, how it was used, and what deal contracts were entered into," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-if-it-wanted-to-bring-on-record-whether-pegasus-spyware-was-used-1020324.html
16-08-2021||National||Indians enthusiastically celebrate 75th Independence Day in Texas||Indian-Americans in the US state of Texas turned out in large numbers at the Consulate General of India here and enthusiastically celebrated the country's 75th Independence Day with a series of events. Consul General of India, Aseem Mahajan hoisted the National Flag, followed by reading President Ram Nath Kovind’s national address in the presence of the Indian community and friends of India and consulate officials. “As India is celebrating ''Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav'', marking the 75th year of Independence, India and the US are enhancing their ties not only at the bilateral level but also at the regional and global levels," Mahajan said. Top American Senators, Congressmen, Academics and scientists greeted the people of India on this occasion. Co-Founder and Co-Chair of Senate India Caucus Senator John Cornyn extended his greetings to Indian-Americans on this occasion and appreciated their role in strengthening strong ties between the two biggest democratic countries and making the state of Texas a culturally rich and vibrant place. Congratulating India, Greater Houston Partnership, which builds trade between India and Houston said as a global city, Houston’s relationship with India is critical. Our ties with India in particular are strong with $ 8 billion in bilateral trade in 2020. Conveying greetings on the occasion, Indian-origin President of the University of Houston, Renu Khator said, “India's new education policy has opened the doors wider for more collaborations and partnerships between our two nations, we realise that India offers tremendous opportunities for us as scholars and students to work together with their Indian counterparts to find solutions to our common problems, in energy, healthcare, and conflict resolution." In honour of India’s 75th Independence Day, prominent buildings illuminated in Texas, include US Twin Towers in Dallas, Governor's mansion in Austin, Reunion Tower. Mahajan also attended other Independence Day events, including the major annual event at India House and Gujrat Samaj. Addressing the members of the Indian diaspora, Mahajan congratulated them for their contributions towards bringing the two countries even closer strategically. He appreciated their contribution during the unprecedented days of pandemic and their involvement in supporting major initiatives around. India Cultural Centre (ICC) Houston organised an extravagant and vibrant wedding event bazaar & traditions to celebrate 75th Independence Day at the Stafford centre. “This is an effort to bring east, west, north, south of India together through weddings,” said ICC president Jasmeeta Singh. “Gandhi was a person who was a champion for peace,” Congressman Al Green, D-Houston, said at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-enthusiastically-celebrate-75th-independence-day-in-texas-1020326.html
16-08-2021||National||Punjab Police arrest 2 men linked to UK terror group, recover grenades, pistols||The Punjab Police have arrested two terrorists and recovered two hand grenades and as many pistols from their possession, an official statement said on Monday. This comes days after the recovery of an improvised explosive device (IED) concealed in a tiffin box along with five hand grenades and 100 rounds of 9 mm pistol from a village in Amritsar. The Punjab Police arrested the two “militants” allegedly linked to a UK-based terrorist entity from Amritsar on Sunday night, the statement said. According to Punjab Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta, the duo was allegedly operating on the directions of UK-based terrorist Gurpreet Singh Khalsa alias Gurpreet, and had been tasked with retrieving weapons consignment sent from across the border. The consignment was most likely delivered in the border area around Attari-Jhabal Road some days ago, he said in a statement. In view of the large number of intel inputs indicating plans by Pakistan-based ISI and terrorist elements based abroad to carry out an attack in India on or around Independence Day, police had made extensive security arrangements at the borders, he said. Special security checkpoints were set up and patrolling was intensified round-the-clock, he added. On the night of August 15, two motorcycle-borne men were stopped by police personnel deployed at a checkpoint near Adda Khalsa. The duo failed to produce valid documents pertaining to the ownership of the vehicle, the DGP said. The search of pillion Amritpal Singh led to the recovery of one 9 mm pistol, a magazine and seven live cartridges, he said, adding that Sammy, a resident of Sultanwind, Amritsar, was riding the motorcycle. In total, two hand-grenades, two pistols, four magazines and 20 bullets have been seized, he said. A case under relevant sections of the Arms Act, and the Explosive Substance (Amendment) Act 2001, has been registered at Gharinda Police Station in Amritsar, said an official spokesperson. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had earlier warned of an escalated terror threat to the state from Pakistan-based forces. The chief minister, who had met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi last week, had sought 25 companies of Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) along with anti-drone gadgets for the Border Security Force (BSF) for protection from Pak-backed terror forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-police-arrest-2-men-linked-to-uk-terror-group-recover-grenades-pistols-1020342.html
16-08-2021||National||PM Modi meets with India Olympic contingent||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hosted the Olympic-returned Indian athletes for breakfast at his residence, a day after lauding their memorable performance at the Tokyo Games from the ramparts of the Red Fort. Indian athletes returned from Tokyo with a haul of seven medals, including javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra's historic gold in track and field. It was the country's best ever show at the Olympics. Modi, who had applauded the Indian athletes' tremendous show during the 75th Independence Day celebration at the Red Fort on Sunday, was seen talking to Chopra and bronze medallist PV Sindhu, who become only the second Indian and first woman to win two Olympic medals. The shuttler had also brought with her the silver medal she had won at Rio five years ago. The members of the India men's hockey team that won a bronze after 41 also chatted with the PM, who was seen examining a hockey stick. Also, present was the wrestling contingent, which returned from the Olympics with two medals. Ravi Dahiya won a silver and Bajrang Punia a bronze medal. Vinesh Phogat who has been suspended by the WFI for indiscipline was also present along with young Anshu Malik, Seema Bisla and coach Jagmander Singh. The other medallist included weightlifter Mirabai Chanu, who opened India's account at the Games on the first day competitions with a silver medal and bronze winning boxer Lovlina Borgohain. The women's hockey team that exceeded all expectation by reaching its maiden Olympic semifinal was also present alongside the boxing, shooting and athletics contingents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-meets-with-india-olympic-contingent-1020346.html
16-08-2021||National||Sin to stay silent when fundamental rights, Constitution trampled upon: Sonia Gandhi||As India enters the 75th year of independence, the Congress Monday said party chief Sonia Gandhi has urged people to introspect what freedom means and told them it is a "sin" to remain silent when fundamental rights and the Constitution are "trampled upon". She also said the country's democracy needs repairing. "When fundamental rights of people, guaranteed by the founding fathers of our Constitution are being trampled upon, it is a sin to stay silent," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, quoting Gandhi's article in an English daily. He said that in the article, the party president has talked about what freedom means for people, with the country entering the 75th year of Independence. When the government "attacks" Parliament and "tramples upon" its traditions, "enslaves" democracy, attempts to "violate" the Constitution and "shackles" institutional autonomy, the people of the country need to introspect what freedom means to them, she has said. Gandhi has alleged that currently journalists do not have the freedom to write, TV channels the freedom to show the truth, and writers and thinkers the freedom to express themselves. She also alleged parliamentarians don't have the freedom to express their views, people affected by the oxygen shortage crisis and GST do not have the freedom to speak and the states, in a federal structure, do not have the freedom to demand their rights. In her article she argues that Indian democracy is in need of repair. "We must undo the damage." She said the progress achieved in the last few decades has been reversed under the present government which indulges in "hollow slogans, event management and brand-building" at the cost of governance. "After decades of progress towards an India of our dreams, why is our democracy in danger? It is because tangible achievements have been substituted by hollow slogans, event management and brand-building only to benefit those in power – at the expense of governance. "It is because symbolism has triumphed over meaningful action. It is because democracy is sought to be replaced by an autocracy. Today's symbolism and reality is that Parliament House is being turned into a museum," Gandhi said in the article shared by the Congress. “As we begin independent India's 75th year, we owe it to our freedom fighters to undo this damage to our Republic,” the Congress president said. She also called on the need to draw courage from them to take on those who would replace their inclusive, liberating idealism with a narrow, sectarian, worldview overflowing with prejudice and discrimination. "We must not be swayed by hollow attempts to appropriate our icons by those who made no contribution to our struggle for independence. They may borrow Gandhiji's eyeglasses but their vision for our country remains Godse's. Our founders rejected that divisive ideology 74 years ago, and we must reject it once again," Gandhi said. She said in a world affected by the Covid-19 and climate change, India's response to these challenges will be crucial to the world. "The recently concluded Monsoon session of Parliament displayed the disdain of the present [Modi] government towards parliamentary processes and building consensus," Gandhi said. She claimed that the opposition was repeatedly denied an opportunity to raise issues of national importance. "Increasingly over the past 7 years, laws have been passed without debate in the House or scrutiny by a Committee, effectively turning Parliament into a rubber stamp," she alleged. She also alleged democratically-elected state governments have been toppled, disrespecting people's mandates. She also criticised the government's handling of the coronavirus crisis. "Decades of progress in improving health care have been reversed by the mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic." Referring to the farmers' agitation, she alleged the government has refused to heed to their legitimate concerns. "We must ensure that those who feed us do not themselves starve. We have to make agriculture more sustainable, economically and ecologically," she said. She also alleged the misuse of laws and government agencies. "Doctored videos, planted evidence, and fake toolkits are all becoming weapons of intimidation and disinformation to suppress dissent," she alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sin-to-stay-silent-when-fundamental-rights-constitution-trampled-upon-sonia-gandhi-1020348.html
16-08-2021||National||VP Naidu calls for more research in agriculture, health sectors||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu on Monday emphasised the need for stepping up research in the field of agriculture, health and medicine, and urged the scientists to strive to help the humanity. He was speaking at an event in Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR). “Besides attaining higher goals in their respective fields, scientists should invest themselves in research that helps the society. The primary purpose of science is the welfare and health of humanity,” he said. The Vice President praised JNCASR’s contribution to science. “The desi research of JNCASR has helped launch many startups and bag 300 patents,” he said. He said more research was needed in the new frontiers of science like synthetic biology, computational biology, high performance engineering material and artificial intelligence. Stating that 65 per cent of the country’s population was aged below 25 years, he said it was important to inculcate a scientific worldview in them and efforts should be made to identify and nurture their hidden talents. Speaking about Bengaluru, he said the city was once known for its lakes many of which have disappeared and there was a need to protect and preserve the remaining ones. He said the new chief minister in the state would look into the matter. Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and renowned scientist C N R Rao were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-calls-for-more-research-in-agriculture-health-sectors-1020354.html
16-08-2021||National||Situation in Afghanistan legacy of US President Biden's foreign policy: Omar Abdullah||National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah on Monday said the situation in Afghanistan is the legacy of US President Joe Biden's foreign policy. He also said Biden cannot blame his predecessor Donald Trump or anyone else for the "vacuum" created in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of the US troops from the war-ravaged country. "I don't grudge the US their departure from Afghanistan but this wasn't the way to leave. @JoeBiden this is on you. You can't blame Trump or anyone else for this. As @POTUS you set the final date & created a vacuum. This is your foreign policy legacy, make no mistake," Abdullah wrote on Twitter. He was referring to the scenes at the Kabul airport, the videos of which have gone viral on social media platforms. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/situation-in-afghanistan-legacy-of-us-president-bidens-foreign-policy-omar-abdullah-1020363.html
16-08-2021||National||Mere symbolism won't remove pain of partition: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday said the pain of partition will not go away by mere symbolism, days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that August 14 will be observed as Partition Horrors Remembrance Day. "The present day rulers must take care that seeds of another partition should not be sown from the earlier pain," an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said. It said the pain of partition remains even after 75 years, and BJP's L K Advani is the only leader who is a witness to it. "The pain of partition will not go away by mere symbolism, but a definite action is needed," the Marathi publication said. It said if Kashmiri Pandits were given their rights and homes in the Kashmir Valley, a lot could be achieved. "Just like the two countries were divided, hearts were also divided. (Former Indian prime minister) Vajpayee tried to bridge the divide by taking a bus to Lahore for peace. Even Narendra Modi made an unscheduled stop in Pakistan to meet the then PM Nawaz Sharif, which means he also wanted to forget the the past and make peace. But, now he has reopened the old wounds," it said.  It would have been better if there was an introspection on whether to rekindle the partition horrors or whether to permanently bury those memories by "teaching a befitting lesson to those who inflicted the wounds", the edit said. The Sena, which shares power with the Congress and NCP in Maharashtra, said only (former prime minister) Indira Gandhi had managed to take "revenge" of the pain of partition by dividing Pakistan and destroying the "two-nation concept" on the basis on which the neighbouring country was carved out. The editorial claimed the seeds of the two-nation theory were sown first by Sir Syed Ahmed when he said "Hindus and Muslims were two separate nations". This was supported by the Muslim League later, it said, adding that even a staunch "Hindutvawadi" like Veer Savarkar propagated the two-nation theory. The editorial said among the many reasons the Congress leaders supported the partition was that it could resolve the Hindu-Muslim conflict. "But that didn't happen. The partition wasn't part of any politics or agreed upon happily. The partition was due to the divide and rule policy of the British and unavoidable to secure freedom from the British rule," it said. The Marathi daily noted that Hindus and Muslims had shed blood to make India free of the British rule. Poet Iqbal, who played a role in the creation of Pakistan, wrote the immortal words of the song 'Saare Jahan Se Achha Hindustan Hamara', it said. "Barrister Jinnah was also a prominent freedom fighter and a supporter of (Lokmanya) Tilak. Justice (Gopal Krishna) Gokhale was the political guru of Mahatma Gandhi and even Jinnah. But, the Hindu-Muslim divide grew once independence from the British rule neared and resulted in the formation of Pakistan," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mere-symbolism-wont-remove-pain-of-partition-shiv-sena-1020367.html
16-08-2021||National||Karnataka govt, 9 others get exemption to use drones||Karnataka government and nine other entities have got a conditional exemption from the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021 to undertake activities using drones from the Ministry of Civil Aviation and Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). The Karnataka government has been granted an exemption to conduct drone-based aerial surveys to create urban property ownership records in Bengaluru. The National Health Mission in Mumbai has been granted an exemption for conducting experimental BVLOS drone flights to deliver essential healthcare items in tribal areas of Jawhar in Palghar district. The Gangtok Smart City Development can now undertake aerial surveys for the project while the IISCO Steel plant in West Bengal's Burnpur has been granted permission for conducting perimeter surveillance of the plant. Two training academies — Asia Pacific Flight Training Academy, Hyderabad and Blue Ray Aviation, Gujarat — have been granted exemption for conducting remote pilot training using drones.  Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited in Chennai got an exemption for conducting drone-based aerial spraying to assess crop health and prevent crop disease while Mahindra & Mahindra got the same for conducting drone-based agricultural trials and precision spraying on paddy and hot pepper crops in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh respectively. Bayer Crop Science in Mumbai also got permission for conducting drone-based agricultural research activities and agricultural spraying. Pune-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology has got an exemption from the rules for conducting atmospheric research at these five locations -- IITM Bhopal, NDA Pune, Karad airport, Osmanabad airport and Mohammed Airfield, Farrukhabad. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-govt-9-others-get-exemption-to-use-drones-1020369.html
16-08-2021||National||Nirmala Sitharaman says rules on retrospective tax to be framed soon||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said the rules that will lead to scrapping of the retrospective tax demands made on companies such as Cairn Energy Plc and Vodafone Plc will be framed soon. Parliament earlier this month passed a bill to scrap all tax demands made using the 2012 retrospective tax legislations. The bill provides for government refunding the retro tax to companies provided all legal challenges are withdrawn. Now the rules for the same have to be framed, which Sitharaman said will be done soon. "I will follow the law passed in Parliament," she said. The finance minister said her ministry officials are discussing with Cairn, Vodafone on closure of retro tax cases, refund and settlement. "No discussions with me (have happened) so far," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirmala-sitharaman-says-rules-on-retrospective-tax-to-be-framed-soon-1020374.html
16-08-2021||National||Gwalior constables' WhatsApp group stops banking fraud||A WhatsApp group started four years ago by two Gwalior constables has been able to recover at least Rs 15 crore which was lost by the people through banking fraud. Named “Stop Banking Fraud”, the WhatsApp group has police forces across the country to make the tracking of online banking frauds faster and to provide the benefits of this initiative to many parts of the country. The two Gwalior constables, Yadav and Tripathy, started this initiative in 2017 when in the month of March someone who lost Rs 40,000 to fraud came to them for help. Due to erratic power supply the police couldn’t send an email to the payment site on time. When they called the representative using a landline they were asked to send a message mentioning the details. Through this, they could save Rs 32,000 by the next day. “We thought that if we were able to save money in this way, we could help many more victims. With that thought, we started the WhatsApp group,” Yadav told the publication. As per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB)’s data of cybercrime recorded in 2019 was 44,546 cases as compared to 27,248 in 2018. Less than one in five of those cases were detected. Initially, Yadav and Tripathi did not get much help. They created the group and added 20 people but only five stayed. But they did not give up. More people started joining them once they could track and recover money. After experiencing beaming success in their initiative, Yadav and Tripathi expanded the initiative to Telegram too. Along with the police officers, the groups also have nodal representatives of 75 service providers and five major payment aggregators, taking the number of members in the WhatsApp group to 256 and 2,231 in Telegram. Gwalior Cyber Crime SP Sudhir Agarwal said, “The group was formed by the two constables from the cyber department nearly four years ago. It has helped us ensure that money lost to cybercrimes can be retrieved. Now, a web portal on similar lines has been started by the Ministry of Home Affairs.” Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gwalior-constables-whatsapp-group-stops-banking-fraud-1020384.html
16-08-2021||National||EC should make cow rearing mandatory for contesting polls: Madhya Pradesh minister||A minister in the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh on Monday suggested that the rearing of cows be made mandatory for contesting elections. Minister for New and Renewable Energy and Environment Hardeep Singh Dang also proposed a collection of Rs 500 per month from those employees of the state government getting a monthly salary of more than Rs 25,000 for the protection of cows and law to ensure that all the sections of society contribute for protecting cows. The minister said he has made all suggestions in his personal capacity. Speaking to PTI, Dang said elected representatives are a part of society and they should work for protecting cows. “I demand that the Election Commission (EC) make cow rearing mandatory for contesting elections. Forms of those candidates not involved in cow-rearing should be cancelled. I will write a letter to the EC in this regard,” he said. Dang said cow rearing should be made mandatory for people involved in farming or buying and selling agricultural products under a proposed agriculture law. “Since cow rearing is practically not possible for the government staffers, so the monthly contribution of Rs 500 should be collected from the employees getting a salary of more than Rs 25,000 a month,” he said. Dang said that instead of merely talking about cow protection, meaningful efforts should be made in this direction. “All the sections of the society should contribute to the protection of cows. The government should ensure everybody's contribution in this work (cow protection) by enacting law after consulting all sections of the society,” he said. Reacting to the demands raised by Dang, senior Congress MLA and former minister PC Sharma said the previous Kamal Nath government had announced the development of 1,000 smart Gaushalas (cowsheds) in Madhya Pradesh. "Had these cowsheds been developed, Dang would not have to worry for the cow protection," he said. Sharma said developing these cowsheds would also have eliminated the problem of stray cattle. "I hope Dang will ensure the development of these 1,000 cowsheds as decided by the then Congress government," he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-should-make-cow-rearing-mandatory-for-contesting-polls-madhya-pradesh-minister-1020388.html
16-08-2021||National||BJP launches 'Jan Ashirvad Yatra' in Uttar Pradesh||In a massive outreach campaign ahead of the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh due early next year, the BJP on Monday launched a statewide 'jan ashrivad yatra' during which the seven ministers in the Union Cabinet from UP would be traversing more than three thousand kilometres covering 120 assembly constituencies in the state. The yatra would end on Friday. The yatra was intended to showcase what the saffron party called ''people-friendly'' schemes of the Narendra Modi government and seek "blessings" of the electorate to become victorious in the next assembly elections. Three union ministers from UP, Kaushal Kishore, Pankaj Chaudhary and Ajai Mishra embarked on the 'yatra' to their respective regions from the state capital on Monday. While Kishore would be undertaking the yatra in Unnao, Raebareli, Lucknow and some other nearby districts, Mishra would seek blessings from the people in Lakhimpur Kheri, Hardoi, Shahajahanpur districts, BJP sources here said. Chaudhary would be embarking on a similar yatra in Basti, Siddharth Nagar and other nearby districts. ''The yatra will cover 120 assembly constituencies...public meetings and other programs will be held during the yatra...we will be telling the people about the policies and programs of the Centre and the state governments and expose the opposition propaganda,'' said a senior BJP leader here. Sources added that the party expected some protest in the Jat-dominated western UP regions from the farmers who had been agitating for the past several months demanding to scrap the new farm laws. Sources said that farmers' leaders had asked the residents of the villages in some districts in the region not to allow the BJP leaders to enter. BJP lawmaker Umesh Malik had to face the wrath of the farmers recently at Sisauli in Muzaffarnagar district when his vehicle was stoned by angry farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-launches-jan-ashirvad-yatra-in-uttar-pradesh-1020391.html
16-08-2021||National||Congress leader Ramesh asks SC to declare Tribunal Act unconstitutional||Congress MP Jairam Ramesh on Monday filed a petition in the Supreme Court against the Tribunals Reforms Act, 2021, saying it abrogated the principle of judicial independence in a deliberate attempt to override the judgement of the top court. He asked the court to declare the Act, which was passed by both the Houses of Parliament and had received the Presidential assent on August 13, as unconstitutional and ultra vires of Articles 14, 21 and 50 of the Constitution. The statute was enacted with the objective, “to abolish certain tribunals and authorities and to provide a mechanism for filing appeal directly to the commercial court or the High Court” and also “reduce the burden on public exchequer”. "The Act contains various provisions that are identical in nature to those in the Tribunals ordinance that were set aside by this court in the case of Madras Bar Association-IV-2021," his plea said.    In his plea, the former Union Minister claimed the provisions by fixing the tenure of persons appointed to tribunals to four years, and mandating the recommendation of two names for selection to a post, abrogated the complementary principles of separation of powers and judicial independence that are foundational to the judicial branch. By enforcing a bar on appointing persons below 50 years of age reduced the effectiveness of tribunals by both stifling talent and fomenting vacancies. This flies against various judgements of this court is blatantly discriminatory under Article 14 of the Constitution, the plea said. The government's failure to fix allowances and HRA and make the three-month appointment timeline mandatory also violated the directions of this court and thwarted the judicial independence of Tribunals and its separation from the executive, it claimed. "The repeated failure of the government to comply with the directions of this court, undermine the rule of law and the equal protection of laws that are fundamental guarantees under Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution," it contended. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-ramesh-asks-sc-to-declare-tribunal-act-unconstitutional-1020394.html
16-08-2021||National||Will take all steps for safety of Indians and India's interests: MEA on Afghanistan||India has vowed to ensure the safety and security of its nationals and interests in Afghanistan, where the Taliban appears to be set to return to power after President Ashraf Ghani’s government collapsed on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government particularly promised to help Afghan Hindus and Sikhs, who might like to travel to India in view of the return of the radical Sunni Muslim militant organization’s return to power in Afghanistan. India also promised to stand by its friends in Afghanistan. New Delhi’s pledge to protect its interests in Afghanistan is significant, given the speculation that the Pakistan Army and its spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) would try to take advantage of the Taliban’s return to power in Kabul in order to gain a strategic edge against India. Though New Delhi could facilitate the return of some Indian citizens from Afghanistan before and after the Taliban militants took over the capital of the conflict-ravaged country, it had to pause the repatriation when the operations of the commercial airlines from the overcrowded Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul was suspended due to chaos. New Delhi has not yet evacuated all its diplomats from Kabul. Neither it has so far decided on the fate of its embassy in the capital of Afghanistan. India did not immediately react after the capital of Afghanistan fell to the Taliban on Sunday. It, however, issued a statement on Monday, albeit without directly referring to the imminent takeover by the militants after President Ashraf Ghani’s departure from the country. “The security situation in Kabul has deteriorated significantly in the last few days. It is changing rapidly even as we speak,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), said in New Delhi. He said that the Government of India had been closely monitoring all developments in Afghanistan. The Embassy of India in Kabul had been issuing periodic advisories for the safety and security of Indian citizens across Afghanistan, including calling for their immediate return to India. It had also circulated emergency contact numbers and had also been extending assistance to community members, said the MEA spokesperson. “We are aware that there are still some Indian nationals in Afghanistan who wish to return and we are in touch with them.” “We are in constant touch with the representatives of Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities. We will facilitate repatriation to India of those who wish to leave Afghanistan.” New Delhi noted that a number of Afghans had been India’s partners in the “promotion of mutual developmental, educational and people to people endeavours”. “We will stand by them,” said Bagchi, adding, “Commercial operations from Kabul airport have been suspended today. This has forced a pause in our repatriation efforts. We are awaiting the resumption of flights to restart the process.” India over the past few years contributed over $ 3 billion to support the reconstruction of infrastructure in Afghanistan. He also said that the situation in Afghanistan was being monitored on a constant basis at the high levels of the Government of India, which would take all steps to ensure the safety and security of India’s citizens and its interests in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-take-all-steps-for-safety-of-indians-and-indias-interests-mea-on-afghanistan-1020406.html
16-08-2021||National||Power ministry issues draft rules on clean energy||The Ministry of Power has circulated the draft rules on renewable energy for seeking comments from stakeholders which proposed for purchase and consumption of green energy including the energy from waste-to-energy plants. The ministry has circulated the "Draft Electricity (promoting renewable energy through Green Energy Open Access) Rules, 2021."The government has sought comments within 30 days, said a statement from the Ministry of Power. The draft rules will provide in detail for Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO), green energy open access, nodal agencies, the procedure for grant of green energy open access, banking, and cross-subsidy surcharge. According to draft rules, the tariff for green energy will be determined by the Appropriate Commission, which may comprise of the average pooled power purchase cost of the renewable energy, cross-subsidy charges (if any) and service charges covering all prudent costs of the distribution licensee for providing the green energy". The draft rules state green hydrogen is the hydrogen produced using electricity from renewable sources. The obligated entity including the industries can also meet their Renewable Purchase Obligation by purchasing green hydrogen. The quantum of green hydrogen would be computed by considering the equivalence to the green hydrogen produced from one MWh of electricity from the renewable sources or its multiple. The norms shall be notified by the Central Commission, it stated. The draft rules also say that all applications for open access to green energy shall be granted within a maximum of 15 days. Provided that only consumers who have contracted demand/ sanctioned load of hundred kW and above shall be eligible to take power through green energy open access. (With inputs from PTI) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-ministry-issues-draft-rules-on-clean-energy-1020412.html
16-08-2021||National||In a first, India to import 12 lakh tonne GM soyameal after Centre clears confusion||In a first, India is all set to import 12 lakh tonne of genetically modified soyameal, used as livestock feed, after the environment ministry and DGFT cleared the air on the GM issue, a senior Animal Husbandry and Dairying Ministry official said on Monday. Meanwhile, the food ministry -- after taking a call on this issue in a review meeting on prices and availability of essential commodities -- asked the DGFT and other concerned departments to immediately facilitate the import of 12 lakh tonne of soyameal. The imports are necessary as skyrocketing prices of soyameal have made livestock feed costlier, affecting farmers associated with the poultry, dairy and aqua industry. Soyameal is a protein-rich solid leftover raw material after extracting oil from soyabean seed, the new crop of which is expected to arrive from October. "Currently, there is no ban on import of soyameal, including GM soyameal. However, the industry wanted clarification on the GM issue before placing the orders," the official told PTI. The environment ministry clarified on August 6 that since the de-oiled cake per se obtained after crushing GM soyabean does not contain any living modified organism, it has no objection to import of soya cake or meal from an environmental angle, he said. The official said there are three types of GM foods, one with Genetically Modified Organism (GMO), second with Living Modified Organism (LMO) and third with Non-Living Modified Organism (NLMO). "The soyameal is NLMO. The Environment Ministry has said it has no impact on human and animal health as well as on the environment," he added. Further, the clarification was sought from the food safety regulator FSSAI, which said "it regulates food and not feed. And it does not have any objection," he said. Even the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) -- a nodal body that administers imports and exports -- said GM soyameal is not in a 'restricted category' and therefore has no concern if imports take place, the official added. Asked if imports have begun, the official said, "GM soyameal is not in a restricted category, still we got clarification from concerned departments. Traders have started placing orders....". Other interested parties are thinking that import of GM soyabean seed has been allowed, but it is not, he said. The official said the industry has estimated import of 12 lakh tonne of soyameal to meet the domestic shortages till the new crop arrives from October onwards. The imports could take place from countries like Argentina, Europe and the US, he added. Seeking clarity, Solvent Extractors Association of India (SEA) Executive Director B V Mehta said, "It is better DGFT clarifies publicly that GM soyameal (with NLMO) is allowed so that traders can enter into contracts without fear of getting their shipments stuck". He also blamed speculators for the rise in prices of soyameal. In the last few months, the domestic price of soyameal has increased from Rs 45,000 per tonne to Rs 80,000 per tonne on August 13, almost close to the level of soyabean price of Rs 87,000 per tonne. All India Poultry Breeders Association Secretary and Indian Broiler Group Director Gulrez Alam said, "We are importing". Earlier, India was not required to import soyameal as it had enough supplies and had price parity. But now there is an abnormal situation as the domestic prices of soyameal are at par or higher than soyabean, he said. According to the agriculture ministry's fourth advance estimate, soyabean production is pegged to be higher at 12.89 million tonne for the 2020-21 crop year (July-June) as against 11.22 million tonne in the previous year. Industry experts said that if the government estimates are correct, then there should not be any shortages. Meanwhile, the country's soyameal exports are on and about 17 lakh tonne has been shipped since October 2020. The annual domestic demand of soyameal is 60 lakh tonne, according to the SEA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-india-to-import-12-lakh-tonne-gm-soyameal-after-centre-clears-confusion-1020419.html
16-08-2021||National||BJP chief J P Nadda launches YouTube channel to relive Atal Bihari Vajpayee's memories||BJP President J P Nadda has launched a YouTube channel dedicated to reliving memories of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his death anniversary on Monday. The channel 'Kuch Yaadein, Kuch Mulaqaatein', curated by senior BJP leader Shyam Jaju, will have little-known anecdotes about Vajpayee and other BJP leaders and attempt to bring out an unseen dimension of their personalities. “In my over two decades with the BJP, I have closely seen leaders such as Vajpayee, Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari and have several anecdotes to narrate,” Jaju told DH. Nadda said Jaju has a storehouse of memories through his long association with the BJP and party activists would be enriched by the experiences shared by him. “Through the channel BJP activists will imbibe the culture and memories of the party. It will also convey the style of functioning of the party to the people and party workers,” Nadda said. Jaju said he has uploaded three anecdotes – one each of Vajpayee, Modi and party workers from Uttarakhand – and plans to share videos on the channel every week. Earlier, President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, senior ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah among others offered floral tributes at Vajpayee's memorial – 'Sadaiv Atal'. “We remember his warm personality, we remember his endearing nature, we remember his wit and humour, we remember his contribution to national progress. Atal Ji lives in the hearts and minds of our citizens,” Modi said. Born on December 25, 1924, Vajpayee was the most popular face of the BJP till he remained active in politics and was instrumental along with L K Advani in the party's rise to power in the 1990s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-launches-youtube-channel-to-relive-atal-bihari-vajpayees-memories-1020427.html
16-08-2021||National||Hyderabad-based lab to test, approve Covid-19 vaccines||In an important initiative to ramp up the speed of vaccination, the Centre has approved a laboratory in Hyderabad for testing and lot release of Covid-19 vaccines. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has authorised the National Institute of Animal Biotechnology (NIAB) as central drug laboratory (CDL) for testing and lot release of Covid-19 vaccines. Last year, the government had asked ministries and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Department of Science and Technology (DST) and Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) among others to indicate if any of their labs can be converted to CDL. The DBT had proposed two laboratories namely NIAB and National Centre for Cell Sciences (NCCS), Pune for this purpose. Funds from PM-CARES Trust were allotted for upgradation of these two laboratories. Currently, India has a CDL at Kasauli, which is the national control laboratory for testing and pre-release certification of immunobiologicals (vaccines and antisera) meant for human use in the country. The NCCS, Pune was notified as a CDL on June 28. The facilities are expected to test approximately 60 batches of vaccines per month and are geared up to test existing Covid-19 vaccines and newer vaccines as per demand. This will not only expedite the vaccine manufacture and supply but also be logistically convenient considering that both Pune and Hyderabad are two vaccine manufacturing hubs in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hyderabad-based-lab-to-test-approve-covid-19-vaccines-1020434.html
16-08-2021||National||Ready for all possible consequences: BSF DG on situation in Afghanistan||BSF Director General (DG) S S Deswal on Monday said they are keeping a close watch on the situation in Afghanistan and are fully ready for all possible consequences. He, however, described the developments in Afghanistan as that country's internal matter. Deswal, who was on a visit here to flag off the "freedom rally" of 100 cyclists of the Border Security Force (BSF) from Jammu to Gujarat as part of the 75th Independence Day celebrations, was replying to a reporter's question on the fallout of the Taliban's near-total takeover in Afghanistan on the Indo-Pak border in Jammu and Kashmir. "What is happening in the neighbouring country is its internal matter, but we are keeping a close watch on the situation," he told reporters at the Octerio Border Out Post (BoP) in the R S Pura sector. "We are ready for all possible consequences," he added. Replying to another question on infiltration and the increased use of drones from across the border to ferry weapons, the BSF DG said as a responsible country, India is acting in accordance with the ceasefire agreement with Pakistan. "We have not violated the ceasefire," he added. Referring to the use of drones, Deswal said security forces have thwarted most of the attempts to airdrop and smuggle narcotics and weapons. "The drone threat is a challenge and we are handling it. In the coming days, technologically, we will be dealing with the issue more efficiently. Systems are being put in place," he said. On cross-border infiltration, Deswal said these incidents have been taking place for long and the security forces have foiled such attempts in the past. He said matters between the two sides are resolved peacefully at flag meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ready-for-all-possible-consequences-bsf-dg-on-situation-in-afghanistan-1020435.html
16-08-2021||National||53% parents willing to send children to school: Survey||Nearly 53% of parents surveyed were now willing to send their children to school, but wanted local administration to ensure vaccination of support staff and teachers. The survey, conducted by LocalCircles in August, reflected a change in sentiment of parents who were largely against sending their children to schools in June. “On an aggregate basis, 53% of Indian parents support the reopening of schools in August-September, however, 44% of parents are against the same,” the survey said. In June, 76% of Indian parents were hesitant to send their ward to schools as the country was reeling under the aftermath of the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. As cases continued to decline, this percentage reduced drastically to 48% in July, and is currently at 44%. Parents who are unwilling to send children to school cite the risk spread of infection during festivals as there could be low chances of effective social distancing in schools. The parents were also concerned about transmission of Covid-19 from children to adults in the family. As many as 74% of parents who are willing to send children to school want central and state governments to ensure that schools have sufficient Rapid Antigen Test kits made available. An overwhelming 89% of parents want the state governments to organise free vaccination camps at/near schools for August and September so all school staff can get vaccinated on priority. The survey received over 47,000 responses from 24,000 unique parents residing in 378 districts of India. Of the total respondents, 66% were men while 34% were women. While 42% of respondents were from Tier 1 districts, 28% from Tier 2 and 30% respondents were from Tier 3, 4 and rural districts. Last month, UNICEF had said that schools cannot wait for cases to get to zero, maintaining that there was clear evidence that primary and secondary schools were not amongst the main drivers of transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/53-parents-willing-to-send-children-to-school-survey-1020447.html
16-08-2021||National||SC allows 4 more weeks for guidelines on ex-gratia to kin of Covid-19 victims||On June 30, the top court had directed the Prime Minister-headed National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to frame appropriate guidelines within a period of six weeks. Taking up an application argued by Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah extended the time for framing guidelines by a further four weeks. The court, however, asked the Centre to place on the record by an affidavit setting out the compliance which has been effected in respect of other guidelines, except on which the extension of time has been sought and granted. The other guidelines related to issuing of death certificates for Covid-19 victims. The court fixed the matter for September 3 for "verifying compliance". In its plea, the Centre said the exercise to frame guidelines for payment of ex-gratia was in active consideration of the NDMA and going on. Though at an advanced stage, it required a little more in-depth examination before it is finalised and implemented, the government said, adding any accelerated formulation may result into undesirable results. On June 30, the Supreme Court had said the Centre failed to perform its statutory duty cast under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act (DMA), to issue minimum standards of relief for families of those people who lost their lives to Covid-19. The top court directed NDMA to recommend guidelines for ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life to the family members of the victims within six weeks. The pandemic was notified as a disaster on March 14, 2020. With regard to death certificate, the court had then said "simplified" guidelines should also be prepared. The guidelines must specifically mention if the persons has died of Covid-19 or complications due to it, with a provision for getting the document corrected. It had also suggested the Union government to consider extending insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh announced under the PM Garib Kalyan Package to those working at premortem and came into direct contact of dead bodies of Covid-19 patients. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-4-more-weeks-for-guidelines-on-ex-gratia-to-kin-of-covid-19-victims-1020450.html
16-08-2021||National||Centre puts curbs on export of Covid rapid antigen testing kits||The government on Monday imposed restrictions on export of Covid-19 rapid antigen testing kits amid several experts warning of a possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. "The export of Covid-19 rapid antigen testing kits... has been put under restricted category, with immediate effect," the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) said in a notification. Exporters have to seek licence or permission from the DGFT to ship items under the restricted category. Such restrictions are aimed at increasing the domestic availability of the kits. Several experts have been warning of a possible third wave of the pandemic hitting the country in the near future. The number of coronavirus cases in the country rose to 3,22,25,513 on Monday and the death toll climbed to 4,31,642, according to the Union health ministry data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-puts-curbs-on-export-of-covid-rapid-antigen-testing-kits-1020479.html
16-08-2021||National||Congress counters 'oil bond burden' argument of Nirmala Sitharaman on fuel prices||The Congress on Monday accused Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman of "falsely" citing the oil bonds issued by the previous UPA government as the reason for not reducing fuel prices. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said oil bonds of Rs 1.3 lakh crore are not even due for payment so far. "Don't lie. Oil Bonds of Rs 1.3 lakh crore are not even due for payment so far," he said on Twitter. "Till April 2021, payment made on Oil Bonds is Rs 3,500 crore only, yet you falsely hold UPA responsible," Surjewala said. "Smt Nirmala Sitharaman, Please stop falsehood or dare to contradict...BJP raised central taxes on petrol and diesel by Rs 23.87 and Rs 28.37 per litre in seven years. Modi Government collected additional Rs 17.29 lakh crore," he said. He also alleged that the government has "extorted" Rs 22,33,868 crore by levying excise on petrol-diesel in the last seven years. The Congress leader said that in 2020-21 alone, "Modi Tax" on petrol-diesel is Rs 4,53,812 crore. He also listed other taxes imposed and total revenue collection from the petroleum sector to support his claim. His remarks came after Sitharaman said if she did not have the burden to service the oil bonds, she would have been in a position to reduce excise duty on fuel "A significant amount is going for interest payment and principal repayment. What unfair burden on me," she said, adding, "previous government has made our job difficult by issuing oil bonds. Even if I want to do something I am paying through my nose for the oil bond". Sitharaman said the interest on oil bonds paid in the last seven years totalled Rs 70,195.72 crore. Of the Rs 1.34 lakh crore of oil bonds, only Rs 3,500 crore of principal has been paid and the remaining Rs 1.3 lakh crore is due for repayment between this fiscal and 2025-26, she said. Petrol and diesel as well as cooking gas and kerosene were sold at subsidised rates under the previous Congress-led UPA government. Instead of paying for the subsidy to bring parity between the artificially suppressed retail selling price and the cost, the then government issued oil bonds totalling Rs 1.34 lakh crore to the state-fuel retailers. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-counters-oil-bond-burden-argument-of-nirmala-sitharaman-on-fuel-prices-1020482.html
16-08-2021||National||Over 50% in Kerala received first dose of Covid vaccine; Mandaviya reviews state's situation||With 1.78 crore people in Kerala receiving at least the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, over 50 per cent of the state's population have been partially vaccinated. Kerala has urged Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who came down to the state to review the Covid-19 situation on Monday, to provide 1.11 crore vaccines for enhancing vaccination drive during August and September.  Health Minister Veena George said in a statement that of the 3.5 crore population of Kerala, 1,77,88,931 (50.25 percent) were given the first dose by Monday. Among them, 67,24,294 (19 per cent) received the second dose as well. The 50 per cent-mark was achieved in 213 days. When considering the population of those above the age of 18 only, 62 per cent received the first dose and 23 per cent received the second dose, she said. Mandaviya, who held discussions with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Health Minister and officials was learned to have expressed satisfaction over Kerala's Covid state as well as proper utilisation of vaccines.  The Centre also assured an additional Rs 1 crore to Kerala under the Emergency Covid Response Package-II for creating a medicine pool. Already, Rs 267.35 cr had been allotted to the state. The state was also given the nod for buying 10 lakh doses of Covishield. Support for centers of excellence for telemedicine facilities in Kerala and pediatric ICUs along with ten kilo-litre liquid oxygen storage tank facility at district hospitals were also offered by the union minister. Meanwhile, 12,294 fresh Covid cased were reported in Kerala with a test positivity rate of 14.03 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-50-in-kerala-received-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-mandaviya-reviews-states-situation-1020496.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev quits party, likely to join TMC||President of All India Mahila Congress and former Lok Sabha member from Silchar in Assam, Sushmita Dev quits Congress and sought Sonia Gandhi's good wishes for "a new chapter" of public service. Sushmita is likely to join the Trinamool Congress. Sources told DH that she will likely meet Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Kolkata on Monday. "She may be given an important role in Tripura," the source said. In a letter to Sonia Gandhi on Monday, Sishmita resigned from the primary membership of Congress and personally thanked the party chief for her guidance and the opportunities.  Congress leaders in Assam, however, said they were still unaware of the development.  She changed her Twitter bio to "former member of Indian National Congress".  "I cherish my three-decades-long association with Indian National Congress. May I take this opportunity to thank the party, all its leaders, workers who have been a part of my memorable journey," the letter said. Personally thanking Sonia for the guidance and opportunities, Dev further wrote, "I hope I have your good wishes as I begin a new chapter in my life of public service." Daughter of former union minister Santosh Mohan Dev, Sushmita was elected to Lok Sabha from her father's constituency Silchar in 2014. But in 2019, she lost to Rajdip Roy of BJP. She was later made president of the All India Mahila Congress. She, along with Gaurav Gogoi, are the two major voices of Congress from Assam in New Delhi.  Sushmita had reportedly offered to resign just before the Assembly elections in Assam in March-April as she was unhappy with the seat-sharing arrangement with Badruddin Ajmal's AIUDF. She was, however, convinced to stay by Sonia Gandhi then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mahila-congress-chief-sushmita-dev-quits-party-likely-to-join-tmc-1020220.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Young leaders leave, ‘oldies’ are blamed for efforts: Sibal's jibe at Congress||"Sushmita Dev resigns from primary membership of our Party. While young leaders leave we 'oldies' are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it," the former union minister said on Twitter. "The Party moves on with: Eyes Wide Shut," he also said. Sushmita Dev Resigns from primary membership of our Party While young leaders leave we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it The Party moves on with : Eyes Wide Shut Sibal, a member of the 'Group of 23' leaders who had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking organisational overhaul, has been demanding that the party be strengthened. The senior party leader on Sunday welcomed the party chief's initiative of bringing like-minded political parties together, but urged her to strengthen her own party, saying no Opposition unity is possible without it. "I am happy that Congress president Sonia Gandhi is taking the initiative of bringing about Opposition unity. But our reform agenda has to continue and we will keep pushing for it to strengthen the Congress," he told PTI. The former Union minister said he and his party colleagues are ready to support these efforts in order to revive and revitalise the Congress. He said Gandhi can "jettison" him if he stands in her way, but he would continue to seek strengthening of the Congress for bringing it to the forefront of Opposition unity. "This is not about me, but about a revival of the Congress and bringing it to the forefront of Opposition unity. Without the Congress being strong, there can be no Opposition unity," Sibal said. Sibal said Opposition unity will not come about till the Congress is revived and strengthened. "This project of Opposition unity will fail if the Congress is not strengthened and rejuvenated. I hope the Congress realises the significance of its primacy," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/young-leaders-leave-oldies-are-blamed-for-efforts-sibals-jibe-at-congress-1020229.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Size of infra plan growing faster than GDP every year: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday cited previous Independence Day announcements on infrastructure plan by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take a swipe at the government, saying "be happy" that the size of the plan is growing faster every year than the GDP. Prime Minister Modi on Sunday announced an ambitious Rs 100 lakh crore holistic infrastructure development programme 'Gatishakti', which is aimed at boosting employment opportunities and productivity of industries. Reacting to the announcement, Chidambaram said that on August 15, 2019, Modi announced his decision to invest Rs 100 lakh crore for modern infrastructure. "On August 15, 2020 PM Modi said the 'National Infrastructure Pipeline Project will play an important role. A sum of Rs 100 lakh crore will be spent on this project'," the former Union minister said. On August 15, 2021, PM Modi announced the launch, in the near future, of a Rs 100 lakh crore Gati Shakti infrastructure plan, he noted. "India is thrice blessed. We now have a Rs 300 lakh crore plan that will be launched in the near future. Be happy that the size of the Infrastructure Plan is growing faster every year than the GDP," Chidambaram said in a swipe at the government. Gatishakti, Modi said, will be a national master plan which will lay the foundation of the overall infrastructure in the country and give an integrated and holistic path to the economy. Be happy that the size of the Infrastructure Plan is growing faster every year than the GDP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/size-of-infra-plan-growing-faster-than-gdp-every-year-chidambaram-1020233.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Pandora's box reopened for Congress with Sushmita Dev's resignation||While young leaders leave we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it. The Party moves on with : Eyes Wide Shut," tweeted Kapil Sibal, a key face of the dissenting group of G-23 in Congress, who had hosted a parallel opposition meet over dinner in the national capital this month, which was attended an array of leaders from the non-BJP parties, raising many eyebrows within the Congress. Sushmita Dev Resigns from primary membership of our Party While young leaders leave we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it The Party moves on with : Eyes Wide Shut Another G-23 leader Manish Tewari shared a screenshot of Dev's resignation letter saying if this is true, it is most unfortunate. "Why  @sushmitadevinc ? Your erstwhile colleagues & friends, especially  the person who was National President of @nsui  when you contested your first@DUSUofficial  elections back in 1991 deserve a better explanation than this laconic letter?," Tewari said. If this is true it is most unfortunate Tewari, who was NSUI chief in 1991, was alluding to himself, when asking Dev the reasons for the resignation. Dev's resignation is significant as she was one of the young crop of leaders being cultivated by Rahul Gandhi for future roles in the party. She was also a strong voice from the party in Parliament and was in the forefront of Congress agtiations outside. Her resignation comes two months after another member from team Rahul Gandhi — Jitin Prasada — a Brahmin leader of UP quit the party and joined BJP. The frequent desertions by young leaders, many of whom were promoted by Rahul Gandhi, in the past, have given veterans in the party an occasion to question their commitment. Sibal's pitch "while young leaders leave we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it" needs to be seen in this aspect. A day after Prasada quit Congress and joined BJP, Sibal had coined the term "Prasada Ram" to mock the likes of Jitin, who moved to the BJP in hope of some plum post, after having served and rewarded in Congress. Earlier, other Congress leaders — Jyotiraditya Scindia, Ashok Tanwar — had jumped ship to the BJP. Last month, Rahul Gandhi said those who are scared of RSS are free to leave Congress and had cited the example of Scindia. The problem is that those deserting Congress are not only joining BJP but other parties as well. Dev is likely to join TMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pandoras-box-reopened-for-congress-with-sushmita-devs-resignation-1020244.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Sushmita Dev meets Abhishek Banerjee in Kolkata amid rumours of her joining TMC||Former Congress MP Sushmita Dev met TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee's nephew Abhishek Banerjee at his Kolkata office on Monday. Earlier today, she quit from the grand old party. Dev's resignation is significant as she was one of the young crop of leaders being cultivated by Rahul Gandhi for future roles in the party. She was also a strong voice from the party in Parliament and was in the forefront of Congress agtiations outside. Her resignation comes two months after another member from team Rahul Gandhi — Jitin Prasada — a Brahmin leader of UP quit the party and joined BJP. The frequent desertions by young leaders, many of whom were promoted by Rahul Gandhi, in the past, have given veterans in the party an occasion to question their commitment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sushmita-dev-meets-abhishek-banerjee-in-kolkata-amid-rumours-of-her-joining-tmc-1020252.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Congress says no plan in place to evacuate Indians from Afghanistan, calls it gross abdication of duty||With the Taliban taking over Afghanistan, the Congress on Monday asked the Modi government to wake up from its slumber and protect Indians in the strife-torn country. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the situation in Afghanistan is extremely alarming and India's strategic interests are at stake, but the government has not put in place any plan to evacuate its citizens there which is a gross abdication of duty. Modi government's refusal to set in motion a well thought out plan to evacuate our citizens is a gross abdication of its duty and is totally unacceptable. "The Congress Party stands solidly behind protecting India's interests and expects a mature political and diplomatic response from our Government over the complete collapse of Government in Afghanistan and Taliban takeover," he told reporters. "Despite this, the stunning silence of Narendra Modi Govt is deeply disturbing and highly intriguing, which is beyond any reasonable understanding. Modi government's refusal to set in motion a well thought out plan to evacuate our citizens is a gross abdication of its duty and is totally unacceptable," he also said. "Situation in Afghanistan is extremely alarming. India's strategic interests are at stake. Safety and security of our embassy and its personnel and Indian citizens is at stake. Modi government need to wake up from its slumber and protect Indian citizens in Afghanistan," he also tweeted. The Congress leader said the Taliban and Haqqani Network connections with Pakistan's ISI and JeM, LeT, JuD are well known. "There is an urgent need to revisit our geo-political interests in this background and its impact on J&K. Sadly, Modi Government is oblivious of the same," he said. Surjewala said the prime minister and External Affairs Minister need to come out and clearly spell out our policy for safe return of our citizens, embassy personnel as also our future relationship. "Unexplained silence at this extremely critical juncture gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that Modi government is hiding something from the country. We are still in the dark over Modi government's role in Doha talks," the Congress leader said. Need of the hour is that Modi government wakes up from its slumber and tells the country how it will tackle the dangerous situation in the immediate neighbourhood, he said. He cited media reports quoting External Affairs Ministry that the Indian government does not take responsibility of Indians returning from abroad, and said it is shameful. "If the safe return of Indians from abroad is not your responsibility then whose responsibility is it. No other country has done so. Every country is taking care of its citizens and evacuating them and are taking their assets back,"he said. It is a very strange statement by the External Affairs Ministry, he also said. Taliban insurgents swept into Afghanistan's capital on Sunday after the government collapsed and President Ashraf Ghani eft the country. The US has said it would deploy 6,000 troops at the vital Kabul airport to ensure the safe departure of American citizens and its allies from Afghanistan which has been taken over by the Taliban, in a sudden and unprecedented collapse of the elected regime. Unprecedented scenes and being witnessed in the Afghan capital Kabul, where panic-stricken people are scurrying to escape from the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-says-no-plan-in-place-to-evacuate-indians-from-afghanistan-calls-it-gross-abdication-of-duty-1020264.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Sushmita Dev: Congress's loss is TMC's gain||Sushmita Dev made her anger public on February 14 this year when Rahul Gandhi announced the Congress's anti-CAA stance in Sivasagar in eastern Assam, weeks before Assembly elections. She did not wear the gamosa (traditional Assamese towel) with anti-CAA messages written on it which Rahul and other Congress leaders in Assam wore and displayed in the massive rally organised for the elections. Sushmita was clear that the anti-CAA stand would harm the party in the Bengali-dominated Barak Valley (South Assam) having at least 15 Assembly seats.  She was also angry with Congress' alliance with Badruddin Ajmal's All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF). In early March, she offered to quit when Congress had almost decided to give seven of 15 Assembly seats to AIUDF, which would affect her fight in Silchar Lok Sabha constituency (Barak Valley) in 2024. Sonia Gandhi chipped in and made some rejig in the seat-sharing and convinced her to stay in the party.  On Sunday, Sushmita submitted her resignation to Sonia Gandhi and joined Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Monday. She flew to Kolkata and met TMC Chief and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamta Banerjee before formally joining the party.  "I cherish my three-decades-long association with Indian National Congress. May I take this opportunity to thank the party, all its leaders, workers who have been a part of my memorable journey," the letter said.  Sources said Sushmita is likely to be given "an important role" in Tripura, where TMC has set its target to wrest power from BJP in the Assembly elections slated for 2023.  Sushmita, 48, daughter of former union minister and seven-time MP Santosh Mohan Dev entered politics in 2009 and was elected as an MLA from Silchar in 2011. She was elected to Lok Sabha in 2014 from her father's constituency Silchar but lost to Rajdip Roy of BJP in 2019.  She was later made the president of All India Mahila Congress and she along with Gaurab Gogoi became two close aides of Rahul Gandhi in Assam.  "She got a lot of importance and vital responsibility in Congress. But probably, she thought, she would do better in TMC," leader of Congress legislature party in Assam, Debabrata Saikia said.  Her father was elected to Lok Sabha five times from Silchar and twice from Tripura West constituency and died in 2017. Her mother Bithika Deb was also elected as an MLA in Assam.  "TMC probably inducted her as they were looking for a Bengali leader, who can connect with BJP's Bengali vote bank," said another Congress leader.  The development came as a jolt to Congress but party workers in Barak Valley said she could not stand up to the expectations they had from the Dev family. "Unlike her father, she could not help the party win elections in the Barak Valley," a party worker said.  Barak Valley was traditionally a Congress bastion till 2014 Lok Sabha polls but Congress won only three and four Assembly seats respectively in 2016 and 2021 Assembly polls. BJP won most of the Hindu Bengali-dominated seats while AIUDF bagged the Muslim-majority seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sushmita-dev-congresss-loss-is-tmcs-gain-1020268.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Mamata has excellent vision for TMC's future; hope to be helpful: Sushmita Dev||Former Congress leader Sushmita Dev, who joined the TMC on Monday, said West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has an "excellent vision" for the party's future and hoped that she would be helpful in that regard. Dev, who was the chief of the women's wing of the Congress, joined the TMC in the presence of senior party leaders Abhishek Banerjee and Derek O'Brien in Kolkata. "We warmly welcome the former President of All India Mahila Congress Sushmita Dev to our Trinamool family," the Trinamool Congress (TMC) said in a tweet. A former MP, Dev was the national spokesperson of the grand old party and the chief of the All India Mahila Congress. She sent her resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, sources said, but offered no reason for her quitting. "Met TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and had a good discussion with him. He has an excellent vision and clarity for the party. Then the three of us met the (West Bengal) chief minister. She clearly has an excellent future vision for the party and I hoped that I would be helpful in that regard. "I would be meeting the press in Delhi On Tuesday and answer all questions," Dev said in a video statement released by the TMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-has-excellent-vision-for-tmcs-future-hope-to-be-helpful-sushmita-dev-1020360.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Sharad Pawar asks for relaxation of 50% limit on quota||In a significant statement, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar on Monday asked the Centre to undertake a caste-based census and relax the 50 per cent cap on reservations for serving the larger interests of social justice. Pawar’s statement assumes significance in the wake of the Supreme Court striking down the Maratha quota and demand by various communities across the country seeking reservation. "Two days back, the Centre asked states to prepare a list of OBC reservations. Many people think that the reservation can be provided by the state government. But they're being misled. prior to this, the Supreme Court had taken an important decision and said that reservation over 50 per cent can't be given,”he said. Pawar, a four-time Maharashtra chief minister and three-term union minister, said that he has conveyed the same to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “When I met the Prime Minister in New Delhi (in June), I told him that since the Supreme Court has quashed the Maratha quota and ruled that states had no right to provide reservations, the Central government should take the initiative (to relax the 50% reservation ceiling). Now that the Centre has given the right (to prepare OBC lists) to states, it should relax the 50 per cent cap (on reservations). I hope that he will do so,” he said. Pawar pointed out that reservation in most of the states is above 60 per cent. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sharad-pawar-asks-for-relaxation-of-50-limit-on-quota-1020420.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Will the offender investigate himself: Congress on Centre's affidavit in SC in Pegasus case||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology in a two-page affidavit told a Supreme Court bench that "to dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests" and with an object of examining the issues raised, the Centre will constitute a committee of experts in the field which will go into all aspects of the issue. Reacting to the development, Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted, "Mr. 'SNOOP-BOND', Pl tell the Nation this much - Did you or not buy Pegasus Spyware? How does it impact 'National Security'?" "Mr. 'SNOOPING-BOND', Spying on Opposition, Spying on Judges, Spying on CBI Chief, Spying on Journalists, Spying on Union Min., Spying on Lawyers, Spying on Ex PM, Ex CM’s...How is this 'National Security'? Can't pull wool over the 'truth'!" he said in another tweet, using the hashtag 'PegasusSnoopingScandal'. 2/2Mr. “SNOOPING-BOND”, Spying on Opposition,Spying on Judges,Spying on CBI Chief,Spying on Journalists,Spying on Union Min.,Spying on Lawyers,Spying on Ex PM, Ex CM’s…. How is this “National Security”? Asked about the development at a press conference, Surjewala said, "How can the cat guard the milk." "Does the respected Supreme Court not know that only those who spied will investigate now? Will the offender investigate himself?" he asked. "Give a direct answer Modi ji, I again ask through television channels that the people of India want to know - did you buy Pegasus spyware or not?" he said. In an affidavit filed before a bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, the government said its position on the alleged Pegasus snooping has already been clarified in Parliament by IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw. "A bare perusal of the captioned petition and other connected petitions makes it clear that the same are based on conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material," the affidavit said. With a view to dispelling any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and with an object of examining the issues raised, the government will constitute a committee of experts, it said. The Supreme Court said it cannot compel the "reluctant" Centre to file a detailed affidavit on pleas seeking information if Pegasus spyware was used to snoop on certain citizens and steps it took to probe the allegations. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-the-offender-investigate-himself-congress-on-centres-affidavit-in-sc-in-pegasus-case-1020441.html
16-08-2021||National Politics||Sushmita Dev's resignation triggers debate in Congress||Sushmita Dev Resigns from primary membership of our Party While young leaders leave we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it The Party moves on with : Eyes Wide Shut Another G-23 leader Manish Tewari shared a screenshot of Dev's resignation letter saying if this is true it is most unfortunate. "Why  @sushmitadevinc ? Your erstwhile colleagues & friends, especially  the person who was National President of @nsui  when you contested your first @DUSUofficial  elections back in 1991 deserve a better explanation than this laconic letter?," Tewari said. If this is true it is most unfortunate Tewari, who was NSUI chief in 1991, was alluding to himself when he asked Dev the reasons for the resignation. Dev's resignation is significant as she was one of the young crop of leaders being cultivated by Rahul Gandhi for future roles in the party. She was also a strong voice from the party in Parliament and was at the forefront of Congress agitations outside. She resigned only two months after another Rahul Gandhi team member Jitin Prasada, a Brahmin leader of Uttar Pradesh quit the party and joined BJP. The frequent desertions by young leaders, many of whom were promoted by Rahul Gandhi, in the past had given the veterans in the party an occasion to question their commitment. Sibal's pitch "while young leaders leave we ‘oldies’ are blamed for our efforts to strengthen it" needs to be seen in this aspect. A day after Prasada quit Congress and joined BJP, Sibal had coined the term "Prasada Ram" to mock the likes of Jitin, who moved to the BJP in hope of some plum post, after having served and being rewarded by Congress. Earlier other Congress leaders-- Jyotiraditya Scindia, Ashok Tanwar. Last month Rahul Gandhi said those who are scared of RSS are free to leave Congress and had cited the example of Scindia. The problem is that those deserting Congress are not only joining BJP but other parties as well.  Dev has joined TMC. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sushmita-devs-resignation-triggers-debate-in-congress-1020446.html
16-08-2021||North and Central||Video of UP DM hoisting national flag upside down goes viral, he says it happened during trial||A video of the district magistrate of Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh hoisting the national flag upside down went viral on Sunday, but the officer claimed it happened during a trial. In the video clip, District Magistrate Sunil Kumar Verma can be seen hoisting the flag wrongly as people sing the national anthem. When contacted, Verma told PTI, "We were conducting the trial of flag hoisting when it was hoisted upside down, but its video and photograph went viral. The trial takes place around 7.45 am, while the actual flag hoisting takes place at 8 am." He alleged that the local media deliberately spread photographs and video of the flag being wrongly hoisted. "It was a deliberate mischief," he said. "My fault was that I was undertaking the trial. If anybody else had done the trial, it would not have become an issue," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/video-of-up-dm-hoisting-national-flag-upside-down-goes-viral-he-says-it-happened-during-trial-1020167.html
16-08-2021||North and Central||India sees single-day rise of 32,937 Covid-19 cases, 417 deaths||India's coronavirus caseload mounted to 3,22,25,513 on Monday with 32,937 fresh infections, while the active cases came down to 3,81,947, the lowest in 145 days, according to Union health ministry data. The death toll climbed to 4,31,642 as 417 more people succumbed to Covid-19, the data updated at 8 am showed. The 3,81,947 active cases, down from 3,85,336 on Sunday, comprise 1.18 per cent of the total infections in the country, the lowest since March last year. The national recovery rate stands at 97.48 per cent, the highest since March last year, the ministry said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.79 per cent. It has remained below 3 per cent for the last 21 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.01 per cent, it said.  So far, 3,14,11,924 people have recuperated from Covid-19. The case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it added. As many as 11,81,212 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far in the country to 49,48,05,652. Cumulatively, 54.58 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India's caseload crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 417 new fatalities include 130 from Maharashtra and 102 from Kerala. Of the total 4,31,642 deaths reported so far in the country, 1,35,039 were from Maharashtra, 36,979 from Karnataka, 34,519 from Tamil Nadu, 25,069 from Delhi, 22,784 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,601 from Kerala and 18,303 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-sees-single-day-rise-of-32937-covid-19-cases-417-deaths-1020224.html
16-08-2021||North and Central||Pegasus row: Centre to form committee to look into snooping charges||The Centre on Monday "unequivocally" denied before the Supreme Court charges of snooping citizens, activists and politicians through Pegasus spyware but agreed to set up a committee of experts to examine all aspects of the matter and to "dispel wrong narrative raised by vested interests" It maintained that a group of PILs filed by journalist N Ram and others were "based on conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material".  In a two-page affidavit, the Union government also contended that the question raised in the pleas before the top court stood already clarified on the floor of the Parliament by the Minister of Railways, Communications and Electronics and Information Technology of India, Government of India.    The government further said unsubstantiated reports cannot be the basis for invoking the writ jurisdiction of the top court. "Nothing further needs to be done at the behest of the petitioner, more particularly when they have not made out any case," it said. A bench led by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked the Centre to clarify by Tuesday if it wanted to file a  further detailed affidavit as the petitioners claimed the government has not come clean on use of Israel's Pegasus spyware.  In a written reply in Lok Sabha, Minister of State Rajeev Chandrasekhar said last week that the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has not allocated any budget to purchase software to “intercept, monitor, decrypt any information generated, transmitted, received or stored in any computer resource, as permitted under Section 69 of the Information Technology Act”. Earlier, in the Rajya Sabha, the Union Defence Ministry also said it had not had any transaction with NSO Group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pegasus-row-centre-to-form-committee-to-look-into-snooping-charges-1020236.html
16-08-2021||North and Central||MSME: Yogi Adityanath government's weapon against Opposition criticism over Covid-19||The UP Assembly election is just months away, and the Opposition is gearing up to attack the government over Covid-19 "mismanagement" and the state's apparently poor economic condition. A top UP government official said the infusion of this amount had a massive effect in the state and resulted in industrial sector investments of almost Rs 4 trillion, which produced 25 million direct and indirect jobs and self-employment opportunities. According to the UP Additional Chief Secretary (MSME and Export Promotion), Navneet Sehgal, even as the pandemic hit in 2020-21, the state government facilitated a credit infusion of about Rs 73,765 crore to the MSME sector, which helped in overcoming the crisis. “Compared to the credit offtake of Rs 28,136 crore in 2017-18, the infusion of Rs 73,765 crore in 2020-21 indicates the quantum leap in credit facilitation by the UP government,” Sehgal said, adding that about 7.4 million units had benefited from this." Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath while inaugurating the Indigenization Summit on Defence & Aerospace (ISDA 2021) said, “We have recast more than 30 investment-related policies in the past four years to spur industrialisation. The state now ranks second in terms of ease of doing business while it is today the country’s second-largest economy after Maharashtra.” According to public finance and policy expert Yashvir Tyagi, the state government has worked hard to make UP a preferred destination for foreign and domestic investors, and now positive results are being witnessed. So it is needless to say that as the Opposition parties like Samajwadi Party, Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party prepare to turn up the heat on the BJP government, the saffron party will project their works in the MSME sector and how the government has been able to create jobs when the Covid-19 pandemic battered India and its economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/msme-yogi-adityanath-governments-weapon-against-opposition-criticism-over-covid-19-1020243.html
16-08-2021||North and Central||Punjab: Sidhu appoints Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh as PPCC general secretary||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday appointed Jalandhar Cantonment legislator Pargat Singh as Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) general secretary. A close aide of Sidhu, Singh has been a vocal critic of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and the functioning of the state government. In the past, he has questioned his party's government over several issues including the alleged delay in justice in cases of desecration of a religious text and the subsequent police firing in Faridkot in 2015. "With the approval of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, AICC general secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal and Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat, I hereby appoint Pargat Singh as PPCC General Secretary (Organisation) with immediate effect," Sidhu said in a statement. Singh, a former Indian hockey captain, had joined the Congress ahead of the 2017 Punjab Assembly polls after quitting the Shiromani Akali Dal. The announcement of Singh's appointment comes days after Sidhu appointed four advisors. On August 11, the Punjab Congress chief appointed Lok Sabha MP Amar Singh, former IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa, social activist Pyare Lal Garg and a retired government teacher Malwinder Singh Mali as his advisors. However, Mustafa, husband of Cabinet minister Razia Sultana, declined to accept the offer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-sidhu-appoints-jalandhar-cantonment-mla-pargat-singh-as-ppcc-general-secretary-1020251.html
16-08-2021||North and Central||Parts of Rajasthan faced flood-like situation earlier in August||While several districts in eastern Rajasthan faced a flood-like situation due to excessive rains, some in the western part of the state received deficit rains, which may lead to a drought-like situation, weather office said. “The rainfall in some of the districts in Western Rajasthan is likely to remain below normal and under deficit rainfall category because no significant rainfall in the western region is expected now,” a MeT official said. The spell of heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, which created a flood-like situation, got over earlier this month. However, rainfall is expected to increase after a couple of days with the possibility of light to moderate rains in eastern parts of the state and heavy rains at isolated areas, he said. According to the data provided by the water resources department, 11 of total 33 districts are under deficit rainfall category, 13 under normal rainfall category and five received excessive rains from June 1 to August 15. Four districts have recorded abnormal rains and there is no district under the scanty rainfall category. The desert state as a whole has recorded 2.4 per cent more than the average rainfall. Kota division recorded abnormal rains this monsoon season so far with 76.3 per cent more than the average rainfall. Apart from the districts falling under the Kota division namely Kota, Bundi, Baran and Jhalawar, heavy rainfall activity created trouble for people in other eastern Rajasthan districts of Sawaimadhopur, Karauli and Dausa. Bharatpur division recorded excess rains while Jodhpur division is under deficit rainfall category. At the same time, Bikaner, Ajmer and Jaipur are under the normal category. Districts with deficit rains (-20 per cent to -59 per cent) are Banswara, Barmer, Bhilwara, Dungarpur, Ganganagar, Jalore, Jodhpur, Pali, Rajsamand, Sirohi and Udaipur while Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Bikaner, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dholpur, Hanumangarh, Jaipur, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pratapgarh and Sikar recorded normal rains (19 to -19 per cent). Dausa, Jaisalmer, Jhalawar, Karauli and Tonk fall under the excess rainfall (20 per cent to 59 per cent) category whereas Baran, Bundi, Kota and Sawaimadhopur recorded abnormal rains (60 per cent or more). On the other hand, of the total 727 dams, 118 are completely filled, 309 are partially filled and 228 are empty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parts-of-rajasthan-faced-flood-like-situation-earlier-in-august-1020260.html
16-08-2021||North and Central||Recruitment of locals belies govt's claim of receding militancy in Jammu and Kashmir||Despite repeated claims by the Central government that abrogation of Article 370 and ‘unhindered’ security operations have almost wiped out militancy from Jammu and Kashmir, local youths joining militant ranks belie these claims. In recent years, Kashmir’s armed insurgency became more local and the trend continues this year as well. Official data reveals that 82 locals joined militancy in the first seven months of 2021 while 88 ultras were killed in the same period in encounters with the security forces. Last year 184 locals became militants compared to 119 in 2019 and 219 in 2018. Out of 88 militants killed this year, a majority (79) were locals and only nine Pakistanis. The spate of recruitment suggests that the counter-offensive of security forces is proving to be a zero-sum game, as for every militant killed a new one is immediately being recruited. Last year, there were around 220 active militants in Kashmir, and despite the killing of 80 militants this year, the number, as per police records, remains more or less the same.  A senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency operations said militancy in Kashmir remains very much alive and kicking. Asked about the reasons for it, he said, the simultaneous recruitment of new youth into militancy replenishes their depleted ranks. “Another reason for this is the overwhelming public support that the militancy continues to enjoy in the region even after revocation of Article 370,” he revealed. Though local militants prove less militarily effective, they help galvanise support for militancy and separatism. “After the Covid-19 pandemic began last year in March, the bodies of local militants killed in encounters are buried at far-off places to avoid huge funerals where young boys used to get attracted towards militancy. But despite that local recruitment has not stopped,” he observed. Last month J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh said more efforts from the society and agencies were needed to check the recruitment of local youths into the militancy. “We are trying to address this problem by targeting the people who are responsible for luring the youth and radicalisation of the youth,” he said. Though law and order situation in Kashmir has seen a marked improvement from August 2019-July 2021 compared to previous two years, militancy incidents have seen a rise in the same period in comparison. While 1394 law and order incidents were reported from August 2017-July 2019 in which 27 civilians and four police or security forces personnel were killed, only 382 such incidents occurred from August 2019 to July 2021 and there were no killings. However, militancy incidents increased to 680 from August 2019 to July 2021 up from 350 from August 2017 to July 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/recruitment-of-locals-belies-govts-claim-of-receding-militancy-in-jammu-and-kashmir-1020269.html
16-08-2021||North and Central||AAP to make important announcement for Uttarakhand on Tuesday: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said his party will make a very important announcement for Uttarakhand on August 17 that will prove to be a milestone in the state's development. He also said he will visit Uttarakhand on Tuesday. "I am going to Uttarakhand tomorrow. Aam Aadmi Party is going to make a very important announcement tomorrow. This announcement will prove to be a milestone for the progress and development of Uttarakhand," Kejriwal said in a tweet. The Uttarakhand Assembly elections are due next year. Aam Aadmi Party has said it will contest the elections and raise development issues as part of its poll campaign. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-to-make-important-announcement-for-uttarakhand-on-tuesday-kejriwal-1020294.html
16-08-2021||North and Central||Some schools reopen for classes 9 to 12 in UP||Some schools in Uttar Pradesh reopened on Monday for students of classes 9 to 12 with strict Covid protocols and limited attendance. Some other schools said they were getting ready to resume physical classes for students and would reopen soon. Earlier this month, the Uttar Pradesh government had said that schools will reopen for students of classes 9 to 12 from August 16 with 50 per cent attendance. The Cathedral Senior Secondary School here said about 100 students attended classes on Monday. "Offline classes have resumed for students of classes 9 to 12 today. About 100 students, which is around 20 per cent of the total strength, have come to attend classes," Donald De Souza, chancellor and spokesperson of the Catholic Diocese of Lucknow, told PTI. Some schools, however, remained closed. La Martiniere Girls' College has not reopened, its principal Aashrita Dass said. Principal of St Francis' College, Lucknow, A Moras said, "We are planning to open the school from August 26." Not all parents were willing to send their children to school. Ashit Neogy, a Prayagraj-based businessman, whose son is a Class 10 student, said he is happy with the online classes that his son is currently attending. Neogy's son Apratim is also apprehensive about attending physical classes. According to the UP government order issued earlier this month, classes in higher education institutes will also resume from September 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-schools-reopen-for-classes-9-to-12-in-up-1020314.html
16-08-2021||North and Central||Man, woman set themselves on fire in front of Supreme Court||A 27-year-old man and a woman allegedly attempted suicide outside the Supreme Court here on Monday by setting themselves on fire, police said. The man sustained 65 per cent burn injuries, while the 24-year-old woman suffered 85 per cent burns. None of them are medically fit to record their police statements, they said. The police said the woman is from Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur and was allegedly raped by Bahujan Samaj Party MP Atul Rai in 2019. The MP was subsequently arrested and has been in judicial custody in the rape case since the last two years. Before attempting suicide, the woman, together with her associate, recorded a Facebook live video, in which she disclosed her identity and alleged that she had filed the rape case against Rai in 2019. She also alleged that some senior police officers and others were supporting the accused. Prima facie, the man and the woman doused themselves with kerosene and set themselves ablaze, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said a police team deployed at the spot rushed with blankets to save them. The fire was doused and the victims were rushed to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital for treatment, he added. An inquiry is underway to ascertain the exact reason, but the police suspects she attempted suicide as she feared being farmed in fraud cases by the accused party. In the live Facebook video, she claimed that a non-bailable warrant has been issued against her by a local court in UP and that she was summoned by the judge. In March, the woman had filed a plea in the Supreme Court, seeking transfer of her rape case for fair trial from Allahabad to Delhi on grounds of threat to her life. Later in August, a local court in Varanasi issued a non-bailable warrant against the woman in a case of forgery based on a complaint filed by the accused MP's brother.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-woman-set-themselves-on-fire-in-front-of-supreme-court-1020375.html
16-08-2021||Opinion||IPCC report: Climate change and unregulated construction in the Himalayas||The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change(IPCC) report under the sixth assessment cycle was released recently. This report of working group one is a first in the series, and two more, on impacts, adaptation and vulnerability and mitigation will be out by March 2022. As expected, the revelations of the report exhibit severity of the effects of climate change and that it is imminent. Simply put, catastrophic climate-related events will happen more frequently, with massive proportions and impact. No big wonder that the most powerful impact on climate change emanates from the emission of carbon gases, and in the last three decades, there has been an increase of 50 per cent in their contribution since humans evolved. Mitigation strategies will be rolled out in the third IPCC report, and propositions of interventions will flow. But one thing is for sure. We have to prepare for adaption strategies; the earlier, the better. Unfortunately, the kind of interventions made in the guise of development further accentuate the people's vulnerabilities, impacting them severely and even costing their lives. "Six more bodies recovered, toll rises to 23," was a recent headline from a regional newspaper published from Shimla describing the loss of human lives due to the landslide in Nigulsari in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district. This landslide took place on August 11. The mountain town of Dharamshala witnessed flash floods a few weeks ago. A video of cars floating in the gushing water stream went viral. Similarly, in Uttrakhand, the frequency of landslides has increased. The Delhi to Kullu highway remained blocked for two days after landslides. Why is it that loss to property and human lives has increased manifold in the recent period, especially in the Himalayas? Perhaps there are two critical reasons for that. The first one is that the impact of climate change is evident from the sheer increase in rainfall during a short period. Earlier, the same volume of rain would fall over a longer span. Then some regions had scanty rainfall and were considered dry mountain deserts. For example, the Kinnaur district was considered a dry mountain desert, but in the past few decades, massive precipitation has taken place, thus leading the many slips and landslides. Apart from the climate change impact, it is the way our development work is gets implemented. Among the youngest mountain ranges, the Himalayas are highly vulnerable to climate change and massive construction activities. In Kinnaur, a tribal district, nearly 8,000 MW of hydropower is proposed to be harnessed. More than 3,500 MW is already being harnessed from this district. The entry point of Kinnaur is Badhal/Nigulsari, and along the Satluj, one can reach the China border at Khab. The proposal is to construct hydropower projects right from Khab downstream to Bhakra, constructed during the 1960s. In the Himalayas, owing to loss of land because of large dams, run off the river dam technology was adopted, and Nathpa Jhakri Power Corporation-NJPC (1,500 MW), Wangtoo Karcham (1,000 MW), Sapni (300 MW), Shongthong Karcham(450 MW) are all based on this technology. No doubt the land submergence is minimal, but the headrace tunnel for creating a potential difference at the surge shaft that pours water onto the turbines runs into many kilometres. It is rare that a TBM (tunnel boring machine), which minimises the mountain's loss, is used to construct these tunnels. The construction is done mainly through blasting, earlier by exploding the mountains and currently by imploding them. In either case, rock layers get disturbed/cracked/fragmented, which leads to loosening of the rocks and the strata over them, thus causing landslides in areas where hydropower projects are being constructed. Not to forget that the grasslands over these mountains also lose their natural water flow, and most of them have now become dry. Nathpa village became extinct as the entire village started loosening and falling in the Satluj river. The people had to be translocated. Then there is the widening of the roads, especially the four-laning of the roads leading to Manali and Kinnaur. These two stretches have become a nightmare for travellers. Unfortunately, basic norms of cutting a mountain for such a widening are not adopted. Hardly one finds a geologist being part of the exercise. The mountain is cut sharply, not in terrace, but vertical form, which leads to many slides. The Parwanoo to Shimla four-laning is a continuous reminder of this. These construction activities are neither sustainable nor resilient, and as the IPCC report points out, we must ensure minimum damage to the prevailing ecosystems. Another artifice that happens is the CAMPA fund(Compensatory Afforestation Fund Act). Instead of planting trees at the sites with maximum loss to the ecosystem, the CAMPA funds are diverted to construct other utilities. These forms of development is just a reminder that events leading to catastrophic proportions will undoubtedly rise. The only way is to ensure that adaptive, resilient strategies are adopted to minimise the loss.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ipcc-report-climate-change-and-unregulated-construction-in-the-himalayas-1020301.html
16-08-2021||Panorama||When law fails: Miles to go before all unorganised workers are registered||The issue of registration of all unorganised workers, especially the migrants among them, is again in focus with the Supreme Court coming down strongly against the Ministry of Labour & Employment (MoLE) for failing to create a database of unorganised workers. The SC has directed the MoLE to ensure that a National Database of Unorganised Workers (NDUW) portal is implemented on or before July 31, 2021 and that the process of registration of all workers is completed by December 31, 2021. The SC, noting that it had as early as on August 21, 2018 directed the MoLE to make available a module to states/Union Territories for the purpose of registration, has said, “The attitude of MoLE in not completing the module... shows that the ministry is not alive to the concern of migrant workers and the non-action of the ministry is strongly disapproved.” The SC has also directed all states/UTs to register all establishments and all contractors under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen’s Act of 1979. The poor registration of unorganised workers over the years is attributable to the weak implementation of the Unorganised Workers’ Social Security (UWSS) Act of 2008 and to the impediments posed to the workers’ registration. Apart from one scheme for private commercial vehicle drivers, unorganised workers of 11 sectors, including domestic workers, ragpickers, etc., are now being registered by the Karnataka UWSS Board under the Ambedkar Karmika Sahaya Hasta Yojane (Ambedkar Workers’ Helping Hand Scheme). The question arises: Why only 11 sectors more than 13 years after the passage of the Act? But here too, the number of registrations is poor. Hence, a case is being heard in the Karnataka High Court on a petition filed in February 2021 by the Domestic Workers’ Rights Union. The union has stated that despite applications having been filed with the UWSS Board for registration of more than 3,500 domestic workers, only approximately 500 were registered. The Ambedkar scheme provides only a smart card on registration and no further benefits as there is no scheme even for these 11 sectors. So, what is the use of registration and the smart card if there are no schemes providing benefits? The UWSS Act says that every unorganised worker shall be eligible for registration through a ‘self-declaration’. But while applying for any benefit, such as the Rs 2,000 announced as compensation for the loss of livelihood during the lockdown, an employment certificate by an official or employer is being demanded. Also, making online registration on the Seva Sindhu portal mandatory for availing this benefit has proved to be a hurdle for claiming the benefit. Shockingly, it has been revealed that around Rs 250 as commission was being extracted from each domestic worker at the Common Service Centres (CSCs) for uploading their applications for availing a relief of Rs 2,000. Another hurdle for registration in the case of construction workers is the requirement to prove through certificates that the worker has worked for a minimum of 90 days in a year in the construction sector. This overlooks the fact that most of the unorganised sector workers are not attached to any specific occupation. For instance, a seasonal construction worker goes back to his village to become an agricultural worker. If eligibility for registration is made sector-specific and linked to the number of days worked in that sector, an unorganised worker who keeps shifting employment may become ineligible under all sector-specific legislation even though he may have worked throughout the year in different sectors.  For example, a construction worker in Bengaluru switched to running an auto-rickshaw as he could not get work for 90 days in construction due to the economic slowdown. His registration with the BOCWW Board was hence cancelled. The Domestic Workers’ Rights Union has also pointed out that in response to a question in the Lok Sabha on social security to unorganised workers, the MoLE had stated that there were several social security schemes like National Old Age Pension Scheme, National Family Benefit Scheme, Janani Suraksha Yojana, Ayushman Bharat, etc. Further, the Aam Aadmi Bima Yojana (AABY) has been merged with the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) to provide benefits to the unorganised workers.   Now, if unorganised workers are being brought under these schemes meant for the general population, it begs the question why they should go through the harassment of obtaining employment and eligibility certificates, when they could have simply applied for these schemes directly like the general population. There are also the conditionalities that an unorganised worker should belong to the BPL category and be working in an enterprise that employs less than 10 workers. Such thresholds and income limits will also lead to exclusions, defeating the goal of universalising social security. But the irony is that the UWSS Act of 2008 is going to be repealed as soon as the Social Security Code 2020, under which rules are being framed by states, comes into effect. But all that the SS Code is saying is that how the records are maintained, by whom, and what information shall be sought “may be prescribed by the central government” at the time of framing a scheme. So, nothing is stated clearly in the SS Code. Most importantly, thresholds for eligibility, wage ceilings and sector-specificity need to be removed for registering unorganised workers. Clear-cut and unambiguous exclusion criteria such as the one given by the National Advisory Council (NAC) during the UPA’s time need to be adopted for registering unorganised workers. The NAC said that those workers already covered by ESIC and EPFO, the self-employed and others paying income tax, farmers owning more than a certain acreage of land should be excluded. All others should be automatically considered as unorganised workers for ensuring universal social security. (The writer is Executive Trustee of CIVIC Bangalore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/when-law-fails-miles-to-go-before-all-unorganised-workers-are-registered-1020207.html
16-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Freedom fighters from Karnataka||Before the East India Company, it was the Portuguese who tried to infiltrate India through Goa. In the 1500s, Abbakka Chowta, the first woman freedom fighter, fought against the Portuguese, who tried to capture Ullal, for over 40 years. In Ullal, there is a statue of Abbakka Devi and a circle named after her. Later, there was Kittur Chennamma, her trusted aide Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna and Hyder Ali and Tipu Sultan who fought the British. In the 19th Century, we had Gangadhar Rao Deshpande, a lawyer by profession who worked closely with Mahatma Gandhi and other leaders of those days— writer and scholar N S Rajpurohit; professor and journalist R S Hukkerikar, who gave importance to the linguistic unity of Kannadigas; Muduvidu Krishna Rao, who united the people of Karnataka through his articles and criticised the British Raj. K G Gokhale, Umabai Kundapur from Hubli, Karnad Sadashiv Rao, who worked for the welfare of widows, women and children; and Dr N S Hardikar, who was a close associate of Lala Lajpat Rai, are a few other notable leaders from our state.   We also had Yashodhara Dasappa, who was an active member of the Congress party and later served as a minister of Mysore state under 2 different chief ministers. V N Okey was a painter who used his art to inspire people, Kamaladevi Chattopadya, the wife of the famous old-time actor and writer Harindranath Chaottopadya, who penned the Rajesh Khanna-starrer Bawarchi, participated in the Salt Satyagraha. She went on to inspire women to be self-reliant by learning handicrafts. Gandhian Ranganath Diwakar, who carried forward the legacy and teachings of the great Saint Aurobindo; T Subramanyam, who worked as secretary of various organisations and edited the newspaper Karnataka Kesari, was active during Civil Disobedience Movement. Bellary Sidamma played an active role in the Quit India Movement, raised her voice against the British for passing the death sentence to many of our freedom fighters and was also a prominent figure who unfurled the National Flag in Dharwad. Another dynamic lady Nagamma Patil also fought the British and worked towards providing education to the girl child. Last but not least is Nittur Srinivasa Rao, whom I happened to meet at one of the Lions Club functions about 25 years ago, where he was felicitated. He was an active Congress worker and was instrumental in the growth of the Mysore State Congress Party. Of the many names mentioned, there are many women, which means Naari Shakti is nothing new. There may be many more such unsung, unheard heroes closer to home. The history of our freedom struggle is way beyond what one gets to read in the 100-200 pages of school textbooks. If one reads more about it, one will learn to value our independence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/freedom-fighters-from-karnataka-1020205.html
16-08-2021||Second Edit||Ridding politics of criminals||The Supreme Court did well to impose fines on eight political parties ranging from the Left to the Right for not complying with its order to publish the list of their candidates who had criminal backgrounds at least two weeks before they were to file their nominations. The directive had been issued in September 2020 and many elections have taken place after that but parties largely ignored the order. The NCP and the CPM were fined Rs 5 lakh each and the BJP and the Congress Rs 1 lakh each. The court said it took a lenient view and kept the quantum of penalties low because this was the first such instance of violation. The first election that took place after the court's order was issued was in Bihar. Four states and a Union Territory went to the polls early this year. No party honoured the order, and the Election Commission of India (ECI) did not penalise them for their failure. Voters have the right to know whether the candidates who contest elections have a criminal background or not. Political parties tend to conceal the information from the public because they think that it would adversely affect the candidates’ winning chances. The court had asked the parties not only to publish the details of the cases pending against their candidates but also to give reasons why they selected such candidates instead of those with a clean record. But more than 2,500 MLAs and MPs, including ministers, faced criminal charges, according to estimates made at the end of last year. At least in 174 cases, the offences were punishable with imprisonment for life. The court has called for a "major surgery to weed out the malignancy of criminalisation in politics" and its order was part of that effort. The court has tried to go beyond issuing orders. It has told the Election Commission to use the money collected from the fines to create a mechanism for an "extensive awareness campaign to make every voter aware about his right to know and the availability of information regarding the criminal antecedents of all contesting candidates" and to set up mobile applications containing such information. The Commission has also been told to create a separate cell to monitor compliance with the court’s order by parties and to bring instances of violation to the court’s notice. Since the nexus between crime and politics is deeply entrenched, it is anybody's guess whether these steps will make any serious impact. But they will have served some purpose even if they help to keep some criminals out of electoral contests. It has been pointed out that the Election Commission can do more than what it has done in the past in this respect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ridding-politics-of-criminals-1020219.html
16-08-2021||South||Netaji's grand-nephew meets Karnataka CM Bommai||Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's grand-nephew Chandra Kumar Bose met Karnataka Chief Minister Bsavaraj Bommai and held discussions on Sunday, on the platinum jubilee of the country's Independence. Bose along with his family met Bommai at his home office Krishna, the CMO said in a statement. The Chief Chief Minister recollected Subhas Chandra Bose's struggles and sacrifice for the country's freedom, during the meeting, it said. Chandra Kumar Bose in a tweet said, "Met Hon’ble Chief Minister of Karnataka-Shri Basavaraj Bommai ji. A great admirer of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Requested for a proposal to celebrate Netaji’s 125th birth anniversary in a befitting manner. Jai Hind!"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/netajis-grand-nephew-meets-karnataka-cm-bommai-1020253.html
16-08-2021||South||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya arrives in Kerala to review Covid-19 situation||A central team led by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya arrived in Kerala on Monday to review the Covid-19 situation in the state which is presently accounting for more than half of the nation's daily fresh infection caseload. Kerala on Sunday reported 18,582 new Covid-19 cases which was more than half of the national total of 32,937 fresh coronavirus cases. On Sunday, the test positivity rate was 15.11 per cent in the southern state. A Thiruvananthapuram Airport official confirmed that the Union minister landed and has left the airport. According to his itinerary, Mandaviya is expected to meet Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and state Health Minister Veena George and other officials involved in Covid management in the state in the afternoon. Subsequently, he is scheduled to visit the Hindustan Latex Ltd (HLL) office in Thiruvananthapuram as well as the government medical college and hospital in the state capital before returning to Delhi later in the evening. Mandaviya is accompanied by the Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and other senior officials of the health ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/union-health-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-arrives-in-kerala-to-review-covid-19-situation-1020328.html
16-08-2021||South||Wayanad completes first dose vaccination of all above 18 years of age||Wayanad has become the first district in Kerala to complete the administration of the first dose of vaccine to all above the age of 18 years. State Health Minister Veena George on Monday appreciated the efforts of the health workers who were involved in the inoculation process of the targeted population above 18 years of age in the district. "The Wayanad district of Kerala has completed the first dose vaccine among all the eligible population above the age of 18 years. The specialty of Wayanad district is that it has got a more tribal population and I do appreciate all health workers who were involved in the vaccination process and are still engaged in the process in the best possible way," George told PTI. The achievement comes ahead of the visit of Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday to review the Covid-19 situation in the southern state. The minister said that special mobile teams visited the tribal hamlets to administer the vaccine. "The government had formed 28 mobile teams to visit the remote Tribal hamlets. The teams also visited the houses of 636 bedridden patients and administered vaccines," she said. The state government has also given the second dose vaccine to 2,13,311 (31.67 per cent) persons in Wayanad district. The district had earlier completed giving the first dose of the vaccine to everyone above the age of 45 and on Sunday they had completed giving the first dose vaccine to all above the age of 18 years, the minister said. The civic bodies, Tribal Development, Health and Labour Departments, members of Kudumbashree Mission and ASHA workers played their role in achieving this, she added. George said the first dose of vaccine was given to 6,16,112 targeted persons, above 18 years of age. "Persons who tested positive for the infection, those in quarantine, and persons who refused the vaccine were exempted from the drive," she said. Kerala on Sunday reported 18,582 new Covid-19 cases pushing the total infection count to 36.69 lakh, as the number of people succumbing to the disease rose to 18,601 with 102 additional deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/wayanad-completes-first-dose-vaccination-of-all-above-18-years-of-age-1020340.html
16-08-2021||South||Will never go back on implementing poll promises: Tamil Nadu CM M K Stalin||All promises made by the DMK in its election manifesto for the 2021 Assembly elections will be implemented and there was no going back, Chief Minister M K Stalin told the Tamil Nadu Assembly on Monday as principal opposition AIADMK questioned the “non-implementation” of several promises. Stalin also gave a categorical assurance that his administration will not use the White Report which has reiterated that the state’s finances are in deep red as an excuse not to implement the poll promises. To a question, the Chief Minister said Cooperation Minister I Periyasamy will explain in detail the irregularities in providing agricultural and gold loans during the previous regime before implementing the promise of waiving them off. As Opposition Leader Edappadi K Palaniswami and AIADMK MLA R B Udhayakumar accused the DMK of not fulfilling promises, Stalin sought to turn the tables seeking to know how many poll assurances the AIADMK regime fulfilled in its 2016-2021 term. “One should not think that I asked them about not fulfilling all promises so that we can also do the same. We are determined to fulfil all assurances given to people by setting right the state’s finances and removing irregularities in certain areas. Our goal is to walk the talk and we are here to do that. No one should have any doubt on this,” the Chief Minister said. Stalin, in his brief speech in the Assembly on August 14 on completing 100 days in office, had suggested that the financial situation of the state did not allow his government to implement all promises at one go. However, he said all promises will be implemented gradually while listing the assurances that have been fulfilled like reducing the price of petrol by Rs 3. During his intervention on Monday, Stalin sought to know from the AIADMK why they did not provide mobile phones to people, why wi-fi facilities were not made available in public places and why the monorail project was not implemented as promised by their leader late J Jayalalithaa. Palaniswami asked why the DMK government was now saying that Rs 1,000 “rightful money” will be provided only to eligible women every month instead of all women heads of households as promised in the manifesto. The AIADMK, which has 66 members, participated in the House proceedings on Monday after boycotting the presentation of Budget by Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan on August 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-never-go-back-on-implementing-poll-promises-tamil-nadu-cm-m-k-stalin-1020371.html
16-08-2021||South||Cases increase marginally in Chennai, containment efforts stepped up||Daily cases in Tamil Nadu continue to hover around 1,900 but the Covid-19 graph in Chennai is witnessing an upward trend for the past few days with fresh clusters emerging due to lack of Covid appropriate behaviour.  Since August 10, the state capital has been reporting over 200 cases a day, though the number varies every day. While 209 persons tested positive on August 10, the number rose to 243 on August 11 but came down to 217 the next day. On August 15, the city reported 216 cases.  Officials attributed the crowding of people at apartment complexes and other events and not following the appropriate behaviour like wearing of face mask as reasons for the hike.  In the past week, Chennai reported two clusters – a temple function and an event in an apartment complex on the IT Corridor – with over 50 people testing positive. Though there is a cap on the number of people allowed at an event, officials said, people continue to flout the rules and hold celebrations.  The GCC had closed nine crowded markets for about a week after the government authorised district collectors to decide on local containment efforts. Dr Manish S Narnaware, Deputy Commissioner (Health), Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) told DH that efforts are on to vaccinate the vulnerable population like elderly and pregnant women first, while not reducing the daily testing numbers. RT-PCR tests are conducted at markets, shopping complexes, and at government and private offices as part of efforts to contain Covid-19.  “We are not letting our guard down. We are now focusing on ensuring compliance with Covid appropriate behaviour. While we administer about 30,000 vaccine doses a day, we conduct 25,000 RT-PCR tests every day. But the key is people’s support. We have asked people to avoid holding events at their apartments or anywhere,” he said.  The official said the GCC is also taking steps to augment the medical infrastructure in the city further. Narnaware said the GCC is also keeping ready ICU, ventilators, and oxygen-fitted beds ready in large numbers to handle any third wave of infections. “We are keeping our infrastructure ready. We are adding more beds to our hospitals and Covid Care Centres,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cases-increase-marginally-in-chennai-containment-efforts-stepped-up-1020424.html
16-08-2021||South||Schools reopened for students' future, AP CM Jagan says while allaying Covid-19 fears||Even as the fears of a Covid-19 third wave loom large, schools across Andhra Pradesh reopened on Monday, resuming classes in physical mode for the students of all the standards. The educational institutions were closed in April as the second wave cases spread alarmingly in the state. Andhra Pradesh has been lately reporting over 1,500 new cases daily. However, the number of cases reported on Monday, the day schools reopened, was only 909 as the number of samples examined dropped to about 47 thousand from around 70 thousand tests conducted on the days before. While a section of the parents are concerned about the virus threat, chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy stated that the reopening decision was taken keeping the students future in view and sought to allay their fears. “Even ICMR, WHO-like organisations suggested that schools should be reopened considering the students' future. All the teachers have been vaccinated and only schools located in areas with below 10 per cent positivity rate will be functional that too strictly following Covid-19 protocols. School managements are instructed to limit only 20 students in each room and if the section strength is above 20, then the classes would be taken on alternate days,” Reddy said addressing the students and parents at P Gannavaram. Schools renovated, free education kits distributed Reddy launched the second phase of Jagananna Vidya Kanuka and the first phase of Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu (Our School – Then & Now) in the East Godavari district village on Monday. Officials said that Rs 731 crore is spent this academic year under JVK to provide education kits to 47.32 lakh students of government and aided schools. These free kits consist of three pairs of uniform cloth, bilingual textbooks, workbooks, notebooks, stationary and shoes. This year, an Oxford dictionary has been included and students till class 5 will be receiving a pictorial dictionary. The event also marked the inauguration of 15,715 government schools modernized with Rs 3,669 crore under the first installment of Nadu-Nedu. Works are initiated under the second phase to renovate 16,368 schools at a cost of Rs 4,535 crore. The CM said that his government had taken up the project to modernize over 56,000 schools in total at an overall expenditure of about Rs 16,000 crore. Under Nadu-Nedu, ten changes were effected like new furniture, drinking water with Ph balance reading, clean toilets, colorful paints, compound walls, green boards, fans, tube-lights, English labs and Kitchen sheds for preparing midday meals for the students. Reddy claimed that in his two years of governance, the overall admissions in schools across Andhra Pradesh went to 73.05 lakh students from earlier 70.43 lakh. “Enrollments in government schools increased to 43.43 lakh, from 37.20 lakh in 2018-19. For Ammavodi, Vidya Deevena, Vasati Deevena, Gorumuddha, Vidya Kanuka, Manabadi Nadu- Nedu, and Sampoorna Poshana schemes, our government has spent Rs 32,714 crore in the last two years,” Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-reopened-for-students-future-ap-cm-jagan-says-while-allaying-covid-19-fears-1020457.html
16-08-2021||South||Online booking, payment for liquor from Aug 17||From August 17, people can book and pay online for liquor from select retail outlets of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation. The step was taken to reduce crowding and queueing at the outlets, a senior official of the Excise Department told PTI on Monday. "To begin with, this facility will be available in select retail outlets in the districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode. The customers can choose the liquor brand and make the payment through an application," a source told PTI. The facility would be extended to other outlets soon, he said adding that the customers can book the liquor, pay for it and collect it. The overcrowding and queues outside the outlets selling Indian Made Foreign Liquor was in the news following the filing of two public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a court directive to prevent such queues during a pandemic situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/online-booking-payment-for-liquor-from-aug-17-1020465.html
16-08-2021||South||Telangana CM K Chandrashekhar Rao launches Dalit Bandhu in Huzurabad||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has stated that he would extend the benefit of Dalit Bandhu scheme to even those Scheduled Caste families with a government job. On Monday, Rao announced the launch of his brain-child programme intended for the economic empowerment of Dalits at Shalapally village in Huzurabad assembly constituency, where by-elections are necessitated. The seat held by former health minister Eatala Rajender fell vacant recently after he resigned from the TRS and also the assembly membership. Eatala later joined the BJP and is expected to be the Saffron party candidate. The former colleague is posing a big challenge to KCR in the impending polls. So, unlike the Dubbaka by-election last year, Rao has taken a keen interest in the Huzurabad poll management. “Neither the Prime Minister nor any other Chief Minister has ever thought of implementing a scheme like Dalit Bandhu for the upliftment of the Scheduled Castes,” Rao said addressing a public meet. The scheme envisages a Rs 10 lakh assistance for selected SC families for their economic empowerment, with ventures like dairy farming, Kirana shops. The Huzurabad assembly constituency where it would be implemented on a pilot basis has a considerable number of scheduled caste voters who the TRS leaders believe would swing the result in favour of them. Meanwhile, demands are rising to implement a similar financial incentive scheme for other backward communities. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-k-chandrashekhar-rao-launches-dalit-bandhu-in-huzurabad-1020478.html
16-08-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi on two day Kerala visit||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is on a two day visit to his constituency Wayanad in Kerala. On Monday, he launched various development project and had lunch with students from tribal communities who cleared Common Law Admission Test. He also unveiled a statue of Mahatma Gandhi at Mananthavady and inaugurated a drinking water project at Padinjarathara. Rahul also visited the houses at tribal colonies. Rahul's visit also assumed political significance for the Congress in Kerala as party reorganisation talks were actively progressing. It is also Rahul's first Kerala visit after leadership change in Kerala with V D Sateesan and K Sudhakaran taking over as leader of opposition and Kerala PCC president respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-on-two-day-kerala-visit-1020481.html
16-08-2021||South||Man on two-wheeler killed after getting hit by peacock||A young man died and his wife suffered serious injuries while riding on a motorcycle in Kerala after a peacock hit him. The bizarre incident took place at Ayyanthole in Thrissur district on Monday. Pramosh, 34, a local resident, was riding the motorcycle with his wife Veena. The peacock reportedly hit Pramosh on his chest. He lost control of the motorcycle and it rammed into another two-wheeler and a wall. Pramosh, and the peacock, died on the spot. Veena and the other rider suffered serious injuries. Local police sources said that peacocks were frequently spotted in the region. Earlier also there were instances of peacocks getting killed after being hit by vehicles. But instances of people getting killed were not reported in the region in recent times. Pramosh, who was a private bank employee, and Veena got married recently. The peacock's body was taken by forest department officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-on-two-wheeler-killed-after-getting-hit-by-peacock-1020488.html
16-08-2021||State||Four injured in elephant attack on car||Four persons suffered injuries when an elephant attacked a moving car at Kundoor village in Mudigere taluk of Chikkamagaluru district on Monday. The car turned turtle and four persons from Joladal village in the district suffered injuries. Of the four persons who suffered serious injuries, the condition of one is said to be serious. All the injured have been rushed to the district hospital in Chikkamagaluru. Condemning the increase in elephant menace, the local residents staged a protest by blocking the road following the mishap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-injured-in-elephant-attack-on-car-1020256.html
16-08-2021||State||Three held for obstructing Independence day procession in Mangaluru||Three activists of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) were arrested for obstructing the procession of a 'freedom chariot' on Sunday in Puttur taluk of Dakshina Kannada district as it had a portrait of Veer Savarkar. The arrested have been identified as K Azeez (43), Abdul Rahman (34) and Shameer (40). Police sources said a case has been booked under Sections 143, 147, 269, 353, 323 and 427 of IPC against seven SDPI activists on a complaint from the panchayat development officer. Kabaka Gram Panchayat vice-president Rukmayya Gowda said the freedom chariot was taken out as part of the special celebrations of the 75th Independence Day. The chariot carried portraits of of freedom fighters and displays of various government schemes. The chariot was blocked by SDPI workers after it was flagged off by panchayat president Vinay Kumar, demanding the removal of Hindutva ideologue Savarkar's photo. Police reached the spot and took away the protesters. Defending the protest, SDPI district president Ataullah Jokatte said they were only opposing the display of Savarkar's photo along with freedom fighters on the chariot and not the procession. Meanwhile, state ministers Kota Srinivas Poojary, S Angara and Puttur MLA Sanjeva Matandoor condemned the act of SDPI activists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-held-for-obstructing-independence-day-procession-in-mangaluru-1020325.html
16-08-2021||State||Former minster calls CT Ravi anti-national||Former minister B Ramanath Rai termed BJP national general secretary C T Ravi an 'anti-national' for making derogatory remarks against former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, the first PM of the country. Coming down heavily on C T Ravi’s statement on hookah bar, the former minister said that BJP leaders have been insulting national leaders who had fought for India’s independence. However, they are considering Nathuram Godse, who killed Mahatma Gandhi as a patriot, he told media persons. The BJP leaders failed to remember the sacrifices made by Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru for the freedom struggle. While they praise Mahatma Gandhi outside India, here they worship Godse as a nationalist.   Indians enjoy democracy only because of the sacrifices of the freedom fighters, he said.   C T Ravi has failed to support Karnataka when it comes to Mekedatu project. Instead, he is favouring Tamil Nadu. “The BJP calls us slaves of Nehru family, but we are happy for not being slaves of corporate companies like them,” Rai added.  The district administration and state government are responsible for the incident at Kabaka wherein SDPI workers created ruckus over the photo of Veer Savarkar in an Independence Day rally. The district administration should have ensured no untoward incident on the day of Independence Day, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/former-minster-calls-ct-ravi-anti-national-1020352.html
16-08-2021||State||Inspect cities for cleanliness daily: Minister tells corporation chiefs||Asking corporation commissioners to focus on cleanliness in cities, Urban Development minister Byrathi Basavaraj, on Monday, directed commissioners to tour and inspect their respective cities for at least an hour every day.  In a meeting with the officials concerned, Basavaraj asked the commissioners to take a tour of the cities instead of monitoring from their offices. He asked them to focus on cleanliness in line with Swacch Bharath Abhiyan goals.  In several places, when it comes to new layouts, there are numerous complaints that there are no streetlights. This problem needs to be addressed. Property taxes have to be collected on time. The corporations must levy penalty on those who do not pay on time, he told officials. Also, local problems have to be addressed locally, without escalating it to Vidhana Soudha, the minister said.  Basavaraj held a review meeting of smart city projects with officials of the Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation. He urged the officials to complete the projects on time. As of now, Rs 537 crore has been made use of in the current fiscal for smart city projects, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/inspect-cities-for-cleanliness-daily-minister-tells-corporation-chiefs-1020468.html
16-08-2021||State||Caste census report politically motivated, says H D Kumaraswamy||Even as opposition leaders are demanding that the Kantharaju Commission's Socio-economic Survey (Caste census) report be made public, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy alleged on Monday that the report is inaccurate and politically motivated. Speaking to reporters, Kumaraswamy charged that Congress leader Siddaramaiah steered the report and the Commission's chairperson H Kantharaju was reduced only to the role of signing off on the report. "Ahinda has been used only for vested political interests," he further said. Kumaraswamy's statements came in retort to Siddaramaiah's allegations that the Kumaraswamy-led coalition government had neglected the caste census report.  The JD(S) leader also added that he will meet Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to discuss the issue of pending water projects including the Mekedatu and Yettinahole projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/caste-census-report-politically-motivated-says-h-d-kumaraswamy-1020471.html
16-08-2021||State||Afghan students in Dharwad worried about political turmoil back home||The ongoing political turmoil in Afghanistan has left the students from the war-ravaged country in Dharwad a worried lot. “Yes we were all very much worried initially. We frequently called up our families to know the situation. We are a bit relieved now as they are safe and the developments are positive,” said Nasratullah Kakar, a research student at the University of Agricultural Sciences-Dharwad. Speaking to DH on Monday, he said that there are 15 Afghan students are pursuing their higher education at UAS-Dharwad. While four are pursuing research, 11 students are doing PG courses. Of them, five have returned to  Afghanistan because of Covid-19, while 10 others are now at the International Hostel of UAS-Dharwad. Nasratullah is in his second year of the three-year PhD programme in Agricultural Extension. An employee of the Ministry of Agriculture in Afghanistan, Nasratullah is pursuing his research under the programme of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). Like him, the remaining fourteen students are also employees of Afghanistan Government and are pursuing various courses under the ICAR programme. They all are married and have families back home. “We all live in joint families with over 20 members staying under one single roof. I have three daughters and a son and we live in a joint family of 21 members,” he said. Along with him, the other Afghan nationals at UAS-D are still anxious because of the developments unfolding back home. Meanwhile, UAS-Dharwad Vice-Chancellor M B Chetti told DH that he had a meeting with the Afghan students on Monday. “They are happy with the arrangements here and are also relieved now because their families in Afghanistan are safe,” Chetti said. Some of these students are about to complete their postgraduation in few months. “But their return would depend on the developments in our homeland,” said Nasratullah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/afghan-students-in-dharwad-worried-about-political-turmoil-back-home-1020472.html
16-08-2021||State||Karnataka issues notification for formation of Dist Level Covid Technical Expert panels||The Karnataka government on Monday issued a notification for formation of District Level Covid-19 Technical Expert Committees (TEC) for providing technical guidance to the district administrations. Signed by Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, Jawaid Akhtar, TEC has been constituted based on the recommendation of the state Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) from the experiences of two waves of Covid-19 pandemic and as the third wave is anticipated by the experts in October-November 2021. The TEC shall pursue the guidelines issued by Government of India and Karnataka, ICMR, AllMS, New Delhi, WHO and other organisations on a regular basis, and will regularly interact with the State TAC and function under its overall guidance. The TEC shall review the data at the district level and compare it with other districts, state, and national level on a continual basis, and shall help the district administration by using the information obtained locally and facilitate public health actions and containment measures. The TEC shall guide the district administration to make decisions that are in consonance with guidelines of the state and the country, it added. The TEC shall consist of Senior Specialists in Public Health/ Comm. Medicine, District Surveillance Officer (DSO), Senior Pulmonologist ,Senior Physician/ intensivist, Senior Pediatrician, Senior Obstetrician, Senior Microbiologist, Surveillance Medical Officer-WHO, and Senior Ayush Physician. The Committee will have a District Health and Family Welfare Officer and District Surgeon as special invitees. According to the notification, the Committee shall meet on a regular basis, at least fortnightly, and based on the need may meet more frequently, and a copy of the proceedings shall be sent to Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare Services, Bengaluru through Deputy Commissioner. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) constituted at the State level will lay down the activities to be taken up and will handhold the District TECs in their functioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-issues-notification-for-formation-of-dist-level-covid-technical-expert-panels-1020480.html
16-08-2021||State||Shiradi Ghat opens for LMV||Deputy Commissioner R Girish has given permission for the movement of light motor vehicles on Shiradi Ghat road on Mangaluru-Bengaluru national highway 75. According to the order, cars, jeep, temp, two-wheelers, transport buses, ambulances and lorries with 20-tonne loading capacity will be allowed to ply on the route. The movement of heavy vehicles like tanker lorries, cargo containers and others are banned. It may be mentioned that vehicular movement was restricted after a landslide due to heavy rains, near Donigal village, in Sakleshpur taluk, in the month of July. The road works are still in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shiradi-ghat-opens-for-lmv-1020492.html
16-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP leadership will decide on my future role: Yediyurappa's son Vijayendra||Karnataka BJP Vice-President and former Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra on Monday said that the party leadership would decide on his future role, as he rejected reports about him making efforts to become either a minister or the state unit chief. "In the past, Yediyurappa when he struggled for the party by organising marches and rallies, he never did that with an idea to come to power, to become a Minister or a Chief Minister. In the same way Raganna (brother and Shivamogga MP B Y Raghavendra) and I....I'm working within the party framework as the vice- president," Vijayendra said in response to a question. Speaking to reporters here, he said he was not working with a desire for any position in mind, as he believes that people will recognise one's hard work. "There is no question of me aspiring to become a Minister or the state president. Ours is a national party, not a regional party, so there are state and central leaders to decide on what position or responsibility should be given at what time," he added. Earlier too, there were reports that BJP veteran Yediyurappa had mounted pressure on party leadership and the current Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to induct his younger son Vijayendra into the new cabinet. Noting that he will have to travel across the state being the party vice-president, Vijayendra said BJP national president J P Nadda has expected us to give more importance to the old Mysuru region. "I was involved myself in K R Pet and Sira bypolls in the region. There is scope for further strengthening the party there...." he said. Further pointing out that the BJP in Karnataka has been able to win 104-110 seats in the 224-member assembly during the elections in the past, Vijayendra said, the dream of Yediyurappa is that in the upcoming 2023 assembly elections, BJP should come to power with a clear majority. "It is the dream of both Yediyurappa and Nadda and to realise that dream, the old Mysuru region should be given importance and I will involve myself more in the region," he added. Hitting back at alleged statements by some leaders within the party accusing him of interfering in the Bommai government's administration too, Vijayendra said, "Basangouda Patil Yatnal is a senior leader, he has more love towards me...I don't want to say anything further." Yetnal, a senior party MLA from Vijayapura had repeatedly accused Vijayendra of corruption and interfering in administration, when Yediyurappa was the Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-leadership-will-decide-on-my-future-role-yediyurappas-son-vijayendra-1020321.html
16-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 1,065 new cases, 28 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 1,065 new Covid-19 cases and 28 deaths on Monday, taking the total number of infections to 29,30,529 and the toll to 37,007. The day also saw 1,486 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,71,448. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 270 cases out of the total number and saw 378 discharges and four deaths. The total number of active cases in the state is 22,048. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.93 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.62 per cent. Out of the 28 deaths, five are from Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Urban and Mysuru (4 each), Hassana and Kodagu (3 each), Chitradurga, Kolar and Uttara Kannada (2 each), followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 284, Bengaluru Urban 270, Udupi 107, Mysuru 63, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,33,172, followed by Mysuru 1,74,679 and Tumakuru 1,18,659. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,09,176, followed by Mysuru 1,71,209 and Tumakuru 1,16,844. Cumulatively a total of 4,10,25,095 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,13,580 were done on Monday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-1065-new-cases-28-deaths-in-karnataka-1020418.html
16-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Veteran Sandalwood producer Vijay Kumar no more||Veteran Kannada film producer B Vijay Kumar died of a massive heart attack here on Sunday night. He was 63.  Vijay Kumar was a former president of Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC). He bankrolled popular films such as Vishnuvardhan’s blockbuster Simhardiya Simha (2002), Lion Jagapati Rao (1991) and Jagadeka Veera (1991).  He was also the vice president of the Film Federation of India and chairman of Karnataka Silk Board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/veteran-sandalwood-producer-vijay-kumar-no-more-1020466.html
16-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre not keen on caste census at national level: MoS Social Justice Narayanaswamy||A victim of caste discrimination even after being elected an MP, A Narayanaswamy is now Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment. In conversation with DH’s Akram Mohammed, he spoke on demands for caste census, internal reservation and other issues. You are a first-time MP and was made a Union minister. Were you expecting it? I had not expected this. The BJP has a policy of rewarding honest, dedicated workers who are involved with the Sangh and fulfil its expectations. Such workers are much sought after and are rewarded. Many workers feel so, especially after Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power and I have felt so too. Your appointment was seen as an attempt to appease SC Left. What is your view on the matter? If it were so, people would do politics by merely appointing someone from a particular caste as a minister in the state or country. There might be a small percentage of cases where people are made ministers because of caste or community affiliations. However, in BJP, honesty and patriotism get you more opportunities than caste. In the last 20-25 years, I haven’t wandered from the party policy even one per cent, and have worked within its ideals. Just by looking at someone’s caste, he is not made a minister (in BJP). There is a demand from various groups for a caste census again... There is confusion in the entire country on whether caste census should be taken up or not. The last caste census was carried out in 1931 which lacked clarity on what castes belonged to which group - SC, ST or OBC. There has been no caste census since then. Based on the Mandal commission report, there is a 27% reservation for backward communities. Today, the Centre has no intention of a caste census at the national level. But, it is studying how this was done in other countries and has constituted an expert committee. What about Karnataka where the census is already carried out? In Karnataka, we spent Rs 160 crore and conducted the census under Siddaramaiah. When the report was ready, he was the chief minister and they also had an opportunity to release it under the coalition government but did not utter a word. Politicians usually latch on to sensitive issues before fighting elections. Today, that process has started (over caste census). As taluk panchayat, zilla panchayat and Assembly elections are on the horizon, opposition parties are looking to cash in on the issue. If they were dedicated, they would have released the report long ago. There are also demands for internal reservation within SC groups... Yes, it’s true. I have spoken about it. There are differences among various communities about it that are being ironed out. I have not talked about it with community leaders after being made a minister. Meanwhile, there is a seven-judge bench constituted to pass a ruling. Some states have said no to it, while others are for such a categorisation. There is discussion in Karnataka also. BJP will take a call for the benefit of society at the right time in consultation with leaders from all communities. Have you any new plans for the Ministry? We have a plan to identify IAS, IPS candidates from backward communities and provide them coaching. We will go to top universities in the country and identify SC, ST and OBC students who can qualify for these exams and an order has already been issued. Ambedkar Navodaya schools will be opened in 84 Lok Sabha constituencies. Under Skill India, we are looking at offering paramedical courses for Dalits as there is a demand. Under SC Development Corporation, I have issued an order to reduce interest for loans to Dalits. Caste atrocities have continued 75 years since independence. What measures have you planned? The Supreme Court has recently issued an order saying no bail for atrocity cases. I have sought a detailed report on the number of people killed due to manual scavenging, the number of contractors suspended, how many are convicted etc. Similarly, on atrocity cases and whether special courts are formed. After getting detailed reports I will look at what legal assistance can be provided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-not-keen-on-caste-census-at-national-level-mos-social-justice-narayanaswamy-1020467.html
16-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government announces cash prizes for Paralympics medallists||Youth Affairs and Sports minister K C Narayana Gowda on Monday, announced a cash prize of Rs 5 crore for any para-athlete from the state winning a gold medal in the Tokyo Paralympics. Silver and bronze medals will ensure a cash prize of Rs 3 Crore and Rs 2 Crore respectively, the minister said. Two para-athletes from the state - Shakeen Khatun (power-lifting) and Niranjan Mukundan (swimming) - will be part of the national contingent at Tokyo. Both the athletes were granted Rs 10 lakh by the state government at a programme held on Monday. The minister also flagged off 'Shikaradinda Sagara' event, organised as part of 75 years of Independence. In this programme, five women from Karnataka will scale a 5,000-metre mountain in the Himalayas, cycle 2,000 km till Karwar and Kayak 300 km along the Karnataka coast to reach Mangaluru. The five-member team comprised of Aishwarya V and Dhanalakshmi (from Shivamogga), Asha (Bengaluru), Pushpa (Madikeri) and Bindu (Mysuru).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-announces-cash-prizes-for-paralympics-medallists-1020470.html
16-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Quizzing Bidar kids prima facie violation of child rights: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka High Court on Monday said the police prima facie violated children’s rights while interrogating students of Shaheen Education Society at Bidar in January 2020. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the state government to ensure that such incidents do not recur. The petition had questioned the investigation carried out by the police in connection with the play staged by students against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019. The PIL was filed by advocate Nayana Jyothi Jhawar and South India Cell for Human Rights Education and Monitoring (SICHREM). The petitioners sought a departmental inquiry and action against the police personnel involved in questioning the minor students. The bench pointed out that photographs placed before the court in March 2020 show that the schoolchildren (two boys and one girl) were interrogated by five police persons, with four officials in full uniform and at least two of them seen carrying firearms. The court noted that these acts of the policemen were in violation of the Juvenile Justice Act and Rules. “Prima facie this is a serious case of violation of rights of children and provisions of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act. We direct the state government to respond by filing a response stating on record what action has been initiated against the police officials who interrogated the school children while wearing uniforms and while carrying firearms,” the bench said. The court has also asked the state government to consider issuing necessary directions to the policemen across the state to ensure violations of children’s rights do not take place. The bench also directed the state government that a senior officer, higher than the rank of the DCP who submitted the affidavit, be nominated by the state DGP and IGP to look into the violations. The play was staged on January 21, 2020, on the school premises. After registering the FIR against the school management, based on the complaint by an activist, the police had questioned the students. The petitioners also prayed for a grant of compensation to the parents or legal guardians of the children who were subjected to illegal questioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/quizzing-bidar-kids-prima-facie-violation-of-child-rights-karnataka-hc-1020493.html
16-08-2021||West||Giripremi’s Mount Manda 1 expedition flagged off||A team from Pune-based adventure club Giripremi that aims to climb the 6,529-meter high peak Mt. Manda I in the Gangotri region of Himalayas was flagged off during the 75th Independence Day festivities. Situated in the Gangotri Region, Mt. Manda 1 is an extremely difficult peak to climb. Till today there has not been any Indian summit on this peak. Giripremi team had attempted this peak twice in 1989 and 1991, both attempts were unsuccessful. Now once again Giripremi’s team with tough mountaineers are ready to take the challenge.  The team was flagged off at the hands of  Pradeep Kurulkar, Director and OS, DRDO, Deepak Mane, Director, Board of Sports, SPPU and Bajrang Nimbalkar.  Umesh Zirpe, senior Mountaineer and mentor to Mt. Manda expedition was also present. Nimbalkar said, “I had been posted as a soldier in the Himalayas for a couple of years. I am aware of the challenges which lie ahead in the mountains. The Himalayas cannot be challenged. The peaks have to be climbed by loving and embracing the mountains, then only the mountains let us reach at the top.” “This time the team is very well prepared and the team consists of experienced as well as youngsters. The team has been preparing for the past two years and this time I am sure that the Indian tricolour will be hoisted on the top of Manda,” said Zirpe.  Mt. Manda is located in the Garwhal Himalayas situated in the Gangotri region. Mt. Manda 1 (Ht.6,529 mtrs) is the first peak in the group of mountains on which the team will start the expedition from the West side of Kedarganga Valley in the month of September. The slopes of Mt. Manda 1 are sheer vertical which makes it a task for even the strongest of the mountaineers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/giripremi-s-mount-manda-1-expedition-flagged-off-1020350.html
16-08-2021||West||Mumbai local trains scaled up to 95% pre-Covid levels||After a gap of nearly four months, Mumbai's suburban train services were scaled to 95 per cent of pre-Covid levels on Monday marking a major increase in passengers. The Maharashtra government has allowed people who have received both doses of Covid-19 vaccines to travel in suburban local trains of the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), coinciding with the Independence Day festivities. Both the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) are running services at 95 per cent services of the pre-Covid-19 levels. The CR is running 1,686 services as against the pre-Covid services of 1,774 services. The WR is running 1,300 services as against the pre-Covid services of 1,367 services. The CR-WR suburban network is spread over 390 km – and considered the lifeline of Mumbai – as it carries over 70 to 80 lakh commuters daily. Spread across six lines covering 390-odd km and 157 stations in the MMR comprising five districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad, the city is highly dependent on the railway network. The CR-WR used to collectively run around 3,000 services daily in the MMR. The Maharashtra government had launched the ‘Universal Travel Pass’ or e-pass facility for passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-local-trains-scaled-up-to-95-pre-covid-levels-1020380.html
16-08-2021||West||Jalgaon, Ratnagiri report maximum Delta Plus cases in Maharashtra||As cases of Covid-19 Delta Plus variant seem to advance in Maharashtra, Ratnagiri and Jalgaon have emerged as the worst-affected districts with as many as 28 of the total 76 cases.  In view of the jump in cases, the Maharashtra government has ordered the constitution of division-level Rapid Response Teams and called for taking exact details and ensuring extensive contact tracing. Last Friday, the state recorded a total of 66 cases of the Delta Plus variant and five deaths. On Monday, the total number of cases shot up by 10 pushing the total infections to 76, however, deaths remained at five. According to the Public Health Department, Ratnagiri reported 15 cases - the highest in the state, followed by Jalgaon (13), Mumbai (11), Kolhapur (7), Thane (6), Pune (6), Palghar (3), Raigad (3), Nanded (2), Gondia (3), Sindhudurg (2), Chandrapur (1), Akola (1), Sangli (1), Nandurbar (1), Aurangabad (1) and Beed (1). Among the 76 patients, 10 have taken two doses of Covid vaccine, while 12 have been administered a single dose. Of the 76 patients, 37 were asymptomatic. So far, the Delta Plus variant has claimed five lives - three men and two women. While two deaths have been reported in Ratnagiri, one death each has been reported in Mumbai, Raigad and Beed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jalgaon-ratnagiri-report-maximum-delta-plus-cases-in-maharashtra-1020396.html
16-08-2021||West||Freebie war in poll bound Goa as BJP, AAP jostle for votes||A freebie war may well set the tone for political campaigning ahead of the 2022 state Assembly polls in Goa. A little more than a month after Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party supremo Arvind Kejriwal announced free 300 units of power as the party's main poll plank during a visit to the state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday defended his announcement to provide free water to the tune of 16,000 litres per month from September 1. At a function in Porvorim, a Panaji suburb, Sawant said that allowing domestic consumers to avail of 16,000 litres of tap water free of cost, would in fact reduce water wastage. "We give people what they want. Water is a necessity for people, which is why we are offering 16,000 litres per month free. Two things will happen after this. People will get free water and won't waste water. They will try to stay in the 16,000 bracket. We will require more water, we will be able to give water to more people," Sawant said. Polls in the state are scheduled to be held in early 2022. "Some people do not know, the cost per cubic meter is Rs 15 to process raw water. The same water I will be giving free to the tune of 16,000 litres. We were charging Rs 2.15 per cubic meter. We have waived off that, too. My only request is to use only the water which you require. If maximum users keep the usage of water under 16,000 litres, no one will get a bill. It is possible. On average, one person requires 100 litres per day," the Chief Minister also said. The Aam Aadmi Party has however said that the chief minister's populist announcement was a result of pressure building on the ruling BJP in wake of the promise of free power made by Kejriwal in July. BJP's top leaders and government ministers had initially ruled out giving any freebie ahead of elections, with Power Minister Nilesh Cabral saying that offering public utilities free of cost to the general public is simply not a practical concept. "There are no free lunches," Cabral had said. AAP's Goa convenor Rahul Mahambre however said that the Sawant administration's decision to offer potable water free of cost was a jumla. "First of all, they could have done this after they came to power, not just before elections. Also after Kejriwal made the promise of free power, BJP Ministers scoffed at the idea. Now by announcing free water, the BJP appears to be signing up for the AAP model of governance. They have made this jumla only because of elections," Mahamre said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/freebie-war-in-poll-bound-goa-as-bjp-aap-jostle-for-votes-1020454.html
