17-08-2021||First Edit||In OBC Bill passage, politics met principle||The support extended by all political parties to the Constitution (127th) Amendment Bill, which restored the power of states and Union Territories to identify and notify their own lists of Other Backward Classes (OBCs), was to be expected. All parties had announced their support for the bill, and Parliament passed it unanimously in a rare display of unity last week, though the monsoon session was otherwise all but washed out. The bill was necessitated by a Supreme Court judgement that struck down the Maharashtra government’s decision to grant reservations to the Maratha community, but more importantly laid down that the power to determine the classification of backward groups rested with the Centre. This was based on the court’s view of the Constitution (102nd) Amendment by which a National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC) was created. The court held that only a single list of socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) was to be drawn up with respect to each state and it was to be notified by the President. States can only make recommendations for inclusion or exclusion, and changes could only be made by Parliament. The court felt that Parliament’s intent behind the 102nd Amendment was to create a scheme for identification of backward classes in the same manner as for SCs and STs. The Amendment had introduced three Articles which constituted the NCBC, mandated a central list of backward classes, and defined SEBCs. The Supreme Court ruled that after the amendment, states did not have the power to identify the SEBCs. This would have made an impact. It is estimated that nearly 671 OBC communities, about a fifth of all OBC communities, would have lost access to reservations if the state lists were abolished. Several states were unhappy that an important power that they possessed had been curtailed. Many of them also felt that it was against the federal character of the Constitution. States were right in taking that view because backwardness is a relative condition. Communities that are backward in one state may not be backward in another, and so ideally, it is for the states to take a decision on it. State governments are swayed by politics in taking such decisions, as in the case of the Maratha reservation, but that does not negate the principle that they should have the power make their own lists. There is also politics in the Centre’s decision to restore that power to the states and the parties’ decision to support it. The Centre could not afford to alienate backward communities when elections in many states, including UP, are due, and political parties, especially regional parties, did not want to lose an important power that they had at the state level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/in-obc-bill-passage-politics-met-principle-1020590.html
17-08-2021||In Perspective||Foreign policy achievements are modest||Prime Minister Narendra Modi sprang a surprise over when he appointed Subrahmanyam Jaishankar as External Affairs Minister in his second term in late May 2019. Jaishankar was the most suitable person to head the foreign ministry given his illustrious career in the Indian Foreign Service, having held prestigious assignments like that of foreign secretary and served as Ambassador to China and the US earlier. But perhaps the ministerial assignment came as a surprise to him, too. After retiring from foreign service, Jaishankar had started writing his book The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World, which came out in 2020, an unconventional occurrence, to say the least. Thus, when he began his political career, Jaishankar carried the credential of rich professional experience to guide the nation’s foreign policy at a time of spectacular changes taking place in an “uncertain world”, as he himself put it. Both in his book and as one in charge of foreign affairs, he has taken pains to emphasise India’s long-held belief in and advocacy of multilateralism in the conduct of international relations. Needless to say, Nehru, as the architect of Indian foreign policy, emphasised the need for multipolarity and multilateralism, which led to the non-alignment policy. Jaishankar has also reiterated our commitment to a rule-based international order, along with his emphasis on the need to get out of the Cold War prism, indirectly attacking the opposition parties, sections of the media and academia whom he sees as prisoners of that mindset. My analysis of Jaishankar’s role as External Affairs Minister is in the limited context of our relations with China, the US and the Asia-Pacific region in recent times, not covering the entire external world. As regards China, it is worthwhile to start with the Chinese adventure in the Galwan Valley in May 2020. It is a measure of the failure of the foreign office and the intelligence agencies that they were not able to foresee the swiftness with which the Chinese forces moved in and killed several of our soldiers. Jaishankar’s talks held with his Chinese counterpart, mediated by Moscow, did not yield much success in making China fully withdraw its soldiers from the region and end the standoff, a fact acknowledged by Jaishankar himself. In recent months, China has beefed up its position along the LAC again. It has built additional lodging facilities for its soldiers, field hospitals, has procured new snow mobility vehicles, and is, in all likelihood, preparing to stay put for a long haul. It has also signalled its continued hostile posture in the Arunachal Pradesh region. The Chinese have even gone on to join Pakistan in raising the Kashmir issue in international forums, including seeking a discussion in the UN Security Council. Nor has Indian diplomacy been able to get China to dilute its opposition to our bid for membership in the Nuclear Suppliers Group and in the UNSC. In the Asia-Pacific region, India is going along with the US adding a veiled military component to the Quad. The need, however, is to insulate ourselves from the larger US interests in the region vis-a-vis China. The real challenge lies in decoupling the India-China power rivalry from the US-China competition, while at the same time continuing with efforts to checkmate China’s growing strategic presence in the region. Achieving strategic parity with China remains a formidable challenge. As for Indo-US relations, the Modi government is focused on upgrading ties with Washington. Jaishankar paid a visit to the US in May, seeking American help to overcome the Modi government’s inept handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Not much came of that particular visit, except the promise of a few million doses of vaccines, which have reportedly not yet been shipped due to delays on India’s part.   During his visit to India recently, US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken emphasised that democratic values bind the two countries. However, as a measure of America’s commitment to human rights, civil liberties and inter-religious harmony, Blinken addressed a meeting of civil society groups in Delhi, signalling America’s displeasure over the Modi regime’s handling of issues related to democratic principles and freedoms. At a broader level, given the Biden administration’s foreign policy priorities, which include halting China’s march to the position of global hegemon, strengthening NATO, repositioning the G7 in world affairs, and retaining its pivotal position in the Middle East, it has become unsure as to what kind of priority India occupies in the US foreign policy calculus. The conclusion that emanates from the foregoing analysis is that despite having a scholar-diplomat as External Affairs Minister and despite Jaishankar personally enjoying close rapport with many of his counterparts globally, India’s foreign policy achievements during the last two years have been modest at best. It remains to be seen how Jaishankar, and the Modi government, will handle the Afghanistan issue now. (The writer is a former Professor of Political Science, Bangalore University, and former Senior Fellow, ICSSR, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/foreign-policy-achievements-are-modest-1020587.html
17-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid surge: 11 out of 20 worst-hit rural areas in Dakshina Kannada||Amid strict measures, the Covid-19 cases continues to surge in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district. According to Karnataka State Covid-19 War Room analysis report, published on August 12, out of top 20 worst-hit rural areas, 11 are in the district. According to the report, the 11 villages are Kandavara (22 cases in the last seven days), Melanthabettu (18 cases in last seven days), Thodaru (15 cases in last seven days), Mangaluru rural (11 cases), Kalmakaru (12 cases), Ajjavara (11 cases), Kadaba (14 cases), Konaje (17 cases), Guthigaru (10 cases), Kondemoole (10 cases) and Kolnadu (13 cases). In addition, five towns – Belthangady (167 cases in the last seven days), Ullal (24 cases), Puttur (98 cases), Kotekar (78 cases) and Moodbidri (49 cases) are also listed in the top 20 worst-hit towns.  While five villages from Udupi district that figure in the list are Badagabettu, Koteshwara, Nitte, Alpadi and Neere. The positivity rate in DK district is 4.08% followed by Chikkamagaluru - 3.48%, Kodagu - 3.06% and Udupi - 2.68%. The fatality rate in past seven days as per the report published on August 12 in DK district is 1.24%. The gradual rise in cases and the positivity rate in the past few weeks has kept district health officials on their toes. The district, which recorded 7,488 cases in July, has already reported 5,474 cases till August 15. In the first 15 days in July, the district had recorded 3,363 positive cases. The active cases in district on July 15 was 1,960 which has increased to 3,609 on August 15. Following Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai’s direction to bring down positivity rate in the district at review meeting held recently, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V had directed officials to implement CM’s directions by referring more positive cases to Covid Care Centres. Rajendra had also directed officials to book cases against those Covid-19 positive patients who were found roaming outside by violating quarantine rules. As on August 14, a total of 12.9 lakh population in the district have been vaccinated with 3.1 lakh receiving both doses of vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-surge-11-out-of-20-worst-hit-rural-areas-in-dakshina-kannada-1020532.html
17-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Solar parks to be set up at Koppal, Bagalkot & Aurad: Khuba||Union Minister of State for renewable energy, chemicals and fertilizers Bhagwanth Khuba said on Tuesday that solar parks will be set up at Koppal, Bagalkot and Aurad of Bidar district of the state at a cost of Rs 4,800 crore with a private partnership. Speaking at a press meet here, he said initial cost for producing one megawatt unit will be around Rs 3.75 crore to Rs 4 crore. A total of 1,200 megawatt-hour power will be produced in each plant. About 15,000 acres of land in Koppal and 9,600 acres in Bagalkot have already been identified and land will be leased from the farmers in Aurad for 25 years and Rs 25,000 will be paid for each acre. Tender has already been invited to set up the parks, the minister explained. The National Solar Policy will also be revised. A order will be issued to the electricity companies to invariably buy power to be produced from solar parks. The aim of the plants is to supply uninterrupted and quality power supply to the consumers, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/solar-parks-to-be-set-up-at-koppal-bagalkot-aurad-khuba-1020658.html
17-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||40 adverse weather warning systems planned along Karnataka's coast||As a measure to ramp up facilities to provide disaster alerts to local population, 40 adverse weather warning systems will be installed along the coastal districts of the state, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Tuesday. Each of the systems will have a siren to alert fishermen and local residents within a radius of six km, apart from other weather warning equipment. According to the minister, the project will be fully funded by the Central government with each unit costing Rs 10 crore to Rs 12 crore. The number of units could be increased to 60, Ashoka said, adding that the project would be taken up soon. “The main objective is to help fishermen,” he said. Flood-hit taluks The government declared 22 additional taluks from 13 districts as flood-hit due to the heavy downpour recorded in July in many parts of thestate. The number of such taluks is now 83. Karnataka had identified 61 taluks as flood-hit earlier in the month. The new taluks were added to the list based on reports from deputy commissioners of various districts, which highlighted the extent of flooding, crop loss, damage to property and other factors, he said. Mudigere gets ‘flood-hit’ tag Days after BJP’s Mudigere legislator M P Kumaraswamy staged a protest, the government included Mudigere in the list of flood-hit taluks. Kumaraswamy had staged a protest in front of the Gandhi statue on the premises of the Vidhana Soudha. Compensate flood victims: Siddaramaiah Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah alleged that all flood victims of 2019, 2020 and 2021 were yet to be compensated. “The homeless are yet to get the houses allotted to them. Villages on the banks of the rivers are yet to be relocated,” he said in a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. He urged the government to demand the rightful share of compensation from the Centre and ensure justice to people of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/40-adverse-weather-warning-systems-planned-along-karnatakas-coast-1020802.html
17-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sulking Anand Singh might have to wait longer for portfolio change||The BJP central leadership is not inclined to fulfill the demands of Tourism, Environment and Ecology Minister Anand Singh, who is sulking over not being given a ‘better’ portfolio. According to sources, the high command has informed Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai that there won’t be any immediate Cabinet reshuffle and that ministers should work in the departments allotted. Even an expansion of the Cabinet, by inducting ministers to the four vacant berths, would take two months, sources added. Singh and Municipalities and Small Scale Industries Minister M T B Nagaraj - who defected from the Congress-JD(S) coalition, are disgruntled over the allocation of portfolios. While Nagaraj mellowed down following his meeting with the CM, Singh has remained unhappy despite two meetings with Bommai over the last couple of weeks. He is yet to officially take charge of his new department, it is said. “The posturing by Singh will not yield him any benefits. The high command has directed the CM to not bow down to such tactics,” a senior minister in the Cabinet said. Even the threat of his resignation has not swayed any opinion in favour of Singh. “Resignation threat will be futile as putting down his papers two years from general elections will be counter-productive. Moreover, defying the high command will bear heavily in Singh’s mind before he takes any such steps,” the minister said. Meanwhile, according to sources, Cabinet expansion would likely take place in the next two months when the four vacant berths will be filled by the CM. “Though several BJP legislators have camped in Delhi lobbying for the vacant positions over the course of the month, it's still unclear who will be accommodated. The party leadership could prefer fresh faces or those dropped from former chief minister B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet,” a source added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sulking-anand-singh-might-have-to-wait-longer-for-portfolio-change-1020807.html
17-08-2021||Main Article||A ‘Project Tiger’ approach to India’s progress||India’s 74 years of existence as a sovereign, independent nation and a democracy is a minor miracle. At its birth, not many outside observers gave it a life expectancy of more than a few years. With an incredible degree of diversity on every conceivable dimension — religion, language, caste, cuisine, culture and even race — how could the country hold as one? There would inevitably be fissiparous tendencies and forces that would cause a split. Indeed, many countries newly liberated from the yoke of colonialism split due to internal divisions. Over the last seven decades, we have seen many more countries split, including our own twin. India was very poor and illiterate in 1947. It had been severely impoverished by its colonial rulers. It had suffered a bloody partition. Most remarkably, it had embarked on a bold, some say crazy, experiment to give every adult the right to vote. Democracy unleashed from the word go. No other modern nation has done it. Would it survive as a single nation? Would not competitive politics further divide the nation? Not only has the nation survived, but democracy has also thrived. Its health can never be taken for granted, but it is more robust now than it was in 1947. But as the famous quip goes, “eternal vigilance is the price of freedom and democracy”. India’s democracy project is akin to a company that is run by a management team appointed by the shareholders. The managers are the elected representatives and officials of the government at all three tiers, and the shareholders are the citizens and voters. If the management is hijacking the company, it is as much a fault of the silent, indifferent, complacent shareholders or voters, as of the wrongdoers themselves. Of course, the “regulators”, i.e., the independent institutions of this democratic project — the courts and constitutional authorities, the Lokpal, are all responsible for how well the “company” is doing. There are so many metrics along which we can measure the performance of the “company”, or rather the republic of India. For instance, we could measure how well we have done on the socio-political metrics. Have we been able to overcome social hierarchies to be able to give every citizen equality of opportunity and access? On the political metric, do we have a genuinely representative democracy that represents every Indian’s voice? The ultimate minority in any society is the individual. Thus, protection of minority rights means protecting the individual’s rights. Those rights are both positive and negative. The positive rights are right to freedom of expression, to freely move anywhere in the country, to pursue livelihood and practice once’s faith. The negative rights include the right not to be arrested by the police without due process, or harassed by any organ of the State. Many of these metrics can be measured and quantified in a fairly objective way. We can measure how we stand in comparison to other democracies of the world. It is, however, more important that we are progressing along our own historical path. That is, irrespective of how we stand in comparison to other countries, are we doing better as a robustly functioning democracy today than in 1947? Are we better at our platinum jubilee than we were at the golden jubilee? Apart from the socio-political dimensions are the economic development dimensions. Here we can use many indicators, such as per-capita income, literacy rate, school and college education attainment, access to drinking water and electricity, access to medical facilities, job opportunities and so on. Is it possible to coalesce all these into one or two meaningful indicators, easy to track and which can give a sharp estimate of where we stand? One is reminded of “Project Tiger,” launched nearly 50 years ago. The basic idea of that project is that by focusing on the health and habitat of the tiger, it was an indirect way of ensuring the health of the entire system of flora and fauna, of forests and wildlife. For, if the tiger was prospering, then so were its prey, like deer and bison, which meant that there was adequate green vegetation providing food and habitat to the lower organisms in the food chain. Similarly, if one were to focus on a “Project Tiger” metric to capture economic development in India, what would it be? In the early 1970s, Prof M D Morris was given the task of devising a quality-of-life index. He developed the physical quality-of-life index, which later improved into the United Nations Development Programme’s Human Development Index (HDI), developed by the Pakistani economist Mahbub Ul Haq, based on Amartya Sen’s work. The HDI is a simple average of three components — income, life expectancy and literacy. The first is an economic variable, the second is about health, and the third is about education. All three are also included in the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by all members of the UN in September 2015. India’s HDI rank in 2019 was 131 out of 189. The HDI rank is a relative ranking, so if your peer countries are progressing faster than you, then your rank falls back, even if you have done much better than your previous year. The HDI rank is one metric that we must focus on. It can be measured in a highly disaggregated way. You can have an HDI for the whole nation, or for each state of India, or a separate one for urban and rural areas of each state, or broken down into male and female HDI, or even in a more granular fashion. As such, we have already identified the 100 most backward districts of India, which we term as “aspirational,” whose HDI is very low. One can quibble that even the HDI is an “average” so it misses out on high-performance islands. If one has to focus on only one metric, what would that be? What is the “tiger” in this project approach? Some economic studies suggest, if there is a single metric to chase, it is the infant mortality rate (IMR) at age one. This is the number of deaths of children under one year of age, for every 1,000 live births. For India, this number is about 30. India has a higher IMR than neighbours Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. The best in the world is 1 or 2. Imagine achieving this aspirational IMR benchmark. This is the project “tiger” that we need to work on. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-project-tiger-approach-to-india-s-progress-1020582.html
17-08-2021||Mysuru||BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje to climb steps of Chamundi Hill during Navaratri||Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Shobha Karandlaje said she would climb the steps of Chamundi Hill for a 'darshan' of Sri Chamundeshwari Devi during Navaratri in October. She is in the city as part of her 'Janashirvada Yatre'. She toured Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts and reached Mysuru, on Monday. She will leave for Chikkamagaluru, via Hassan, on Tuesday. 'Janashirvada Yatre' is held by Union ministers on the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the Prime Minister could not introduce the new ministers in the Parliament due to disruptions by the Opposition parties during the Monsoon Session held from July 19 to August 13. Modi had directed his ministers to tour at least three Lok Sabha constituencies before reaching their respective constituency to introduce themselves to the people directly. Four Union ministers — A Narayanaswamy, Shobha Karandlaje, Rajeev Chandrashekar and Bhagavanth Khuba — are holding events in a total of 24 Lok Sabha and 72 Legislative Assembly segments. Since Shobha was Mysuru District in-charge Minister in 2008-09, she is closely connected with the city and its people. She has been climbing the steps of the Chamundi Hill since 2009 during the 'Ashada' month. “I used to climb the steps of the Chamundi Hill during one of the 'Ashada' Fridays, every year. This year, as all Union Ministers were mandated to stay in Delhi for the Session and the 75th Independence Day celebrations, I could not make it. I will climb the steps during 'Navaratri', which starts on October 7, this year,” she said. The Hindu month of 'Ashada' started on July 9 (new moon day, 'Ammavasye') this year and ended on August 8. Besides 'Ashada' Friday puja, Shobha has been associated with Dasara celebrations in Mysuru since 2009 and hosts a breakfast for the caretakers of elephants, every year. She also presents gifts to them. “When I was deputed as Mysuru District in-charge Minister, many people ridiculed me, as I was new to the region. They said that I have no knowledge of conducting the Dasara celebrations. But Sri Chamundeshwari Devi gave me all the strength to discharge my duties properly,” she recalled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/bjp-mp-shobha-karandlaje-to-climb-steps-of-chamundi-hill-during-navaratri-1020665.html
17-08-2021||National||Ministry of External Affairs sets up Afghanistan cell to coordinate repatriation||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has set up an 'Afghanistan Cell' to coordinate repatriation and related matters in the backdrop of the Taliban seizing control of the country. The announcement by MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi on setting up of the Cell came on Monday night hours after he said that India will facilitate the repatriation of Sikhs and Hindus who wish to leave the war-torn country. "#MEA has set up a Special Afghanistan Cell to coordinate repatriation and other requests from Afghanistan," Bagchi said on Twitter. He also put out the contact details to reach out to the Cell — Phone number: +919717785379, Email: MEAHelpdeskIndia@gmail.com. "We are in constant touch with the representatives of Afghan Sikh and Hindu communities. We will facilitate repatriation to India of those who wish to leave Afghanistan," the MEA spokesperson said earlier in the day. "There are also a number of Afghans who have been our partners in the promotion of our mutual developmental, educational and people-to-people endeavours. We will stand by them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ministry-of-external-affairs-sets-up-afghanistan-cell-to-coordinate-repatriation-1020540.html
17-08-2021||National||UAPA in its present form poses serious threat to citizens’ freedom, democracy: 108 ex-bureaucrats||The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in its present form poses a serious threat to the freedom of citizens and to democracy, and the government should enact a fresh legislation to replace it, a group of former bureaucrats has said in an open letter. The UAPA has a chequered history, they said. This legislation, passed in 1967 on the recommendations of the National Integration Council to combat communalism, casteism, regionalism and linguistic chauvinism and to deal with associations engaged in secessionist activities, has changed colour over time and has now become a statute that has created new categories of offences and punishments, they said. The UAPA has been in existence in India's statute books for over five decades and the harsh amendments it has gone through in recent years have made it “draconian, repressive, and amenable to gross misuse at the hands of ruling politicians and the police”, according to the open letter written by 108 former civil servants under the aegis of the Constitutional Conduct Group. The law, as it stands today, has many flaws and loopholes making it amenable to large scale abuse and misuse by some politicians and overzealous policemen, it said. Participating in a session at the G-7 Summit in Cornwall, the United Kingdom, held between 11 and 13 June 2021, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke of democracy and freedom being part of the Indian ethos, it said. "If the Prime Minister is true to his word, his government should heed the call of legal luminaries and the ordinary public, appreciate that the UAPA in its present form poses a serious threat to the freedom of our citizens and to democracy and, after consulting legal experts and taking into account the views of Parliament, enact fresh legislation to replace the UAPA...," the letter read. The former civil servants cited a written reply to Parliament by Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy in March this year to note that 1,948 persons were arrested under the UAPA in 1,226 cases across the country in 2019, a 72 per cent increase as compared to 2015. The year 2019 saw the highest number of arrests in the country, particularly in Uttar Pradesh (498), Manipur (386), Tamil Nadu (308), Jammu & Kashmir (227), and Jharkhand (202), the letter said. Despite the large number of arrests under the UAPA, the number of prosecutions and convictions shows a steep decline, it said. The government of India has admitted that a mere 2.2 per cent of the cases registered between 2016 and 2019 resulted in conviction, the letter said. "We may conclude that the vast majority of the arrests under UAPA were made on specious grounds just to spread fear and muzzle dissent," it said. "The most shocking of the arrests under the UAPA have been of persons accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case. Several well regarded activists who have fought throughout their lives for the rights of tribal people and other oppressed groups have been arrested as terrorists and, even today, languish in jail," the letter said. Former Lieutenant Governor of Delhi Najeeb Jung, former Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran, former Social Justice and Empowerment Secretary Anita Agnihotri and former Health Secretary K Sujatha Rao are among the 108 signatories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uapa-in-its-present-form-poses-serious-threat-to-citizens-freedom-democracy-108-ex-bureaucrats-1020542.html
17-08-2021||National||US Secretary of State Blinken, EAM Jaishankar discuss situation in Afghanistan, agree to continue coordination||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar discussed the chaotic situation in Afghanistan for a second time this week and agreed to continue their close coordination over the matter. Taliban insurgents took control of Afghanistan on Sunday. Their sudden victory, which comes as the US withdraws from the country following a 20-year brutal war, has sparked chaos at Kabul's airport, from where America and allied nations are trying to safely evacuate thousands of their citizens and allies. India on Tuesday rushed back home its ambassador Rudrendra Tandon and staff from the embassy in Kabul in a military transport aircraft. Blinken spoke with Jaishankar over the phone on Thursday to discuss the situation in Afghanistan, State Department spokesperson Ned Price said. "Secretary Blinken and Minister Jaishankar discussed Afghanistan and agreed to continued coordination," Price said in a readout of the call. "Productive call with @DrSJaishankar today (Thursday) about Afghanistan. We agreed to continue our close coordination," Blinken tweeted after the call. Blinken and Jaishankar last spoke on Monday and discussed the situation in the conflict-torn country. During their call, Jaishankar “underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul." The main challenge for travel to and from Afghanistan is the operational status of the Kabul airport. On Thursday, Jaishankar said that India is working with international partners, principally the US, in bringing stranded Indian nationals back home from Afghanistan. Jaishankar said this while addressing reporters at the UN Security Council stake-out after chairing the Security Council briefing on the 'Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts’, held under India’s current Presidency of the Council. In response to a question, he said on the issue of “where we go on from now” with the Taliban in control in Afghanistan, he said: “the immediate issue that we are looking at is really the repatriation of our nationals. In India’s case, India’s nationals, other countries have their concerns”. “We are working with international partners in this regard, principally the US, because they control the (Kabul) airport,” Jaishankar said. The Government of India is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals and will institute flight arrangements once Kabul airport is open for commercial operations, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Tuesday in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-secretary-of-state-blinken-eam-jaishankar-discuss-situation-in-afghanistan-agree-to-continue-coordination-1020559.html
17-08-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 cases rise by 25,166, lowest in 154 days||India saw a single-day rise of 25,166 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 154 days, taking the tally to 3,22,50,679, while the national recovery rate was recorded at 97.51 per cent, the highest since March 2020, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,32,079 with 437 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,69,846, the lowest in 146 days. It comprises 1.15 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020,  the health ministry said. A reduction of 12,101 cases has been recorded in the total number of active Covid-19 cases in a span of  24 hours. Also, 15,63,985 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 49,66,29,524. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.61 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 22 days.  Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.98 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 53 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,14,48,754, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 55.47 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far with more than 88.13 lakh doses being administered in the last 24 hours, which is the highest ever vaccination achieved in a single day, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-rise-by-25166-lowest-in-154-days-1020577.html
17-08-2021||National||At 88.13 lakh, India administers record number of vaccines in a day||India has administered more than 88.13 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, the highest ever vaccination achieved in a single day, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, "India achieves the highest single-day record in #COVID19 vaccine doses.Yesterday will go down in the history of the world's #LargestVaccineDrive.Congratulations." 8⃣8️⃣Lakh Cumulatively, 55,47,30,609 vaccine doses have been administered through 62,12,108 sessions across India, as per the provisional report till 7 am. Besides, the ministry said more than 56.81 crore vaccine doses have been provided to states and UTs so far through all sources and a further 1,09,32,960 doses are in the pipeline. Of this, the total consumption including wastage is 55,11,51,992 doses, according to the data available at 8 AM. More than 2.25 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states,UTs and private hospitals to be administered, the ministry stated. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.  With this, the cumulative tally of coronavirus cases increased to 3.22 crore. The death toll climbed to 4,32,079 as 437 more people succumbed to Covid-19, the data updated at 8 am showed.Active cases increased by 12,101 in the past 24 hours to 3,69,846. Meanwhile, 36,830 persons recovered over the past day. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-8813-lakh-india-administers-record-number-of-vaccines-in-a-day-1020600.html
17-08-2021||National||India evacuates its diplomats from Afghanistan, embassy not yet shut down||India has brought back home its ambassador to Afghanistan, Rudrendra Tandon, and all other diplomats and officials posted in its embassy in the capital of the war-torn country. Tandon and other diplomats and officials posted at the Embassy of India in Kabul returned home onboard a C-17 aircraft of the Indian Air Force. The aircraft took off from the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul in the early hours on Tuesday – less than 48 hours after the Taliban militants entered the city and the Afghan Government collapsed following President Ashraf Ghani’s escape from the country. The military aircraft did not fly over the airspace of Pakistan while flying between Afghanistan and India. It landed at Jamnagar in Gujarat. New Delhi, however, has not yet declared closure of the Embassy of India in Kabul, because it has not so far severed its diplomatic relations with Afghanistan. Though New Delhi could facilitate return of some of its officials and citizens from Afghanistan before and after the Taliban took over Kabul on Sunday, it had to pause repatriation, when the operations of the commercial airlines from the overcrowded Hamid Karzai International Airport in the capital of the conflict-ravaged country was suspended due to chaos on Monday. The soldiers of the United States and its NATO allies later took control of the airport and the Air Traffic Control. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said it was decided that the ambassador in Kabul and his Indian staff will move to India immediately in view of the prevailing circumstances. "In view of the prevailing circumstances, it has been decided that our Ambassador in Kabul and his Indian staff will move to India immediately," Bagchi tweeted. In view of the prevailing circumstances, it has been decided that our Ambassador in Kabul and his Indian staff will move to India immediately. An Indian Air Force (IAF) C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft brought back some personnel to India on Monday and Tuesday's flight is the second one.  External Affairs Minister, S Jaishankar, spoke to United States Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, in the early hours on Tuesday and conveyed to him New Delhi’s plan to send a military aircraft to bring back home India’s diplomats, officials and journalists as well as other citizens from Afghanistan. “Discussed latest developments in Afghanistan with @SecBlinken. Underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul. Deeply appreciate the American efforts underway in this regard,” Jaishankar tweeted. It was only after the External Affairs Minister spoke to the US Secretary of State that the IAF aircraft landed and hurriedly took off from Kabul with India’s diplomats posted in Afghanistan. Tandon and other officials of the Embassy of India in Kabul were waiting at the airport. The C-17 aircraft took off with nearly 120 passengers. New Delhi, however, has not shut down the Embassy of India in Kabul as it would have meant severance of diplomatic relations – a decision Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has not yet taken. India earlier withdrew its officials from its consulates in Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif in Afghanistan as the Taliban launched its military offensives and occupied a large number of districts across the country over the past few weeks, before finally entering Kabul on Sunday. None of the consulates was formally closed down and was left to be run by the local employees. New Delhi had on September 26, 1996 last shut down the Embassy of India in Kabul and evacuated its diplomats and officials onboard a special aircraft of the Ariana Airlines – just hours before the Taliban had taken over power in the capital of Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-evacuates-its-diplomats-from-afghanistan-embassy-not-yet-shut-down-1020601.html
17-08-2021||National||Afghanistan crisis: Shashi Tharoor doubts presence of 2 Malayali Taliban in their victory celebration video||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Tuesday shared a video of a group of Taliban celebrating its victory in Afghanistan in his twitter account in which gun wielding men are heard speaking in Malayalam. "It sounds as if there are at least two Malayali Taliban here — one who says “samsarikkette” around the 8-second mark & another who understands him!", Tharoor wrote on his microblogging site after sharing the video posted on August 15. The video showed the Taliban member weeping in joy as they reached outside Kabul, hours ahead of falling of the Afghanistan capital in their hands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghanistan-crisis-shashi-tharoor-doubts-presence-of-2-malayali-taliban-in-their-victory-celebration-video-1020614.html
17-08-2021||National||Pegasus probe: SC sends notice, seeks Centre's reply within 10 days||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre on a batch of PILs for court-monitored, independent probe into the Pegasus snooping case, amid the Centre's stance that which software was used for interception of phones for security purposes can't be open to public debate. A bench presided over by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said the top court would examine the Centre's proposal to form a technical panel of experts to look into all aspects of the matter. The court fixed the matter for consideration after two weeks. The Union government led by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta contended that several kinds of softwares are used by the security and military agencies to check anti-national and terrorist activities activities. "No government will make public what software it is using to allow terror networks to modulate its systems and escape tracking," he said. He submitted that the Centre was ready to place all facts about surveillance before a expert technical committee which can give a report to the court. With regard to the court's query if the Centre was ready to file a detailed affidavit, Mehta said that the response (two-page affidavit) filed on Monday sufficiently responded to the concerns raised by the petitioners journalist N Ram and others. "I wish to make it clear, it is not my case that I don’t wish to divulge. Limited point is let me say that before a committee of experts," Mehta said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal and others, appearing for petitioners, said, "We don’t want them to give any information as to security of the State. He must reply if Pegasus as a technology was used." "We will discuss what needs to be done, whether a committee of experts or some other committee needs to be made," the bench said. On July 18, an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers that were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. A batch of petitions including those by advocate M L Sharma, CPI(M) MP John Brittas, N Ram, former IIM professor Jagdeep Chokkar, Narendra Mishra, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, S N M Abdi and Editors Guild of India came up for hearing before the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pegasus-probe-sc-sends-notice-seeks-centres-reply-within-10-days-1020623.html
17-08-2021||National||Afghanistan crisis: IAF C-17 aircraft from Kabul lands at Jamnagar with over 100 Indians aboard||An Indian Air Force plane with over 100 persons on board landed on Tuesday at Jamnagar in Gujarat from Kabul in Afghanistan, an official said. The C-17 aircraft touched down at the IAF air base at Jamnagar shortly before noon, the official said. The aircraft had left Kabul carrying Indian personnel as part of the emergency evacuation in view of the prevailing situation in the Afghan capital following its takeover by the Taliban. Immediately after passengers on board the C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft deplaned, they were greeted by people present on the tarmac, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghanistan-crisis-iaf-c-17-aircraft-from-kabul-lands-at-jamnagar-with-over-100-indians-aboard-1020626.html
17-08-2021||National||Taliban takeover of Afghanistan may boost pan-Islamist militant groups in Kashmir||The Taliban takeover of Afghanistan has led to apprehensions that it may not only embolden militants in Jammu and Kashmir but boost pan-Islamist terror groups in the region. Security experts believe that the Taliban’s return to power will have a negative impact in Kashmir as it immensely relieves the Pakistan army and its spy agency ISI who can shift terror training from Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir to Afghanistan to avoid international scrutiny. “Anti-India terror groups would now get safe havens in Afghanistan. Also the ISI may ask the Taliban to divert some of its terrorists to J&K to revive terror operations,” former J&K police chief, Shesh Pal Vaid, said. He says that India needs to be very cautious. “We may have to deal with the alliance of China, Pakistan and the Taliban,” he predicts. The other impact of Taliban takeover in Afghanistan that is worrying is that pan-Islamist militant groups have gained tremendous ground in Kashmir in recent years. “The Taliban have not given up on the idea of the Caliphate (Islamic rule) from Afghanistan to the European border. This thought has gained support in Kashmir in recent years and terror groups like Jaish-e-Mohammad may try to exploit this situation,” a senior police officer involved in counter-insurgency operations, said. From 1996 to 2001, when the Taliban was in power, most of the foreign terrorists entered Kashmir. From the Kargil war in 1999 to the Parliament attack and the attack on the J&K Assembly in 2001, the role of foreign terrorists had increased manifold during that period. “After the withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan in the late 1980s, an anti-India armed insurgency erupted in the Valley. The Soviet troops withdrawal boosted the morale of pan-Islamist forces and same can happen after US withdrawal from Afghanistan now,” he believes. Prof Noor Ahmad Baba, former head of the political science department of Kashmir University, believes that many people in Kashmir were waiting for the Taliban to cross over and fight here. “There will be encouragement. If Pakistan is willing to invest, it can have more focus on Kashmir (after neutralising its Afghan front),” he said. However, Director General of Border Security Force (BSF) S S Deswal asserted that India was ready for any eventuality in the wake of the evolving situation in Afghanistan under the Taliban. “It (Taliban takeover) is that country’s internal matter. However the situation there is being closely monitored and India is ready for any eventuality,” he said, while addressing a press conference at Octroi post along the International Border in R.S.Pura area of Jammu on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-takeover-of-afghanistan-may-boost-pan-islamist-militant-groups-in-kashmir-1020628.html
17-08-2021||National||India has not abandoned people of Afghanistan: Ambassador Rudrendra Tandon||Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon after landing at Jamnagar Indian Air Force station with over 120 evacuees on Tuesday said that it is wrong to say that "India has abandoned the people of Afghanistan". He said that India will try to continue interaction with the neighbouring country, now under the control of Taliban, keeping in mind the welfare and relationship between the two countries. Tandon said this during a brief interaction with the media at Jamnagar where he landed with evacuees in Indian Air Force's C-17 Globemaster transport aircraft from Kabul. "I don't know what to say. You can't imagine how great it is to be back home. After two weeks of very intense work... in a very complicated situation... and in conditions which were very unusual... I am very happy and I think the whole mission is very happy that it is finally over... that we are back home safely and securely without any accidents or harm to any of our people," a visibly happy Tandon told reporters. "We are a mission of 192 personnel that were evacuated from Afghanistan within a period of three days in two phases in orderly fashion. In addition to our mission personnel, there are also people who work for public sector companies, for example people from Air India who also had to be evacuated because the conditions in Kabul city had become very complicated. Then, there are a lot of Indian citizens who found themselves in distress because of the fast changing situation. So, our policy was that anyone who reached the embassy was taken into the embassy. I know that this whole evacuation programme was being monitored at the highest level, that is how the whole operation was conducted." he said. "It's not that we have abandoned the people of Afghanistan, that their welfare and our old relationship with them is very much in our mind. We will be going forward to try and continue our interaction with them. Of course, I can't say exactly in what form and manner- because the situation there is changing so much. We are also continually monitoring the situation - there are still some Indian citizens who are there. That's why Air India will continue to run its commercial services to Kabul as long as the airport functions," he said. He also added, "There are many others who continue to work in Kabul city, despite the changing situation and have changed their mind subsequently and will be brought back when the commercial services begin." When asked about the exact number of Indians stuck in the turmoil, he said that the figure could be between 40 and 50. He said that many Indian citizens had not registered with the embassy, therefore it was difficult to contact all of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-not-abandoned-people-of-afghanistan-ambassador-rudrendra-tandon-1020633.html
17-08-2021||National||World leaders should address Afghanistan issue to save lives: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday stated that UN and USA should take serious note of the situation in Afghanistan and should make best efforts for the safety of human lives. "The situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban took over it is pathetic. It is a matter of grave concern. All world leaders should address this issue and put efforts to save people's lives," he said. "India is closely watching the situation in Afghanistan, and best possible steps are being taken to protect each and every Indian there. Terrorist organisations often try to create problems in other countries also, and India is able to contain any form of cross-border terrorism," Joshi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-leaders-should-address-afghanistan-issue-to-save-lives-pralhad-joshi-1020639.html
17-08-2021||National||You are all winners and role models: PM Modi to Tokyo-bound para athletes||"You are all winners and role models," Prime Minister Narendra Modi told India's top para athletes, who are set to compete in the upcoming Tokyo Paralympics. Modi virtually interacted with 10 athletes, including 2016 Rio edition gold winners Devendra Jhajharia and Mariyappan Thangavelu, and urged them to compete without pressure. The Paralympics will be held between August 24 to September 5. "In spite of all the difficulties in your lives, you did not lose heart and kept on fighting. By your hard work and strong will, you have reached this stage against all odds. You are going the represent the country in the biggest sporting stage," Modi said. "You all are winners and role models. You should not play with pressure. I hope you all will give your best and medals will follow. You will make the country proud." India is sending a 54-member team -- the largest ever -- in the upcoming Tokyo Paralympics with hopes that the country will produce its best ever performance. The team has some of the brightest medal prospects like Jhajharia, seeking his third Paralympics gold (after 2004 and 2016) in F-46 javelin throw, Mariyappan (T-63 high jump) and world champion Sandeep Choudhary (F-64 javelin throw). India will compete in nine sports. Mariyappan, who had won a gold in the last edition in Rio, will be the flag bearer of the Indian contingent during the opening ceremony. Sports Minister Anurag Thakur wished the athletes good luck, noting that para-athletes have performed impressively in the international events in the last few years. "We have won 12 medals so far in the Paralympics. Our athletes have done very well in the international events in the last few years. "I hope they will give their best and win laurels for the country." India will start its campaign on August 27, with men's and women's archery events.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/you-are-all-winners-and-role-models-pm-modi-to-tokyo-bound-para-athletes-1020646.html
17-08-2021||National||VP Naidu calls for out-of-box solutions for climate change, agri problems||During a visit to Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR) in the city on Monday, the Vice President of India M Venkaiah Naidu called upon scientists to come up with out-of-the-box solutions to address challenges faced by mankind from climate change to agriculture to health and medicine. Naidu said that scientists must strive for achieving excellence and to innovate for improving the lives of the people. “Purpose of science is to make people’s lives happy, healthy and comfortable,” he added. Stressing that scientific research should be relevant to society, he said, in this context, translational research assumes importance. He lauded JNCASR for having generated over 300 patents and for promoting the establishment of a few startups based on indigenous inventions. While noting that JNCASR was known for conducting research in a wide range of areas, he advised the scientists and researchers to undertake research in new emerging fields like synthetic biology, computational biology, high-performance engineering materials and artificial intelligence. Terming agriculture as ‘basic culture of the country’, the Vice President also wanted the scientists to focus their attention on issues faced by the farming community. Lauding JNCASR for having made an excellent impact on the international arena by positioning itself among the top institutions in its areas of expertise, he said it can contribute immensely towards fostering scientific temper in the country and improving research outcomes. Referring to the National Education Policy 2020, he said it will ensure that students have access to new teaching and learning strategies across all segments. “This will create the right educational ecosystem and enrich their knowledge base while also honing their skill sets,” he added. Pointing to the fact that 40 per cent of JNCASR students are women, the Vice President said that he wished to see similar healthy trends in other scientific institutions as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-calls-for-out-of-box-solutions-for-climate-change-agri-problems-1020660.html
17-08-2021||National||Taliban can't be trusted: Yasmin Nigar Khan urges PM Modi, others to care for Afghanistan||Yasmin Nigar Khan, granddaughter of Abdul Ghaffar Khan and President of the All India Pakhtoon Jirga-e-Hind, on Tuesday appealed to PM Modi and the rest of the world to care for Afghanisthan in the manner in which they cared for Syria, Palestine and other war-torn countries.  Khan further told news agency ANI that Taliban "can't be trusted." "They might say something now and do something else the next day." Taliban can't be trusted. They might say something now & do something else the next day. We can just appeal to PM Modi & rest of the world that the manner in which they cared for Syria, Palestine & other war-torn countries, they should look at Afghanistan too: Yasmin Nigar Khan "Afghans who live here are worried about their families in Afghanistan. The situation in last one to two days has been a matter of concern. Taliban took over the country without a fight," she said. She added, "The leaders left the country but the common people, the poor, the women, the children are making sacrifices. They should be looked after." The Pakhtoon Jirga-e-Hind was set up in 1949 by Lala Jaan Khan, the adopted son of Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan. In 1996, Yasmin became the head of the organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-cant-be-trusted-yasmin-nigar-khan-urges-pm-modi-others-to-care-for-afghanistan-1020661.html
17-08-2021||National||Retired Army man Ajay Kothiyal to be AAP's CM face in Uttarakhand Assembly polls||Delhi Chief Minister and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that retired Army man Ajay Kothiyal will be the party's chief ministerial candidate in the 2022 Uttarakhand Assembly polls. Kejriwal said the decision to pick Kothiyal as the party's CM face was based on the feedback received from people who are fed up with politicians helming the state. "People here want a break from politicians who have only looted the state. They now want an Armyman as CM who will not spend his tenure filling his coffers but serve them," the Delhi chief minister said. If voted to power, the Aam Aadmi Party, under the leadership of Kothiyal, will make Uttarakhand the global spiritual capital for Hindus and generate employment opportunities for the state's youth, Kejriwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/retired-army-man-ajay-kothiyal-to-be-aaps-cm-face-in-uttarakhand-assembly-polls-1020669.html
17-08-2021||National||'Reckless' Rahul Gandhi forged letter to unlock Twitter account: BJP||BJP President J P Nadda on Tuesday hit out at Rahul Gandhi, accusing him of pursuing “reckless” politics by revealing the identity of the family of a rape victim and “falsely” claiming to have done it with their consent. Gandhi’s Twitter account was blocked for violation of the law that prohibits any person from revealing the identity of the family of a rape victim. Congress, in a letter to Twitter, had claimed that they had a letter of consent from the family stating they had no objection to their identity being disclosed. The sharp attack from the BJP came after reports in a section of the media claimed that the rape victim’s family denied having given any consent letter to allow the use of their pictures by the Congress. “If you have zero sensitivity, loads of arrogance and reckless style of politics, then you have scant regard for the rule of law,” Nadda said, referring to Gandhi. Inaugurating the Kozhikode office of the BJP, Nadda also accused Gandhi of being a “political tourist” in Kerala after losing the Lok Sabha elections from Amethi. “The real intentions and emotions of a person do not change merely by changing the state,” Nadda said. Addressing a press conference here, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra accused Gandhi of submitting a “forged letter” to Twitter to get his account “unlocked”. “When Twitter blocked his account for disclosing the identity of a rape victim’s family, Rahul Gandhi lied about consent given by the family. No responsible politician behaves in such a manner,” Patra said. Patra claimed that the Congress had presented a “forged” letter to get Gandhi’s Twitter account unlocked. “Does such an irresponsible person have the right to be on any public platform…. He has used the family of a rape victime to further his own political career,” Patra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reckless-rahul-gandhi-forged-letter-to-unlock-twitter-account-bjp-1020707.html
17-08-2021||National||HC asks Centre, Google to respond to plea of 2 businessmen to remove articles from Internet||The Delhi High Court Tuesday sought response of the Centre and search engine Google on a plea by two businessmen seeking to remove certain articles, relating to a criminal case lodged against them, from various online platforms. The two men said the criminal case dates back to 2002 and they have been discharged by the court in 2016. However, the articles are still available on the Internet due to which they face social stigma on the perception of being allegedly involved in smuggling and illegal activities, they submitted. Justice Rekha Palli issued notices to the Centre, Google and a national daily on the petition and asked them to file their replies within three weeks and listed the matter for further hearing on October 28. The court, however, refused to grant any interim relief to the petitioners at this stage and said, “we will see”. “You have a right to privacy but we have to see how we can balance it,” the court said. Businessmen working in aviation sector Jaideep Mirchandani, an NRI, and Shiyaz Amani sought direction to Google and the national daily to respect their right to privacy and remove the news articles, case details and judgement regarding the criminal case relating to them from their respective online sites. The plea said these acts are deterrent to the potential clients of the petitioners and are hampering their career growth and various opportunities. It said the petitioners have a “right to be forgotten” or a “right to delink” in the context of the facts and circumstances of the case and they have a right to ask the authorities to remove all the links related to him on the search index which are irrelevant and obsolete and jeopardise their prospective employment opportunities and make them suffer. The two men were booked in an alleged conspiracy and forgery case for using forged documents for illegal clearance of cargo planes. They were discharged by the court in the case in December 2016, the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-asks-centre-google-to-respond-to-plea-of-2-businessmen-to-remove-articles-from-internet-1020708.html
17-08-2021||National||Afghan students in India worried amid Taliban takeover ||As conditions in Afghanistan become grim in wake of the Taliban takeover, the students from the neighbouring country studying in Indian cities are a worried lot.  By different estimates, nearly 10,000 to 15,000 students hailing from Afghanistan are based in India, of which around 5,000 are in Maharashtra.  They now face issues of a communication breakdown, leaving them with no information about their families who face threat to their lives if the Taliban come to know about them studying in India. Besides, students are faced with issues related to visas, which the government is addressing, and they are running out of money.  “We are totally confused….we don’t know what to do, we are in a difficult situation,” said Mohammed Ahamedi, a student based in Maharashtra, who has already knocked the doors of the government.  “The government must look at the issues of immigration of our parents to India and help us in getting jobs in India. Returning back is like inviting death,” Ahamedi told DH over the phone.  According to him, there are a total of 15,000 plus students from Afghanistan. “The families of the students are in danger…it is a big worry. Nothing is working, landline or cellphones….we are just glued to TV sets for updates,” he said.  Pune-based Sanjay Nahar, the founder-president of Sarhad NGO, said that they have already started working on a plan. “By our estimates there are over 10,000 Afghanistan students in India…we are getting the details. By a day’s time, the picture would be clear…we will have exact details on the total number of students, how many are currently in India and how many have gone back during lockdown,” said Nahar.  Mumbai-based peace activist Jatin Desai said that the situation is worrisome. “All those who are under threat should be given priority in visa irrespective of his/her religion,” said Desai, a journalist, author, analyst and activist. "Many students depend on parents and families as far as college and institute fees, rent for accommodation are concerned. They are in a difficult situation," he said, adding that the Centre and state governments must extend necessary help to the students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-students-in-india-worried-amid-taliban-takeover-1020711.html
17-08-2021||National||No compromise with national security but authority must respond to charges of phones hacking: SC ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday told the Centre that it would not like to compromise with the security of the nation but wanted the competent authority to apprise it on charges related to illegal hacking of phones through Israel's Pegasus spyware. The top court sought a response from the Centre on a batch of PILs for court-monitored independent probe into Pegasus snooping case, even though the Centre maintained it can't make public which software was used for interception of phones for security purposes. "We do not want to compromise with security of this country or defence of nation. Here the issue is different, there are people alleging hacking of their phones. In case of civilians also rules permit interception, but only on permission by competent authority. What is the problem if that competent authority files an affidavit before us? We don't want you to say anything related to national security," the CJI told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The bench issued a formal notice to the Union government in the matter. The court also said it would examine the Centre's proposal to form a technical panel of experts to look into all aspects of the matter and fixed the case for hearing after 10 days. The Union government led by Mehta contended that several kinds of software are used by the security and military agencies to check anti-national and terrorist activities activities. "No government will make public what software it is using to allow terror networks to modulate its systems and escape tracking," he said. Responding to the court's observation, he submitted that the Centre was ready to place all facts about surveillance before a expert technical committee which can give a report to the court. With regard to the court's query if the Centre was ready to file a detailed affidavit, Mehta said that the response (two-page affidavit) filed on Monday sufficiently responded to the concerns raised by the petitioners journalist N Ram and others. He said the government does not want to file any additional affidavit on the Pegasus issue, as national security aspects are involved. "If the government is disclosing in public that it is not using a particular interception software, the terrorist organizations will take advantage of that information to change their communication settings," Mehta said. "I wish to make it clear, it is not my case that I don’t wish to divulge. (My) Limited point is let me say that before a committee of experts," he added. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal and others, appearing for petitioners, said security of the state is as important to us as to the government. "We don’t want them to give any information as to security of the State. He must reply if pegasus as a technology was used," he said. "We will discuss what needs to be done, if committee of experts needs to be made, or some other committee," the bench said. On July 18, an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers that were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. A batch of petitions including those by advocate M L Sharma, CPI(M) MP John Brittas, N Ram, former IIM professor Jagdeep Chokkar, Narendra Mishra, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, S N M Abdi and Editors Guild of India came up for hearing before the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-compromise-with-national-security-but-authority-must-respond-to-charges-of-phones-hacking-sc-1020712.html
17-08-2021||National||Not a worry for India: Ex-Diplomat on Taliban taking over Afghanistan||The Taliban taking over Afghanistan is not a cause for worry for India, an ex-Diplomat said on Tuesday. The former Indian Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, Oman and the UAE, Talmiz Ahmad also argued that New Delhi has no role in Afghanistan at present, and dismissed suggestions that India should engage with the Taliban. He termed as "absolute rubbish" some people expressing the view that India will be "jeopardised" if the Taliban gains total control of Afghanistan. "The Taliban is a national movement and they want to control Afghanistan but they have no interest outside Afghanistan," Ahmad told PTI in a telephonic interview. He said it's Pakistan which maintains a very tight control over movement of extremists into India for more than 30 years and continues to do so. "I don't see that situation changing only because the Taliban are in control in Afghanistan", Ahmad said. Stating that Al Qaeda and Islamic State (IS) have "no role" in India, he said Indian Muslims are not radicalised for 30 years by these "transnational movements". "So, I do not believe that there will be any impact in terms of heightened radical activity in India", Ahmad said. In the event of Afghanistan becoming a sanctuary for extremists, he said, it will pose a danger not for India but for Pakistan itself, for China, Russia and the Central Asian republics. This is because all these countries have border with Afghanistan (Russia through Central Asian republics) and have a "restive and disgruntled" population who have a record of joining the transnational movements (AL Qaeda and IS), Ahmad said. "It's not India that has to worry; it's these countries who have to worry. Which is why Russia and China are hastening to engage with the Taliban because they are extremely vulnerable in this regard," according to him. Pakistan has to worry because of its porous border with Afghanistan and free movement of people, he said, adding, Pakistan itself has extremist elements who have links with their counterparts in Afghanistan. There is no place or role for India in Afghanistan at present, Ahmad said. "We were totally committed to Kabul regime. We attempted to strengthen their hands with projects related to national development and welfare but we had no other instrument available to us to strengthen the regime," he said. Afghanistan, Ahmad said, is going to face a very prolonged turmoil and uncertainty. Neither the Taliban themselves nor their Pakistani mentors have an idea of what are going to be the next steps. The Taliban have been a resistance movement but they have not shown capacity for governance. "There will be a grave turmoil. I don't see any place for India", he said. He said there is no point in trying to engage with the Taliban. "There is nothing in common between us and them". The Taliban is a radical movement entirely created and supported by Pakistan. Gulf countries, particularly Saudi Arabia and the UAE, had been providing extraordinary funding to the Taliban for the last 20 years, he said. "Where is the place for India in this dialogue?", he asked. "When anybody says 'engage with the Taliban', engage with the Taliban to what end and to what purpose?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-a-worry-for-india-ex-diplomat-on-taliban-taking-over-afghanistan-1020717.html
17-08-2021||National||India failed to draw up plan well in advance to evacuate its citizens from Afghanistan: Yechury||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Tuesday accused the Centre of failing to draw up a plan well in advance to evacuate Indians from Afghanistan before the Taliban gained control over the country. "The government should have planned the evacuation much earlier before the Taliban took over Afghanistan, as the air space was totally closed down after it," he told reporters here. Demanding that the government provide proper information about the steps taken to ensure the safety of Indians , he said many countries had evacuated their citizens earlier, anticipating what was going to happen in another 10 days. India on Tuesday brought back home the Indian ambassador and its staff at the embassy in Kabul in a military transport aircraft in view of the deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital, two days after its takeover by the Taliban. Yechury, here to address the two-day Party State Committee meeting, alleged that India was seen as a 'subordinate ally' of the United States, "which should not have gone to that country." On the Pegasus snooping issue, he said the Centre's response in the Supreme Court was a 'clear admission that it has used the spyware. The Supreme Court on Monday said it cannot compel the 'reluctant' Centre to file a detailed affidavit on pleas seeking information if Pegasus spyware was used to snoop on certain citizens and steps it took to probe the allegations amid vehement claims that there was 'nothing to hide " and it will set up a panel to examine all aspects related to the issue. Yechury also flayed the Centre's move to observe August 14 as 'Partition Horrors Remembrance Day' and asked the Government to focus on strengthening the Constitution further, as the country had adopted a secular and democratic Constitution (after partition. The CPI(M) would organise nation-wide protests along with Opposition parties next month on various demands, including effectively controlling the pandemic, he said. Yechury also demanded that the Centre withdraw the duty hike on petroleum products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-failed-to-draw-up-plan-well-in-advance-to-evacuate-its-citizens-from-afghanistan-yechury-1020719.html
17-08-2021||National||Another BJP leader shot dead by militants in Kashmir||Militants shot dead a leader of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in south Kashmir's Kulgam district on Tuesday, the second such incident in a week. Police said militants fired upon Javid Ahmad Dar, BJP's constituency in-charge in the district, outside his residence in Brazloo Jagir, Kulgam, 70 kms from here. He was immediately shifted to the nearest hospital, however, doctors declared him brought dead. Reports said following the killing, police and army rushed to the spot to nab the assailants. The BJP termed the killing of Dar as “barbaric”. Other political parties also strongly condemned the incident. This was the second killing of a BJP leader in Kashmir this month. On August 9, militants had barged into the rented accommodation of Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife Jawhara Banoo in neighboring Anantnag district, and shot at them from a close range. 65-year-old Dar was the Kulgam district president of BJP Kisan Morcha and a sarpanch. His wife was also a panch from the same village. More than 40 political activists, including panchayat members and grassroots workers, mostly affiliated with the BJP have been killed by militants in Kashmir since the abrogation of special status of the erstwhile state under Article 370 in August 2019. Kashmir reportedly has at least 7.5 lakh BJP workers on the ground and all of them do not have security. But it is not only the BJP workers, who have been targeted by the militants from south to north Kashmir. Militants have also targeted elected panchs and sarpanchs belonging to other political parties. The latest spate of political killings has returned to haunt the Valley at a time when the violence was apparently on decline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/another-bjp-leader-shot-dead-by-militants-in-kashmir-1020730.html
17-08-2021||National||All efforts should be made to ensure safety, dignity of children, women in Afghanistan: Satyarthi||Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi Tuesday said every possible effort should be made to ensure the safety and dignity of children and women in Afghanistan and all parties concerned, in and outside the war-torn country, must prioritise the well-being and future of children in the process of stability and peace. In a tweet, Satyarthi said, "Every possible effort should be made to ensure the safety and dignity of children and women in Afghanistan. All concerned parties, in and outside Afghanistan, must prioritise the well-being and future of children in the process of stability and peace." Afghanistan stares at an uncertain future as President Ashraf Ghani left the country just before Kabul fell to the Taliban on Sunday. There were no major reports of abuses or fighting, but many residents stayed home and remained fearful after the insurgents' advance saw prisons emptied and armories looted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-efforts-should-be-made-to-ensure-safety-dignity-of-children-women-in-afghanistan-satyarthi-1020733.html
17-08-2021||National||BJP worker in Pune builds temple for Modi||A BJP worker here has constructed a temple for Narendra Modi, complete with the prime minister's bust inside. It was his tribute to the prime minister who "built Ram temple at Ayodhya" among other things, says 37-year-old Mayur Munde. The small temple stands in Pune's Aundh area. "After becoming PM, Modi has done a lot of developmental work and dealt with issues such as the abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir, Ram Mandir temple and triple talaq successfully," said Munde, who is a real estate agent. "I thought that for a person who built Ram temple in Ayodhya, there should be a shrine, so I decided to construct this temple on my own premises," he told reporters. The prime minister's bust as well as the red marble used in construction were brought from Jaipur and the total expenditure was around Rs 1.6 lakh, he said. A poem dedicated to Modi is also displayed next to the structure, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-worker-in-pune-builds-temple-for-modi-1020737.html
17-08-2021||National||National-level security for judges not advisable, Centre tells SC||The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that it was not advisable to have a national level security force for judges and court complexes, as local police would be in a better position to deal with their protection in view of State-specific threats.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, submitted before a bench headed by chief justice N V Ramana that the central government has issued guidelines, in 2007, regarding the protection of judges and court complexes.  He said instead of creating a specialised police force there is a need to ensure fuller implementation of guidelines by the Ministry of Home Affairs for States and Union territories.   He further said that security problems that Himachal Pradesh faced may be different than that of Jharkhand, therefore the force has to be state-specific, not Centre-specific.  He contended that it may not be advisable to have a national level security force for judges.  The response from Mehta came as, the court asked him whether it is possible to have a specialised national force for judges’ security on the lines of RPF, CSIF etc. He said the security of courts is better left to States, as it requires day to day coordination with the local police.  The court also sought to know whether the guidelines issued by the MHA are followed or not for the protection of judges, courts etc.  “You are the central government. You can call DGPs... you are the best person to get this done. States are saying they don't have funds for CCTVs etc... these issues you have to resolve between you and States," the bench told Mehta. The bench also noted the court had on previous hearing granted the last opportunity to States, for filing affidavits in connection with the protection of judges, yet many have not responded.  The court granted 10 days to States to file a response, saying it would impose Rs 1 lakh cost on their failure to do so. The court was hearing a Suo Motu matter registered after the alleged mowing dow of Dhanbad Additional District Judge, Uttam Anand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-level-security-for-judges-not-advisable-centre-tells-sc-1020743.html
17-08-2021||National||Samajwadi MP defends Taliban, says they want to run their own country||A Samajwadi Party MP has defended the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan, equating it with India’s own freedom struggle. Responding to questions from reporters on Monday, Sambhal Lok Sabha MP Shafiqur Rahman Barq said the Taliban wanted to free their country and it was Afghanistan’s internal matter. His remark drew a sharp reaction Tuesday from Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who compared it Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s comment after Kabul fell to the Taliban. Barq called the Taliban a force that did not allow Russia or the United States to establish themselves in Afghanistan, “and now they want to run their own country”. The MP said when India was under British Rule, the entire country fought for independence. “They want to be free. This is their personal matter. How can we interfere?” he said on developments in Afghanistan. Endorsing the Taliban takeover, Barq said the Afghans want to run their own country in the manner they wanted. Asked to comment on the MP’s remarks, Deputy CM Maurya said he had not personally heard them. “But if this type of statement has been given then there is no difference between that person and Imran Khan," he added. The Pakistan prime minister on Monday appeared to endorse the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul, saying Afghanistan has broken the "shackles of slavery". The UP minister slammed the opposition Samajwadi Party over the MP’s comment. "Anything can happen in the Samajwadi Party. There are people who cannot sing the Jana Gana Mana, someone might support the Taliban, others could level allegations on police after terrorists are caught. This is appeasement,” he said outside the state Assembly in Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/samajwadi-mp-defends-taliban-says-they-want-to-run-their-own-country-1020744.html
17-08-2021||National||AFC Cup: BFC lock horns with ATK Mohun Bagan in all-India affair||Bengaluru FC will have an opportunity to record their first win against familiar foes ATK Mohun Bagan since 2019 when they lock horns in an AFC Cup Group D match here on Wednesday. BFC head coach Marco Pezzaiuoli's side will head into the clash having not defeated ATK Mohun Bagan since the Indian Super League two years ago, with the Italian claiming that makes his team's rivals the favourites. Pezzaiuoli though said his side would have to be at their best at the National Stadium. Bengaluru, who defeated Club Eagles 1-0 in the playoff on Sunday, are grouped alongside ATK Mohun Bagan, Bashundhara Kings and Maziya S&RC, with only one team set to qualify for the Inter-zone playoff semifinals. "Our last game was only two days ago, so it was a short recovery for the team. It's not really an advantage, but I can see the glass either as half empty or half full, and I choose to see it half full. "There was a good spirit and positive energy in the team after the win. We need to be very sharp against ATK Mohun Bagan, because I am expecting an aggressive game," said Pezzaiuoli, speaking at the pre-match press conference. ATK Mohun Bagan, who qualified for the group stages of the competition by virtue of the erstwhile Mohun Bagan's victorious 2019-20 I-League campaign, have recruited strongly since their defeat to Mumbai City FC in the 2020-21 Indian Super League final. Pezzaiuoli believes the Blues will have their task cut out on Wednesday. The Kolkata-based side have added several players to their squad over the summer, including the likes of French midfielder Hugo Boumous, Amrinder Singh, Liston Colaco, Ashutosh Mehta, Bidyananda Singh and Deepak Tangri. "ATK Mohun Bagan like to play a lot of long passes, go for the second ball and press high up on the pitch, which calls for a different approach from us. But they have also changed things in the summer, by bringing in a French foreigner (Hugo Boumous), among other players. "This shows that they want to win the Indian Super League and the AFC Cup. We have to be in good spirit, show good focus and I am certain that we have a chance of winning tomorrow," Pezzaiuoli added. ATK Mohun Bagan head coach Antonio López is equally confident of his side's chances against Bengaluru FC. "With all that is happening with the COVID-19 pandemic and lack of participation from our foreign stars, we are (still) looking forward to doing our best in the competition." López's team last played competitively in the Indian Super League final in March against Mumbai City and the Spanish tactician admits that the long break between games may not necessarily be an advantage for his team. "I know we have not kicked the ball for a while and obviously our players have had adequate rest but that doesn't mean we have the clear advantage. I don't believe in this philosophy as I think the team who shows more desire will win tomorrow." Jayesh Rane scored the only goal of the game when the Blues beat Club Eagles, and with only three games to play in the group stages, goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu said the task at hand was one that required focus and commitment from all corners. "It's true that things are different this time, because there are fewer games to play in the Group. But it is still difficult, and we have to be focused. It was important for us to get into the Group Stage because we want to do well in Asia, as a club," said Gurpeet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afc-cup-bfc-lock-horns-with-atk-mohun-bagan-in-all-india-affair-1020749.html
17-08-2021||National||Getting Indian envoy, mission staff out of Afghanistan was 'difficult, complicated', Jaishankar says in US||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday said that the movement of the Indian Ambassador and the Embassy staff from war-torn Afghanistan to India was a "difficult and complicated exercise" as he thanked those who cooperated and facilitated the efforts. Jaishankar, who is in the US on a four-day visit to attend a number of UN Security Council events, including a briefing on terrorism that will be held under India's presidency of the powerful body, took to Twitter to share details about New Delhi’s efforts to get Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan Rudrendra Tandon and the Embassy staff out from Kabul. “Movement of the Indian Ambassador and the Embassy staff from Kabul to India was a difficult and complicated exercise. Thank all those whose cooperation and facilitation made it possible,” he said in a tweet. Jaishankar’s visit to New York is taking place in the backdrop of the Taliban's rapid onslaught in Afghanistan and the issue is likely to figure in his talks with UN officials. The C-17 Globemaster aircraft of the Indian Air Force carrying around 150 people, including diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians, landed at the Hindon airbase near the national capital at around 5 PM after a brief halt at Jamnagar in Gujarat, in the wake of escalating tension, fear and uncertainty gripping the Afghan capital after its take over by the Taliban two days back. It is the second evacuation flight as another C-17 aircraft brought back around 40 people from the Hamid Karzai International (HKI) Airport in Kabul on Monday as part of India's emergency evacuation mission that was carried out following coordination with relevant authorities including US officials handling security at the airport in the Afghan capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/getting-indian-envoy-mission-staff-out-of-afghanistan-was-difficult-complicated-jaishankar-says-in-us-1020762.html
17-08-2021||National||Jessica Lal's sister Sabrina dead||Sabrina Lal who had fought a long battle to bring the killers of her sister Jessica Lal to book passed away on Sunday evening, her brother said. Sabrina, in her early fifties, was ailing for long and was suffering from cirrhosis of the liver. "She was not keeping well and had been in and out of hospital. Yesterday, her condition deteriorated at home and we took her to hospital. Today, in the evening, she passed away. She had cirrhosis of the liver and because of that, many complications arose and she had a multiple organ failure," her elder brother Ranjith Lal told PTI over phone. Her last rites will be performed on Monday. Last year, in an interview to PTI, Sabrina had spoken about her plans to start a foundation in memory of her sister to aid women in similar situations to get justice. She had said that she has forgiven her sister's killer, Manu Sharma, who walked out of jail last year after the Delhi Sentence Review Board recommended his premature release. Siddharth Vashisht, better known as Manu Sharma, was serving life sentence in Tihar Jail here for the 1999 murder. "I really do not have anything to say. I am not feeling anything. I feel numb. The only thing I hope and pray to God is that he never thinks of repeating that mistake again," Sabrina had told PTI. She had in 2018 written to the jail authorities that she had no objection to Sharma's release. Jessica Lall was murdered in 1999 at a upscale restaurant in the national capital. Calling Jessica her closest friend, Sabrina had said she missed her sister's presence in her life every day. "She was jovial and positive in life. It is not just birthdays and death anniversaries that I miss her, it is every day. I have lots of pictures of hers in my home and not that I need them to miss her, but they are there to remind me of her," Sabrina had told PTI.  A film, No One Killed Jessica, was made on Sabrina's fight for getting justice for her sister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jessica-lals-sister-sabrina-dead-1020773.html
17-08-2021||National||Facebook asks Rahul Gandhi to remove post revealing identity of Dalit girl's family: NCPCR||Facebook has asked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to remove his post from Instagram where identity was revealed of the family of a nine-year-old girl who was allegedly raped and murdered in southwest Delhi, the apex child rights body NCPCR said. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights shared with PTI copies of the letter that Facebook forwarded to it in response to its summon to the social media giant. In the letter to Gandhi, Facebook said, "A post you uploaded through your Instagram account is unlawful under Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015; Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012; and Section 288A of the Indian Penal Code. In accordance with NCPCR's Notice, you are requested to remove this post expeditiously." Following the communication from Facebook, the NCPCR withdrew its direction to the company to appear before the commission with an explanation over non-action over Gandhi's post. Instagram, a photo and video sharing social networking platform, is owned by Facebook. The NCPCR had last week asked Facebook to take appropriate action against Gandhi's Instagram profile over violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code, and demanded the removal of the video from the platform. Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, prohibits the disclosure of identity of a child in any form of media and Section 23 of the POCSO Act, 2012, also states that no information or photo of a child should be published in any form of media which could reveal the identity of the child. This information under Section 23 of the POCSO Act includes his/her name, address, photograph, family details, school, neighbourhood or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of the child. Gandhi last week met the family of the nine-year-old girl and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice and "will not back down even an inch". Later, he posted a picture of his meeting with the girl's parents on Instagram. The girl died under mysterious circumstances when she went to get water from a cooler at a crematorium in the Old Nangal area in southwest Delhi. The girl's parents alleged that she was raped and her body forcibly cremated by a crematorium priest who had falsely claimed that she was electrocuted. Hundreds of locals, including the victim's parents, have been staging a protest near the site of the incident, demanding capital punishment for the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-asks-rahul-gandhi-to-remove-post-revealing-identity-of-dalit-girls-family-ncpcr-1020782.html
17-08-2021||National||‘Sikhs keen to leave Afghanistan after Taliban took over’||Fearing for their lives after the Taliban took over Afghanistan, Sikh and Hindu families are keen to leave the country, a Kabul-based Sikh businessman said on Tuesday. He, however, added that some Taliban leaders have assured Sikhs and Hindus of their safety. Afghan businessman Gurdeep Singh (name changed) said the Taliban have taken full control of Afghanistan's capital Kabul. He said the Afghan Sikhs would prefer taking asylum in the USA or Canada rather than India owing to their past experience there. He said many Sikh families, who had gone to India after 19 people, including 10 Sikhs, were killed in a suicide bomb attack in Jalalabad in 2018, had got stuck there. “They could not even set up their businesses there,” he said, adding they are now neither Afghans nor Indian citizens. Singh said, “We will prefer to go to Canada or the US if these countries extend help to Afghan Sikhs and Hindus. These two countries are already helping a lot of Afghan people who settled over there in the past." On the current situation in Afghanistan, he said the Taliban have gained full control of Kabul. Sixty per cent of the market remained open on Tuesday, he said, adding he went to his shop for four hours and found the things “near normal”. Singh said around 270 Sikhs and 50 Hindus are staying in a Kabul-based gurdwara 'Karte Parwar' which was visited by Taliban leaders. They assured Afghan Sikhs and Hindus there of their safety and security and said they could go home without any fear, Singh said. Many Hindu and Sikh residents of Kabul have taken shelter in the gurdwara as they no longer feel safe in their homes, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sikhs-keen-to-leave-afghanistan-after-taliban-took-over-1020789.html
17-08-2021||National||Malayalis stranded in Afghanistan send SOS calls||With at least 41 Malayalis, including women and children, reported to be stranded in Afghanistan, the Kerala government has urged the Centre to initiate steps for safe evacuation of the Malayais also. Many Malayalis got in touch with the Non-Resident Keralite's Affairs Department (NORKA). Some have said that Taliban were verifying their document and taking away their passports and other important documents. NORKA principal secretary K Ellangovan sent a letter to MEA urging that considering the huge threat on the lives of the stranded Malayalis they shall be evacuated at the earliest. Meanwhile, mother of Nimisha alias Fathima, one of the four Malayali women jailed in Afghanistan after they left India to join the IS, told a section of media that the four women could have been also released from prison and hence they should be also evacuated and legal steps initiated under Indian laws. Even as there were reports that many Malayalis were working in Afghanistan, the state government did not have any proper records of this. Sources said that many could have even migrated illegally to Afghan from other Gulf countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/malayalis-stranded-in-afghanistan-send-sos-calls-1020791.html
17-08-2021||National||Odisha to sponsor Indian Hockey teams for 10 more years: CM Naveen Patnaik||The Odisha government will sponsor the Indian Hockey teams for 10 more years, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik announced on Tuesday. Patnaik made the announcement at a felicitation programme for Indian Men's and Women's Hockey teams in Bhubaneswar. "The teams have scripted history with their brilliant performance at the Tokyo Olympics," the chief minister said, handing over a cash award of Rs 10 lakh to each player. Patnaik also announced cash award of Rs 5 lakh for each support staff of the two teams. In return, each team gifted a framed jersey autographed by the players to the chief minister. "The Odisha government will continue to support the teams for another 10 years in recognition of their achievement and potential to be the top teams in the world," Patnaik said. "You made us all so proud with your spirited fight at Tokyo. These are deeply emotional moments for India to witness the revival of Indian Hockey," he said. The state government started sponsoring the national hockey teams in 2018. The way the entire country was glued to the screens to watch the hockey matches, it is quite evident that there is something more to hockey than just sports, the chief minister said. "We, in Odisha, are elated that our partnership with Hockey India has led to this great achievement for the country. I believe Odisha and hockey are destined to become synonymous. We will continue our partnership with Hockey India. Odisha will support the Indian Hockey teams for 10 more years," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-to-sponsor-indian-hockey-teams-for-10-more-years-cm-naveen-patnaik-1020792.html
17-08-2021||National||Did Taliban fighters speak in Malayalam?||A video believed to be that of a Taliban militant crying out of joy has triggered a suspicion that two Taliban fighters were Malayalis. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor had triggered the suspicion by tweeting a video clip showing two militants who seem to be communicating in Malayalam. "It sounds as if there are at least two Malayali Taliban here — one who says 'samsarikkette' (let him speak) around the 8-second mark & another who understands him!,' he tweeted. Tharoor's tweet gained some ground as over 100 youths from Kerala had left India over the last few years to join various extremist outfits, mainly ISIS. Incidentally, on Tuesday also NIA held two women from Kerala for ISIS links and registered case against five others also. However, the person who posted the video, identified as Ramiz, has countered Tharoor's doubts. "There are no #kerala origin fighters in rank and file of #taliban they are #baloch from #zabul province who speak brahvi and bravhi language is widely spoken among them, its a darvidian language very similar to telgu tamil malyalam etc," he tweeted. Tharoor reacted that the matter shall be left to the linguists to figure it out. But there have indeed been misguided Malayalis who joined the Taliban, so that possibility cannot be ruled out entirely, he said. Meanwhile, BJP president J P Nadda alleged that Kerala has become a recruitment ground for extremists and accused the left-front government for failing to contain it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-taliban-fighters-speak-in-malayalam-1020801.html
17-08-2021||National||Goyal announces 80% fee reduction for all recognised educational institutions applying for patents||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday announced to provide 80 per cent fee reduction to all recognised educational institutions applying for patents, whether in India or abroad. He said the 80 per cent fee reduction was earlier available to all recognised educational institutions which are owned by the government. "I think it's quite unfair that this is restricted only to innovation coming out of government institutions. "This 80 per cent fee reduction will now apply to all recognised educational institutions whether it is government (owned), government-aided, or private institutions, irrespective of whether these institutions are situated in India or anywhere in the world," he said at a CII webinar on intellectual property. He added that all recognised educational institutions, universities, schools and colleges would now enjoy the benefit of an 80 per cent fee reduction. Now, this will mean the total fee for filing publication and renewal for an institute will reduce from about Rs 4,24,500 to Rs 85,000, that is a reduction of 80 per cent. "I think this will be a great encouragement for universities and I do hope to see lots and lots of new universities and educational institutions participating in this. "I am given to understand that this will now become the lowest fee among the top Patent Offices worldwide. I would encourage all universities both in India and abroad to take the benefit of this," Goyal added. He asked the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) to start the process of approval of this announcement. On the suggestion of using IPR as a collateral for financial institutions and bank finance, the minister said that the matter can be taken up with the finance ministry. Industry body CII can make a presentation to the finance ministry to consider this idea and "I would urge DPIIT and CII to work with the department of banking to take that idea forward," he added. Further, the minister suggested DPIIT to work out modalities on introducing scholarships for 75 students studying law related to IP ecosystem and who come from economically weaker sections. "We must set a target of spreading awareness about IPR (intellectual property rights) among a million students in the next 52 weeks. And, then we can consider including it in the curriculum," he said. He also said the ministry would like to improve India's ranking in the Global Innovation Index from 48 to among the top 25. "We need to work towards it in a mission mode," he said. Goyal said there have been 14.2 lakh trademark registrations in four years between 2016 and 2020, as compared to 11 lakh during the previous 75 years (1940-2015). "Time of patent examination has also been reduced from 72 months in December 2016 to 12-24 months in December 2020. We're also assessing how to compress this time further," he said. The minister also suggested anonymising patent applications, so that there is a complete transparency in the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goyal-announces-80-fee-reduction-for-all-recognised-educational-institutions-applying-for-patents-1020817.html
17-08-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine: Half of target population to get first dose within a week||In a week's time, India may vaccinate half of its target population, providing them with a degree of protection against Covid-19, with the hope that such a large-scale inoculation drive will minimise the threats of a ferocious third wave. Going by the current trend of 50 lakh daily Covid shots, another four crore Indians may receive their first dose within the next seven days, taking the number of people receiving the first shot to over 47 crore. India plans to vaccinate 94.47 crore people above 18 years. “The pace of the scale-up of vaccination coverage is commendable. But the proportion of the population that is fully vaccinated across age groups will determine the transmission dynamics,” said Oommen John, senior research fellow at the George Institute for Global Health. With the administration of more than 88.13 lakh doses on Monday, the cumulative vaccination coverage has increased to 55.47 crore. This translates to 46% of all adult Indians receiving the first dose while 13% have received both doses of vaccine and are protected against Covid-19, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. More than 53 lakh doses were administered on Tuesday. “The data is showing that a single dose of vaccine works. The global thinking is that we should give one dose of vaccine to everybody around the world before we think of the second dose. Yes, it's important to get the second dose, particularly those who are vulnerable. But for the general population, even one dose offers good protection,” Gagandeep Kang, eminent virologist and a professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, told DH in an interview last month. The previous highest inoculation drive was recorded on June 21, when more than 81 lakh shots were administered. But barring two days, India’s vaccination campaign has never crossed the 80-lakh mark, which, according to the experts, is essential if India has to vaccinate its entire target population by the end of 2021. While 12 crore doses were made available to the states in July, government officials said the availability will increase to 15 crore in August. Though the state-wise availability of vaccine data is not available, sources said the vaccine quota for Kerala and Punjab was enhanced after the two chief ministers met Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. The government is yet to take a decision on vaccinating children in the 12-18 age group. "Ensuring that children are also vaccinated in a time-sensitive manner is critical," John said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-half-of-target-population-to-get-first-dose-within-a-week-1020824.html
17-08-2021||National||CSC launches career counselling for rural youths||The Common Services Centers, under the Ministry of Electronics & IT, has launched career counselling service through its Education focused CSC Academy Centers across the country to align vocational and skill-based education among students in rural areas to increase employability and generate livelihood. The initiative aims to serve students from class 9 to under-graduates and high school dropouts in rural areas, through customised career counseling and guidance services based on their individual needs. The career guidance session will comprise of generic counselling, which will be done bi-monthly through the online platform in both English and Hindi. Academic experts from partner institutions like IIT, ISB, Amity and Symbiosis will be invited to share the desired skills and personality traits required for various academic streams like arts, science, commerce, and management. The CSC will also arrange for special counselling sessions for a specific CSC Academy depending on their requirements. These sessions will be customised based on the students’ academic interest and profile. Elaborating on the initiative, Dinesh Tyagi, Managing Director, CSC (Special Purpose Vehicle-SPV) , said: “With the Career Guidance Cell, we are embarking on a new chapter on the education front.Our career guidance initiative seeks to bridge that gap and help students and their parents understand the options available to them as far as career choices are concerned.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-launches-career-counselling-for-rural-youths-1020833.html
17-08-2021||National||India expresses concern over vandalisation of Ranjit Singh's statue in Pakistan||After a statue of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Lahore was vandalised, New Delhi alleged that Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad had “completely failed” in its duty to protect the cultural heritage of the minority communities of Pakistan. The statue of the first king of Sikh Empire within the Lahore Fort complex was vandalised by an activist of the radical Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan. He was arrested by police after local people detained him. This was the third time the statue was vandalised since it was unveiled in 2019. “Such attacks on the cultural heritage of minority communities in Pakistan highlight the growing intolerance and lack of respect for minority communities in Pakistani society,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi, calling upon the Government of Pakistan to ensure the safety, security and well-being of its minority communities. India expressed concern over alarmingly increasing number of incidents of violence against minority communities, including attacks on their places of worship, their cultural heritage, as well as their private property. “The Pakistani state has completely failed in its duty to prevent such attacks. This is creating a climate of fear for the minority communities to practice their faith,” said the MEA spokesperson in New Delhi. India had on August 5 last protested against vandalisation of a temple in Pakistan, slamming the Khan Government for persecution of religious minorities in the neighbouring country. Islamabad’s acting envoy to New Delhi, Aftab Hasan Khan, was summoned to the MEA, where senior officials conveyed to him India’s grave concern over the recent incident of violent mob attack on a Ganesha Temple at Rahim Yar Khan in Punjab province of Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expresses-concern-over-vandalisation-of-ranjit-singhs-statue-in-pakistan-1020835.html
17-08-2021||National||Evacuate Indians, help Afghans seeking refuge: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday reviewed the situation in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) and directed officials for the safe evacuation of Indians in the coming days. The Prime Minister also directed officials to extend all possible help to “Afghan brothers and sisters” looking forward to assistance from India, particularly the Sikh and Hindu minorities who are seeking refuge. A special invitee to the CCS meeting was Rudrendra Tandon, India’s Ambassador to Afghanistan, who returned to Delhi on Tuesday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla were among those who were present at the meeting. Shringla briefed the CCS about the situation in Afghanistan and Tandon too is learnt to have shared his first-hand experience in the nation that was run over by the Taliban militia. The government released photographs and a short video of the meeting but no official statement was issued. Tandon and all staff members from the Indian embassy in Kabul were brought Delhi military transport aircraft in the wake of escalating tension and deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital after its takeover by the Taliban. A military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force brought back from Kabul around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians on Tuesday. Another flight had evacuated around 40 staffers from Kabul on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evacuate-indians-help-afghans-seeking-refuge-pm-modi-1020836.html
17-08-2021||National||'India's Covid vaccination coverage crosses 56 Crore'||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 56-crore mark on Tuesday, the Union health ministry said. Nearly 50 lakh (49,48,965) vaccine doses were administered during the day, according to the 7 pm provisional report. The ministry said 27,45,272 first doses were administered and 5,33,586 second doses given in the 18-44 age group on the 214th day of vaccination.  Cumulatively, 20,50,08,400 people in the age group 18-44 years across states and union territories have received their first dose and 1,66,57,465 people their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Five states -- Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh -- have administered more than 1 crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry stated. The ministry said 37,13,567 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 12,35,398 people received second dose of vaccine according to the provisional report till 7 PM. Final reports would be completed for the day by late night, the ministry said. The vaccination exercise as a tool to protect the most vulnerable population groups in the country from Covid-19 continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, the ministry underlined. India administered more than 88.13 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses on August 16, the highest ever vaccination achieved in a single day, according to the ministry||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-vaccination-coverage-crosses-56-crore-1020837.html
17-08-2021||National||SC for Justice Roa-led bench to hear plea by banks against disclosure under RTI||Several public sector and private banks including SBI and HDFC Bank on Tuesday suffered a setback as the Supreme Court's bench led by Justice S Abdul Nazeer refused to entertain their plea for exemption from disclosing details related to their customers, trade secrets, risk ratings, etc under the Right to Information Act. The court, however, said that the fresh petitions will be heard by the original bench presided over by L Nageswara Rao. Justice Rao-led bench had earlier dismissed a joint plea by the central government and 10 banks seeking a recall of the judgment in Jayantilal N Mistry (2015) that mandated RBI to disclose inspection reports of banks as well as details of willful defaulters on the grounds that the central bank had no fiduciary relationship with the banks. On Tuesday, Justice Nazeer-led bench said, "We don’t think it proper to hear the case. We are of the view that it is appropriate to list the matter before the original bench of J Rao.”  Justice Rao’s bench had in April reiterated its 2015 judgment making it necessary for the RBI to disclose financial information related to private and public banks under the RTI Act. However, around a dozen banks filed separate petition saying that they, being privy to sensitive information like personal details of its account holders, prospective loans and other financial transactions, are required to keep such details confidential and maintain privacy as directed by the top court in the Justice KS Puttasamy vs UoI (Aadhaar judgment), which recognised the fact that right to privacy is a sacrosanct facet of fundamental rights. Besides SBI and PNB, four private banks – HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank and Yes Bank – in their joint petition said that RBI in its role as banker to the government and banking regulator receives and holds a lot of sensitive information, the disclosure of which may not be in the interest of the nation or serve public interest. Senior advocate Mukul Rohtagi, appearing for the HDFC Bank, contended that the bank was not a party when the earlier order mandating disclosure was passed. “Today’s petitions are different and there is no need for Justice Rao's bench to hear them," he said. Rohtagi along with senior counsel K V Vishwanathan and Solicitor General Tushar Mehta (appearing for SBI), contended that the matter should be heard by a larger bench as privacy of customers is of utmost importance to a bank, who have “guarded commercial secrets.” Rohtagi said that the RTI Act does not apply to private entities like them. “No bank customer wants his safeguards/parameters should be disclosed to anyone. These inspections prepared by RBI are treated as highly confidential. Banking business is a business of faith and trust.. it has millions of accounts, entire banking fabric will be finished if all the inspection reports are made public. Besides, private banks’ shares are traded and they are not created by any statute, thus not covered under the RTI Act,” he contended. Advocate Bhushan, for his part, read out a Risk assessment report of Union Bank of India. "These inspection reports just give details of working of the bank including supervision of its lending policies so as to check defaulters like Vijaya Mallya ad Mehul Chokshi. The whole document doesn’t give names of any customer. There is nothing confidential in this report," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-for-justice-roa-led-bench-to-hear-plea-by-banks-against-disclosure-under-rti-1020838.html
17-08-2021||National||Modi's popularity dips to 24%, but BJP best bet if polls held now: Survey||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity appears to have taken a hit as only 24 per cent of respondents of a survey by India Today said they would like to see Modi as the next prime minister. The numbers of the current survey are a sharp dip from 66 per cent of respondents who viewed Modi as best suited to be the next prime minister in August last year. As many as 11 per cent of respondents wanted to see Yogi Adityanath as the next prime minister. Despite the dip in popularity, the Mood of the Nation Survey for August 2021 found that BJP would still win a comfortable majority with 298 seats if the Lok Sabha elections were to be held now. The Congress and its allies together could win 105 seats, a shade better than the 93 seat projected in August last year. The survey also found that only 11 per cent of respondents viewed Modi’s performance as prime minister ‘poor’, while 16 per cent found it outstanding. As many as 38 per cent of respondents found Modi’s performance as ‘good’, while 30 per cent of respondents rated it as ‘average’. As many as 29 per cent of respondents said the single biggest failure of the Modi government was its handling of price rise and inflation, while 23 per cent felt it failed to deal with the growing unemployment. An overwhelming 71 per cent of respondents felt that Covid-19 had killed more people in India than what was reflected in government figures. Sixty-nine per cent of respondents said their income had reduced due to the Covid-19 pandemic, while 17 per cent reported a loss in business or jobs. The survey showed 24 per cent viewed Home Minister Amit Shah as best suited to succeed Modi as BJP’s candidate for prime minister, followed by Adityanath (19 per cent) and Rajnath Singh (11 per cent). The survey showed that 51 per cent of respondents felt that opposition parties criticised the government for the sake of criticism during the pandemic, while 37 per cent were of the opinion that the opposition held the government accountable with constructive criticism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modis-popularity-dips-to-24-but-bjp-best-bet-if-polls-held-now-survey-1020840.html
17-08-2021||National||India will wait and watch before deciding on engaging with new regime in Afghanistan||India will wait and watch for some time instead of hastily deciding on its approach to the new regime in Afghanistan. Though New Delhi has evacuated its envoy and diplomats from Kabul on Tuesday, it has not formally announced the closure of the Embassy of India in the capital of Afghanistan, as it would have meant severance of diplomatic relations between the two nations – a decision Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has not yet taken. The Prime Minister had a meeting with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday and discussed India’s options in Afghanistan. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla and India’s envoy to Afghanistan, Rudrendra Tandon, who returned to New Delhi earlier on the day, were also present in the meeting. New Delhi already signalled that it might recognize a new regime in Kabul with participation from the Taliban, if it was an “inclusive dispensation” with representation of all communities of Afghanistan, respected the aspirations of the children and voices and rights of women and promised not to allow anyone to use the country to export terror to other countries in the region and beyond. “It's not that we've abandoned people of Afghanistan, their welfare and our relationship with them is very much in our mind,” Tandon said after the aircraft carrying him and other diplomats and officials from Kabul landed at the Indian Air Force station at Jamnagar in Gujarat for refuelling. “We'll try and continue our interaction with them, I can't exactly say in what form as situation is changing.” The Taliban over the past few days sought to send out the message that its new incarnation in power would be different from the previous one, which had between 1996 and 2001 enforced an austere version of Shariah, banning TV, denying women’s rights to education and work, punishing and executing women and other offenders in public. New Delhi is not convinced though, as it believes that Pakistan would try to take advantage of Taliban’s return to power in Kabul to gain a strategic depth against India. President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul collapsed as he left Afghanistan soon after the Taliban militants entered the capital city on Sunday, after occupying a large number of provincial capitals across the country. New Delhi, however, is keeping tab on efforts by his predecessor Hamid Karzai, the chairman of Afghanistan’s High Council for National Reconciliation and veteran warlord and politician Gulbuddin Hekmatyar to form a coordination council as well on negotiations with Taliban to set up a transition government in Kabul. Soon after Taliban’s political leader Mullah Baradar reached Kandahar from Doha on Tuesday, Ghani Government’s first Vice President Amrullah Saleh took to Twitter to declare himself as the caretaker President of Afghanistan from an undisclosed location. India earlier withdrew its officials from its consulates in Herat, Jalalabad, Kandahar and Mazar-e-Sharif in Afghanistan as the Taliban launched its military offensives and occupied a large number of districts across the country over the past few weeks, before finally entering Kabul on Sunday. None of the consulates was formally closed down and was left to be run by the local employees. New Delhi had on September 26, 1996 last shut down the Embassy of India in Kabul and evacuated its diplomats and officials onboard a special aircraft of the Ariana Airlines – just hours before the Taliban had taken over power in the capital of Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-wait-and-watch-before-deciding-on-engaging-with-new-regime-in-afghanistan-1020843.html
17-08-2021||National Politics||Jyotiraditya Scindia embarks on 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' after performing puja||Union minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday said he will do his best to take the country forward in the civil aviation sector and thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his induction in the Cabinet before embarking on the 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra'. Scindia landed at the Devi Ahilyabai Holkar international airport here to embark on a three-day "Jan Ashirwad Yatra" amid chaos as a large number of BJP workers and leaders turned up there to welcome the Guna royal. He formally launched the yatra after performing puja at the Kshipra river, his yatra incharge said, adding a motorcade of about 1,000 vehicles is moving with Scindia. Meanwhile, a video has surfaced on social media showing several cars parked at the exit of the airport causing traffic snarls with a man talking angrily that a large number of people has gathered to welcome Scindia which is causing a lot of trouble to the public. "I will try my best to take India forward in the civil aviation sector under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi," Scindia, who was inducted in the Union council of ministers last month, told reporters. He thanked the prime minister, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda. Scindia, who is visiting the Malwa-Nimar region for the first time after becoming a Union minister, will attend various programmes being organised in Dewas and Shajapur on the first day of the yatra on Tuesday. Madhya Pradesh Water Resources Minister and Scindia's supporter Tulsiram Silavat, besides a large number of the party workers and leaders, also reached the airport. Scindia's yatra in-charge and former Bhopal mayor Alok Sharma said a total of 151 stages have been set on Tuesday on the route of the union minister's itinerary. "From the airport, Scindia reached the Kshipra river, performed puja and started the Yatra. He will visit classical vocalist late Kumar Gandharv's residence and pay tribute besides attending several programmes and visiting the BJP office. A motorcade of about 1,000 vehicles is moving with Scindia during this procession," Sharma told PTI. Another newly-inducted Union minister from Madhya Pradesh SP Singh Baghel reached Datia on Monday and performed puja at the famous Hindu shrine Peetambara Peeth, before embarking on the Jan Ashirwad Yatra. A BJP spokesman said Baghel is carrying out the Yatra in the Gwalior district on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jyotiraditya-scindia-embarks-on-jan-ashirwad-yatra-after-performing-puja-1020647.html
17-08-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi politicising Dalit girl's rape, his Twitter account should be locked again: BJP||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday took on senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for tweeting pictures of the family of a nine-year-old Dalit girl who was reportedly raped and murdered in Delhi and said such issues should not be politicised for petty political interests. The BJP also demanded that Twitter should again lock Gandhi's account as the victim's family has denied his claim that he took their consent before posting the pictures. "Rahul Gandhi has lost credibility and is a habitual liar. The public has locked his political account, now Twitter should also lock his account," party spokesperson Sambit Patra said. Speaking at the virtual inauguration of the BJP office in Kozhikode in Kerala, Nadda said, "Rahul Gandhi's political tourism is also happening here in Kerala. He lost in Amethi, so he ran to Wayanad." Changing states doesn't change someone's behavioural patterns, intentions and the approach to serve people, the BJP chief said, referring to Gandhi. Nadda also took on the LDF government in Kerala over the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, saying nearly 20,000 cases are being reported in the state on average. Currently, there are 1.08 lakh cases in Kerala and it is contributing almost 50 per cent to the total burden of Covid-19 cases in the country. "This is gross management. It is a model of mismanagement," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-politicising-dalit-girls-rape-his-twitter-account-should-be-locked-again-bjp-1020676.html
17-08-2021||National Politics||Andhra Pradesh Congress workers fry 'Twitter bird' to protest ban on Rahul Gandhi||Protesting the ban on Rahul Gandhi's Twitter account, Andhra Pradesh Congress workers "fried a Twitter bird" and sent it to Twitter India's headquarters. A video that surfaced on social media showed former MP Harsha Kumar’s son frying the metaphorical "Twitter bird" for not promoting Congress' tweets.  "The Twitter dish is getting ready," he can be heard saying as party workers raise "Down Down BJP!" slogans. More to follow... Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/andhra-pradesh-congress-workers-fry-twitter-bird-to-protest-ban-on-rahul-gandhi-1020690.html
17-08-2021||National Politics||Congress concerned with welfare of only one family: Jyotiraditya Scindia||In a swipe at the top Congress leadership, Union minister and BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday said the opposition party is concerned with the welfare and progress of 'only one family'. “We know about development. We work for the welfare of the poor. On the other hand, Congress is engaged in the upliftment of only one family. This is the difference between the BJP and Congress,” Scindia said. Congress and other opposition parties throttled the democratic system by not allowing Parliament to function when important bills were scheduled for discussion during the monsoon session, he alleged. “If opposition thinks that (prime minister Narendra) Modi will bow down before their injustice, then the people of the country and BJP will give a befitting reply to them….People will never forgive Congress for its behaviour in the Rajya Sabha,” Scindia said. Under Modi's leadership, the country is successfully curbing the spread of coronavirus, he said. Speaking to reporters, Scindia said the much-awaited bill on Backward Classes Reservation (reinstating the power of identifying backward classes with the states) was passed in Parliament in the recent session. “Why this was not done in the last 70 years,” he asked. Scindia, who quit the Congress last year and was made civil aviation minister in the recent cabinet expansion, landed at Indore's Devi Ahilyabai Holkar airport in the morning to embark on the three-day Yatra. There were chaotic scenes as a large number of BJP workers turned up to welcome him. He formally launched the yatra after performing puja on the banks of the Kshipra river at Dewas, a local BJP leader said, adding that a motorcade of about 1,000 vehicles was accompanying him. A video surfaced on social media showing several cars parked at the exit of the airport, causing traffic snarls, and a man saying angrily that the crowds that gathered to welcome Scindia created problem for the public. Speaking to reporters at Indore after his arrival, Scindia said he would try his best to take India forward in the civil aviation sector under prime minister Narendra Modi's leadership. He also thanked Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda for his inclusion in the cabinet. Scindia, who is visiting the Malwa-Nimar region for the first time after becoming a Union minister, attended various programes in Dewas and Shajapur. Madhya Pradesh Water Resources Minister and his supporter Tulsiram Silavat was among those who welcomed him at the airport. Former Bhopal mayor and in-charge of Scindia's yatra Alok Sharma said he performed puja at the Kshipra river and launched the yatra. At Dewas he also visited renowned classical vocalist late Kumar Gandharv's residence and paid his tributes. Another newly-inducted Union minister from Madhya Pradesh, S P Singh Baghel, arrived at Datia on Monday and performed puja at the famous Peetambara Peeth shrine before embarking on Jan Ashirwad Yatra. Addressing a press conference in Gwalior, Baghel said prime minister Modi 'gave identity' to MPs of SC, ST and OBC communities by inducting them in the cabinet. “But the opposition parties did not even allow introduction of newly inducted minister in the House, defying democratic traditions,' he said. Virendra Khatik, another Union minister, will set out on Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Gwalior district on Wednesday, a BJP spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-concerned-with-welfare-of-only-one-family-jyotiraditya-scindia-1020820.html
17-08-2021||North and Central||Security beefed up outside Afghan embassy in Delhi||The Delhi Police on Monday beefed up security outside the Afghan embassy in central Delhi's Chanakyapuri, a day after the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. Several Afghan nationals visited the embassy. Some mediapersons too gathered outside it. "To manage them and keep the situation normal, security was increased outside the embassy. However, we have no threat inputs as of now,” a senior police officer said. Talking to reporters, Afghan national Farhan said, "I came here to renew my passport, but it could not happen... The situation in Afghanistan is very bad. My family and relatives are there and I am worried about them. The Taliban had killed my father.” Another Afghan national said his family lives in Kabul and that they all are worried after the Taliban takeover of the country. Afghanistan stared at an uncertain future with President Ashraf Ghani leaving the country just before Kabul fell into the hands of the Taliban on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-beefed-up-outside-afghan-embassy-in-delhi-1020541.html
17-08-2021||North and Central||Dalit girl rape: High Court seeks report on investigation from Delhi Police, SIT set up||The Delhi High Court Tuesday sought a report from the police on the status of investigation into the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl here even as it was informed that an SIT has been set up to probe the case. Justice Yogesh Khanna, who was hearing a plea by the parents of the deceased girl for constituting a special investigation team (SIT) for a court-monitored probe, directed the police to file the status report before the next of hearing on November 8. “Status report be filed so as to know the stage of the investigation,” the judge said. Standing counsel Sanjay Lao, appearing for State, said that an SIT has already been constituted after the case was transferred from the local police station to Crime Branch. "DCP, Crime Branch has constituted the SIT. There are two ACPs. The prayer has been fulfilled,” Lao said as he informed the probe was being monitored by the high-ranking officials of Delhi Police. He added that two accused persons have admitted to the crime and provisions for alleged commission of offences of murder and rape under the Indian Penal Code, section 6 under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 have been added to the FIR.  Round-the-clock security has also been provided to the parents, Lao informed the court. With regards the parents' prayer to initiate a judicial inquiry into the administrative lapses in the case, Lao contended that the same could be considered only after the conclusion of the investigation. The court observed that in view of the State's stand, the prayers in the petition seemed to have been answered. “The investigation is at a nascent stage. We can't direct judicial inquiry at this stage,” the judge stated. “When they have constituted the SIT, let them do their work. You can't presuppose (the outcome),” the court observed during the hearing. The court nonetheless directed that a status report be filed before the disposal of the petition. In their plea, the parents of the deceased child have stated that they have “no faith in the present investigation” which has now been transferred to the crime branch of the Delhi Police. “What type of SIT has been constituted? Nine days after the incident, police moved the application of custodial interrogation of the accused. What is this type of investigation by the so-called SIT?” questioned advocate Jitendra Kumar Jha, appearing for the parents. The plea further sought adequate safety and security to them as well as the other witnesses in the case along with judicial inquiry into the lapses on the administrative front in the case in order to reveal the reason behind the delay in police response and "why no vital evidence was preserved". They alleged that the “total focus of the police was to hush up/sabotage the case” and that the parents were “tortured and pressurised by the police and its agent to compromise the case”. The delay in registration of FIR that too under diluted offences itself indicates the police did not want to give justice,  said the petition. The parents have submitted that they belong to the poorest section of society and are illiterate and are under the force and influence of various groups with vested interest. The minor Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances on August 1 even as her parents alleged that she was raped, murdered and cremated by a crematorium's priest in southwest Delhi's Old Nangal village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-girl-rape-high-court-seeks-report-on-investigation-from-delhi-police-sit-set-up-1020651.html
17-08-2021||North and Central||3 officials suspended after man on bail kills wife despite protection orders, police tells court||Delhi Police has informed a court here that its three erring officials have been suspended and a departmental inquiry initiated against them after a man out on interim bail allegedly murdered his wife despite court-ordered protection to her. Additional Sessions Judge Anuj Agrawal was informed through a compliance report submitted by the Delhi Police Commissioner that an inspector, sub-inspector, and assistant sub-inspector of the Govindpuri police station have been suspended. “An inquiry was conducted pursuant to order of this court and erring police officials have been placed under suspension and transferred to District Line,” the Police Commissioner stated in the report, as per the court order dated August 16. The report further stated that a departmental inquiry has been initiated against the three officials and a circular with respect to 'witness protection scheme 2018' has been circulated to all concerned for meticulous compliance. Accused Nanda Nayak allegedly killed his wife Jharna, who was an eye witness in a case lodged against him, before surrendering to jail on cancellation on his interim bail. Nayak was released on 90-days interim bail in June 2021. The court, however, cancelled it on July 31 after observing that he threatened the witnesses and pressured them to withdraw the case. The court asked him to surrender before the jail in two days. According to the police, Nayak strangulated his wife with a 'dupatta' before surrendering. On August 5, the court took note of this and pulled up Delhi Police for failing to comply with an order dated July 16 in which they were directed to ensure her safety and security. The court had also observed that the Delhi Police motto of “Shanti, Sewa, and Nyay” has been belied in the case and sought a report from the Police Commissioner on the action taken against the erring officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-officials-suspended-after-man-on-bail-kills-wife-despite-protection-orders-police-tells-court-1020672.html
17-08-2021||North and Central||Proposal to rechristen Aligarh as 'Harigarh'||After rechristening Allahabad as Prayagraj and Faizabad as Ayodhya, there is now a demand for renaming Aligarh as Harigarh. The Aligarh district panchayat board, in its meeting on Monday, adopted a resolution rechristening the district as 'Harigarh'. "The proposal has been sent to the state government," a district panchayat official said on Tuesday. According to the sources, the MLAs from the district along with members of the panchayat board were present at the meeting when the resolution was adopted. "It was passed unanimously," the official added. In a similar development, a proposal to rename Mainpuri district as 'Mayan Nagar' was also adopted by the district panchayat board of Mainpuri. The saffron outfits claimed that a sage Mayan had established the town of Mainpuri and hence it should be named after him. The proposal to change the name of Aligarh was first mooted in 1992 when Kalyan Singh was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh. The Vishwa Hindu Parishad had also passed a resolution in 2015 demanding rechristening the district as Harigarh.  A few days back, a similar resolution was adopted by the Firozabad district panchayat board demanding that the district be renamed Chandra Nagar. The saffron affiliated members of the Board claimed that the town had been established by King Chandrasen. The proposals assume electoral significance as the state is scheduled to go to the polls in March next year. The saffron outfits have claimed that many of the towns and districts in the state were named after Muslim rulers and victors though they had different names earlier. "The BJP government has no concern for the people... it has failed on all fronts... the proposal and demand to rechristen districts and towns in the state is nothing but to hide the failure of the state government," said an opposition Samajwadi Party leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/proposal-to-rechristen-aligarh-as-harigarh-1020675.html
17-08-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Assembly adjourned for the day, Samajwadi Party members hold protest||The proceedings of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Tuesday were adjourned for the day after paying tributes to six departed sitting members. On the first day of the Monsoon session, SP members staged a dharna inside the assembly premises against the government over its "mismanagement" of the Covid-19 situation, price rise and other issues. Wearing oxygen masks and carrying placards, Samajwadi Party MLAs and MLCs also raised slogans against the government. As soon as the House met, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath read out obituary references and after paying condolences, Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit adjourned the House for the day. The six sitting members who died recently are Vijay Kumar Kashyap (Muzaffarnagar), Suresh Kumar Srivastava (Lucknow), Ramesh Chandra Diwakar (Auraiya), Kesar Singh (Bareilly), Dal Bahadur (Raebareli) and Devendra Pratap Singh, Amapur (Kasganj). Adityanath also paid tributes to the health workers and citizens who had succumbed to Covid-19. Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary said it was "sad and painful" that six sitting MLAs have lost their lives. Leader of the Congress Legislature Party Aradhana Misra, BSP leader in the Legislative Assembly Shah Alam alias Guddu Jamali and SBSP (Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar also paid tributes to the departed souls. Speaking on the occasion, Dixit said, "We feel sad, as six MLAs who were with us died." The House also observed silence for the departed souls. Ahead of the commencement of the Assembly session, Adityanath told reporters that his government is ready for a discussion on all issues related to public interest, development, youth, women and villages. "There should be a discussion on Covid control. Uttar Pradesh is the first state to have tested seven crore samples (for Covid-19). It has become the first state to administer six crore vaccine doses. If all the members support, those spreading rumours will be exposed," the chief minister said. In a series of tweets, he said, "UP Legislature is the biggest in the country. Whatever we do here, sends a message to the entire country. Welcome greetings to members who will participate in the discussions on various issues despite the Covid-19 pandemic." The SP MLAs and MLCs later sat on a dharna at the Chowdhury Charan Singh statue in the assembly premises and claimed that the people were fed up with the government due to price rise and crimes against women. SP MLC Rajpal Kashyap told PTI, "We are protesting against the government that is anti-people. The SP always stands with the people and raises their voices. Unemployment, woes of farmers, women's security, price rise, corruption and mismanagement of the Covid situation are some of the issues that we are raising." In a tweet in Hindi, SP president Akhilesh Yadav said, "We will tell everyone about the BJP's lies and show the mirror to BJP workers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-assembly-adjourned-for-the-day-samajwadi-party-members-hold-protest-1020680.html
17-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi government school to be renamed after Olympic medalist Ravi Dahiya||A Delhi government school in Adarsh Nagar area will now be renamed after its alumnus and Olympic medal winner Ravi Dahiya, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced on Tuesday. “Olympic medal winner Ravi Dahiya was today welcomed at his school in Adarsh Nagar. It was an emotional moment for his teachers. The government has decided that the school will now be named as Ravi Dahiya Bal Vidyalaya,” Sisodia tweeted. ओलिंपिक में सिल्वर मेडल विजेता रवि दाहिया का आज उनके स्कूल - राजकीय बाल विद्यालय, आदर्श नगर, में सम्मान किया गया. अपने स्कूल लौटे रवि दहिया के अध्यापकों के लिए यह भावुक क्षण था. Dahiya (23) made his debut in Tokyo Olympics 2020 and won a silver medal in wrestling. He is the second Indian to get a silver medal in wrestling at the Olympic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-school-to-be-renamed-after-olympic-medalist-ravi-dahiya-1020770.html
17-08-2021||North and Central||Adityanath calls Mulayam 'abba jaan', Samajwadi Party members protest||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday triggered loud protests by Samajwadi Party members in the state legislative council when he referred to their patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav as “abba jaan.” The usually respectful Urdu term for “father” created a row as SP members took it as a jibe by the BJP suggesting that the opposition party remained focused on Muslims. Adityanath used it while speaking about SP president Akhilesh Yadav’s initial reluctance to take the Covid vaccine, alleging that he changed his mind only after his father Mulayam Singh Yadav took the shot. "Who were those who used to say they will not get vaccinated? Who were those faces who said it is a 'Modi vaccine' and a 'BJP vaccine' and did not take it," he said, indirectly referring to Akhilesh Yadav’s remarks. "It was a crime against those who lost their lives for the lack of vaccination. They are to be blamed for the crime. These criminals, who were against the vaccine, should be put in the dock. When 'abba jaan' took the vaccine, they said they will also take it," the CM continued. The SP members objected to the remark, started slogan-shouting and came to the well of the House. Chairman Kunwar Manvendra Singh asked them to return to their seats and Adityanath continued with his speech. "I have not taken anyone’s name. I want to know when the word 'abba jaan' became unparliamentary. The SP wants the votes of Muslims but is hesitant about the word "abba jaan'," the CM said. Leader of Opposition Ahmad Hasan said the language used by the CM was hurtful. "The SP does not want the votes of Muslims alone but of all communities. The CM’s threatening tone is not justified. The language in the House should be dignified," Hasan said. The CM has used the “abba jaan” term while referring to the Yadavs earlier as well. "His abba jaan used to say even birds will not be allowed in Ayodhya but now the Ram temple is being constructed there," Adityanath said recently. The former chief minister has in the past also been referred as ‘maulana’ Mulayam Singh Yadav.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adityanath-calls-mulayam-abba-jaan-samajwadi-party-members-protest-1020819.html
17-08-2021||Opinion||Get Afghan refugees out, then let them in||There are no good ways to lose a war, but the way America has lost Afghanistan should fill every one of us with shame. This is not because withdrawal was a mistake. For months, some national security experts have insisted that, even with military victory impossible, it was worth maintaining the status quo indefinitely in order to forestall the sort of nightmare we’re now witnessing. After all, there were only about 2,500 US troops in the country before Joe Biden began pulling out, and not a single American combat death in 2021. Writing in The Washington Post in April, Meghan O’Sullivan, who served as George W Bush’s deputy national security adviser for Iraq and Afghanistan, and Richard Haass, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, tried to make the case for remaining in Afghanistan. They argued that keeping “the relatively modest number of troops we have in Afghanistan now, for the long haul,” would be less costly than an Afghan government collapse or a civil war. Watching the current fiasco, it’s tempting to agree with them. But the status quo was never really sustainable. Last year, Donald Trump’s administration signed an agreement with the Taliban to withdraw US troops by May 2021. As part of the deal, the Taliban pledged to stop attacking US forces, a promise they largely kept. It was in that context that the US drew its force down to 2,500. Had Biden abrogated the agreement, fighting between America and the Taliban would have resumed. His choice was to leave or to escalate. But knowing the US was going to leave, the administration has no excuse for its failure to evacuate our allies and prepare for a refugee exodus. Afghans awaiting papers under the Special Immigrant Visa program, which applies to those who worked for the US government or military, could have been taken out of the country for processing. It was only two weeks ago that the administration started the P-2 visa program for Afghans who worked for American contractors, nongovernmental organisations and media outlets. Now, as the administration scrambles to deal with the Taliban’s rapid takeover of Afghanistan, it needs to help Afghans who are trying to rescue themselves, both immediately and in the long term. “I don’t think we’re completely out of time,” said Sunil Varghese, policy director for the International Refugee Assistance Project. “What we need to do is secure the airport so that both military and commercial flights can get out. We need those commercial flights to amplify the efforts of the US military in getting people out. And then we need to find a way to get people to the airport.” There is no time for bureaucracy. The US is now planning to take Afghans who are awaiting visas to third countries or US military bases, but according to Varghese, it’s not clear what criteria will be used for vetting them. It should be as liberal as possible. We should not be consigning people to execution for lack of paperwork. Arash Azizzada is an Afghan American community organiser and a co-founder of Afghans for a Better Tomorrow, an ad hoc group formed after Biden announced the American withdrawal from Afghanistan that is advocating for Afghan refugees. He points out that the US has spent 20 years encouraging young people and women’s rights activists “to take the lead, to break barriers, to take part in civil society in Afghanistan.” Everyone who participated in American initiatives is now in danger. Many of them have been stranded. “I have a former colleague who was trapped in the Kabul airport, and he’s just messaged me saying that the Taliban have come in the airport and have been shooting and beating people,” said Heather Barr, who is associate director of the women’s rights division at Human Rights Watch and has long experience in Afghanistan. “He managed to flee to a friend’s house, but he lost all his belongings.” “This is one of many messes that the US has made on the way out, but this one they could fix,” she said. “They need to ensure safe passage not just for the people at the airport, not just for interpreters who worked for the US military, but for anyone who wants to leave.” The US also needs to ensure that they have a place to go. Azizzada called for the US to demand that neighboring countries like Tajikistan and Uzbekistan open their borders to Afghan refugees. And, of course, we should bring as many as possible here. Canada, which is about one-ninth the size of the United States, has announced its intention to take more than 20,000 fleeing Afghans. There is no way to justify America accepting fewer on a per capita basis; 180,000 should be the absolute floor. This is likely to be unpopular; polls showed a majority of Americans opposed the comparatively tiny Syrian refugee resettlement program. But there is no moral argument against vastly expanded refugee admissions. America’s 20-year sojourn in Afghanistan is ending in horror. The question now is whether our humbled country will do the bare minimum to mitigate it. This article originally appeared in The New York Times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/get-afghan-refugees-out-then-let-them-in-1020563.html
17-08-2021||Opinion||Biden could still be proved right in Afghanistan||By Thomas L. Friedman, For years, US officials used a shorthand phrase to describe America’s mission in Afghanistan. It always bothered me: We are there to train the Afghan army to fight for their own government. That turned out to be shorthand for everything that was wrong with our mission — the idea that Afghans didn’t know how to fight and just one more course in counterinsurgency would do the trick. Really? Thinking you need to train Afghans how to fight is like thinking you need to train Pacific Islanders how to fish. Afghan men know how to fight. They’ve been fighting one another, the British, the Soviets or the Americans for a long, long time. It was never about the way our Afghan allies fought. It was always about their will to fight for the corrupt pro-American, pro-Western governments we helped stand up in Kabul. And from the beginning, the smaller Taliban forces — which no superpower was training — had the stronger will, as well as the advantage of being seen as fighting for the tenets of Afghan nationalism: independence from the foreigner and the preservation of fundamentalist Islam as the basis of religion, culture, law and politics. In oft-occupied countries like Afghanistan, many people will actually prefer their own people as rulers (however awful) over foreigners (however well intentioned). “We learn again from Afghanistan that although America can stop bad things from happening abroad, it cannot make good things happen. That has to come from within a country,” said Michael Mandelbaum, a US foreign policy expert and the author of “Mission Failure: America and the World in the Post-Cold War Era.” All of which leads to a fundamental and painful question: Was the US mission there a total failure? Here I’d invoke one of my ironclad rules about covering the Middle East: When big events happen, always distinguish between the morning after and the morning after the morning after. Everything really important happens the morning after the morning after — when the full weight of history and the merciless balances of power assert themselves. And so it will be in Afghanistan — for both the Taliban and President Joe Biden. Let’s start with the Taliban. Today, they are having a great morning-after celebration. They are telling themselves they defeated yet another superpower. But will the Taliban simply resume where they left off 20 years ago — harboring al-Qaeda, zealously imposing their puritanical Islam and subjugating and abusing women and girls? Will the Taliban go into the business of trying to attack US and European targets on their soil? I don’t know. I do know they just inherited responsibility for all of Afghanistan. They will soon face huge pressure to deliver order and jobs for Afghans. And that will require foreign aid and investment from countries that America has a lot of influence with — Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and the European Union nations. And with the United States gone, the Taliban will also have to navigate their survival while swimming alone with some real sharks — Pakistan, India, China, Russia and Iran. They might want to keep the White House phone number on speed dial. “The post-2001 Taliban have proved to be a learning, more political organization that is more open to the influence of external factors,” said Thomas Ruttig in a paper for the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point, according to The Washington Post. We’ll see. The early signs — all sorts of Taliban abuses — are not promising. But we need to watch how, and if, they fully establish control. The Taliban’s main beef with America is that we were in their country. Let’s see what happens when we’re gone. And let’s also remember: When the United States invaded Afghanistan in 2001, iPhones, Facebook and Twitter didn’t even exist. Flash forward to today: Afghanistan is not only much more connected to the world, but it’s connected internally as well. It will not be nearly as easy for the Taliban to hide their abuses from the world or from fellow Afghans. In 2001, virtually no one in Afghanistan owned a mobile phone. Today more than 70% of Afghans do, and many of them have Internet-enabled smartphones. While there is nothing inherently liberalizing about owning a phone, according to a 2017 study by Internews, Afghanistan’s social media “is already propagating change as it has become a platform for denouncing cases of corruption and injustice, bringing attention to causes that have not yet been addressed on traditional media and seemingly letting any social media user voice a public opinion.’’ Maybe the Taliban will just shut it all down. And maybe they won’t be able to. At the same time, a July 7 report in Time magazine on Afghanistan noted: “When US-backed forces ousted the Taliban from power, in 2001, there were almost no girls in school across the country. Today, there are millions, and tens of thousands of women attending university, studying everything from medicine to miniature painting.’’ Maybe on the morning after the morning after, the Taliban will just order them all back under burqas and shut their schoolrooms. But maybe they will also encounter pushback from wives and daughters that they’ve never encountered before — precisely because of the social, educational and technological seeds of change planted by the United States over the last 20 years. I don’t know. And what if all of the most educated Afghans try to emigrate — including civil servants, plumbers, electricians, computer repair experts and car mechanics — and the morning after the morning after, the country is left with a bunch of barely literate Taliban thugs to run the place? What will they do then? Especially since this is a much more environmentally stressed Afghanistan than the one the Taliban ruled 20 years ago? According to a report published last year from National Geographic, “Afghanistan is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world to climate change, and one of the least equipped to handle what’s to come” — including drought, flood, avalanches, landslides, extreme weather and mass displacement. As for the Biden team, it is hard to imagine a worse morning after for it in Kabul. Its failure to create a proper security perimeter and transition process, in which Afghans who risked their lives to work with us these past two decades could be assured of a safe removal to America — not to mention an orderly exit for foreign diplomats, human rights activists and aid workers — is appalling and inexplicable. But ultimately, the Biden team will be judged by how it handles the morning after the morning after. Biden made a claim — one that was shared by the Trump team — that America would be more secure and better able to deal with any terrorist threats if we were out of Afghanistan than if we stayed embedded there, with all the costs of people, energy and focus. He again suggested as much in his address to the nation Monday afternoon. The Biden team essentially said that the old way of trying to secure America from Middle East terrorists through occupation and nation building doesn’t work and that there is a better way. It needs to tell us what that way is and prove it out the morning after the morning after. We’re at the start of one of the biggest geopolitical challenges the modern world has ever faced. Because there’s now a whole slew of countries — Libya, Lebanon, Yemen, Afghanistan, Somalia — that have evicted the colonial great powers that once controlled them (and who brought both order and disorder) but have now also manifestly failed at governing themselves. What to do? When the French president, Emmanuel Macron, visited Lebanon in July 2020, he was presented on his arrival with a petition signed by some 50,000 Lebanese calling for France to take control of Lebanon because of the Lebanese government’s “total inability to secure and manage the country.” I doubt that is the last such petition we will see. For the last 20 years, America tried to defend itself from terrorism emanating from Afghanistan by trying to nurture it to stability and prosperity through the promotion of gender pluralism, religious pluralism, education pluralism, media pluralism and, ultimately, political pluralism. That theory was not wrong. We are entering an unprecedented era in human history, two simultaneous and hugely challenging climate changes at once: one in the climate of technology and one in the climate of the climate. Without such pluralism, neither Afghanistan nor any of these other failing states (or America, but that’s for another column) will be able to adapt to the 21st century. But the theory relied on there being enough Afghans willing to sign on for more such pluralism. Many were. But too many were not. So Biden determined that we needed to stop this effort, leave Afghanistan and readjust our defense strategy. I pray that he is right. But he will be judged by what happens the morning after the morning after.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/biden-could-still-be-proved-right-in-afghanistan-1020598.html
17-08-2021||Panorama||Global supply chains are being battered by fresh Covid surges||By Enda Curran and Michelle Jamrisko Asia’s renewed surge in Covid-19 infections is compounding supply-chain blockages across the world’s biggest source of manufactured goods. After weathering earlier pandemic waves better than other regions, the fast-spreading delta variant has thrown into turmoil factories and ports in countries that were once among the most successful in containing the virus. The snarls in Asia— where the United Nations estimates around 42% of global exports are sourced— risk twisting their way through global supply chains just as shipments would usually ramp up for the Christmas holiday shopping season. As earlier snags have shown, problems that start in Asian ports can ripple slowly, showing up later as delays in places like Los Angeles or Rotterdam and higher prices for consumers. The flare-ups also worsen an already tortured year for exporters, with shipping costs sky-high due to a shortage of containers and as raw materials such as semiconductors become pricier and difficult to source amid red-hot demand.    “Delta is likely to significantly disrupt trade in Asia,” said Deborah Elms, executive director of the Singapore-based Asian Trade Centre. “Most of the markets have been fortunate in managing Covid well so far. But as Covid continues to spread, this lucky streak is likely to end for many locations.” In a sign of those concerns, oil prices extended declines at this week’s opening in Asia as the delta variant’s spread has undermined the outlook for global demand. In China, the world’s third-busiest container port was partly shut recently, while in Southeast Asia — among the worst-hit regions— factory executives have stalled production of electronics, garments and scores of other products. At stake is an export boom that shielded trade-driven economies during the pandemic and was expected to fuel a broader rebound. The World Trade Organisation had forecast Asia to lead an 8% rise this year in global goods trade. Meanwhile, the supply choke will fuel concerns that rising inflation for Chinese producers or US consumers will prove more than transitory, testing expectations among policymakers for a near-term cooling in prices. The delta variant— as contagious as chickenpox — infiltrated China’s tough border defences, seeding the first cases for months in places like Beijing and Wuhan. Indonesia is leading Southeast Asia in cases and deaths, pushing the region toward being among the worst-hit globally as vaccination rollouts lag. While China’s cases are relatively low, its zero-tolerance approach has ensnared the Meishan terminal in Ningbo-Zhoushan port, where all inbound and outbound container services were halted Wednesday after a worker became infected.  That shutdown follows the closure of Yantian port in Shenzhen for about a month after a small outbreak, which had ripple effects for international shipping. In Southeast Asia, manufacturing managers saw a slump in activity last month as critical exporters struggled to keep factories running, a sign that Covid might finally be making a dent in the region’s resilient trade. While Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Vietnam and Thailand account for a combined 5.7% of global exports, they can greatly impact bigger economies like the US and China, particularly in electronics, according to estimates by Natixis. China imports 38% of its data processing machines and 29% of its telecommunication equipment from the five countries, while the US depends on half its semiconductor imports from the bloc. That extends to export hubs of Japan and South Korea, which have remained mostly on track. Samsung Electronics Co., for instance, last month said revenues in its mobile phone business have been hit by the outbreak in Vietnam. Vietnam’s government has taken extreme measures to minimize the hit to exports— a broad basket that includes electronics and garments— as new cases jump to about 16,000 daily, from single digits in April. Authorities have ordered manufacturers to allow workers to sleep overnight at factories as the share of the population fully vaccinated lingers around 1%, near the bottom of the Bloomberg Vaccine Tracker.  It’s not been enough for companies like Harco Shoes and Materials Manufacturing Co., in Hung Yen province near Hanoi. “Things are getting worse and worse as most factories in southern provinces had to stop operations and companies in the north have been struggling to maintain some production,” Pham Hong Viet, chairman and chief executive officer, said in a phone interview. “The country’s entire supply chain has been seriously disrupted.” Economists are already paring their growth forecasts for Asia as real-time indicators show a hit to consumption and other activity. While “nowcast” readings from Bloomberg Economics show the global economy is poised for acceleration this quarter, the delta flare-up in China alone is affecting areas that account for more than one-third of its gross domestic product. Among reasons for recently downgrading their global growth forecasts, economists at JPMorgan Chase & Co. highlighted the risk from Asian countries with low vaccination rates. The virus surge comes as exporters continue to complain of sea freight costs that can be multiples of what they were before the pandemic, mostly due to a shortage of shipping containers. The Drewry World Container Index reached $9,421.48 per 40-foot container as of August 12— about 350% higher than the same time a year ago. “The major challenge for us is the high international shipping costs, which are double or even triple what they were pre-pandemic,” said Lanm Lai, director of foreign trade at CNC Electric in China’s Zhejiang province, whose products include meters and wall switches. “Last year, during the peak of the pandemic, we thought it would be short term. But looking forward, I don’t think there will be a substantial change soon,” he said. Executives like Raymond Ren— who runs Pinghu Kaixin Plastic Industry Co. Ltd., which makes travel bags and suitcases and also in Zhejiang— aren’t hopeful for a course correction anytime soon. “I don’t think anything could reverse this in the short-term,” he said. “You can’t predict anything during this pandemic.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/global-supply-chains-are-being-battered-by-fresh-covid-surges-1020592.html
17-08-2021||Panorama||‘Implementing NEP, not changing textbooks, is top on my agenda: Edu Minister B C Nagesh||Facing several challenges amidst changes in the curriculum, the education sector in Karnataka is at a crossroads. Amid these challenges, the state government ordered a change of guard by bringing in Tiptur MLA B C Nagesh as the new Minister for Primary and Secondary Education. A first-time minister, and said to be a strong RSS ideologue, Nagesh has his own priorities and insights to deal with the challenges, finds DH’s Rashmi Belur. Being a new minister in the state cabinet, and having been given the Education portfolio, what are your priorities for the next two years? My top priority is the successful implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) at the school education level in a full-fledged manner. All these years, no government had vowed to change Macaulay’s education system in the country. We strongly believe that the NEP will not only bring a major change in the education system but it also has solutions to various other problems that are currently faced by the sector. As soon as you were given the Education portfolio, there were murmurs of impending saffronisation of textbooks… One cannot term the removal or addition of a few words or lines in the textbooks that are largely related to the emotions of the students as saffronisation. The word is more of a political gimmick. My predecessors were also from the same ideology. Did they try to saffronise the textbooks or the education system? In the past, the review committee had removed the word ‘Maathru’ from ‘ Maathrubhoomi’. Can anybody say ‘Maathru’ came into use only after setting up of RSS? Was there any need for removing that word? So, will there be any change in the textbooks? I am not even thinking of reviewing the existing textbooks at this juncture. But I’ll definitely think of it if there is any part which would affect the emotional growth of students or the Swadeshi concept. I just want to pose a question to all: Is it wrong if we try to instil patriotism among children through textbooks? But let me clarify that I will consult academicians and other stakeholders if there is a need to review the textbooks and only then we will go for it. It is being said that you are just following /consulting your predecessor… The way BC Nagesh and S Suresh Kumar think could be alike. But that does not mean I am following him. My ultimate purpose is to improve the quality of education and I am open to suggestions from all my predecessors and not just from Suresh Kumar. What do you think is the solution for the ongoing school fee row between school managements and the parents' groups? If there is a solution outside the court, then I would suggest improving the bonding between the school managements and parents. I am neither favouring nor against private schools. We cannot insist that schools should not collect fees. At the same time, exploitation in the name of fees is not acceptable. The commercialisation of education is something I am against. There are schools that have understood the financial crisis of parents during the pandemic and rolled out discounts. They deserve applause indeed. The Opposition and others have dubbed the Education department as corrupt. How would you change this image of the department? Corruption is a major issue and it is present in all departments. According to me, corruption has to be addressed silently, and I follow our Prime Minister in this matter. This is one of the biggest challenges before me. Schools are set to reopen next week for upper grades. What are the alternative plans for the primary grades? I strongly feel ‘Vidyagama’ is the only alternative to engage primary grade children in continuous learning if the reopening of offline classes is deferred further. In fact, the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for Covid-19 had also expressed their opinion to start with primary kids. But keeping in mind the difficulties in following Covid-appropriate behaviour, it was decided to start with grade 9 and above. How are you planning to strengthen and add quality to government schools? There is already a study report ready with the department on the number of schools that require improvement in infrastructure. The study was conducted on 13 different parameters and, of the 44,000 schools, about 7,000 fall under the ‘C’ Category, which need immediate attention. We are planning to approach (those with) CSR funds for infrastructure development in schools. On the admission side, we should not force parents or kids to join government schools. But if we create an atmosphere, then they will voluntarily come and join the schools. I have heard a lot about the transformation of government schools in New Delhi and I am planning to visit those schools for a closer understanding. The government’s experiment with bilingual schools has been well received. Are there any plans to increase the number of bilingual schools? We will increase the number of these schools. The demand for bilingual government schools is high and we are planning to start bilingual sections at 1,000 more government schools by training the teachers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/implementing-nep-not-changing-textbooks-is-top-on-my-agenda-edu-minister-b-c-nagesh-1020593.html
17-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Recycle Swamy||It’s a common sight at home to see me repairing shoes and slippers with adhesive on the weekends. Using one-side printed paper in the printer is not a novelty anymore. Ensuring toothpaste is squeezed to the last bit and that near-empty sauce bottles are washed and poured into simmering gravies do not constitute miserliness but indicate a frugal living. DIYs like basic cobbling, plumbing, tailoring, painting and all the professions linked to home upkeep is modus vivendi— a Latin phrase meaning way of life or way of living. Our growing up days were the time for hand-me-downs. Wisdom taught me to buy a cycle pump when we bought our kids’ first bicycles. This was to ensure that every other day I wouldn't have to spend money on “air” and that the children get some additional exercise pumping air into the tyres. After a few years of rigorous use, the pump hose which injects the air into the tyre tore off and the pump was rendered useless. Not willing to let go, I removed the hose, cut its edge and fixed it to make it work again. That’s when my kid said: "If I had to name you, I would have called you Recycle Swamy.” I mend the small tears on clothes, a skill that my mother taught me. The kids are in awe and ensure that every month they dump their torn clothes for me to mend. As a thumb rule, pants become bermudas and then finally shorts before they are discarded, extending their life twice over by repurposing. When the wires in the extension plug box started to tear, an insulation tape came to the rescue— the box is still in use at home. The bathroom window had glass panes jutting out and cello tape came to the rescue to put it back in place. When our new neighbour was painting his house, I had no qualms asking him for a few paintbrush dips of the leftover varnish to help re-varnish our main door. There was this expensive toy that children loved, which stopped working after some time despite fresh batteries. So, I decided to take it apart and realised that a wire was detached from the circuit board. I got hold of a soldering iron and fixed it. I'm not sure how many kids know about soldering iron these days. The other evening, I saw the one who wanted to rename me carrying the toolkit down to our apartment play area. Curiously, I followed to see a few younger kids waiting willingly in a line, clutching their cycles. My teenager was fixing all the minor problems in their cycles one by one. Well, children learn from what we do, right? Guess we belong to an era where we mend things and not throw them away— including relationships.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/recycle-swamy-1020581.html
17-08-2021||Second Edit||World must unite to save Afghans||The Taliban’s return to power in Kabul on Sunday, 20 years after it was ousted from there by the Northern Alliance-backed US-led coalition, is a disastrous development for Afghanistan, the region and, indeed, the world. This is a tragedy of mammoth proportions, especially for young Afghan women and men who struggled over the past two decades to build a new, modern and inclusive nation, one where they enjoyed a semblance of freedom and equality. The fruits of their struggle are now in pieces. Thousands of Afghans are trying to leave the country but with embassies closing down and operations at Kabul airport suspended, they may have to remain in Afghanistan, a prospect that is nothing short of a death sentence to those who worked with the Ashraf Ghani government or worked with the US-led coalition and aid workers engaged in Afghanistan’s reconstruction. The Taliban has promised it will not indulge in revenge killings. But reconciliation has never figured in its vocabulary or actions in the past and is unlikely to determine its governance going forward. It is Afghanistan’s women, and sectarian and ethnic minorities, who are expected to suffer the most under Taliban rule. Ever since the Trump administration signed a deal with the Taliban providing for America’s exit in exchange for the Taliban engaging in talks with the Afghan government, it was clear that the insurgent group’s return to power was only a matter of time. US President Joe Biden accelerated the Taliban’s capture of power when he announced the unconditional and accelerated withdrawal of American troops. From that day onwards, the Ashraf Ghani government was living on borrowed time; its fate was sealed. Although the Afghan army fought hard over the past several years to keep the Taliban at bay, the past month saw commanders surrendering without a fight. Anti-Taliban warlords simply changed sides or fled. Had the Taliban struck deals with them ahead of its final assault over the past week? Who cleared the way for the Taliban’s easy march into the presidential palace? Corruption may have corroded the Ghani government and demoralised Afghan soldiers, especially in the final days, but it is Pakistan that facilitated the Taliban’s ride to power. Narrow self-interest and the obsession to keep India out drove its Afghan strategy. That strategy has scored a victory, with Pakistan’s proteges now in power in Kabul.   Kabul may have fallen, but Afghans must be saved. The world must unite to send out a strong message to the Taliban against committing a massacre of its own people or violating their human rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/world-must-unite-to-save-afghans-1020589.html
17-08-2021||South||Afghan chaos a concern for families of jailed Kerala women||The turmoil in Afghanistan has aggravated the concerns of families of four Malayali women who have been languishing in an Afghan prison since November 2019 after the IS operatives surrendered. Bindhu S, the mother of Nimisha alias Fathima, one among the four women, has been requesting the Indian government authorities since Sunday after the reports of Taliban gaining power in Afghanistan started coming. “At least at this point in time, the Indian government should take steps to ensure the safety of the four women. Since yesterday, I have been mailing fresh petitions to all possible authorities of the Indian government, but have yet to receive any positive response,” the desperate mother hailing from Thiruvananthapuram told DH, adding that they are urging the government to let the women face trial under the Indian anti-terrorist laws. Apart from Nimisha, Sonia Sebastian alias Ayisha, Merrin Jacob and Raffeala were the other Malayali women in Afghan prisons along with their children. They were reported to be in Pul-e-Charkhi prison in Kabul from where the Taliban reportedly freed prisoners recently. Experts say that the women were likely to be used by the Taliban forces for their service, as terrorist outfits like IS are likely to be comfortable in Afghanistan under Taliban rule. Though the women stated that they repented their decision to join IS, the security agencies need not take it into consideration, said a commentator. Bindu, as well as Sonia’s father Sebastian V J, had approached the Kerala High Court and the Supreme Court respectively recently seeking a directive to the Centre for the extradition of the women. They also expressed concerns over the political changes in Afghanistan with the exit of the US troops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/afghan-chaos-a-concern-for-families-of-jailed-kerala-women-1020551.html
17-08-2021||South||Women's freedom to decide whether to continue with pregnancy can't be taken away, says Kerala High Court||The freedom of a woman to decide whether to continue with a pregnancy cannot be taken away, the Kerala High Court has said while allowing a mildly mentally ill mother to abort her more than 22 week old abnormal foetus. The High Court said that the right of a mother to terminate her pregnancy, if there was substantial risk that after birth the child could suffer from abnormalities which could seriously handicap him or her, has been recognised by the courts. In the instant case, the woman was mildly mentally ill and according to the report of a medical team which examined her, the foetus was suffering from Klinefelter syndrome -- a genetic condition in which a male is born with an extra copy of the X chromosome. The syndrome is a chromosomal anomaly associated with variable mental sub normality, endocrine problems and psychological issues in later life, the court noted in its order. According to the medical report, beside mild mental disabilities, the woman also suffers from visual disturbances, seizures and weaknesses of the left lower limb with a permanent disability of 55 per cent. The report said that while Klinefelter syndrome was not life threatening, since the mother has mild mental illness and impaired adaptive skills, "she might find it difficult to cope with the child rearing demands of a baby with disability". "For the above mentioned reasons, medical termination of pregnancy is recommended," the report said. After perusing the report, the High Court said, "The freedom of a pregnant woman in making a choice as to whether the pregnancy should be continued cannot be taken away. Likewise, the right of the mother to terminate the pregnancy medically even after the permissible period in terms of the provisions of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, has been recognised by the courts, if there is substantial risk that if the child were born, it would suffer from abnormalities as to be seriously handicapped."  "In the result, the writ petition is allowed and the first petitioner (mother) is permitted to undergo the procedure for termination of the pregnancy. The respondents concerned would be free to undertake the said procedure at the risk of the first petitioner," the court added. The order came on a plea moved by the woman and her husband seeking to medically terminate the over 22-week-old pregnancy on the ground that continuing with it would pose a risk to the mother's life and the baby would suffer from physical and mental abnormalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/womens-freedom-to-decide-whether-to-continue-with-pregnancy-cant-be-taken-away-says-kerala-high-court-1020630.html
17-08-2021||South||CBI files case against Kerala Congress, BJP leaders||The CBI has registered a case against Congress leaders including Kerala former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and AICC general secretary K C Venugopal and BJP national vice president A P Abdullahkutty in connection with a sexual assault complaint filed by a woman accused in a solar power project. While a FIR was filed against Chandy, Venugopal and Congress MPs Hibi Eden and Adoor Prakash and Abdullahkutty in a court in Thiruvananthapuram, FIR against Congress leader A P Anilkumar was filed in Kochi. Various offences, including rape, were invoked against the accused in the nearly one decade old incident. The Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala referred the case to CBI considering a petition given by the woman in January this year. The alleged incidents took place during the term of the Oommen Chandy government of 2011-16. The woman accused in the solar project scam later gave the rape complaint against political party leaders. Though the Pinarayi Vijayan government ordered a police probe, a home department report said that there were no adequate evidence against the accused, especially Chandy. The woman had alleged that Chandy sexually abused her at the Chief Minister's official residence in 2012. Chandy reacted that the case was politically motivated and he had no reasons to be scared and the allegations were totally baseless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-files-case-against-kerala-congress-bjp-leaders-1020673.html
17-08-2021||South||Pinarayi Vijayan seeks urgent steps to repatriate Keralites stranded in Kabul||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday requested the Centre to take urgent steps to repatriate Malayalis stranded in Kabul in view of the Taliban capturing power in Afghanistan. As directed by the CM, the NORKA Roots, the state-run welfare agency of non-resident Keralites, submitted a letter to the External Affairs Ministry in this regard, government sources here said. As many as 36 people, who got stranded in Kabul, have so far contacted NORKA seeking help, they said. Harikrishnan Namboothiri K, the CEO of the agency, contacted the Malayalis, among the stranded, the other day, they said adding that steps were on to trace whether more Keralites were trapped in the Afghanistan capital. The NORKA has already passed the information they received to the External Affairs Ministry, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayan-seeks-urgent-steps-to-repatriate-keralites-stranded-in-kabul-1020686.html
17-08-2021||South||2 women reportedly held by NIA in Kerala for ISIS links||Two women from Kannur district in north Kerala were held by the NIA on charges of involvement in activities for the ISIS. Mizha Siddeeque and her cousin Shifa Haris alias Ayesha were arrested from Kannur on Tuesday. Five other Malayalis were also arraigned in the case registered by the NIA. According to an official statement from NIA, Mizha and Shifa were affiliated with the ISIS. Mizha had travelled to Tehran along with their associates to join the ISIS in Syria. As per the instruction of prime accused Mohammed Ameen alias Abu Yahya hailing from Malappuram district, she created an Instagram page to propagate, radicalise and recruit gullible Muslim youths for ISIS. She had also radicalised two of her cousins, also from Kannur, and Shifa and was motivating them to join ISIS. They were also arraigned in the case.  Shifa, on the direction of Mizha and Mushab transferred funds to Mohammad Waqar Lone for supporting ISIS activities. Shifa was also willing to perform 'Hijrah' (migration) to ISIS-controlled territory. Dr Rahees Rashid and Rahul Manoharan from Kollam district are the others arraigned as accused in the FIR registered by the NIA Delhi unit. The investigation was initiated on the basis of intelligence information regarding formation of group of radicalised individuals by Mohammed, the first accused. He ran ISIS propaganda channels on various social media platforms like Telegram, Hoop and Instagram. Violent Jihadi ideologies of ISIS were being propagated to radicalise and recruit members. The group planned religious migration to Jammu and Kashmir for terrorist activities. Various sections of UAPA were invoked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/2-women-reportedly-held-by-nia-in-kerala-for-isis-links-1020714.html
17-08-2021||South||Chennai enables free Wi-Fi at 49 locations under Smart City project||Smartphone users in Chennai can now use free Wi-Fi for 30 minutes at 49 locations with the installation of Smart Poles by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) under the Smart City project. The GCC on Tuesday released the list of locations where the Smart Poles that provide free Wi-Fi connectivity have been installed. Smartphone users will have to register from their smartphone to get an OTP to use the facility, the GCC said. Eight smart poles have been installed at the Marina Beach at various locations, while people can access free Wi-Fi at 11 locations in the shopping district of T. Nagar and adjoining Venkatanarayana Road. Three Smart Poles have been installed at the beach in Tiruvanmiyur on the East Coast Road. Officials said people can use free Wi-Fi for 30 minutes. “We are implementing the project in 49 places in the first phase. We will expand the facilities to other areas gradually. This is a scheme being implemented under the Smart City project,” a senior GCC official said. The GCC has built a Command Centre and Control Room to monitor to coordinate and oversee various projects being implemented in the city. While Smart City is a project funded by the Union Government, the state administration has also announced Singara (Beautiful) Chennai 2.0 to give a makeover to the city. As part of its efforts to beautify the city, the GCC is undertaking a drive to remove posters from walls across the city. As of August 16, a total of 1.11 lakh posters were removed from the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-enables-free-wi-fi-at-49-locations-under-smart-city-project-1020728.html
17-08-2021||South||BJP slams Kerala Covid management, law and order situation||BJP National President J P Nadda on Tuesday flayed the Covid-19 management and the law and order situation in Kerala and blamed the Left government's ''political attitude'' for the crimes against women, alleged operation of terror cells and increasing coronavirus cases in the state. Speaking at the virtual inauguration of a BJP district office in Kozhikode in Kerala, Nadda also accused senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of 'politicising' the rape and murder of a nine-year old Dalit girl in Delhi by tweeting the victim's family's pictures and said his Twitter account should be locked. The senior BJP leader also took a dig at Gandhi's two-day visit to Kerala by terming it as ''political tourism''. He began his speech, at the event, by stating that despite all the support given to the southern state by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kerala was not functioning as it was supposed to. Nadda said there was no Covid-19 management, but only ''mismanagement'' in the state which on an average has been seeing 20,000 fresh cases everyday and was accounting for more than half of the country's caseload of new infections each day. He said that the burden of Covid-19 mismanagement in the state has become a burden of the country and asked ''where has the Kerala plan of Covid-19 management gone?'' Comparing the percentage of people infected in the state till date with that of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, Nadda said the northern states fared very well in their Covid-19 management. One of the reasons for the high number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala was that the state initially went for Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) and it was much later that it opted for RTPCR tests, he said. Referring to the recent visit of Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya to Kerala and the media reports that he lauded the Covid-19 management measures of the state, Nadda said the minister would communicate his views to the concerned officials and authorities and not to the reporters and merely because he did not point out any shortcomings, does not mean there were none. On the law and order situation in Kerala, the BJP president said it has gone ''haywire'' in view of the number of rape cases, targetting of women and children, presence of terror modules and the alleged ''involvement'' of the Chief Minister's office (CMO) in the gold smuggling through diplomatic channels case. He also alleged the CMO has not been able to come out of the shade of the gold smuggling case. Nadda further claimed that Kerala was now ''being identified by terrorist modules operating in various shapes, gold smuggling and as an ISIS recruitment centre''. He also said the police has become a mute spectator to all this and was viewing cases ''through a political prism or lens'' as it was allegedly dealing with matters on the basis of the political affiliations of the persons involved. Apart from these, the other problems in the state were -- Kerala's development being ''hampered'' and coming to a ''stand still'' by the ''political culture'' prevailing here for the last 30-40 years and the huge economic debt of around Rs 3.5 lakh crores that the state was under, Nadda alleged. He further alleged that due to the ''hostile political attitude'' in Kerala, existing industries were locking up and trying to flee. New industries were not coming up and there was no scope of employment in the state which was evident from the fact that a large number of the populace goes outside the state for jobs. Claiming that various central government schemes were also not being utilised by Kerala, Nadda expressed hope that the Rs 267.35 crore allocated to the state for strengthening its healthcare infrastructure and preparing for any third wave of Covid-19 would be ''properly utilised''. ''The Central government wants to bring Kerala into the mainstream, but the present state government was posing hindrances to development,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-slams-kerala-covid-management-law-and-order-situation-1020732.html
17-08-2021||South||Non-Brahmins appointed as temple priests only in vacant posts: Stalin||Chief Minister M K Stalin on Tuesday clarified that no existing priest has been removed from service to make way for non-Brahmins to be appointed as priests in temples managed by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR & CE) department.  Intervening in the Assembly, Stalin said people who are not able to “tolerate” the DMK government’s move to appoint trained persons from all communities are “spreading misinformation” in social media. The Chief Minister’s clarification came after HR & CE minister P K Sekarbabu asserted that the new priests are being appointed only to posts that are vacant. “Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) brought a law to ensure that people from all communities become priests in temples. This law was to remove the thorn from Periyar’s heart (Periyar had termed non-Brahmins not being able to become priests as a thorn in his heart). The law could not be implemented then, but now we have ensured that it sees the light of the day,” Stalin said. However, some people are spreading “misinformation” on social media to scuttle the government’s efforts to ensure social justice, he said. “We have not removed someone and appointed a new person in his place. If it has happened somewhere, we will take necessary action when it is brought to our attention. There shall be no doubt about this,” the CM added. He said people understand the “designs” of the people who are spreading “false information” for political reasons. Social media and WhatsApp were abuzz with messages that non-Brahmin priests were appointed after removing the existing ones in many temples.   Earlier, Sekarbabu told reporters that the government will not remove any existing priest to accommodate new persons, while attacking “vested interests” for spreading rumours. “If working for the downtrodden is wrong, our Chief Minister (Stalin) will continue to commit the mistake,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/non-brahmins-appointed-as-temple-priests-only-in-vacant-posts-stalin-1020769.html
17-08-2021||South||Cooperative society marks its presence in tourism with luxury resort at Wayanad||A luxury resort with five-star class facilities that has come at Wayanad in Kerala is considered to be the first of its type venture by a cooperative society in the country. Kerala Land Reforms and Development Cooperative Society, brand named Ladder, set up with the aim of providing residential complexes at affordable rates, is now venturing into the hospitality sector. Apart from the five-star resort at Wayanad that made a soft launch on Tuesday, Ladder already has a business class hotel In Thiurvananthapuram and a second one coming up in its hometown Kozhikode, apart from several housing projects and commercial complex. The resort and spa at Sultan Bathery in Wayanad has been named Saptha - denoting the seven principles of the cooperative movement. Situated around 100 kilometres from Mysore and Ooty, the Rs 100 crore project is expected to be an attraction of the Wayanad - Mysore - Ooty tourism circuit. It has 64 rooms and luxury amenities like infinity pools, a mini theatre, and a convention hall in the lush green wild of Wayanad. Founder chairman of Ladder C N Vijaykrishnan said that it was the first such venture in tourism sector by a cooperative movement. Though Ladder was formed to curb the exploitation in the real estate and construction sectors, now it was proving the strength of the cooperative movement, said Vijayakrishnan, who played key role in many successful cooperative ventures in Kerala. He is a leader of the Community Marxist Party founded by CPM dissident leader M V Raghavan. Incidentally, the success story of a cooperative movement in Kerala is coming at a time when cooperatives sector in Kerala is under scanner after major frauds by cooperative banks and the Centre making attempts to have its control on the cooperative sector by forming an independent ministry. The CPM and left parties were having an upper hand in the cooperative sector of Kerala and the state has many institutions like hospitals and colleges in the cooperative sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cooperative-society-marks-its-presence-in-tourism-with-luxury-resort-at-wayanad-1020771.html
17-08-2021||South||Meet Suhanjana, the only female odhuvar in Tamil Nadu||With a flower garland around her neck, 28-year-old Suhanjana surprised devotees at a temple near Chennai by rendering a hymn from Thevaram, a collection of songs from the Tamil Shaivite tradition, on Sunday.   Suhanjana’s singing not just enthralled the faithful but also led to the breaking of yet another glass ceiling -- she is only the second woman to be appointed as odhuvar (who renders devotional songs in temples) by the Tamil Nadu government. Till now, only male singers have been dominating the field.  Suhanjana, at present, is the only woman odhuvar in temples managed by the HR & CE department after the first woman appointed to the post in the late 2000s resigned her post eight years ago. Chief Minister M K Stalin handed over the appointment order to Suhanjana on August 14 along with 24 trained non-Brahmins who were appointed as priests in temples.  On August 15, the day India celebrated its 75th year of Independence, Suhanjana broke the shackles and joined as odhuvar at the Dhenupureeswarar Temple in Madambakkam on the outskirts of Chennai.  A 2.5-minute video clip of Suhanjana rendering a hymn from Thevaram, one of the celebrated works in praise of Lord Shiva, has now gone viral on social media.  Though Suhanjana learned Thevaram and Thiruvasagam from Karur Saminathan, a renowned expert on the subject, the 28-year-old never thought she would render them in a temple before the deity.  “It is surreal. I have been singing devotional songs since I was 10 years. I have sung at temples before but rendering the hymns before the God in his abode is a different experience. That too as an odhuvar. I think I am blessed by God himself,” she told DH. Suhanjana, who was teaching Thevaram and Thiruvasagam to school students in Karur before migrating to Chennai, applied for the job, and was chosen after an interview. V Ranganathan, who spearheaded the movement to appoint non-Brahmins as priests, termed Suhanjana’s appointment as an odhuvar as the realisation of “social justice.” “God neither knows caste nor gender. Everyone is equal before God. A woman singing Thevaram and Thiruvasagam before God in a temple in real social justice. We wanted all forms of discrimination in temples to end. That Suhanjana received her appointment order along with non-Brahmin priests is heartwarming,” Ranganathan told DH. Late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi had during his 2006-2011 tenure issued an order that trained persons from all communities will be appointed as priests, but the order could not be implemented due to court cases. However, the previous AIADMK government, without much fanfare, appointed two non-Brahmins priests after the Supreme Court paved the way.  Suhanjana, who has a one-year-old child, said she received “maximum support” from her parents, husband, and in-laws. “They encouraged me to take up the profession as we feel it is a service to God,” she said.  Ravindran, who has been appointed as priest in Muthumariamman Temple in Karaikudi in Sivaganga district, said he waited for over 12 years to get the job despite being qualified after training. “Not just me, so many people who underwent training were waiting for this moment. To enter the temple’s sanctum sanctorum and engage ourselves in the service of God. Finally, it has happened now,” Ravindran told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/meet-suhanjana-the-only-female-odhuvar-in-tamil-nadu-1020775.html
17-08-2021||South||Another ex-AIADMK minister accused of possessing disproportionate assets ||Close on the heels of two former AIADMK ministers being raided by the Directorate of Anti-Corruption and Vigilance (DVAC), an NGO on Tuesday submitted a complaint against ex-minister K C Veeramani of accumulating assets that are disproportionate to the known sources of income.  Arappor Iyakkam, the NGO which filed a slew of cases against S P Velumani who was raided last week, sent a 43-page complaint to the DVAC alleging that Veeramani and his family have acquired assets worth Rs 76.65 crore that is disproportionate to the known sources of income between 2011 and 2021.  Veeramani who held the Commercial Taxes and Registration portfolio from 2016 to 2021, was also a minister in the 2011-2016 AIADMK regime. He lost the 2021 polls from Jolarpet in Tiruppattur district in Tamil Nadu.  Addressing a press conference, Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam alleged that Veeramani and his family members have has accumulated assets disproportionately to their known sources of income which is an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and the amended Prevention of Corruption Act, 2018.  “What is also clear is that the former Minister has in a clearly premeditated, willful and planned manner committed various criminal offences such as fraud, misrepresentation, causing loss to the exchequer and unlawfully enriching himself and his family by misusing his official position and powers as Minister,” Venkatesan said.  Contending that the former minister’s income was around Rs 10 crore in 10 years as declared in his election affidavits, the NGO said he and his family members own assets worth Rs 76.65 crore. “It should be stressed at this point that the above calculations are based on Registration Values and are based on conservative estimates. Only a a full-fledged criminal investigation will reveal the actual and full value of the disproportionate assets of the former minister, which is expected to be much more than this,” Venkatesan said, demanding a detailed probe.  The allegations come at a time two former AIADMK ministers – M R Vijayabhaskar and Velumani – are facing a probe by the DVAC. The DMK, while in opposition, had submitted a huge list of corruption charges against half a dozen ministers. The party also promised to constitute a special court to try all such cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-ex-aiadmk-minister-accused-of-possessing-disproportionate-assets-1020776.html
17-08-2021||State||Expolsives seized in Mangaluru, one held||A 50-year-old man has been arrested and 1,725 kg of explosive materials that were illegally stocked in a building at Bunder in the city were seized, police sources said on Tuesday. The arrested has been identified as Anand Gatti, a resident of Mudipu in Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada district. The seized explosives, include 400 kg of sulphur powder, 350 kg potassium nitrate, 50 kg barium nitrate, 395 kg potassium chlorate, 260 kg alumninium powder, 30 kg lead balls and 240 kg charcoal among other things. The value of the explosives has been estimated at Rs 1.11 lakh. The seizure was made in a raid after getting a tip-off, the sources said. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Hariram Shanker inspected the spot. The accused was running a gun shop in Bunder. He was produced before the court and remanded to police custody for ten days. Investigation is on to find out whether others are involved the in the illegal act, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/expolsives-seized-in-mangaluru-one-held-1020636.html
17-08-2021||State||Afghanistan crisis a difficult moment for India, says ex-PM Gowda||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda on Tuesday said the Afghanistan situation was “a difficult moment for India and the entire region” and urged the Centre to respond in a “humane manner”.  Gowda said India should develop an independent policy towards Afghanistan, which has now come under the Taliban.  “Reports from Afghanistan show how fear and uncertainty have gripped the country. It is a difficult moment for India and the entire region,” Gowda, the JD(S) national president, said in a tweet.  “We have to respond in a humane manner besides developing an independent policy of fostering friendship and peace in our neighbourhood,” Gowda added.  Gowda was India’s prime minister from June 1, 1996, to April 21, 1997.  Karnataka’s Energy and Kannada & Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar also expressed concern over the Afghanistan crisis. “The inhuman Taliban has taken over the Afghanistan capital, leading to the suspension of women’s rights and the taking over of a radio station that now broadcasts Quran instead of music. Such fanaticism is exceeding the extreme limits. I pray for the defeat of fanaticism and the return of democracy,” Kumar said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/afghanistan-crisis-a-difficult-moment-for-india-says-ex-pm-gowda-1020705.html
17-08-2021||State||Liquor ban in Dakshina Kannada border areas till August 30||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V has extended the ban on the sale of liquor and toddy in shops located within a 5km radius of the Kerala border till August 30. The move aims to prevent the tipplers from the Kasaragod district of Kerala visiting bars, wine shops and toddy shops in border areas of Dakshina Kannada. It is also a precautionary measure to check the spread of Covid-19 in the district. The district administration had ordered the closure of all liquor shops in the border areas from August 3 to 15. Now, the DC has extended it till August 30.  With the extension of the order, 26 liquor outlets and five toddy shops functioning in border areas of Mangaluru, Bantwal, Puttur and Sullia taluks in the district will remain closed till August 30.  On the other hand, all bars and pubs in the district have also been directed to close by 7 pm. The night curfew from 9 pm to 6 am and the weekend curfew will be continued till August 30, said the Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/liquor-ban-in-dakshina-kannada-border-areas-till-august-30-1020800.html
17-08-2021||State||Sacked members protest against RGUHS Syndicate meeting||The syndicate meeting of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), on Tuesday, witnessed protests and chaos with the university being accused of ignoring the orders issued by the High Court to reinstate syndicate members who were removed by the BJP government. Five members nominated by the then Congress government to the university Syndicate were removed soon after Dr K Sudhakar took over the medical education portfolio. Challenging this, the members, who are doctors by profession, approached the court and the court directed the university to reinstate them. Despite the directions from the court in June 2021, the university conducted the Syndicate meeting. This was questioned by the five members whose memberships were supposed to be reinstated. Condemning the university authorities for convening meetings without reinstating their nominations or by inviting them to the meeting, the five members staged a protest outside the Syndicate hall. Speaking to DH, Dr Umesh Babu, one of the five members, said, “This leads to contempt of court and we are going to challenge the decisions taken in the syndicate meeting.” “We staged a protest demanding that the university authorities cancel or postpone the meeting and reinstate our nominations as per the court direction. But they refused to do so and continued with the meeting. We are going to file contempt cases against the university authorities,” Babu said. Soon after taking charge of the medical education portfolio, Sudhakar had issued an order appointing new nominees to the RGUHS syndicate by removing the five members nominated by the Congress government. As they were left with eight months of their term, the members challenged this in the High Court in June. The court issued an order, directing the university to restore the memberships of the old members and quashed the new nominations.  Dr Jayakara B S, vice chancellor, RGUHS, said “We have written to the government, as the government is the appointing authority.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sacked-members-protest-against-rguhs-syndicate-meeting-1020810.html
17-08-2021||State||Karnataka urges firms to buy private quota Covid-19 vaccines with CSR funds, give it to government||Health Minister K Sudhakar met industry leaders in the pharmaceutical sector here on Tuesday and requested them to purchase Covid vaccines allocated to the state under the private quota and provide them to the state government. He will soon meet leaders in the nutrition, AYUSH and major industries space. The minister said the CM will soon meet information technology-biotechnology czars and high net worth individuals who are philanthropic in nature to request them for the same. Sudhakar plans to visit Delhi next week to request the Centre for increasing the state's vaccine allocation. Industry representatives responded positively to the minister's request, promising to support the government's vaccination campaign through the pharmaceutical industry and their businesses. They made it clear at the meeting that they would respond as soon as possible after conveying the government's message to the governing bodies of their respective companies. The meeting was attended by representatives of more than 30 companies in the state. "We need to address vaccination concerns in districts bordering Kerala, which are more likely to see more Covid cases because of the situation prevailing in the neighbouring state. The focus now is increasing vaccination in the border districts," Sudhakar told reporters. "This time, they (the central government) have assured us of 75 lakh doses, of which we have got 35 to 40 lakhs. With another 14-15 days to go, I am still optimistic that they will increase the allocation to Karnataka this month," he said. During the minister's previous visit to Delhi, he had requested for 1.5 crore doses to be supplied every month, but that has not happened yet. Oxygen infra Currently, seven companies are producing 812 tonnes of oxygen per day. There are 64 oxygen refilling units. Gadag, Chikkaballapur, Chitradurga, Bidar, Yadgir, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu and Mandya, in the next few days, will have oxygen units, they will be built in all taluks and districts, Sudhakar said. "Care will be taken not to repeat past mistakes. All necessary preparations are being made, including installation of new units, calling tenders, purchasing of jumbo cylinders, additional inventory and supply system. Private companies need to strengthen their production and inventory systems," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-urges-firms-to-buy-private-quota-covid-19-vaccines-with-csr-funds-give-it-to-government-1020826.html
17-08-2021||State||Discrepancies in RAT Covid kits procurement: PAC||The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) has flagged the procurement of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits and other equipment used during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. At a meeting held Tuesday, the committee pulled up the government for purchasing RAT kits at two different rates in April this year. While the lowest bidder had agreed to supply the kits at Rs 33.25 per unit on April 6, the lowest bid increased to Rs 81.64 per unit. The PAC is headed by former Congress minister and BTM Layout MLA Ramalinga Reddy. According to the response provided by Health & Family Welfare Department, the government was forced to float a second tender for RAT kits as the lowest bidder of the April 6 tender supplied only half of the six lakh kits for which the tender was floated. A comparison of companies participating in the tender showed that the company which failed to supply six lakh kits was allowed to participate in the second tender process as well. PAC observed that the department's decision to not blacklist the company was "inappropriate" and noted that the same companies that participated in the first tender quoted a higher price during the second. Noting that the lowest bidder had supplied the kits at Rs 69 per unit to the UP government, the PAC has sought an explanation from the Department on why the price was higher for Karnataka. During the meeting held Tuesday, discrepancies in the procurement of 3-part and 5-part differential cell counters were also flagged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/discrepancies-in-rat-covid-kits-procurement-pac-1020846.html
17-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No proposal to cut petrol prices in state: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday ruled out any cut in fuel prices in the state on the lines of what Tamil Nadu has done.  The M K Stalin-led DMK government in Tamil Nadu slashed petrol prices by Rs 3 by lowering the tax levy, prompting the Opposition Congress to ask Bommai to do the same here.  “There’s no proposal like that,” Bommai told reporters when asked about cutting fuel prices.  Last week, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah urged Bommai to follow Tamil Nadu’s footsteps and cut the price of both petrol and diesel in Karnataka. A litre of petrol now costs Rs 105.25 in Bengaluru against Rs 99.47 in Chennai.  Earlier in the day, BJP leaders from the Hebbal assembly constituency led by YA Narayana Swamy and Katta Subramanya Naidu met Bommai. The CM also met the public and heard their grievances.  “The state’s progress has to speed up. Economic activity and infrastructure need a push. With pro-poor schemes, we want the socio-economic conditions of the poor to improve,” Bommai said.  He also said that he had directed Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar to start implementing the 14 new programmes, aimed at improving infrastructure in services, which he announced on Independence Day. “[Kumar] has started work on that front. In a couple of days, our government will make sure its programmes reach citizens and officials have been instructed to work in that direction,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-proposal-to-cut-petrol-prices-in-state-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1020632.html
17-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||83 taluks in Karnataka declared 'flood-hit'||Karnataka has officially declared 83 taluks in the state as "flood hit", Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Tuesday. "Earlier, we had declared 61 taluks as flood-affected. However, following recent rainfall and flood situation, we have added 22 taluks to the list," Ashoka said. The list includes Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Hubballi city, Kadur, Davanagere, Dandeli, Alur, Lakshmeshwar, Tarikere, Mundagod, Supa, Hubballi, Bhadravati, Channagiri, Annigeri, Babaleshwar, Nidagundi, Kolhar, Muddebihal, Harapanahalli, Hosanagar and Mudigere, he said. With the latest addition, there are 83 taluks in Karnataka which are declared as flood hit. Ruling BJP MLA from Mudigere, M P Kumaraswamy had recently staged a protest accusing his own party's government in the state of neglecting his constituency that has been repeatedly ravaged by torrential rains, floods and landslides over the past few years. Noting that the government is taking measures to alert people about possible lightning strikes, the Minister said, "every year, many people die due to lightning, hence, we are introducing a lightning alert system at select villages. This project has been taken up with help from the Central Government." These warning systems will be installed at select gram panchayats and will be connected with the weather office in Bengaluru, he said. Further stating that the government will be introducing a cyclone warning system in coastal areas, Ashoka said, sirens will be sounded which can be heard up to six km. "Currently, we are planning to install this at 40 places in coastal areas and soon plan to extend it to 60 places. Each centre costs Rs 10 to Rs 12 crore with funding from the central government. This will be especially helpful to warn fishermen and those staying in coastal areas," he added. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who reviewed the works undertaken by the PWD department today, instructed the officials to take up the restoration work of roads damaged by recent rains on priority. Pointing out that Rs 300 crore has been released for restoration of roads damaged due to rains, the CM asked officials to utilise the funds for the region affected by rains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/83-taluks-in-karnataka-declared-flood-hit-1020795.html
17-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka film chamber lists out rules to avoid mishap during shoot||A week after a tragic incident that claimed the life of a stunt artiste in Sandalwood, the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC) on Tuesday issued safety rules to be followed by the industry during shooting and production of the film. Vivek, a 35-year-old stunt artiste was electrocuted while shooting for an action sequence at Jogenahalli near Bidadi, a few days ago. D R Jayaraj, president, KFCC told media persons that the new set of safety rules will be submitted to the chief minister for approval. “We are planning to implement these rules from November 1,” he said. Senior producer and former KFCC president Sa Ra Govindu explained that the industry aims to be more responsible towards avoiding such accidents. “It is the responsibility of all the associations to insure their employees. The producers must hire only those artistes who are insured,” he said. Besides, the Chamber has directed all production units to ensure all safety mechanisms in place. “If the team is shooting for risky stunt sequence, an ambulance, experienced doctor along with a nurse and first-aid kit has to be made available at the location. The producer must make sure there is group insurance coverage to all the members involved in the project,” Govindu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-film-chamber-lists-out-rules-to-avoid-mishap-during-shoot-1020806.html
17-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Twin worries grip Afghan students in Karnataka||A sense of helplessness, coupled with political and social uncertainty in Afghanistan, has hurled the 339-strong Afghan community in Karnataka into turmoil. According to government sources, 192 are on student visas and a total of 202 visa holders are in Bengaluru. Sayed Anwar Hussaini, president of the Mangaluru chapter of the Afghanistan Students’ Association, said that the Taliban takeover has crushed the spirits of expatriate Afghans. “Some of us are facing exams. Nobody is able to study. Most of the community does not know what to do. The hopelessness that we feel is absolute - not least of all for the fact that we cannot save our families by getting them out,” he said. “In about six months, we will have a better idea of how the Taliban behaves. I hope they have changed, but my heart tells me they will again impose their brutal Pakistani Islam culture on us,” he said. Meanwhile, scores of Afghan students registered in Karnataka colleges, but who had returned to their country due to the Covid-19 second wave are desperately trying to escape the Taliban. Speaking to DH, Santosh M S, joint registrar, Jain deemed-to-be university, said, “there are around 80 students from Afghanistan on our campus. As many as 45 have gone back to their country due to the pandemic. So far, we have issued bonafide certificates to 18 students.” The students have told university officials that they planned to travel to Iran as refugees and then try to fly back to India. A majority of the students are under the scholarship of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations.  Those students still on campus said that worry for their families is coupled with the worry about their own status in India. Abdulrahaman Muhammadi, 5th Semester MCA student from Jain deemed-to-be university, is worried as his student visa is set to expire in April. His sister’s visa expires in November. “The only hope is a long-term visa extension from the Indian government,” he said. Fear of Taliban His sister Nooria, who is pursuing a masters in psychology, said that she was worried about returning to Afghanistan. “I am in a conflicted state of mind. What the media is showing and what I am hearing from my family and friends is completely different. They are saying there is no harm for women. But I am worried because their stance may change after a month,” she said. This was echoed by Shukria (27), an ethnic Uzbek from Kabul living in Chandigarh. A graduate of Punjab University with a Bachelors in Business Administration, she said she got stranded in India after returning from Afghanistan to collect her graduation certificate in March. “Now, I am only able to reach my family once in a while. The power in Kabul is gone for days. They are asking me not to come back, but the Indian government is also not extending my visa. It is a terrible time. The Centre must offer support till the situation in Afghanistan stabilizes,” she said. Shukria said she did not believe the Taliban’s promises of moderation: “Our home is near the Kabul prison and one of the first things that the Taliban did was free the criminals from the prison. These men are terrorising the neighbourhood. The Taliban says they are in Kabul to enforce law and order. Why did they release these criminals then?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/twin-worries-grip-afghan-students-in-karnataka-1020809.html
17-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Take higher education institutions into confidence while implementing NEP, CM Bommai tells officials||Stressing on the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP), Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday directed the Higher Education department to take all the higher education institutions into confidence for the successful implementation of the policy. Holding a review meeting of the Higher Education department on Tuesday, Bommai directed the officials to choose some of the top higher educational institutions and implement the new policy there on an experimental basis. The CM also reportedly advised the officials of the department to coordinate with the private institutions on implementation of the NEP. "The current Gross Enrollment Ratio is 32 per cent and the CM has advised us to improve it to 50 per cent in the coming days along with the implementation of NEP," said an official from the department, who was present during the review meeting. The meeting also discussed revision of BEd and DEd syllabus in the state to implement the NEP in an effective manner. "We have been asked to look at the options to set up technical education schools/colleges in every district to make youngsters more employable," added the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/take-higher-education-institutions-into-confidence-while-implementing-nep-cm-bommai-tells-officials-1020814.html
17-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sericulture minister Narayana Gowda pulls up officials on corruption in silk markets||Pulling up officials for corruption in silk markets, Sericulture Minister K C Narayana Gowda directed them on Tuesday to take measures to implement the e-payment system at the earliest. Even though the government has issued orders for the e-payment system, it has not yet been completely implemented, he said during a review meeting in this regard. "Even though it was planned a year ago, the e-payment system is not yet implemented," he said, pulling up officials. Only a few markets have implemented e-payment while cash transactions are happening simultaneously, he pointed out. All markets have to implement CCTV cameras too, he added. Also, the department aims to ensure that Karnataka produces 50 per cent of the country's silk production. At present, Karnataka produces 11,292 metric tonne of the total 23820 metric tonne silk produces across the country (this is 47 per cent of the total production). Over the next year, this has to be increased to 50 per cent, he said. Further, while the KSIC now procures 500 kg silk from outside, henceforth, it must be procured from the department. The state government is also in the process of identifying various airports where the silk products can be sold, officials told the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sericulture-minister-narayana-gowda-pulls-up-officials-on-corruption-in-silk-markets-1020815.html
17-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fix roads damaged in rains, CM Bommai tells officials||Even as several stretches of roads across the state have been damaged on account of recent rains and floods in several districts, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday directed officials to prioritise repairing these roads.  Bommai was interacting with officials during the review of works of the PWD department. The government has released Rs 300 crore for repair of these roads, he said.  He would also hold separate meeting with the district officials on the Rs 1,000 crore worth of works taken up by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), with regard to land acquisition for these projects, he said.  Meanwhile, Bommai also reviewed the progress of works under the Housing department and urged the officials to complete pending construction work of houses under various beneficiary schemes. Works pertaining to about 1.8 lakh houses are pending under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban). Tender process is also yet to commence for the construction of 42,361 houses under the CM multi-storey housing scheme in Bengaluru. That apart, beneficiaries have to be identified for various rural housing projects taken up by the state government, he said, urging officials to commence the works immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fix-roads-damaged-in-rains-cm-bommai-tells-officials-1020816.html
17-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Renaming Indira canteen will lead to agitation: Ivan D’Souza||Former MLC and AICC Secretary Ivan D’Souza warned of an agitation in Dakshina Kannada district if any attempt was made to change the name of Indira canteen. “We will not allow BJP representatives to walk on the road.” Indira Gandhi is the symbol of pride for the country, he said  "She was not leader of the Congress alone. She was a mass leader. Without knowing the history, BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi is engaged in hate politics. “If needed we will give him history books to read and enrich his knowledge,” he told mediapersons. “The BJP government is planning to change the name of the schemes announced by the previous government. If needed, let them start a new scheme and name it. There are several roads in the name of former prime minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. The Congress-led government did not change it in the past," said D'Souza. If the BJP continue to play this name politics, they will not win the next election, he added. The former MLC questioned why the BJP could not change the name of Mangalore International Airport. The BJP government could not remove the name of 'Adani airports' at MIA. Condemning C T Ravi for his derogatory remark on Jawaharlal Nehru, he further said. “C T Ravi has become crorepati now. C T Ravi has no moral right to speak on Nehru family that had sacrificed their property for the country. RSS can not change the history of the country”, said D'Souza.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/renaming-indira-canteen-will-lead-to-agitation-ivan-d-souza-1020821.html
17-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||2019 North Karnataka flood victims yet to get relief: NGO report||For thousands of people who lost their houses during the 2019 flood disaster in the Krishna basin, the Karnataka government's rehabilitation package has remained a mirage while the pandemic has brought additional distress by robbing them off their livelihood, as per a ground survey by ActionAid. The NGO visited 20 villages in Bagalkot's Mudhol Taluk and seven villages spread across three taluks of Belagavi to assess the status of the persons who were affected by the floods two years ago. ActionAid programme manager Raghavendra Pachapure said 'Life Experiences of Survivors of the Deluge' a report on the condition of the disaster victims, was released on August 12. With case studies from different villages, the report will also bring to light the poor quality of rehabilitation work. Neelaiah, a social activist and field coordinator, said the residents in flood-hit villages have never been able to get a sense of closure. "Except for the Rs 10,000 distributed as emergency relief, they have not received the aid for construction of the houses that either collapsed or partially damaged. The government had fixed Rs 5 lakh, Rs 3 lakh and Rs 50,000 as relief package based on the extent of damage. At least 30 per cent of the more than 8,000 families have not received a penny," he said. He said the story of Ashok Kamble, a flood victim from Darur village in Belagavi's Athani taluk, was the story of the system failing society. "The chief minister and deputy chief minister visited the village and gave a cheque for Rs 5 lakh to Kamble. Immediately after the event, panchayat officials took away the cheque promising to transfer the relief amount to his bank account. He has not received anything till now," he said. ActionAid Regional Manager Nandini K said the people living in vulnerable areas near river banks are the traditionally marginalised communities. "Most of the villagers are those working in sugarcane fields or sugar factories. These are people whose services are taken by society but they are denied the basic amenities and forced to find a place away from the main villages," she said. She said the report provides case studies to show how discriminatation continues even as the rules to end such a system proliferate on paper. "The village level disaster management system has not become a reality in most of the villages though the government notified the same over an year ago. The report seeks permanent solution for the victims, including permanent rehabilitation," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2019-north-karnataka-flood-victims-yet-to-get-relief-ngo-report-1020861.html
17-08-2021||West||Chemical tanker overturns in Thane: no casualties||A chemical tanker overturned on Ghodbunder road in Maharashtra's Thane on Tuesday. No casualty were reported, the Thane Municipal Corporation said. Police and fire brigade officials were present at the spot. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chemical-tanker-overturns-in-thane-no-casualties-1020564.html
17-08-2021||West||Maharashtra administers 5 crore Covid vaccine doses||Maharashtra on Tuesday successfully crossed five crore mark of administering Covid-19 vaccine doses. “Maharashtra has crossed the mark of administering five crore vaccination doses,” chief minister Uddhav Thackeray tweeted. According to the vaccination report, the state has administered 5,00,55,493 doses. Of these, 3,69,79,429 have received the first dose, while the number of people who have received both doses stands at 1,30,76,064. The break-up includes healthcare workers (first dose - 12,91,666, both doses - 9,51,770), frontline workers (first dose - 21,32,696, both doses - 12,99,288), 18-44 age group (first dose - 1,45,45,956, both doses - 12,04,043) and 45-plus age group (first dose - 1,90,09,111, both doses - 96,20,963).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-administers-5-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-1020637.html
17-08-2021||West||ED issues fresh summons to ex-Maharashtra HM Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||As former Maharashtra home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh seems to be running out of options, the Enforcement Directorate issued fresh summons to him.  This is the fifth such notice by the federal agency against Deshmukh, a close confidante of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. Deshmukh is facing investigations by the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The senior politician from Vidarbha had to resign from the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government after former Mumbai Police commissioner and current commandant general of Home Guards Param Bir Singh alleged that the minister has fixed a Rs 100 crore per month collection target for now dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze.  Deshmukh (72) has been asked to appear before the ED’s Mumbai office on Wednesday.  Deshmukh, his wife Aarti Deshmukh and their son Hrishikesh Deshmukh had so far not appeared before ED.  Deshmukh, however, had been grilled by the CBI. The fresh ED notice comes a day after the Supreme Court bench did not grant interim relief on his petition seeking protection from any coercive action against him and stay on the investigation by the agency. Meanwhile, in a related development, the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court that it was willing to cooperate with the CBI in its probe against Deshmukh but the documents sought by the central agency are "not relevant" to the case. "Applicant (CBI) is demanding documents and/or information which are not at all relevant in terms of relevancy to the case it is probing," the affidavit by the state government said. "The documents and/or material so demanded by the applicant has no nexus whatsoever even either with the then home minister and his associates and/or any of the allegations made against him and resultantly has no connection and therefore not needed by the applicant for the purpose of carrying out investigation," it said. It may be mentioned that the ED had arrested Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde.  It was also attached properties to the tune of Rs 4.20 crore which are linked to Deshmukh and his family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-issues-fresh-summons-to-ex-maharashtra-hm-anil-deshmukh-in-money-laundering-case-1020643.html
17-08-2021||West||Restart international charter flights to Goa to reboot state economy, CM told||Restarting international charter flights will facilitate the entry of inbound foreign tourists and help reboot the state's tourism economy, which has taken a hit since the advent of the pandemic, tourism and travel industry stakeholders told Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday. Officials from the Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa also told Sawant to set-up dedicated and reserved beds for international travellers in case they test positive for Covid. "As Goa is one of the leading states for tourism, we propose that charter flights be allowed to land in Goa specially from safe destinations who have allowed Indians to travel to their countries on tourist visa and international flights are already operating in between two countries like Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan," the association heads said in a joint representation to the CM. "So we should reciprocate the same way. As tourists arriving in Goa don’t travel to any other state and majority of them spend their time at their respective hotels so it becomes easy to control and monitor them," the representation also said. The tourism industry has been the mainstay of the state economy , after mining was shut down a few years ago following a Supreme Court order. The sector has however been severely hit due to the pandemic, which has virtually shut down leisure travel internationally. "Tourism is one of the most adversely affected sectors for the Covid pandemic. The tourism sector employs over 40 million skilled and trained manpower and generates approximately $29 billion foreign exchange per annum. With the full closure of international flights and visas since March 2020, many operators and stakeholders closed office and are facing severe financial constraints," the representation also adds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/restart-international-charter-flights-to-goa-to-reboot-state-economy-cm-told-1020799.html
17-08-2021||West||Malls decide to close operations after Maharashtra govt insists on allowing only fully-jabbed staff||Shopping malls in Maharashtra state on Tuesday decided to close down operations, after the government modified guidelines mandating them to operate with fully-vaccinated staff. It would take at least a month before a "sizeable number" of staff gets both the doses of vaccine and meets the criteria provided there is no shortage of the jabs, the Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) said in a statement. Maharashtra had allowed malls to open up last Wednesday after months of closure to contain the spread of infections. However, the government had asked the malls to operate only with double-vaccinated employees and also admit only fully-vaccinated patrons. "In light of the modified guidelines issued by the Government of Maharashtra on 16 August 2021, restraining mall staff from returning to workplace unless they are vaccinated with two doses with a gap 14 days after the second dose, it is unfortunate that malls across the state have decided to close down,” a statement from the SCAI said. The statement said since the order last Wednesday, citing the malls' inability to operate, specifying that 80 per cent of the staff had received the first shot of the vaccine and the primary reason for not taking both the doses was supply constraints. Malls have been shut for over 270 days since the pandemic struck, which has resulted in huge losses and the same will aggravate if urgent steps are not taken to ease restrictions, it said. "We would like to urge the Chief Minister to reconsider the applicability of this clause for mall and retail staff and allow malls and retail to open if staff is vaccinated with one dose," it said, adding that a positive decision can help lakhs of people dependent on malls or modern retail trade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/malls-decide-to-close-operations-after-maharashtra-govt-insists-on-allowing-only-fully-jabbed-staff-1020808.html
