18-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ex-minister taunts BJP to name petrol bunks after Modi||Former minister and Congress leader H C Mahadevappa taunted the BJP to name all petrol bunks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and provide petrol to the poor at a subsidised price of Rs 50 per litre. Mahadevappa, who lost the 2018 Assembly poll from T Narsipur, posted a tweet in this regard on August 17 in response to the proposals of a few BJP leaders to rename Indira Canteens as Annapoorneshwari Canteens.  The translation of the tweet in Kannada reads, "If the Karnataka BJP leaders are not happy with the Congress’ project to provide breakfast to the poor at Rs 5 and lunch at Rs 10 in the name of the late prime minister Indira Gandhi, let them name all petrol bunks after their leader Narendra Modi, who always speaks untruth, and distribute petrol to poor at Rs 50."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ex-minister-taunts-bjp-to-name-petrol-bunks-after-modi-1020975.html
18-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man murders his wife with blunt weapon in Moodbidri||A man allegedly murdered his wife by hitting her with a blunt weapon at Daregudde in Moodbidri taluk on Tuesday late night. The deceased is Suneetha (28) and the accused is Dinraj (35). According to City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar, Suneetha was shifted to Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru for treatment once her deep injuries came to light. She succumbed to the injuries in the wee hours of Wednesday. The duo had entered into a scuffle over some issue which led Dinraj to hit her with a blunt weapon. The Moodbidri police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-murders-his-wife-with-blunt-weapon-in-moodbidri-1021028.html
18-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bullet fired in air to welcome Bhagawanth Khuba in Yadgir district||A bullet was fired in the air at Yaragol, a border village in Gurmatkal taluk of district to welcome Union Minister of State for Renewable Energy, Chemicals and Fertilizers Bhagawanth Khuba as part of Jan Ashirwad Yatra. A complaint in this regard has been registered at Yadgir rural police station. The incident took place in the presence of thousands of BJP workers led by former minister Baburao Chinchanasur. Despite a ban on organising the political programmes in the wake of Covid-19, thousands of BJP workers assembled in the village to welcome the new union minister, violating the Covid-19 appropriate behavior. It is stated that former minister Baburao Chinchansur was present while firing a bullet in the air as the village comes under his assembly segment-Gurmatkal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bullet-fired-in-air-to-welcome-bhagawanth-khuba-in-yadgir-district-1021029.html
18-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cloth merchant shot dead in Holalkere||A garment store owner was shot dead at point blank range by unidentified assailants in front of the shop in the town on Tuesday night. Moolsingh, aged 29, was shot in the head while he was bsuy shutting the shop at 8.50 pm. A native of Pali district in Rajasthan, Moolsingh had migrated to Ramgiri in the district a few years back. He was running two cloth shops - one each in Ramgiri and Holalkere. He used to look after the shop on Hosadurga road in Holalkere while his brother Shersingh ran the Ramgiri shop. "My brother had no enemies. I don't know who is/are behind the murder," Shersingh, the victim's brother, said. PI Raveesh said, "The CCTV footage is not clear. No clue has been found, so far. Also, the motive for the attack is not known."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cloth-merchant-shot-dead-in-holalkere-1021161.html
18-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||10-year-old girl raped in Yadgir||A 30-year-old man allegedly raped a 10-year-old girl when she went to a flour mill in a village of the taluk. The police arrested the accused. The police said the father of the girl, in his complaint, stated that the survivor had gone to flour mill on Monday and the arrested had forced himself on the girl by taking her to a room of the mill. He also threatened her of killing her if she revealed the incident to anybody, they told. It is the second rape incident in 10 days. Two youths who came in autorickshaw had raped a woman near Devadurga cross on August 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-year-old-girl-raped-in-yadgir-1021172.html
18-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Air India Express resumes flights from Mangaluru to UAE||Air India Express resumed its flight operations from Mangalore International Airport (MIA) to UAE on Wednesday. As per Covid protocol, UAE-bound passengers must have a negative rapid RT-PCR report - the test conducted at the airport within six hours of boarding the flight. There has been a steady increase in passenger traffic at MIA following several preventive measures introduced at the airport. The domestic traffic - both arrivals and departures - have picked up pace during the first two weeks of August hen compared to the same periods in June and July this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/air-india-express-resumes-flights-from-mangaluru-to-uae-1021175.html
18-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||10-lane highway work between Mysuru and Bengaluru unscientific: MP Sumalatha||While Mysuru-Kodagu MP Prathap Simha has been claiming that the 10-lane Express highway between Mysuru and Bengaluru will be completed by September 2022, Mandya MP Sumalatha on Wednesday alleged that the works for the 10-lane highway were unscientific and would cause inconvenience for the public. Speaking after receiving memoranda from the people at Kodihalli village, in Maddur taluk, Sumalatha claimed that the expressway works were unscientific, without proper entry and exit routes. "The service roads are also unscientific. I have already brought this to the notice of the Union Transport Minister Nitin Ghadkari", she said. The MP said that people in the villages along the highway have been lodging complaints regarding the work. "Any development work should not cause inconvenience to the locals. The authorities should ensure that an alternative route is available for the movement of locals, before taking up any work. I had spoken to the highway authority officials and they assured me of resolving the issue. But no steps have been taken in this regard," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/10-lane-highway-work-between-mysuru-and-bengaluru-unscientific-mp-sumalatha-1021176.html
18-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Experts panel to study caste system issues: Union Minister||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment  A Narayanaswamy stated that the Centre has constituted an experts committee to study the issues related to SCs, STs and backward classes in the country. "Our government in the state would take a call on socio-economic survey conducted by Siddaramaiah-led government based on the report by experts committee," he said. Speaking to media persons after Janashirvad programme organised by District BJP unit on Wednesday, he said there are issues related to caste in the country. "Those who belong to backward classes in one state, belong to SC or ST in other state. So, the committee will study models adopted in developed nations. Based on the report submitted by it, state government would take a call on caste census," Narayanaswamy said. On Sadashiva commission report, he said he has already spoken to leaders and seers of communities who opposed it. He exuded confidence that it would be implemented by taking all communities into confidence.   On Upper Bhadra project, he said it would become national project soon. "Now only two steps away from declaration. The Railways sanctioned grant of Rs 1,901 crore for the implementation of Davangere-Chitradurga-Bengaluru railway project, the long-pending demand of people of Central Karnataka, and it would become a reality in the coming days," the minister said. Even Chief Minister Basavaaj Bommai has agreed in principle to share the 50 per cent cost of the project and the work would be initiated in places where land had been acquired, he said adding, Davangere MP G M Siddeshwar and leaders of Central Karnataka would also lend helping hand in this regard. He said the Centre has decided to set up coaching centres on competitive examinations including UPSC, banking across the country to ensure that graduates belonging to SCs, STs and backward classes would pass them easily. "Besides, it has been decided to set up Ambedkar Navodaya schools in reserved constituencies across the country. The Centre would also distribute low interest loans to SCs and STs," he asserted. He also promised that he would serve as custodian of social justice of the country.   MP G M Siddeshwar, MLAs N Linganna and Madal Virupakshappa, Mayor S T Veeresh, among others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/experts-panel-to-study-caste-system-issues-union-minister-1021184.html
18-08-2021||National||Centre to ask states to offer up to 25% road tax rebate under new vehicle scrappage policy||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari has said that his ministry will ask state governments to provide up to 25 per cent rebate on road tax for vehicles that are purchased after scrapping old vehicles under the new proposed scrappage policy. Though there is no clarity on the quantum of road tax rebates that would be made mandatory under the National Automobile Scrappage Policy, the Minister told media here that the issues related to the road tax rebate are a subject under the central government. In March, Gadkari told Parliament that state governments may be advised to offer a road tax rebate of up to 25 per cent for personal vehicles and up to 15 per cent for commercial vehicles. "As far as road tax(rebate) is concerned, it is not an advisory, we are going to make changes in the rules (to provide road tax rebate of up to 25 per cent for personal vehicles and up to 15 per cent for commercial vehicles on buying new cars on scrapping old vehicles)," Amit Varadan, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, said at a press conference. Vardan also emphasised that the central government has the power to decide principles of taxation in the concurrent list. While admitting that some states have expressed concerns over the proposed rebates, Varadan said the ministry successfully convinced those states to offer a road tax rebate of up to 25 per cent and 15 per cent for personal vehicles and commercial vehicles, respectively, under the scrappage policy. Announced in the Union Budget 2021-22, the policy provides for fitness tests after 20 years for personal vehicles, while commercial vehicles would require it after the completion of 15 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-ask-states-to-offer-up-to-25-road-tax-rebate-under-new-vehicle-scrappage-policy-1020880.html
18-08-2021||National||Jaishankar discusses Afghan situation with UN chief Guterres||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday met UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres here and discussed the situation in war-torn Afghanistan. "Good to meet UN Secretary General @antonioguterres. Our discussions focused on Afghanistan, following upon the Security Council meeting yesterday," Jaishankar said in a tweet. Jaishankar arrived in New York on Monday as the UN Security Council held an emergency meeting on the situation in Afghanistan, the second time in just over 10 days that the powerful UN body met under India’s Presidency for the month of August to discuss the rapidly deteriorating and unraveling situation in the war-torn country. “Significant UN Security Council discussions today on developments in Afghanistan. Expressed the concerns of the international community. Expect to discuss these during my engagements at the UN,” Jaishankar had tweeted on Monday. He also discussed the "latest developments” in Afghanistan with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and “underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul. Deeply appreciate the American efforts underway in this regard.” State Department spokesperson Ned Price said that Blinken spoke with Jaishankar “today about Afghanistan and the developing situation there.” Jaishankar will chair two high-level signature events this week under India’s current Security Council Presidency and has said he expects to discuss the situation in Afghanistan during his engagements at the United Nations. As India assumed the Presidency of the 15-nation Council for the month of August, it had outlined maritime security, counter-terrorism and peacekeeping as the focus areas. Jaishankar will chair an open debate on August 18 on technology and peacekeeping under the overarching theme of ‘Protecting the Protectors’. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said in a tweet that Jaishankar will participate in a ceremony at the UN Peacekeeping memorial in the UN headquarters along with Guterres. Jaishankar will also chair a high-level event on August 19 on counter-terrorism during which the Council will discuss the Secretary General’s six-monthly report on the threat posed by ISIL/Da'esh, under the agenda item ‘Threats to International Peace and Security caused by Terrorist Acts’. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had chaired the virtual high-level open debate on maritime security that was attended by Russian President Vladimir Putin and Blinken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-discusses-afghan-situation-with-un-chief-guterres-1020883.html
18-08-2021||National||Justice Nagarathna likely to be first woman CJI in 2027||The Supreme Court Collegium led by Chief Justice of India is learnt to have recommended names of nine judges, including three women, for elevation to the top court.  According to sources, Justice Hima Kohli, Chief Justice of Telangana High Court, Justice B V Nagarathna of Karnataka High Court and Justice Bela Trivedi of the Gujarat High Court are among the names proposed by the Collegium, which consisted of five senior-most judges of the Supreme Court. Of the three women judges, Justice Nagarathna would become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027, if her name is finally approved. Among other recommendations are Karnataka High Court chief justice Abhay Kumar Oka, Gujarat High Court chief justice Vikram Nath and Sikkim High Court chief justice J K Maheshwari. Justice C T Ravikumar, the second senior-most judge of the Kerala High Court, and Justice M M Sundaresh, the third senior-most judge of the Madras High Court, are the other judges recommended for elevation to the Supreme Court. Of all, former Additional Solicitor General and senior advocate P S Narsimha has also been recommended for elevation from the Bar. The recommendations of the Collegium, if accepted, would take the strength of judges in the top court up to 33. One vacancy would fall on Wednesday with the retirement of Justice Navin Sinha. Notably, the recommendations from the Collegium come days after the retirement of Justice R F Nariman, who remained adamant on the name of Justice Akil Kureshi for elevation, causing a 22-month-long impasse on the appointment of judges in the Supreme Court. The Collegium at present comprised Justices U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/justice-nagarathna-likely-to-be-first-woman-cji-in-2027-1020918.html
18-08-2021||National||35,178 new Covid-19 cases, 440 deaths in India||India added 35,178 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to      3,22,85,857, while the national recovery rate improved to 97.52 per cent, the highest since March 2020, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,32,519 with 440 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases declined to 3,67,415, the lowest in 148 days, and comprise 1.14 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020,  the ministry said. A reduction of 2,431 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,97,559 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 49,84,27,083 . The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.96 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 23 days.  The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.95 per cent. It has been below three per cent  for the last 54 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,14,85,923, while the case fatality rate  stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 56.06 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35178-new-covid-19-cases-440-deaths-in-india-1020920.html
18-08-2021||National||India welcomes ASEAN consensus on Myanmar, says Ambassador Tirumurti||India chaired a closed UN Security Council meeting on Myanmar and welcomed the ASEAN five-point consensus on Tuesday. "Chaired closed UN #SecurityCouncil meet on Myanmar. Appreciate briefing by Foreign Minister II of Brunei Darussalam Dato Erywan Yusof, who is ASEAN Special Envoy to Myanmar," India's Permanent Representative to the UN and current President of UN Security Council Ambassador T S Tirumurti tweeted. "India welcomes @ASEAN ‘Five-Point Consensus’ & looks forward to early visit to Myanmar of ASEAN Envoy," he said. Appreciate briefing by Foreign Minister II of Brunei Darussalam HE Dato Erywan Yusof, who is ASEAN Special Envoy to Myanmar The ASEAN five-point consensus states that there shall be an immediate cessation of violence in Myanmar and all parties shall exercise utmost restraint; constructive dialogue among all parties concerned shall commence to seek a peaceful solution in the interests of the people. It said a special envoy of the ASEAN Chair shall facilitate mediation of the dialogue process, with the assistance of the secretary-general of ASEAN; ASEAN shall provide humanitarian assistance through the AHA Centre (ASEAN Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian Assistance on disaster management); and the special envoy and delegation shall visit Myanmar to meet with all parties concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-welcomes-asean-consensus-on-myanmar-says-ambassador-tirumurti-1020925.html
18-08-2021||National||Fully-vaccinated Kerala man seeks third Covid-19 vaccine, Centre responds||A man from Kannur, Kerala, filed a petition in the Kerala High Court to be revaccinated despite having been vaccinated with both doses of Covaxin. This time he wants to be vaccinated with Covishield.  In response to his petition, the Centre told Kerala High Court that they could not re-vaccinate him since not enough studies had been conducted in this regard. The Centre claimed that since there are no international guidelines and stipulations on a third dose, doing so could cause many health problems.  "The petitioner's claim cannot be considered in this case. If we consider this demand, more people are likely to approach the court with a similar demand," the Centre added. Girikumar had returned to India during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. When the vaccination for those above 45 started, he linked his passport to the Co-Win portal and registered himself. He was administered the first dose on April 17, and the next one a month later. However, in his petition, he states that had he known about the non-recognition of Covaxin in Saudi Arabia, he would have refrained from getting the doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fully-vaccinated-kerala-man-seeks-third-covid-19-vaccine-centre-responds-1020929.html
18-08-2021||National||Domestic violence ground for pregnancy termination, says HC; allows woman to abort 23-week-old foetus||The Bombay High Court has allowed a woman to abort her 23-week-old healthy foetus, while observing that domestic violence has an effect on a woman's mental health and the same can be a valid ground for medically terminating her pregnancy. The judgement was passed by a bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Madhav Jamdar on August 3 and a copy of it was made available on Tuesday. The HC in its order also referred to the reproductive rights of women, as envisaged by the WHO. The 22-year-old woman, a victim of domestic violence, had been examined by a panel of experts at the state-run J J Hospital in Mumbai. The panel held that while her foetus was healthy and had no abnormalities, the woman had undergone much mental trauma and continuation of the pregnancy would add to such trauma. In her plea, the woman told the HC that she and her husband were getting divorced and she did not wish to continue with the pregnancy. The current Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act does not permit termination of a pregnancy beyond 20 weeks, unless it poses health risks for the foetus and the mother. However, various apellatte courts as well as the Bombay HC have batted for women's mental health on several previous occasions and permitted termination of a pregnancy beyond 20 weeks, if it poses a risk to a woman's mental health and if a medical panel so advises. An amendment to the Act, which is yet to be implemented, extends the time frame to 24 weeks. In the present case, the HC said, "If contraception failure leading to pregnancy can be presumed to constitute grave injury to the mental health of the pregnant woman, can it be said that a pregnant woman suffering from domestic violence would not face grave injury to her mental health if pregnancy is allowed to continue in the face of continuing domestic violence with a grim foreseeable future?" Referring to the reproductive rights of women as envisaged by the World Health Organisation (WHO), the bench said, "The core issue is the control a woman has or exercises over her own body and reproductive choice. Control over reproduction is a basic need and a basic right of all women. Linked as it is to women's health and social status, it is from the perspective of poor women or women of rural areas that this right can be best understood." The HC further said, "Rape is an instance of extreme violence committee on a woman. Domestic violence is also a violence committee on a woman, though the degree might be lesser." It noted that the petitioner had said in her plea that in the event the child was born, she would not receive requisite financial and emotional support from her husband. "In such circumstances, we are of the view that declining permission to the petitioner will tantamount to compelling her to continue with her pregnancy, which in the circumstances will not only become extremely burdensome and oppressive on her, but has the potential to cause grave injury to her mental health," the high court said. The bench permitted the petitioner woman to undergo termination of the pregnancy at the Cooper Hospital in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/domestic-violence-ground-for-pregnancy-termination-says-hc-allows-woman-to-abort-23-week-old-foetus-1020931.html
18-08-2021||National||Sedition case against Samajwadi Party MP for comparing Taliban to freedom fighters||A case of sedition was lodged against Samajwadi Party Lok Sabha member Shafiqur Rehman Burq and two others for reportedly comparing the Taliban with Indian freedom fighters and hailing their victory in Afghanistan. According to the police sources here on Wednesday, cases under sections 124A (Sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and others of the IPC were registered against Burq and two others in Uttar Pradesh's Sambhal district. A local BJP leader Rajesh Singhal had lodged a complaint with the police, alleging that Burq and two others had hailed the Taliban victory in Afghanistan and compared them with Indian freedom fighters. A senior police official said in Sambhal that such remarks were considered to seditious as Taliban had been declared a terrorist organisation by India and hence a case under section 124A and other sections were registered against the MP and two others. Burq had reportedly said that the Taliban, like the freedom fighters of our country, did not allow the Americans to capture Afghanistan. Two others, identified as Faizan Chaudhary and Mohammed Mukeem, had also hailed the Taliban's victory on social media. While the BJP leaders demanded stern action against Burq, the MP denied having made such a remark. "I am an Indian citizen...I am not a citizen of Afghanistan....I have nothing to do with what is happening there....I fully support the Centre's stand on the matter...my remarks have been twisted," he said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sedition-case-against-samajwadi-party-mp-for-comparing-taliban-to-freedom-fighters-1020934.html
18-08-2021||National||Tharoor's 'Malayali Taliban' tweet stirs row on Twitter||Scores of netizens lashed out against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor when he shared a video on Tuesday of a group of Taliban celebrating its victory in Afghanistan in which gun wielding men are heard speaking in Malayalam. The video showed the Taliban member weeping in joy as they reached outside Kabul, hours ahead of falling of the Afghanistan capital in their hands.  While some accused Tharoor of partaking in fueling anti-Kerala and anti-Muslim sentiment on the social media website, others questioned the facts in his statement. It is reliably learnt that there are natives from Kerala among the AQIS fighters in Afghanistan, but not in Afghan Taliban. Meanwhile Taliban has Brahui speaking Baloch speakers and as we know Brahui sounds similar to Malayalam. The auditable words seem to be frin the AQIS cadres Wonder why you felt this was necessary to point out? Aren’t Keralites lampooned enough? Aren’t Muslims targeted enough? This is highly problematic. Making statements like this especially when the Right Wing eco system is going on a hate campaign against Kerala regarding people joining jihadist groups. And you being an MP from Kerala's capital should be knowing better. The 'Malayalis in Taliban' tweet was really avoidable. There's no documentary proof. The tweet led to an opindia story and is now being shared on whatsapp as anti Muslim, anti Kerala propaganda. Even a casual remark can be so harmful in the current circumstances. The person who posted the original video, identified as Ramiz, countered Tharoor's doubts. Tharoor reacted that the matter shall be left to the linguists to figure it out. But there have indeed been misguided Malayalis who joined the Taliban, so that possibility cannot be ruled out entirely, he said. Tharoor even replied to one tweet calling his post "problematic", saying that he was aware of such problems as an MP in the region. I have been approached by Kerala mothers whose daughters are stuck in Afghanistan after having been taken there by their misguided husbands. I arranged a meeting w/ EAM SushmaSwaraj ji for a constituent to plead her case. Obviously it’s as an MP that I’m aware of the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tharoors-malayali-taliban-tweet-stirs-row-on-twitter-1020938.html
18-08-2021||National||Supreme Court allows women to take NDA exam, slams Army for gender discrimination||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed women to take up examination for the National Defence Academy (NDA) where only men can join for traning as officers in defence services, saying the bar created for female candidates was discriminatory. The top court pulled up the Army for resisting opportunities to women, and asked it to change its attitude and not wait for judicial orders to be passed in such matters. A bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul rejected contention of Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, representing the Centre, that it is a policy decision of the government. "This is a policy decision based on gender discrimination... The Centre must take a constructive view," the bench said. In an interim order, the top court directed that women can sit for exams for entry in NDA, slated for September 5. However, the court said women's admissions will be subjected to its final orders. Senior advocate Chinmoy Pradip Sharma, representing petitioner Kush Kalra, sought permission for women to appear in the examinations, scheduled on September 5. In a fresh application, the petitioner pointed out that UPSC on June 9, 2021, had issued a notice declaring the date of examination for admission to the Army, Navy, Air Force wings of the NDA. "It is further submitted that willing female candidates shall suffer irreparably if the said notification issued by the UPSC is not stayed as the examination is to be conducted on 05.09.2021," the application said. The application said the examination notice is in complete violation of Articles 14, 15, 16 and 19 of the Constitution. It pointed out that notice categorically states a condition for eligibility for the examination, that the candidate must be an unmarried male, which excludes eligible and willing female candidates. The top court was hearing a plea seeking directions for necessary steps to be taken to allow eligible female candidates to appear for the National Defence Academy and Naval Academy Examination and train at the National Defence Academy. On March 10, a bench headed by then Chief Justice S A Bobde had issued notice to the Centre on the plea. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-allows-women-to-take-nda-exam-slams-army-for-gender-discrimination-1020943.html
18-08-2021||National||'Very unfortunate': CJI N V Ramana upset with reports on Supreme Court judges' appointments||Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Wednesday expressed his concern over media reports on elevation of nine judges to the top court, before a formal statement by the Supreme Court's Collegium. "Today’s reflections in some sections of the media, pending the process, even before formalising the resolution is counter productive. There were instances of deserving career progression of bright talents getting marred because of such irresponsible reporting and speculation. This is very unfortunate and I am extremely upset about it," he said.  In his farewell speech for Justice Navin Sinha, who retired on Wednesday, the CJI said the process of appointment of judges is sacrosanct and has certain dignity attached to it. The media must understand and recognise the sanctity of this process, he added. He expressed his displeasure on reports on Collegium recommending names of nine judges, including three women, for elevation to the top court. However, a statement, released by the Collegium, comprising five senior most judges, showed that those names have been proposed on Tuesday for elevation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/very-unfortunate-cji-n-v-ramana-upset-with-reports-on-supreme-court-judges-appointments-1020953.html
18-08-2021||National||Let vanity perish and sanity prevail: Chidambaram urges Naidu to reject Rs 192 cr VP enclave plans||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday urged M Venkaiah Naidu to reject the idea of a "Rs 192 crore enclave" for the vice president, saying "let vanity perish and sanity prevail". Chidambaram's remarks in a tweet came after a media report claimed that the government has set in motion its plan to construct a new residence for the vice president by inviting pre-qualification bids for the proposed vice president's enclave next to the North Block and the Rashtrapati Bhavan at an estimated cost of Rs 192 crore. "In an India where austerity should be the watchword in high places, a Rs 192 cr. enclave for the Vice President will be an abomination," Chidambaram tweeted. "Shri Venkaiah Naidu should reject the idea as long as he is Vice President. This is another vanity project. Let vanity perish and sanity prevail," the former Union minister said. In an India where austerity should be the watchword in high places, a Rs 192 cr. enclave for the Vice President will be an abomination Shri Venkaiah Naidu should reject the idea as long as he is Vice President This is another vanity project. Let vanity perish and sanity prevail The Congress has been asking the BJP-led Union government to shelve its plans on the Central Vista redevelopment project, alleging that it is a "vanity project" and "wastage" of public funds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/let-vanity-perish-and-sanity-prevail-chidambaram-urges-naidu-to-reject-rs-192-cr-vp-enclave-plans-1020962.html
18-08-2021||National||Faith in judiciary stands vindicated: Tharoor after court ruling in Sunanda Pushkar death case||After a Delhi court discharged Shashi Tharoor in a case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar's death, the senior Congress leader on Wednesday said his faith in the Indian judiciary stands vindicated and the ruling brings a "significant conclusion to the long nightmare" which had enveloped him. Special Judge Geetanjali Goel passed the order in a virtual hearing in the case related to Pushkar's death in a luxury hotel here. Taking to Twitter, Tharoor posted his statement and said, "This brings a significant conclusion to the long nightmare which had enveloped me after the tragic passing of my late wife Sunanda." "I have weathered dozens of unfounded accusations and media vilification patiently, sustained by my faith in the Indian judiciary, which today stands vindicated," the former Union minister said. During the arguments, while police had sought framing of various charges, including 306 (abetment of suicide), senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, appearing for Tharoor, told the court that the investigation conducted by the SIT completely exonerated the politician of all the charges levelled against him. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying in the hotel as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time. Tharoor was charged under sections 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 of the Indian Penal Code by the Delhi Police, but was not arrested in the case. He was granted bail on July 5, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/faith-in-judiciary-stands-vindicated-tharoor-after-court-ruling-in-sunanda-pushkar-death-case-1020964.html
18-08-2021||National||HC grants interim protection from arrest to Raj Kundra in 2020 porn films case||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted interim protection from arrest to businessman Raj Kundra in connection with a porn films racket case registered by the city police in 2020. A single bench of Justice S K Shinde directed the police to respond on August 25 to the pre-arrest bail plea filed by Kundra. "Interim protection granted till then," Justice Shinde said. Kundra, the husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, is currently in jail after being arrested in July in another case related to production and distribution of pornographic clips on some mobile apps. He filed the anticipatory bail plea in the HC last week in connection with the 2020 case, after a sessions court rejected his application seeking pre-arrest bail. In his plea, Kundra claimed that another accused in the case was granted bail and hence, he too should be given bail on parity. Opposing the plea in the HC on Wednesday, Additional Public Prosecutor Prajakta Shinde submitted that Kundra's role in the case was different from the other accused in the case. She sought time to take more instructions on the application. Granting her time, Justice Shinde directed for an interim order protecting Kundra from arrest till the next hearing date -August 25. The FIR against Kundra was registered in October 2020 by the Mumbai police's cyber crime cell for alleged broadcasting of nude erotic content on an OTT platform. Kundra in his plea submitted that he was falsely implicated in the case. He claimed there was not a single iota of evidence with the prosecution to connect the 'Hotshot' app with the offences alleged, as none of the actresses arraigned as accused in the case had raised any grievance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-raj-kundra-in-2020-porn-films-case-1020966.html
18-08-2021||National||Mehbooba Mufti’s mother appears before ED in Srinagar in money laundering case||The mother of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here in a case related to money laundering, officials said. Gulshan Nazir, who is in her late seventies, came to the ED office along with her daughter at the agency's office located in the civil lines area here, they said. Nazir, the wife of former union Home minister and ex-chief minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, had earlier been summoned on three occasions, a move which was termed by the PDP as a political vendetta against the party which has been opposing the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. The criminal case filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the ED after raids on an alleged associate of Mehbooba. The diaries contain the details of some purported payments made from the chief minister's discretionary fund in alleged contravention of rules, the officials said. These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) rule in the erstwhile state. A few lakh rupees from these funds are alleged to have been transferred into the accounts of Nazir and some others, and the ED wants to question her about it, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehbooba-mufti-s-mother-appears-before-ed-in-srinagar-in-money-laundering-case-1020969.html
18-08-2021||National||Air India moves HC challenging order quashing decision to terminate pilots||Air India Wednesday approached the Delhi High Court challenging a single judge’s order quashing the national carrier’s decision to terminate services of pilots, both permanent and on contract, and directing their reinstatement. The appeals came up for hearing before a bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh and have been listed for proceedings on August 24 at the request of Air India’s counsel. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing Air India, submitted that a second group of appeals is coming up for hearing next week and these pleas be also heard with them. Air India has challenged the June 1 order of the single judge which had also ordered that back wages would have to be paid to the reinstated pilots. The high court had said that the back wages, including allowances, have to be paid at par with what in-service pilots were receiving and in accordance with the government rules. It had also said that extension of contract, in the future, of the contractual pilots would be at the discretion of Air India in view of their satisfactory performance. The order was passed in over 40 petitions by pilots whose services were terminated by Air India on August 13 last year. The pilots whose jobs were terminated had initially moved the court in July last year seeking directions to Air India to accept withdrawal of the resignations tendered by them. However, on August 13, 2020, Air India issued termination letters to several pilots including those who had wanted to withdraw their resignations. Subsequently, the pilots moved the high court against the August 13, 2020, decision of Air India. Some pilots had initially tendered their resignations over delay by Air India in disbursing pay and allowances. They had also contended that neither were their notice periods reduced nor any no-objection certificate issued to them after receipt of resignation. They had further contended that the resignations were subsequently withdrawn, but the withdrawal was not accepted by Air India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-moves-hc-challenging-order-quashing-decision-to-terminate-pilots-1020971.html
18-08-2021||National||India should work with major regional powers to ensure peace in Afghanistan: CPI(M), CPI||The CPI(M) and CPI on Wednesday urged the Narendra Modi government to work closely with "major regional powers" to see that Afghanistan remains "peaceful and stable" while accusing it of "blindly following" the United States, resulting in "isolation in the region". In a joint statement, both the parties said the United States has suffered a "humiliating defeat" in Afghanistan, as 20 years after the toppling of the then Taliban regime, the Taliban are back in power. "The collapse of the Ashraf Ghani led government and the National Army shows the hollowness of the nature of the State set up by the US and its NATO allies. The Afghan policy of the Indian government had been blindly following the Americans and this had resulted in its isolation in the region and is hence left with few options," it said. "India must work closely with major regional powers to see that the Afghan people are able to live in a peaceful and stable environment. The Indian government should immediately work towards the safe evacuation of all stranded Indian citizens in Afghanistan," the statement added. The statement reminded that the earlier Taliban government of the 1990s was marked by an "extreme fundamentalist approach, which was disastrous for women, girl children and suppressed ethnic minorities" and said, "it is imperative that the new set-up controlled by the Taliban give due regard to the rights of women and acknowledge the rights of ethnic minorities". The international community’s concern that Afghanistan should not become a haven for terrorist groups like the Islamic State and al-Qaeda was collectively expressed by the United Nations Security Council in its emergency meeting on Afghanistan on August 16, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-work-with-major-regional-powers-to-ensure-peace-in-afghanistan-cpim-cpi-1020974.html
18-08-2021||National||US will find it difficult to act as policeman of the world: Yashwant Sinha on Afghanistan crisis||Veteran politician Yashwant Sinha, who had visited Afghanistan's Herat, Mazar-e-Shariff and Kandahar as External Affairs Minister in 2002, recounted how the fate of the United States in the country became clear to him during his trip. Within days of the US pullout of troops, Taliban insurgents took over Afghanistan at a rate faster than could be imagined. "Twenty years of American effort to shore up an alternative regime, arm and modernise the Afghan army, and help Afghanistan in nation-building has collapsed like a house of cards," Sinha said The Biden administration has been facing criticism for precisely this - his approval rating dropped by 7 percentage points and hit its lowest level - 46 per cent - since he took office in January, a Reuters-Ipsos poll conducted on Monday found. Biden's popularity dropped as the Taliban entered the capital, Kabul, wiping away two decades of US military presence that cost nearly 1 trillion taxpayer dollars and thousands of American lives. "The US stands thoroughly discredited. It has proved to be an unreliable ally. It will find it difficult now to act as the policeman of the world," Sinha wrote While Taliban 2.0 seem to reaffirm a softer stance, the world has been wary. Under the 1996 regime by the hardline Islamist group, human rights, especially those of women and girls, have been violated under the garb of a strict interpretation of Islamic law. Sinha, however, is less sceptical. "Some of the statements of the Taliban spokesmen in recent days are reassuring. History is replete with examples of revolutionaries turning into responsible rulers under the burden of office. I hope the Taliban will not disappoint us and will rule with responsibility," he wrote. The Centre is meanwhile waiting and watching for some time instead of hastily deciding on its approach to the new regime in Afghanistan. New Delhi already signalled that it might recognise a new regime in Kabul with participation from the Taliban, if it was an “inclusive dispensation” with representation of all communities of Afghanistan, respected the aspirations of the children and voices and rights of women and promised not to allow anyone to use the country to export terror to other countries in the region and beyond. Sinha, however, points out that Delhi should make its contacts with the Taliban open and direct and "not leave the field for Pakistan and China to do as they like." (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-will-find-it-difficult-to-act-as-policeman-of-the-world-yashwant-sinha-on-afghanistan-crisis-1020988.html
18-08-2021||National||Delhi HC denies anticipatory bail to senior Navy officer in rape case||The Delhi High Court has denied anticipatory bail to a senior Navy officer, accused of raping a woman on the pretext of marrying her, noting that he was allegedly trying to influence his colleagues in the investigation and has destroyed the evidence against him. The high court also said the allegation by the accused that the woman was extorting money from him inflicts “more pain to her injury”. It said that the man, who is a senior officer in the Indian Navy, was required to show a more responsible behaviour. “No doubt, the victim is an educated lady, but is an educated person immune to cheating. The answer would be ‘no’,” Justice Yogesh Khanna said while dismissing the anticipatory bail plea of the man in the case. The court said the facts show the man and the woman did have such relations to kindle a hope in her that he would marry her at all costs which was not illogical for her to think so. “Can he be allowed to play with her dignity on the pretext that he cohabited with her just for fun and later claim she is extorting money from him. Such allegations if not backed with proof are rather insulting,” the judge said. The court said the investigation so far has revealed that he was trying to influence his subordinates and has destroyed or deleted the evidence against him. The high court noted that the Delhi Police, in a status report filed through additional public prosecutor Sanjeev Sabharwal, claimed that the man was influencing other officers of the Indian Naval Academy to manipulate the things causing destruction of evidence. The prosecutor contended that since the man was trying to influence the replies from his department, his custodial interrogation was required to find out the place when and where he had taken the prosecutrix. According to the woman complaint, the accused established physical relations with the woman in December 2019 after taking her out for dinner. She claimed that the man gave her a drink mixed with sedatives which after consuming she felt dizzy and he took her to his room at Kota House here and gave a medicine. After sometime, she became unconscious and when she woke up next morning she realised she was raped, the complaint alleged, adding that when she confronted him, he claimed that he was in love with her. The woman alleged that between December 2019 to January 2020, the man had been calling her at Kota House for having physical relations on the promise of marriage and thereafter, he left for Kerala. In March this year, she went to meet him in Kerala where he refused to marry her and said he did everything just for fun and when the woman threatened to lodge a complaint against him, he claimed to have her objectionable photographs which he would upload on Internet, it said. On June 15, the woman came to know that the man was marrying someone else after which she lodged an FIR against him for the offence of rape on June 19. The man, in his petition, claimed that they both were friends and she was obsessed with him and wanted to extract money from him and also denied having any physical relations with her. The court said though the man’s mobile phone, which allegedly contained pictures and videos of the woman, could be handed over to the Investigating Officer, a bare perusal of the sessions court order showed that he deleted the electronic record in the form of chats, text messages and Facebook messages/chats exchanged between the parties. “This act of the petitioner (man) rather reflects his intention to cover up his wrongs by erasing the relevant electronic record/data, which would otherwise have given a true picture of the facts,” it said. The high court refused to interfere with the trial court order declining anticipatory bail to the man at this stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-denies-anticipatory-bail-to-senior-navy-officer-in-rape-case-1020998.html
18-08-2021||National||Centre aims to make air travel affordable for common man: Scindia||Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Wednesday said the central government aimed to provide an affordable air travel facility, which even a person "wearing slippers" could avail. As part of the domestic civil aviation sector's expansion in the past four years, new airports have been opened in many smaller cities and air services started on new routes, connecting these places with big cities, Scindia told reporters here in Madhya Pradesh. "We want to provide an affordable air travel facility to the common people. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has time and again said this facility should be such that even a person wearing 'hawai chappal' (slippers) can travel by air. We, in India, have the full potential to make it a reality," the minister said. He said the government was making efforts towards expansion of the air services with a view to provide air travel facilities to more and more common people in the coming decade. Meanwhile, Scindia flagged off nine trucks carrying relief material, including ration and clothes, for people in Sheopur, one of the worst flood-affected districts in the state following heavy rains recently. The Indore Municipal Corporation arranged for this relief material, according to officials. Scindia, who was given charge of the civil aviation ministry after his induction into the Modi-led Union cabinet last month, started a three-day 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' from Tuesday in the Malwa and Nimar regions of western MP to reach out to people. His tour will end in Indore on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-aims-to-make-air-travel-affordable-for-common-man-scindia-1021015.html
18-08-2021||National||400 booked for harassing, molesting Pakistani YouTuber||Lahore police have booked 400 people who allegedly harassed and molested a YouTuber girl on Pakistan's Independence Day at the historic Minar-i-Pakistan, officials said. The police got into action following the videos of her harassment and molestation that went viral on social media with calls to Prime Minister Imran Khan and Punjab Chief Minister Usman Buzdar to take action against the culprits. The incident took place on August 14 when hundreds of youngsters were celebrating Independence Day at Azadi Chowk near Minar-i-Pakistan in Lahore. In the videos, hundreds of young men can be seen throwing the girl in the air for fun, dragging her, tearing her clothes and molesting her. They also took off her shalwar (trouser) and molested her. "After the videos went viral on Tuesday, the police approached the girl on the order of the high-ups and persuaded her to register FIR," a senior police official told PTI. He said the girl was still traumatised and broke into tears while narrating what had happened to her on Independence Day. She said in the FIR that she and six other members of her YouTube channel visited Azadi Chowk to record a video clip of the Independence Day celebrations. "We were shooting the clip when a good number of youngsters started teasing me. They were joined by more and more. Seeing the suspects harassing me, the security guard of the Minar-i-Pakistan Park opened the central gate to let her enter to take shelter. When I crossed the gate and entered the park, the suspects came after me. They tore my clothes and molested me. They dragged and tossed me up in the air for fun. They also beat my team members, and used abusive language," she said and added the humiliation continued for an hour before some people (of them) finally managed to rescue her. She alleged that during this shameful incident her cell phone, a gold ring and cash worth PKR 150,000 were snatched as well. The police officer said with the help of video footage the suspects will be arrested soon. There were reports on social media that the girl was carrying two flags -- a Pakistani and an Indian -- to use them for her TikTok video clip in connection with the Independence Day of both countries. Someone from the crowd raised an objection to this and afterwards this incident took place. The police however did not confirm this social media report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/400-booked-for-harassing-molesting-pakistani-youtuber-1021019.html
18-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: India speeds up vaccination drive||With vaccination being the most potent weapon against Covid-19, India has sped up its inoculation drive with the aim to vaccinate the entire adult population by the end of this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-india-speeds-up-vaccination-drive-1021022.html
18-08-2021||National||Will take action against MPs when necessary: M Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President and Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu said on Wednesday that he would take action against members of the Upper House who disrupt Parliamentary proceedings “when necessary”. "Assemblies and Parliament are meant for debate, discussion and decision. Debate, discuss and decide, but do not disrupt. Disruption means you are disrupting the cause of the country," Naidu said here at an event organized by the Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) in Vidhana Soudha. Criticising the high drama in Rajya Sabha during the recent monsoon session as “a new low”, Naidu said that he was not afraid to take action. "I can take action [against the MPs]. When necessary, I will take [it] also. But the point is, when people of the country see such things on television, they will become sad. This has to be kept in mind by everybody," he said. Naidu was referring to the ruckus in the Rajya Sabha over a week ago when two Opposition MPs climbed the reporters' table and while around half a dozen MPs sat on the table. Naidu offered advice to both the majority and minority parties in Rajya Sabha. "In democracy, you (the minority) must respect the decision of the majority, the decision of the people. And the majority must keep in mind the need to take the minority [together]," he said. Noting that protest and dissent were rights in a democracy, Naidu said: "[We must] agree to disagree. But you cannot physically force somebody.” Following the adjournment of the Parliament, Naidu said that a lot of youngsters had called him to ask why he was sad. "I said, 'I am sad because of the bad behaviour of some people’." Assemblies of various states were also being disrupted regularly, Naidu rued. "Every public representative should keep in mind the need to raise the standards of the institutions he or she is representing," he said, adding that he is hoping for a positive change in discussions at Assemblies and the Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-take-action-against-mps-when-necessary-m-venkaiah-naidu-1021023.html
18-08-2021||National||Demand for resumption of chartered flights to Goa to be taken up with Centre: Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said his government will put forth before the Centre the demand of industry bodies here to resume international chartered flights to the coastal state from October this year. The Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) and the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) submitted a memorandum to the CM on Tuesday, seeking the resumption of chartered flights to provide a boost to the tourism sector, which is reeling under the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent curbs. While domestic tourists can visit Goa with Covid-19 negative report or fully vaccinated certificate, international travellers are not being allowed in the state since the outbreak of Covid-19 in early 2020 when a nationwide lockdown was imposed and flights from overseas were suspended. “The issue of resumption of chartered flights is not within the purview of the state government. It is the decision which needs to be taken by the Centre,” Sawant told reporters on Tuesday evening while referring to the memorandum. The state government will place the demand of the tourism industry before the central government, he said. Sawant said the industry bodies want that the central government make an announcement now, as two months are required to market the destination Goa and other preparations for tour operators. The GCCI and TTAG on Tuesday demanded that chartered flights from ''safe destinations'', which have allowed Indians to travel to their countries on tourist visas and from where international flights are operating, be allowed to arrive in Goa. The industry bodies said chartered flights carrying tourists from countries like Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan can be allowed to land in Goa from October when the tourism season starts in the state. Meanwhile, the Sawant also said his government was keeping a close watch on the Covid-19 situation in the state. Goa currently has a Covid-19 positivity rate of two per cent. On Tuesday, Goa reported 115 new Covid-19 cases, raising the tally of infections to 1,72,683, while one death took the toll to 3,177, according to the state health department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-for-resumption-of-chartered-flights-to-goa-to-be-taken-up-with-centre-sawant-1021039.html
18-08-2021||National||SC dismisses Maha govt plea against CBI probe into transfer, posting of cops by Anil Deshmukh||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea of the Maharashtra government seeking to set aside two paragraphs related to transfer and posting of police officers, reinstatement of an officer from the CBI’s FIR against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said that it is inclined to interfere with the July 22 order of the Bombay High Court and dismissed the petition. The top court said that it cannot dilute the direction of a constitutional court ordering a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe by drawing a line for the agency on which aspect the investigation should be done. “CBI has to investigate all aspects of the allegations and we cannot limit them. This will be like denuding the powers of a constitutional court,” the bench said. It said that an impression is being created that the state is trying to protect the former home minister by not allowing the probe on the aspect of transfer and posting of police officers and reinstatement of additional police inspector Sachin Waze. Advocate Rahul Chitnis, appearing for the Maharashtra government, said the state has withdrawn consent for the CBI probe and the High Court direction for a probe was limited to allegations of collection of money from bars and restaurants and not on transfer, posting of police officers and reinstatement of Waje into the police force. On July 22, the High Court said the CBI can inquire into the transfer and postings of police personnel and the reinstatement of Waze in the Mumbai Police force "so far as this has a nexus with Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh and his associates". PTI MNL MNL AQS AQS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-maha-govt-plea-against-cbi-probe-into-transfer-posting-of-cops-by-anil-deshmukh-1021042.html
18-08-2021||National||SC dismisses plea of ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking quashing of FIR registered by CBI||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking to quash the FIR lodged against him by the CBI in the corruption case. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah dismissed the appeal of Deshmukh against the July 22 order of the Bombay High Court saying “no case for interference with the high court verdict is made out”. The bench said that there is “no error in the judgement” of the high court. On July 22, the High Court had refused to quash an FIR registered against Deshmukh by the CBI, saying the central agency's probe was ongoing and any interference by the court at this stage was uncalled for.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-of-ex-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-seeking-quashing-of-fir-registered-by-cbi-1021058.html
18-08-2021||National||Covid-19 ebbing as R-value drops to below 1 in the country, including Kerala and NE: Study||After breaching the value of 1 in the first week of August, the R number, which reflects how rapidly the coronavirus pandemic is spreading, has been steadily ebbing, according to researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. “India's R has fallen to around 0.9,” Sitbara Sinha, who is leading the research, told PTI, citing their data. If R is lesser than 1, it means the number of newly infected people is lower than the number of infected people in the preceding period and the disease incidence is going down. The R-value of Kerala, which has the highest number of active cases in the country, is now below 1 after a gap of seven months, signalling a relief to authorities who have been struggling to bring down the injection levels in the state. The northeastern states seem to have finally come out of the second wave, Sinha said. The R-value between August 14-16, calculated by the researchers now stands at 0.89. The R-value for Maharashtra, another state which has a high number of cases, is 0.89, the data shows. However, Himachal Pradesh continues to have an R value of above 1, although it reduced in the last few days, while Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand still have R very close to 1, Sinha said. Among the major cities, the R-value of Mumbai was lowest (0.70 from August 10-13), followed by Delhi (0.85 from July 31 to August 4), Bengaluru (0.94 from August 15-17), Chennai (0.97 from August 15-17). However, the R value remains high for Kolkata (1.08 from August 11-15), Pune (1.05 from August 10-14), The Reproduction number or R refers to how many people an infected person infects, on average. In other words, it tells how 'efficiently' a virus is spreading. A smaller R indicates the disease is on a decline. Conversely, if R is greater than 1, the number of infected people is increasing in each round - technically, this is what is called the epidemic phase. After the devastating second wave that saw hospitals and health infrastructure being overwhelmed by the patients infected by SARS-CoV2  coronavirus, the R-value started to decline. During the March-May period, thousands of people died due to the infection while lakhs were infected. In its bulletin on Wednesday, the Ministry of Health said India saw a single-day rise of 25,166 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 154 days, taking the tally to 3,22,50,679. The national recovery rate was recorded at 97.51 per cent, the highest since March 2020. Less than 50,000 daily cases have been reported for 52 consecutive days. From June 20 to July 7, the R-value stood at 0.78. However, it slowly started increasing —- it was 0.88 from July 3-22, 0.95 from July 24-27, 0.96 from July 27-31. It breached the value of 1.03 for the first time after the second wave during August 6-9. However, since then it has slowly started to decline. The value was 0.92 from August 6-9, rose to 0.99 between August 12-14. But it slipped to 0.89 between August 14-17. Earlier this month, the central government said 37 districts across nine states, including Kerala (11 districts) and Tamil Nadu (seven districts) are still showing a rising trend in the average daily new Covid-19 cases over the previous two weeks even as the nationwide daily new infections continued to register a decline. It said the R-value is more than 1 in five states -- Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh which remains a cause of concern.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ebbing-as-r-value-drops-to-below-1-in-the-country-including-kerala-and-ne-study-1021079.html
18-08-2021||National||War of words on Twitter after Jaishankar says Hindus, Sikhs to be given priority to return from Afghanistan||Soon after the Taliban took control of Afghanistan's capital, thousands of residents crowded the Kabul Airport in the hope of felling the country. While every country was trying to evacuate the people, a statement released by India's Ministry of External Affairs on Monday had caught the attention of netizens. Giving an update on India's plan of action for evacuating the people stuck in Afghanistan, the External Affairs Minister of India, S Jaishankar tweeted, “We are in constant touch with the Sikh and Hindu community leaders in Kabul. Their welfare will get our priority attention.” However, India’s priority attention being given to people on the basis of their religion while in the midst of a humanitarian crisis did not go down well with Twitterati. People started flooding the reply section of the External Affair Minister’s tweet and also shared his post, expressing disappointment. Dont see religion at this time man. This is humanitarian crises. har cheese me dharm How about all Indians welfare and not just a select few . You are the minster of India not a religion . Why? They are not indians then why help them?Ohhh wait they are not muslims. We haven't seen any other country or its PM or foreign minister openly saying they're willing to save people of one particular religion or caste, creed color. Shameful that a beautiful Country like India has been reduced to what it is now. Do you think only Hindus and Sikhs are humans? You are bringing ignominy to the great Indian culture of "Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam"! Sikh & Hindu Community Only ??Seriously ?? When will you Change ?? What about Muslims ??Indirectly Supporting Taliban Hunt on Muslims,Shame on your Representation. You knew this was gonna happen, US ,Taliban, abdullah abdullah , Russia,all of them briefed you about whats happening in Doha meetings. still you didn't rescue these before the chaos started. Why this publicity tweet then ?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/war-of-words-on-twitter-after-jaishankar-says-hindus-sikhs-to-be-given-priority-to-return-from-afghanistan-1021082.html
18-08-2021||National||RBI issues revised norms for hiring of bank lockers||The Reserve Bank on Wednesday came out with revised guidelines for the hiring of lockers under which the liability of banks will be limited to 100 times its annual rent in case of fire, theft, building collapse or frauds by bank employees. As per the revised guidelines, which shall come into effect from January 1, 2022, banks will be required to incorporate a clause in the locker agreement prohibiting the hirer from keeping anything illegal or hazardous in lockers. The RBI said it has reviewed the 'Deposit Locker/Safe Custody Article Facility provided by the banks' after taking into consideration various developments in the area of banking and technology, nature of consumer grievances and also the feedback received from banks and Indian Banks' Association (IBA). The review also takes into account, the principles enumerated by the Supreme Court in 'Amitabha Dasgupta vs United Bank of India'. The revised instructions will be applicable to both new and existing safe deposit lockers and the safe custody of articles facility with the banks. The RBI said banks need to maintain a branch-wise list of vacant lockers as well as a wait-list in Core Banking System (CBS) or any other computerised system compliant with Cyber Security Framework, for the purpose of allotment of lockers and ensure transparency in allotment of lockers. "The banks shall acknowledge the receipt of all applications for allotment of locker and provide a wait list number to the customers, if the lockers are not available for allotment," as per the instructions. Banks would also need to adopt the model locker agreement to be framed by IBA. The RBI has also detailed the compensation policy and liability of banks in the revised instructions. The banks will have to put in place a Board-approved policy outlining the responsibility owed by them for any loss or damage to the contents of the lockers due to their negligence. "The bank shall not be liable for any damage and/or loss of contents of locker arising from natural calamities or Acts of God like earthquake, floods, lightning and thunderstorm or any act that is attributable to the sole fault or negligence of the customer," it said. Banks should, however, exercise appropriate care to their locker systems to protect their premises from such catastrophes. Also, it is the responsibility of banks to take all steps for the safety and security of the premises in which the safe deposit vaults are housed. "As banks cannot claim that they bear no liability towards their customers for loss of contents of the locker, in instances where loss of contents of locker are due incidents (like fire, theft/ burglary/ robbery, dacoity,) or attributable to fraud committed by its employee(s), the banks' liability shall be for an amount equivalent to one hundred times the prevailing annual rent of the safe deposit locker," it said. On locker rent, the RBI said that to ensure prompt payment of locker rent, banks are allowed to obtain a Term Deposit, at the time of allotment, which would cover three years' rent and the charges for breaking open the locker in case of such eventuality. Banks, however, should not insist on such Term Deposits from the existing locker holders or those who have a satisfactory operative account, it said. "The packaging of allotment of locker facility with the placement of term deposits beyond what is specifically permitted ... will be considered as a restrictive practice," it added. Banks will have the discretion to break open any locker following due procedure if the rent has not been paid by the customer for three years in a row. One of the country's large state-owned banks charges Rs 2,000 as annual rent for a small safe deposit locker and Rs 4,000 for a medium sized one in urban and metro areas. The annual rent for a large locker is Rs 8,000. In addition, a customer has to also pay the applicable GST.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-issues-revised-norms-for-hiring-of-bank-lockers-1021090.html
18-08-2021||National||India should have publicly engaged with Taliban earlier: Natwar Singh||India should have publicly engaged with the Taliban before they took over Afghanistan, former External Affairs Minister K Natwar Singh said on Wednesday and favoured establishing diplomatic ties if they function as a responsible government going forward in the war-torn country. Singh, who was the foreign minister in UPA-I and also served as India's Ambassador to Pakistan besides holding other senior diplomatic positions, said India should adopt a "wait and watch" approach for the time being but noted that the Taliban that have taken over seems to be a "better lot" than those that ruled there two decades earlier. In an interview with PTI, 92-year-old Singh said India was quite close to President Ashraf Ghani "who has run away" but the situation has "altered drastically" now. Though the situation is not "adversarial", even a semblance of friendship has disappeared and that is why the Indian government is "very careful", he added. The Americans have to take a lot of blame because US President Joe Biden, by pulling out his troops, made it easy for the Taliban to walk in, Singh said. His remarks follow Taliban insurgents sweeping Kabul after the US-backed Afghan government collapsed and President Ghani fled the country on Sunday, bringing an unprecedented end to efforts made by the US and its allies to transform the war-ravaged nation in the last two decades. Asked if India should have engaged with the Taliban earlier, Singh answered in affirmative and cited Americans' example of holding talks with the group. "If I was the foreign minister, I would have had contact with them. I would have gone out of my way and told my intelligence agency to make a contact quietly," said the former Congress veteran, who was the external affairs minister from May 2004–December 2005. A few years later, he had quit Congress. Citing the example of Americans having contact with Cuba at Guantanamo, he said India should have engaged with the Taliban as "we can't leave the field open to Pakistan and China" On whether, like China, India should also have engaged with the Taliban leadership publicly, the former minister said at least at the foreign secretary level, India should have kept contact with the Taliban publicly. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi had met Mullah Baradar at Tianjin last month and sought to prevail on him to build a "positive image and establish a broad and inclusive political structure that suits Afghanistan's national realities". Singh said the Taliban, not the present lot but the one that ruled earlier, openly had said they were anti-Hindu. They are still much closer to Pakistan, but that doesn't mean that Islamabad can dictate terms to them, he added. "Pakistan financed them, then Americans armed them. It is a very complex situation but at the moment we are not a player," he said. Singh said India spent USD 3 billion on Afghanistan in the last 10-12 years, building roads, hospitals, schools and whatever little industries they have. "All that is gone (with the Taliban coming). Violence has already started, they beat up a few people. But they are a better lot than those 30 years ago, they are more educated, they are more aware of the world. They have also become conscious that the world opinion matters," Singh said. He noted that the present lot of Taliban will be more careful but India was not a priority for them. Asked if India should recognise them if they stick to their words that they will not allow Afghan soil for activities inimical to any other country, Singh said, "I think we should, absolutely. We can't choose a government of another country and if they are functioning as a responsible and a reasonable government, there is no reason (not to recognise) because we have a stake in Afghanistan." The former foreign minister also asserted that the priority should be to evacuate Indians who want to come back. On the Modi government's Afghanistan policy, particularly after 2019, Singh said, "I say this with due respect to the present government, we have not taken as much interest as we should have. If I were a foreign minister, I would have sent for Hamid Ansari, a former Indian envoy to Afghanistan, to consult him on this crisis." "I would have said, let us wait and keep well informed. There are other friendly countries who are there, they can let us know," he said. Talking about India's Afghan policy over the years after independence, Singh said India was a major player in Afghanistan 30-40 years ago but that changed in the later years. "Jawahalal Ji, Indira Ji and Rajiv (Gandhi) were very interested in relations with Afghanistan and they had personal relations with the heads of state and government. When V P Singh and Narasimha Rao took over, they did not know much. Things have now altered... We have consul general's office in some places but we don't carry enough weight with the Afghan government for the last 20-30 years," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-have-publicly-engaged-with-taliban-earlier-natwar-singh-1021095.html
18-08-2021||National||Discharged in Sunanda case, Shashi Tharoor recalls 'the long nightmare'||Soon after Delhi court discharged Shashi Tharoor in Sunanda Pushkar's death case, Congress hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking whether he will apologise for his alleged "intemperate" remarks against him in the past. A relieved Tharoor said this brings a significant conclusion to the long nightmare which had enveloped him after the tragic passing of his late wife Sunanda. "The truth always wins ! The constant abuse, innuendos & slander of our colleague Shashi Tharoor by BJP and its crony TV anchors comes to a naught. Will PM now apologise for his intemperate remarks? Will the same TV anchors do a debate & apologise today?," Congress communication department chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted. TMC leader Mohua Moitra said, "Satyamev Jayate! Delhi Court discharges Congress MP Dr Shashi Tharoor in Sunanda Pushkar Death Case." AICC general secretary Digvijay Singh said, "finally Justice has prevailed. A person like Shashi Tharoor has been unnecessarily framed and harassed. Best wishes to Shashi Tharoor." Congress leader Jairam Ramesh rued, "For seven years my friend and colleague Shashi Tharoor was harassed and subjected to vilification, abuse and mental torture" and later expressed relief saying "today, he stands vindicated and the MoSha duo along with their hatchet men stand totally exposed. Jai Ho for the judiciary. All is not lost yet." "I have weathered dozens of unfounded accusations and media vilification patiently, sustained by my faith in the Indian judiciary, which today stands vindicated," the Congress MP said. "In our justice system, the process is all too often the punishment. Nonetheless the fact that justice has been done, at last, will allow all of us in the family to mourn Sunanda in peace," Tharoor said in his statement. He also thanked the judge Geetanajali Goel for the judgement discharging him from the charges levelled by Delhi police, which he said he had often described as "preposterous". BJP had often taken a jibe at Tharoor over the case. Its leader Subramanian Swamy in particular, had levelled many allegations including "Russian poison" having been administered to Sunanda Pushkar. Swamy tweeted on Wednesday "In Sunanda Murder case the court has declined to frame charges. I had petitioned to be an intervenor but both the Accused and Prosecutor opposed my petition. Thus I was kept out. If DP appeals against this Order in the High Court, then I will again seek to intervene."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discharged-in-sunanda-case-shashi-tharoor-recalls-the-long-nightmare-1021117.html
18-08-2021||National||SC refuses stay on Trai's order on pricing of TV channels||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to stay the Bombay High Court order which upheld Trai's new tariff order (NTO) mandating individual pricing for television channels. The HC had on June 30 upheld Trai’s decision. As per NTO 2.0, Trai reduced the cap on the MRP of individual channels, which can form part of any bouquet, to Rs 12 from Rs 19 per month, which was opposed by the Indian Broadcasting Federation. It also imposed conditions for the formation of channel bouquets, including a price cap. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana refused to stay the HC order on a batch of appeals filed by the Indian Broadcasting Foundation (IBF) and other broadcasters.  However, it said that it will decide on granting any relief only after hearing the telecom regulator’s response on September 7, the next date of hearing. Senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for IBF, argued that the HC order violated fundamental rights of broadcasters as the right to fix charges for television channels can't be regulated by authorities. He argued that when there is no public interest involved in the regulation of prices of cinema tickets, then how can the doctrine be used to cap prices of TV channels. Producers Guild also supported IBF's arguments and sought a stay of the HC order. Broadcasters also asserted that under Article 19 1G of the Constitution, the citizens are given a right to carry out business in a way, manner and form as deemed fit by the owner. Any restriction which has the effect of destroying the business or making it impossible for the profession to operate is an unreasonable restriction on the right to pursue a profession or trade. However, the Centre and Trai opposed the appeals, arguing that the HC passed the order which was in the interest of millions of consumers. IBF, a unified representative body of television broadcasters in India, claimed that Trai's action was arbitrary and wasn't backed by any consumer insight, claiming that the order will reduce television channels provided in a bouquet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-stay-on-trais-order-on-pricing-of-tv-channels-1021118.html
18-08-2021||National||Cabinet approves India-US pact on cooperation in geology research||The Cabinet on Wednesday approved a pact between India and the United States on cooperation in the field of geology. The memorandum of understanding (MoU) will provide an institutional mechanism between the Geological Survey of India (GSI) and the Florida International University (FIU) on cooperation in the field of Geology. "The Union Cabinet...has given its approval for signing the memorandum of understanding between Geological Survey of India (GSI), Ministry of Mines, the Government of the Republic of India, and the Florida International University (FIU) board of trustees on behalf of its Department of Earth and Environment, College of Arts, Sciences and Education, USA, on cooperation in field of Geology," the mines ministry said in a statement. The identified area of cooperation between the two participants will be the development of the geological knowledge, research regarding the geologic and tectonic environment of post collisions magmatism in India-Asia collisional margin, geologic history and tectonics of the Eastern Himalayan syntaxis. The cooperation will also be for the exchange of information on technology and geoscientific data and other areas of mutual interest to be decided upon by the parties. They will also develop cooperative projects in the fields of regional geological, geochemical, petrological and multi-isotopic studies related to the evolution of post-collisional magmatic belts (Ladakh Plutons).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-india-us-pact-on-cooperation-in-geology-research-1021127.html
18-08-2021||National||SC Collegium recommends names of eight judges, one advocate for elevation||The Supreme Court Collegium led by Chief Justice of India Justice N V Ramana has recommended names of eight judges, including three women, and a senior advocate for elevation to the top court. Of the three women judges, Justice B V Nagarathna of Karnataka High Court would become the first woman Chief Justice of India in 2027, if her name is finally approved. She is the daughter of former Chief Justice of India E S Venkataramiah. The statement giving names of the recommendation cleared by the Collegium was released hours after the CJI termed the media reports on the proposals, as "speculative, irresponsible and counterproductive" since the process was still on.  By the evening, it turned out that the Collegium has in fact approved those names in a meeting held on Tuesday. Of all, Justice Hima Kohli, Chief Justice of Telangana High Court and Justice Bela Trivedi of the Gujarat High Court are the other two woman judges proposed by the five-judge Collegium, for elevation. Among other recommendations are Karnataka High Court Chief Justice Abhay Kumar Oka, Gujarat High Court Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Sikkim High Court Chief Justice J K Maheshwari. Justice C T Ravikumar, the second senior-most judge of the Kerala High Court, and Justice M M Sundaresh, the third senior-most judge of the Madras High Court, are the other judges recommended for elevation to the Supreme Court. Former Additional Solicitor General and senior advocate P S Narsimha has also been picked up for elevation directly from the Bar. The recommendations of the Collegium, if accepted, would take up the strength of judges in the top court to 33. One vacancy fell on Wednesday with the retirement of Justice Navin Sinha. Notably, the recommendations from the Collegium comes days after the retirement of Justice R F Nariman, who remained adamant on the name of Justice Akil Kureshi for elevation, causing a 22-month-long impasse on the appointment of judges in the Supreme Court. The Collegium at present comprised Justices U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-collegium-recommends-names-of-eight-judges-one-advocate-for-elevation-1021133.html
18-08-2021||National||UN peacekeepers continue to operate in challenging settings involving terrorists: Jaishankar at UNSC||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday said that the UN peacekeeping missions continue to operate in a variety of challenging settings which involve terrorists, armed groups and non-state actors as he stressed on the need to strengthen the capabilities to secure the peacekeepers. Jaishankar, who chaired the United Nations Security Council Open Debate on Technology and Peacekeeping here in the presence of UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, underlined the role of technology in the safety of UN peacekeepers and highlighted the role they play in maintaining peace and tranquillity. “Since deploying for the first time in 1948, UN peacekeeping missions continue to operate in a variety of challenging settings. This could involve armed groups, non-state actors and terrorists,” he said. “Because the nature of peacekeeping missions and their attendant threats have become more complex, it is vital that our capabilities to secure the peacekeepers keep pace. “We owe it to them to ensure that our protective efforts meet the highest standards,” Jaishankar said. The 15-member powerful UN body is currently under India’s Presidency for the month of August. India is one of the largest troop contributing countries to UN peacekeeping missions and has contributed more than 250,000 troops in 49 missions over the years. Jaishankar also proposed a four-point framework that would lay out a possible architecture for securing UN peacekeepers to meet contemporary threats. “First, we must focus on operationally proven, cost-effective, widely available, reliable and field-serviceable technologies,” he said. These must also prioritise mobility, both in the sense of agile manoeuvrability of mission assets and in the sense of use of mobile digital/IT platforms, he said, adding that technologies should be environment friendly through use of renewables and fuel efficiency, and use of environmentally-friendly construction materials. Second, there is a need for a sound information and intelligence foundation which will only ensure early warning and mobilising a coherent and early response, he said. “A reliable, high fidelity means to collect, use, process and share information and data will create advantages from the start for peacekeeping missions,” the External Affairs Minister said. Precise positioning and overhead visualisation of mission environments is critically important to provide intelligence and enhance the safety and security of mission personnel, he said. “Thirdly, we must contribute to ensuring that technological improvements are continuous and are available on the ground, in the gear peacekeepers carry and the weapons and tools they use to enhance their mobility, performance, endurance, range, and load-carrying capabilities while guaranteeing their safety and security,” Jaishankar said. This also includes strengthening of communication within missions and enhancing overall capacity to take informed decisions at the tactical and operational level, he said. “Fourthly, consistent training and capacity building of peacekeepers in the realm of technology needs attention and investment. “It is with this in mind that India is committed to long term engagement with the UNC4ISR Academy for Peace Operations in Entebbe, Uganda, to meet the training needs, link it with available technological capability, and shape future requirements,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-peacekeepers-continue-to-operate-in-challenging-settings-involving-terrorists-jaishankar-at-unsc-1021137.html
18-08-2021||National||Parliament session over, Congress back to basic issues of LPG hike, jobs, law and order||Realising the limitation of the Pegasus campaign in rural India where snooping may not turn into a major poll issue, Congress is back to basics ahead of assembly polls in six states. Attempting to re-orient the political discourse around 'chulha chowki, jobs and law and order (Kanoon Ka Raj), AICC on Wednesday hit out at the Modi government over the hike in prices of LPG cylinders and accused it of being insensitive. The issue of Pegasus had rocked the Monsoon session of Parliament but many in Congress are of the view that the issue does not resonate so well in rural India as it does in Lutyens and in metros of the country, and cannot be stretched too far. While Rahul Gandhi posted a picture of LPG cylinder with a graph of hike in its prices between January and August this year, alleging there has been "reverse development" in last seven years, the party at a press briefing in AICC not only displayed empty LPG cylinders and 'chulhas' to highlight the issue but also released a video showing women in Chandni Chowk of Delhi buying chulhas. Addressing a joint press conference, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate, former MLA Alka Lamba, former Delhi Mahila Congress chief  Amrita Dhawan and AICC Media Coordinator Radhika Khera said called the latest hike by Rs 25 in LPG cylinders as "very steep price hike" "The prices are at Rs. 860 in the city of Delhi, touching almost a thousand in various parts of the country and the question remains that why is the government not doing anything about it? Because if you actually go by Saudi Aramco, which decides our prices, our gas cylinder should cost us only Rs 600, why are we paying Rs. 260 more? And in the last 8 or 9 months alone prices have gone up by Rs. 265, which is almost 44% higher," the Congress alleged. They called the decision "anti-women and "anti-people". "At what stage will the government realise that during an economic crisis, when people have lost jobs, when their wages have gone down, when people are looking for employment opportunities, you cannot distort their home budgets?," they said. All those women, who cannot afford gas cylinder are forced today and majority of the reports point in the direction, how people are forced to go back to cow dung cakes or actually using firewood," they said as the AICC released a video clip of a woman buying a chulha. They also slammed the government on the alleged "chest thumping" on Ujjawala scheme days after the Modi government announced Ujjawala 2:0 from a rural district in poll-bound UP. On Tuesday, the Congress had raised the issue of a hike in prices of petroleum products. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in a separate tweet hit out at the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, raising questions on the claim of the state government having given four lakh jobs to the youths and asked the government in which departments these jobs were given. AICC communication chief Randeep Surjewala in a statement, alleged Modi government has pushed North East into chaos and break down of the Constitutional machinery. "Uncertainty, conflict, violent clashes & unchecked lawlessness have marred a large part of India’s North East. The situation is beyond alarming. Multiple States of North East are being pushed into an unprecedented cycle of lawlessness with complete breakdown of law & order and Constitutional machinery. Shockingly and sadly, the Modi government and Home Minister Amit Shah remain oblivious to the goings on. "This completely indifferent, criminally aloof hands-off-approach of BJP government also emanates from its illegal and often divisive usurpation of power in many North Eastern states and a blind lust to latch on to illegitimately formed governments, irrespective of consequences for the country," Surjewala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-session-over-congress-back-to-basic-issues-of-lpg-hike-jobs-law-and-order-1021138.html
18-08-2021||National||Covid vaccines for children may be available by September: NIV director||Vaccines for children may be available by September and the trials for inoculating those between 2 to 18 years are underway, Priya Abraham, Director of the National Institute of Virology has said. In an interview to India Science, an OTT platform of the Department of Science and Technology, Abraham said phase 2/3 clinical trials are in process for those between 2 to 18 years of age.  "Hopefully the results will be available soon and they will be presented to regulators. Probably by September or just after September, we may have a vaccine for children… this is Covaxin," she said.  The trials for Zydus Cadila are on and the vaccine can be made available for inoculating children. "Even that (Zydus Cadila vaccine) will be available," she said. The NIV is a body under the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) under the Ministry of Health.  Last month, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had told BJP MPs that Covid vaccination for children is likely to start soon. Currently, only those who are 18 or above are eligible for vaccination against coronavirus. On other vaccine candidates, Abraham said apart from Zydus Cadila, which will be the first DNA vaccine, another vaccine from Gennova, which is an mRNA vaccine, vaccine candidate of Biological E and Novavax, which will be manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, are in the pipeline. In response to a question on the Delta-plus variant, she said this variant is less likely to spread than the Delta variant itself.  She said the antibodies produced in the bodies of vaccinated people were checked against this variant and it was found that the efficacy of antibodies was reduced two to three fold. "Yet, the vaccines are still protective against the variants," she said. Vaccines may show a little less efficacy, but they are very important to prevent serious forms of disease due to which patients may get hospitalised and even die.  "So, whatever the variant, the vaccine is till now protective against all, including the Delta variant. So, there should not be any hesitancy at all," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccines-for-children-may-be-available-by-september-niv-director-1021147.html
18-08-2021||National||SC recommends making six additional judges permanent||The Supreme Court Collegium, headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, has recommended six additional judges of Karnataka High Court as permanent judges, while proposing names of six judicial officers and one ITAT member as judges of Telangana High Court. In a meeting held on Tuesday, the Collegium approved names of Justices Neranahalli Srinivasan Sanjay Gowda, Jyoti Mulimani, Nataraj Rangaswamy, Hemant Chandangoudar, Pradeep Singh Yerur and Maheshan Nagaprasanna as permanent judges of the Karnataka High Court. The Collegium also recommended names of judicial officers P Sree Sudha, C Sumalatha, Dr G Radha Rani, M Laxman, N Tukaramji, and A Venkateshwara Reddy and Income Tax Appellate Tribunal member P Madhavi Devi as judges of the Telangana High Court. In another recommendation, the Collegium proposed elevation of Justice Kausik Chanda, additional judge of Calcutta High Court as permanent judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-recommends-making-six-additional-judges-permanent-1021166.html
18-08-2021||National||Centre sensitive towards prices of petroleum products: Hardeep Puri||The government is "sensitive" towards the prices of the petroleum products and is taking all possible steps to address the issue, Union Petroleum and Natural Gas Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday, and blamed the Congress for the current trend of hike in petrol and diesel prices. If state governments want, they can lower the prices of petrol and diesel, as a state did so recently, he said in a press conference at the Delhi BJP office. "We are sensitive towards it and are taking possible steps like doing blending of 10 per cent which we are going to raise to 20 per cent. So, we are taking many steps," Puri said when asked about the rising prices of petroleum products including cooking gas. The Congress government in 2010 deregulated prices of petrol and diesel, meaning there would be a local impact of international rates, he said. "The Centre imposes excise tax on petrol and diesel, while states impose VAT on it. We use this excise money to fund schemes like PM Garib Kalyan Yojna under which 80 crore people received free foodgrains, PM Awas Yojna, Ujjwala scheme," he said. Puri said that the Congress government, before 2014, issued oil bonds of Rs 1.34 lakh crore to control prices of petrol and "passed on their problem to us. They emptied the chest. We have to pay Rs 20,000 crore this year for the oil bonds that have a maturity period of 15 years." The minister also hit out at the Congress, saying the figures on oil bonds presented by it were "flawed" and challenged the party to ask states ruled by it to reduce the VAT on petrol and diesel. Puri, who is taking a tour of the city under the 'Jan Ashirvad Yatra' of his party, also took a dig at the Kejriwal government in Delhi, saying cities do not develop with "populist" measures. "Wherever he goes, he promises 300 unit free electricity. He promised it in Punjab but they should look into the situation in the state," he said, referring to the AAP supremo and Delhi chief minister's visits to poll-bound states. Puri, who is also the Housing and Urban Affairs Minister in the Narendra Modi government, said people were not only blessing ministers in the 'Jan Ashirvad Yatra' but were also extending their support to policies and programmes of the government. Citing various schemes and initiatives of the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, Puri said the work to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi has been done by the central government. "So far over 8,000 people have got ownership rights which is a huge gift for Delhiites," he added. The minister said that under the land pooling policy, there will be 17 lakh units and for that, 6,930 hectares of land has already been registered with the DDA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-sensitive-towards-prices-of-petroleum-products-hardeep-puri-1021178.html
18-08-2021||National||India sends message to China with naval drill with Vietnam in South China Sea, navy-to-navy deal with Australia||India on Wednesday sent a message to China as it signed an agreement with Australia to step up navy-to-navy cooperation, even as two of its warships had a drill with a frigate of the Vietnam People’s Navy in the South China Sea. The Indian Navy’s twin moves to enhance interoperability with the Royal Australian Navy and the Vietnam People’s Navy came amid China’s growing maritime belligerence in the Indo-Pacific region. The Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh and the Royal Australian Navy chief Vice Admiral Michael J Noonan had a virtual meeting on Wednesday when they signed an agreement, which would serve as a guideline document to showcase the intent of both the navies to work together bilaterally and multilaterally. The broad scope of the guidance is focussed on developing mutual understanding, cooperation for regional security, collaboration in mutually beneficial activities and developing interoperability, the Ministry of Defence stated in a press-release. The Indian Navy’s INS Ranvijay and INS Kora had a bilateral maritime exercise with Vietnam People's Navy’s frigate VPNS Ly Thai To in the South China Sea. The drill included surface warfare exercises, weapon firing drills and helicopter operations. “The regular interactions between the two navies over the years have enhanced their interoperability and adaptability. This has ensured a quantum jump in the complexity and scale of professional exchanges,” the Indian Navy stated. “The bilateral interaction aims to consolidate the strong bond shared by the two navies and would be another step towards strengthening India-Vietnam defence relations.” The INS Ranvijay and INS Kora celebrated Independence Day on Sunday, when they were on port call at Cam Ranh Bay, a deep-water bay on an inlet of the South China Sea and on the southeastern coast of Vietnam. Independence Day was also celebrated onboard two other Indian Navy ships, INS Shivalik and INS Kadmatt, sailing in the South China Sea after participating in a bilateral exercise with warships of the Royal Brunei Navy. The INS Ranvijay is a guided-missile destroyer, equipped with an array of weapons and sensors, which includes Surface-to-Surface Missile, Anti-Aircraft Missiles and guns, Heavyweight Torpedoes and Anti-Submarine Rockets. It is capable of carrying Kamov 28 Anti Submarine Helicopters. The INS Kora is a corvette, fitted with Surface-to-Surface missiles and Anti-Aircraft Guns. The South China Sea is a major waterway and the sea lanes in this region account for over US $ 5 trillion of international trade. It has been at the centre of a territorial conflict between China and many of its maritime neighbours, like Vietnam, Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia Though an Arbitral Tribunal constituted under the 1982 United Nations Convention on Law of Sea (UNCLOS) delivered a unanimous decision five years ago rejecting China’s expansive claims on the South China Sea, Beijing has been steadfastly refusing to adhere to it. The four Indian Navy ships were recently deployed on a two-month-long mission to South East Asia, South China Sea and the Western Pacific. Apart from the navies of Vietnam and Brunei, the Indian Navy warships will have bilateral drills with the navies of Philippines, Malaysia, Australia and Indonesia, which all have maritime disputes with China. It will also sail to Western Pacific to take part in the ‘Malabar 21’, a multilateral drill by the navies of the ‘Quad’ – a coalition forged by India, Australia, Japan and the United States to counter the hegemonic aspirations of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The Indian Navy vessels have been holding joint drills with the US Navy’s warships returning from deployment in the South China Sea – more regularly since the Chinese People's Liberation Army’s aggressive move to unilaterally change the status quo along the China-India Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and counter-deployment by the Indian Army in April and May 2020 resulted in a stand-off. New Delhi has also been concerned over the Chinese PLA Navy's increasing forays in the Indian Ocean and the communist country's bid to expand its influence in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-message-to-china-with-naval-drill-with-vietnam-in-south-china-sea-navy-to-navy-deal-with-australia-1021186.html
18-08-2021||National Politics||Shashi Tharoor discharged in Sunanda Pushkar death case||A Delhi court on Wednesday discharged Congress MP Shashi Tharoor in a case related to death of his wife Sunanda Pushkar in 2014. Special Judge Geetanjali Goel pronounced the order in a virtual hearing, freeing Tharoor in the case of abetment to suicide and cruelty against Pushkar who was found dead in a luxury hotel in Delhi on the night of January 17, 2014. Tharoor was represented by Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa and lawyer Gaurav Gupta.  Public Prosecutor Atul Kumar Srivastava appeared for Delhi Police in the matter.  The pronouncement of the order has got deferred several times.  In its arguments, the Delhi police claimed Pushkar has undergone mental cruelty which led to her bad health. It was not an accidental death as the post mortem report suggested that the cause was poisoning which could be oral or injected. Tharoor's counsel Pahwa contended that prosecutors were not able to establish evidence against the leader and the theory of injecting poison was in the air and could not be admissible.  He also relied upon a statement by Sunanda's son who said there was no foul play or poisoning as Tharoor can't harm even a fly. In a statement, Tharoor said his faith in the judiciary stood vindicated with the order as charges against him were preposterous. "The fact that justice has been at last will allow us in the family to mourn Sunanda in peace," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shashi-tharoor-discharged-in-sunanda-pushkar-death-case-1020933.html
18-08-2021||National Politics||Govt telling SC it can't divulge its info in public confession that spyware was used: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said the solicitor general telling the Supreme Court that the government has information which he cannot divulge in public by way of an affidavit is a "confession" that software-spyware was used, and sought to know if it was Pegasus and for what purpose it was used. The Centre on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that divulging information on whether the country uses spyware like Pegasus or not would involve national security aspect as enemies of the nation or those indulging in terror activities would change or modulate their software. Reacting to the development, Chidambaram said, "SG tells SC that the government has information which he cannot divulge in public by way of affidavit. That is a confession that software-spyware was used. For what, we do not know." "We want to know if that spyware-software was called Pegasus and for what purpose was it used," the former home minister said in a series of tweets. If the government answers these two questions, the remaining questions will answer themselves in due course, Chidambaram said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana that those involved in terror activities may take pre-emptive steps if the government divulges details of which software is used for various purposes including interception. The apex court, which made clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which compromises national security, issued notice to the Centre on the batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter and posted the matter for hearing after 10 days. During the arguments, Mehta said this cannot be a subject matter of affidavit and public debate and the government has said in its limited affidavit that it will constitute a committee of experts to examine all the aspects of the Pegasus issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-telling-sc-it-cant-divulge-its-info-in-public-confession-that-spyware-was-used-chidambaram-1020940.html
18-08-2021||National Politics||Centre to make all efforts to bring back Indians from Afghanistan: Scindia||Union Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has said the central government will make all efforts, like it did in the 'Vande Bharat Mission', to bring back Indian citizens from Afghanistan, which has witnessed re-emergence of the militant group Taliban. The Vande Bharat Mission was carried out last year to bring back Indians stranded in foreign countries after the suspension of regular international flights following the oubreak of Covid-19 pandemic. “The Indian government will bring its citizens back to their homes from Afghanistan, like we did in the Vande Bharat Mission, through Air India and the Indian Air Force (IAF) planes, whichever way is possible,” Scindia told reporters late Tuesday night in Madhya Pradesh's Shajapur, where he reached as part of his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra'. Scindia said the Union government had started the evacuation from Afghanistan last Friday. “The evacuation process continued for three days. But, when a flight was about to take off on Sunday, NOTAM (a notice to alert aircraft pilots of potential hazards along a flight route) was received following gunshots fired at the Kabul airport,” he said. Following the NOTAM, the airspace over Kabul was closed, so the evacuation process was hindered on Monday, the minister said. Later, an IAF plane went to Kabul on Tuesday and brought back Indian citizens, he said. “We will leave no stone unturned to bring back all our citizens from Afghanistan. We already did it earlier under the Vande Bharat Mission,” the minister said. After starting his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' from MP's Dewas district on Tuesday morning, Scindia reached Shajapur late at night. As part of the tour, various newly-inducted Union ministers are reaching out to people and informing them about the welfare schemes of the Centre. Besides Scindia, Union minister S P Singh Baghel also carried out a tour in Gwalior district on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-to-make-all-efforts-to-bring-back-indians-from-afghanistan-scindia-1020958.html
18-08-2021||National Politics||BJP's 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' invitation for 3rd wave of Covid-19: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Wednesday claimed the 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra', being carried out by a number of Union ministers in various states, was an "invitation for a third wave of Covid-19". Talking to reporters here, Raut said they have asked the BJP to have patience. “The 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' is an invitation for a third wave of Covid-19. The BJP is doing it deliberately," the Rajya Sabha member claimed. Notably, newly-inducted Union ministers Bharti Pawar, Kapil Patil and Bhagwat Karad earlier this week embarked on 'Jan Ashirwad' yatras in different parts of Maharashtra to reach out to people and thank them for the BJP's win in elections in the recent past. Asked about Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray being ranked among top five CMs in the country in a survey conducted by a media organisation, Raut said, “The BJP is trying to discredit this opinion poll, because not a single BJP chief minister has made it to the top five in the country." Why is no BJP CM in this list of top five? he asked. Raut also reminded the BJP that when findings of such polls were in their favour, its party workers played 'dhols' and celebrated it. “We will also have some fireworks,” the Shiv Sena's chief spokesperson said, and expressed confidence that Thackeray will become the top chief minister in the country in coming days. On Thackeray being criticised for very little public appearances in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, Raut said, “what about other chief ministers who are in the top five (list of the survey)? Did they merely sit at home and still found themselves in the top five? CM Thackeray has been taking cautious steps to bring people out of the Covid-19 situation.” Thackeray has taken strong steps and his work has been lauded by court as well. His work in the fields of education, development and infrastructure is recognised by everyone and the whole country is looking at it, Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-jan-ashirwad-yatra-invitation-for-3rd-wave-of-covid-19-sanjay-raut-1020968.html
18-08-2021||National Politics||Sena dubs Maharashtra Guv Koshyari as 'political agent' of Union Home Ministry||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday termed Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari as a "political agent" of the Union Home Ministry, in the wake of delay in the nomination of 12 persons, recommended by the state government, as members of the Legislative Council from his quota. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said the state government recommended the 12 names around eight months back. "A midwife at the Raj Bhavan should clear the doubts about how many more months it would take for the delivery (signing the file concerned)," it said in sarcastic remarks. Everybody was happy when Koshyari had climbed the Sinhagad fort (in Pune) at the age of 80, but he is trying to "bring down the democratic and constitutional fortress", the edit alleged. NCP chief Sharad Pawar, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra, has already noted that the state chief minister had sent reminders to the governor, but "he (Koshyari) could have forgotten it because of his advancing age," it quipped. "The governor is the Union Home Ministry's political agent, is the easiest definition according to us. His mind is not clean as he is not clearing the file of 12 nominees as MLCs from his quota. He is clearly under pressure from the 'top' for not signing on the file,” the Sena claimed. The Marathi daily also said it is the "constitutional duty" of the governor to sign on proposals sent by a state cabinet. "It doesn't suit the dignity of his post if he breaks the constitutional framework...and by postponing the appointment of the 12 nominees, the governor and the BJP have turned themselves into a laughing stock,” it said. The Marathi daily also said when a senior Congress leader prodded Koshyari about the issue of nomination of MLCs at a recent function in Pune, the governor wondered why the leader was so inquisitive when the state government was not insisting about it. "With this, the governor has put himself in an awkward situation. This comment does not suit his position as governor of the state. Does he want (people) to stand outside the Raj Bhavan and clang 'thalis' to seek his attention over the file related to the nomination of MLCs?" the Sena sought to know. He (Koshyari) has "lost his social stature because of his own acts". Even the Bombay High Court and senior leaders like Sharad Pawar are openly pointing fingers at his actions. The people of Maharashtra are not bitter with him, but as a governor, his acts are "against the Constitution,” it claimed. The examples of West Bengal and Maharashtra have shown that the use of Raj Bhavan cannot help in toppling a government, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sena-dubs-maharashtra-guv-koshyari-as-political-agent-of-union-home-ministry-1020985.html
18-08-2021||National Politics||Union Minister dubs protesting farmers as 'brokers', faces flak||The opposition parties have slammed Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Shobha Karandlaje for calling protesting farmers as brokers and middlemen. Farmers are protesting against the three farm laws for nearly nine months at the borders of Delhi. Karandlaje has dubbed protesters as 'brokers' and 'middlemen'. "We can convince the genuine famers not the fake ones," she had commented. Former minister and JD(S) leader Sa Ra Mahesh on Wednesday urged the Shobha Karandlaje to take back her statement on protesting farmers and apologise. If the new laws on agriculture are in the interest of the farmers, it has to be communicated to the agitating farmers and they have to be convinced about them. Dubbing agitating farmers as brokers is not acceptable, he added. Kuruburu Shantakumar, State Farmers Organisation Federation President chided Shobha Karandlaje and said that she gave the statement for cheap publicity. "She has spoken very lightly about farmers," he mentioned. Karnataka Sugarcane Growers Association members also staged a protest and questioned Shobha Karandlaje on her comments on agitating farmers. Shobha Karandlaje on Tuesday had said that the government has held 11 rounds of meetings with agitating farmers and Prime Minister is trying to remove the shackles of farmers through these new sets of laws. The central government is ready for another round of talks. But, the agitation in New Delhi is carried out by brokers, middlemen and those with vested interests who want to project the central government in a poor light, she said. She further stated that, due to the Covid crisis, youths from urban areas are moving back to rural parts to carry out agriculture. Commenting on the developments in Afghanistan, Shobha Karandlaje said that Afghanistan is the best example for us to see what happens if demons are protected and secured in the society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-minister-dubs-protesting-farmers-brokers-faces-flak-1021013.html
18-08-2021||National Politics||Chaos in Northeast, where is Modi govt: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday alleged that there was total chaos and complete breakdown of law and order and constitutional machinery in the Northeast under the watch of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. Senior party leader Randeep Singh Surjewala asked where is the Modi government when there are war-like hostilities between states ruled by BJP-NDA and when miscreants are attacking the convoy of Meghalaya Governor and militants firing through the streets. "Chaos prevails and complete breakdown of law and order and Constitutional machinery in North East under the watch of PM and HM," he said on Twitter. "Assam-Mizoram clash-police firing continues. 7 died earlier. War like hostilities between two states ruled by BJP-NDA. Miscreants attack the convoy of Meghalaya Governor. Militants were firing through streets. Home Minister of the state has resigned. China intruding into Arunachal. Where is the Modi Government," he asked. Curfew was imposed in Shillong and mobile internet services withdrawn in at least four districts as vandalism and arson rocked the Meghalaya capital and nearby areas on Independence Day during the funeral procession of a former militant, who was killed in a recent police encounter. Earlier, in violent clashes between the Assam and Mizoram Police, several policemen were killed amid border tensions between the two states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chaos-in-northeast-where-is-modi-govt-congress-1021033.html
18-08-2021||National Politics||Institutions meant to protect people's rights have been 'Talibanised': Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday said the institutions that were meant for protecting rights of the people and upholding the Constitution of the country have been "Talibanised". "Unfortunately, the institutions which were supposed to protect our rights and uphold the spirit and Constitution of India have been Talibanised," Mufti told reporters here. The former chief minister alleged that even the media has been Talibanised. "The majority of the mainstream media is peddling BJP's narrative, they are not talking about how agencies are being misused and the Constitution is being played with," she added. Asked about the line of questioning by the ED, the PDP president asked, "Do you understand the chronology?" "I refused to meet the delimitation commission, the next day we got the summon. I held a peaceful protest on August 5, the next day we got a summon," she claimed. Mufti said agencies like the NIA and the ED were made to do serious work. "But unfortunately these agencies are being weaponised and used against politicians, activists and media personnel and students -- be it Sudha Bhardwaj or Disha Ravi or Umar Khalid or any politician. "Anyone who speaks the truth, anyone who speaks against the divisive policy of BJP, anyone who speaks against their false narrative about Jammu and Kashmir, they have to bear this punishment," she alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/institutions-meant-to-protect-peoples-rights-have-been-talibanised-mehbooba-mufti-1021065.html
18-08-2021||North and Central||J&K DPG orders action against police officer thrashing journalists during Muharram procession||Jammu and Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbag Singh on Wednesday ordered "immediate action" against a police officer involved in "undesirable behaviour" with journalists during a Muharram procession in the city. Police on Tuesday lathicharged and thrashed a group of journalists covering a Muharram procession here, evoking criticism from various quarters. "DGP J&K Sh Dilbag Singh takes serious view of undesirable behaviour with some media men in Srinagar yesterday. SSP Srinagar directed to take immediate action against the erring police officer," Jammu and Kashmir Police said on its official Twitter handle. Police detained a few Shia mourners at Jehangir Chowk in the city as they tried to take out a procession to mark the eighth day of the 10-day Muharram mourning period. As the media personnel, mostly photo and video journalists, were discharging their professional duties, police swung into action and lathicharged them. The policemen, armed with batons, also thrashed some of the journalists and caused damage to their equipment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-dpg-orders-action-against-police-officer-thrashing-journalists-during-muharram-procession-1020928.html
18-08-2021||North and Central||Monsoon revival: IMD issues orange alert for moderate rain in Delhi||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for moderate rain in the capital on Friday, with the revival of the monsoon in northwest India. The precipitation is expected to bring the maximum temperature down to 32 degrees Celsius in three to four days.   Delhi has recorded just 63.2 mm rainfall against the normal of 157.1 mm so far this month as the capital and the adjoining regions in northwest India had entered a “break monsoon” phase, the second this season, on August 10. The IMD has now forecast moderate to isolated heavy rain in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab and Delhi between August 19 and August 23 with the revival of the monsoon. Weather experts said “good rainfall” in the last 10 days of the month is expected to cover the precipitation deficit in the capital. Normally, the capital gauges 247.7mm rainfall in August. The IMD had earlier predicted normal rainfall for Delhi this month. During the monsoon season, there are spells when the  monsoon trough shifts closer to the foothills of Himalayas, leading to a sharp decline in rainfall over most parts of the country. However, rainfall increases along the foothills of Himalayas, Northeast India and parts of the southern peninsula. In July, the monsoon had entered the first break phase even before reaching most parts of northwest India, including Delhi. The capital had gauged an unusual 507.1 mm rainfall this July, which was nearly 141 per cent above normal. It was also the maximum rainfall in the month since July 2003, and the second highest ever. Owing to the intense bursts of rains in July, the capital has gauged 605.1 mm rainfall since June 1, when the monsoon season starts, against the normal of 433.2 mm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-revival-imd-issues-orange-alert-for-moderate-rain-in-delhi-1020942.html
18-08-2021||North and Central||Pegasus row: Supreme Court notice to West Bengal on plea to disband Justice Lokur-headed inquiry commission||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the West Bengal government on a plea to quash a notification setting up an inquiry commission headed by former top court judge, Justice Madan B Lokur, to investigate into allegations of snooping by Pegasus spyware. A bench presided over by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, however, refused to stay for now the proceedings of the committee. The court said that the plea, filed by Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust, will be heard along with other pending petitions seeking court-monitored probe into the reports on use of Israeli software Pegasus to spy on politicians, activists, court staffs, and journalists. The bench issued notice to the Mamata Banerjee government and put the matter for consideration on August 25. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre, said the state government's decision to constitute such a committee was unconstitutional. He said he wanted to assist the court on the issue. The PIL sought a direction to disband the two-member Commission of Inquiry, also comprising former acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, Justice (retired) Jyotirmay Bhattacharya. Advocate Saurabh Mishra appearing for the petitioner, asked the court to stay the proceedings of the Commission as the matter was being examined at a pan-India level. The court, however, pointed out the panel was only taking preliminary steps and refused to stay the proceedings. On Tuesday, the top court told the Centre that it would not like to compromise with the security of the nation but wanted the competent authority to apprise it on charges related to illegal hacking of phones. The top court sought a response from the Centre on a batch of PILs for court-monitored independent probe into the snooping case, even though the Centre maintained it can't make public which software was used for interception of phones for security purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pegasus-row-supreme-court-notice-to-west-bengal-on-plea-to-disband-justice-lokur-headed-inquiry-commission-1020957.html
18-08-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh govt presents supplementary budget of Rs 7,302 crore||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday presented a supplementary budget of Rs 7,301.52 crore in the state Legislative Assembly for financial year 2021-22 to meet additional expenditure. The supplementary budget was presented by Finance Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna in the presence of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Khanna said the supplementary budget is very small and should be passed without any discussion. "It is only 1.33 per cent of the annual budget of Rs 5.5 lakh crore presented by the government earlier," Khanna said. Introducing the supplementary budget, Khanna said the focus is on extremely important issues of public welfare or fulfilling any particular scheme. "There are some new demands in this, especially for creating job opportunities for the youth for which Rs 3,000 crore have been allocated. The other highlights are social security fund for advocates, improvement in electricity system, construction of Ambedkar Smarak and Saanskritik Kendra, conservation of cattle and increasing the basic infrastructure in Ayodhya," he said. He pointed out that in a span of four-and-a-half years of the government, the perception of the public has changed. "The biggest parameter is the evaluation of any government, and the view of the public is that the Yogi Adityanath government in UP has made new records, and has also broken some records. "Hence, I would like to urge the House through you (Speaker) to pass the 1.33 per cent supplementary budget without any discussion, it would be good," he said. Subsequently, Leader of the Opposition Ram Govind Choudhary apparently taking a dig at Khanna, said the government has made new records, to which Khanna retorted,"This is true." Further, pointing at Yogi Adityanath, Khanna said, "He is the Ram of politics, and he is sitting here to defeat the evil powers." This prompted a loud desk-thumping by the members of the ruling party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-govt-presents-supplementary-budget-of-rs-7302-crore-1020986.html
18-08-2021||North and Central||Monsoon set to revive in north India from Aug 19: IMD||After a gap of nearly two weeks, the Southwest Monsoon is set to revive in north India from August 19, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. The IMD said scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls are very likely over east Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from August 19 to 21. Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and west UP are likely to witness rainfall activity from August 20-21 August. Isolated heavy to very heavy falls are also very likely over Uttarakhand on August 19 and 20. Fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls are also very likely over Bihar from August 20-22. The IMD said the current rainfall spell over Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim will continue till August 19. It said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls are very likely over Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal on August 18 and 19; over Madhya Pradesh from August 18 to 20; and over Telangana and Chhattisgarh on August 18. The IMD said widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely to continue over northeast India and sub-Himalayan West Bengal, Sikkim during the next two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-set-to-revive-in-north-india-from-aug-19-imd-1021020.html
18-08-2021||North and Central||In Madhya Pradesh, farmers' leader threatens to move court against IMD's 'wrong' predictions ||A farmers' Union leader in Madhya Pradesh's Malwa region has threatened to move court against what he claimed as the IMD's "wrong" predictions leading to crop losses for cultivators in recent times. However, a senior scientist of the India Meterological Department said farmers might have been "misled", as a private weather service predicted early monsoon this year, in contrast to forecast of the IMD (an agency of the Ministry of Earth Sciences of the Government of India). He also said that cultivators should check whether the information was coming to them from genuine sources. “In most of the cases, the weather predictions released by the IMD have failed. This has led to huge losses for farmers," Bharatiya Kisan Sangh's Malwa prant (region) spokesman Bharat Singh Bais claimed while talking to PTI on Wednesday. He said they were planning to move court against the IMD's "wrong predictions" and a final decision in this regard will be taken soon. Bais, an Ujjain-based farmers' leader, said at times, farmers prepare themselves for sowing as per the IMD's weather forecast. “But the failed predictions led to huge losses and sown crops got damaged, as it happened during the recent rains. About 300-400 hectare of land was lying unused (without sowing) in Ujjain district alone due to the IMD's wrong rain predictions,” he said. In such a situation, farmers cannot trust the IMD's forecast, he added. Bais said in the US and other countries, weather predictions are precise and people can prepare themselves according to them. "In India, the government is spending huge money, but the weather predictions are coming out to be wrong,” he claimed. Bais said he was collecting the data of losses incurred by farmers due to the "wrong weather predictions" of the state's MeT department. The data of wrong forecasts in the past two-three years was also being collected, he informed. “After collecting the data, we will take a decision about moving court against the IMD by next month, after holding a meeting,” he said, adding that at present, he and his associates are engaged in organisational elections. Bais also said they had earlier staged a protest against the IMD's "wrong predictions" and it yielded results. When contacted, a senior scientist of the IMD's Bhopal centre refuted the allegations and told PTI that farmers might have been "misled" by the weather forecast from more than one source. “The farmers should at least check that all weather-related information is coming to them from genuine sources. A private weather forecast service predicted early monsoon arrival, in contrast to the IMD's predictions. This might have led to the problem,” he said. In several districts, some self-proclaimed weathermen were making forecasts as if they were IMD's representatives, which was leading to confusion, he said. “There is no truth in such allegations. This is not the problem of farmers...rather, some 'netas' (leaders) had earlier staged a protest to get compensation," he said. The scientist also said that media should also be cautious while publishing weather-related predictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-madhya-pradesh-farmers-leader-threatens-to-move-court-against-imds-wrong-predictions-1021044.html
18-08-2021||North and Central||'May destroy evidence': Delhi Police oppose Natasha Narwal's plea seeking modification of bail condition||Delhi Police on Wednesday opposed JNU student Natasha Narwal's plea, seeking modification in the bail condition asking her not to leave the national capital without the court's permission, stating that she may destroy evidence. Narwal, an accused in three north-east Delhi riots cases, sought modification of a 2020 bail order in which she was directed to not leave Delhi, saying she has to travel outside for research purposes for her Ph.D and to visit her native place but has to seek the court's permission every time. During the hearing, Additional Public Prosecutor Rajeev Krishan Sharma opposed the plea and told the court that Narwal is a conspirator and may destroy evidence or run away if the condition of not leaving Delhi is changed. “So much evidence may get destroyed. We have great suspicion and apprehension. The investigation is still going on,” the prosecutor, representing the police, told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat. Sharma further said that there are conspiracy charges against her and a conspirator is always the most dangerous person as they can destroy the evidence and save themselves. “Tomorrow if they go abroad or run away, who will catch them?” he asked. The prosecutor added, “When they were conspiring to spread the riots, they were also doing Ph.D. Many people died. The court can understand what they are doing in the name of Ph.D.” He said that Narwal must move an application and inform the police whenever she is going outside the city. “Because of this condition, they are not able to cause havoc and destroy evidence. Kindly consider the gravity of the case,” he requested the court. Meanwhile, advocates Kunal Negi and Adit S Pujari, representing Narwal, told the court she is an accused in three cases but the court while granting bail in the other two matters, did not impose any such condition on her. “There is no such condition even in the conspiracy case. We will inform the IO prior to travel if the condition is modified,” they emphasized. Narwal, along with several others, has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in the case and they are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/may-destroy-evidence-delhi-police-oppose-natasha-narwals-plea-seeking-modification-of-bail-condition-1021050.html
18-08-2021||North and Central||Haryana government bans use of the word 'Gorakh Dhanda'||The Haryana government has banned the use of word "Gorakh Dhanda", generally used to describe unethical practices. A decision in this regard was taken by CM Manohar Lal Khattar after a delegation of the Gorakhnath community met him, according to an official statement on Wednesday. The delegation urged Khattar to ban the use of the word as it hurts sentiments of followers of saint Gorakhnath. The CM said as Gorakhnath was a saint and using this word in any official language, speech or in any context hurts sentiments of his followers, therefore, the use of the word in whatsoever context has been completely banned. Gorakhnath was a saint and a temple dedicated to him is located at Gord village, 20 km from Sonepat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-government-bans-use-of-the-word-gorakh-dhanda-1021093.html
18-08-2021||North and Central||MBBS seats in Pakistan sold to Kashmiri students to fund militancy: Jammu and Kashmir police||A senior Hurriyat Conference leader was among four separatists arrested by Jammu and Kashmir police for allegedly selling MBBS seats in Pakistan medical colleges to Kashmiri students and using the money to support and fund militancy. A police official said four people - Salvation Movement chairman Mohammad Akbar Bhat alias Zaffar Akbar Bhat, Fatima Shah, Mohammad Abdullah Shah and Sabzar Ahmad Sheikh – have been arrested by the Counter Intelligence (Kashmir), a branch of CID Department of J&K Police in a case related to selling of MBBS seats in Pakistan. The cases had been registered in July last year after receiving information that several unscrupulous persons, including some Hurriyat leaders, were working with some educational consultancies and selling MBBS and other seats in professional courses in Pakistani colleges and universities. Two more accused persons against whom “there is ample evidence are evading arrest and both of them will be arrested soon,” a statement from the CIK said. “The probe into the case suggested that the money collected from parents of aspiring or potential students was used, at least partly, to support and fund terrorism and separatism in different ways,” it said. During the CIK probe, it had surfaced that MBBS seats and other professional degree courses were preferentially given to students who were close family members or relatives of slain militants in Kashmir. There were also cases where the quota allotted to individual Hurriyat leaders were sold to anxious parents who wanted their children to pursue MBBS and other professional degrees. The CIK statement said that more than 80 cases pertaining to the seats in academic years between 2014-18 were studied in which either the students or their parents were examined. Besides, searches of about a dozen premises in the valley had been undertaken to look for evidence of collection of money and its further usage, it said. “Analysis of digital records and paper receipts as well as records pertaining to bank transactions revealed that a sizable portion of the collected money was kept aside for personal use. Evidence also came on record to show that money had been variously put into channels that ended up in supporting programmes and projects pertaining to terrorism and separatism. For example, payment for organising stone pelting also could also be traced and brought on record,” the statement said. “Examination of witnesses, corroborated by other circumstantial evidence, also indicated that many families who approached Hurriyat leaders to avail the programme of ISI that aimed at incentivising terrorism by compensating the family of slain terrorists, by way of providing free of cost MBBS and engineering seats were disappointed as monetary consideration was given precedence over the intended objective of the ISI programme,” it added. A conservative estimate indicated that the money involved could be around Rs four crore per year on the basis of the fact that each Hurriyat leader was allocated around 40 seats for the MBBS programme every year. The investigation, as per the CIK, "has also revealed that both at the time of collecting the money from the parents as well as channelling it for use by terrorists and separatists, intermediaries were used to layer the transactions". “For example, in some cases money was received through educational consultancies to conceal the end-use,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mbbs-seats-in-pakistan-sold-to-kashmiri-students-to-fund-militancy-jammu-and-kashmir-police-1021098.html
18-08-2021||North and Central||MP woman taken off stage after chanting 'Jai Shri Ram', 'Bharat Mata ki jai' at Independence Day event||A video purportedly showing a young woman being removed from the stage after she raised ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ and ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans during an Independence Day function here has gone viral on social media. The incident occurred in Rajbada area of the city on Sunday during the event that was organised by a local resident named Bilal Khan, sources said. After the video started making rounds on social media, BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaud on Wednesday demanded legal action against the persons responsible for taking the woman off stage and said that "Taliban culture" will not be allowed in the country. In the video, the young woman is heard raising slogans of ‘Bharat Mata ki jai’ and then chanting ‘Jai Jai Shri Ram’. Following this, some youths from the audience stand up and start raising ‘Ya Hussain’ slogans. The video then shows some people arguing with the woman following the sloganeering, after which a policeman intervenes and she is taken off stage. Talking to reporters, MLA Gaud said, "I have seen this video today. The incident of the young woman being taken off the stage is shameful and we condemn the misbehaviour with her." Talibani culture will not be allowed in this country and legal action should be taken against the people who took the girl off the stage, she said. Gaud said, "People living in India will have to chant ‘Bharat mata ki jai’ and ‘Vande Mataram’. Those who do not do so should be thrown out of here." Sarafa police station in-charge Sunil Sharma told PTI that the woman had expressed a wish to speak during the Independence Day function, but the people present there opposed the controversial part of her speech. He said that the woman remained on the stage for a few minutes only and left soon after the uproar while the organisers of the event brought the situation under control. Police have registered a case under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) against Bilal Khan and others for organising the programme without permission of the administration, Sharma added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-woman-taken-off-stage-after-chanting-jai-shri-ram-bharat-mata-ki-jai-at-independence-day-event-1021129.html
18-08-2021||Opinion||Is China about to tuck Afghanistan under its belt and road?||By Ruth Pollard China won’t be rushing into Afghanistan any time soon — not to fill the political and security void left by the US and not to expand President Xi Jinping’s flagship Belt and Road project. However decisive the Taliban’s victory looks right now, the country is far too fragile for Beijing to contemplate anything other than a pragmatic diplomatic engagement with a group it has spent decades trying to work with. It may dangle the promise of enhanced economic relations in front of an Islamist insurgent movement looking to cement key regional relationships, but the likelihood of any infrastructure projects materialising in the short-term is remote. Afghanistan has vast mineral deposits, including copper, coal, iron ore, lithium and uranium, as well as oil and gas. But even though Chinese companies (and mining companies in general) have a higher-than-average tolerance for risk, few have made the decision to enter the market in the war-torn nation. Beijing views Afghanistan as a very high-risk environment and the desire to turn it into an opportunity of any sort is a secondary consideration, says Andrew Small, a senior transatlantic fellow at the German Marshall Fund and author of The China-Pakistan Axis. Small has been tracking China’s relations with Islamabad and Kabul for years. He says Beijing is more concerned about regional stability and ensuring fresh terrorist insurgencies don’t spill over into its Xinjiang province, where international human rights organisations and countries like the US and UK say China is committing widespread abuses against the local Muslim Uyghur population. Beijing has consistently denied these claims. It sees the success of a radical Islamist movement in Afghanistan as an inherent threat, Small says, leaving it even less likely to want to invest in the kind of infrastructure that might open up an already dangerous borderland even further. “China will be cautious about turning a Taliban-led country into any kind of interconnected hub for the region,” he told me. China has already been burned by failed investments in Afghanistan, most notably the copper project at Mes Aynak, which sits just 40 kilometres outside Kabul. The Taliban had made specific commitments not to attack the mine, but even then, China decided to discontinue its operations. It put on ice the state-owned Metallurgical Corporation of China’s 30-year lease on the site, signed in 2007 in a $2.83 billion deal that has since been touted as the largest foreign investment in Afghanistan’s history. It is no doubt a significant deal on paper, but one that has never led to anything concrete on the ground. As one of six countries on its border, China has had years to engage inside Afghanistan. Now the landlocked country is even more unstable and without an external presence like US and NATO troops to provide security guarantees. It’s for this reason Beijing will not be pushing its state-owned enterprises to enter Afghanistan any time soon, says Raffaello Pantucci, a senior fellow at the Singapore-based S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies. The Taliban will no doubt offer all kinds of assurances — it has already promised to refrain from reprisal killings and to allow women and girls to continue their studies — but at this point, no one knows how they will govern. Recognising the group as the de facto political authority and engaging with them makes sense for China, Pantucci says. Afghanistan’s stability is key to protecting the approximately $60 billion in Belt and Road projects in neighboring Pakistan that provide an overland route to the Indian Ocean. With those concerns in mind, China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi hosted a senior delegation of Taliban officials last month, where he pressed the group’s chief negotiator Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar to break with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement and prevent it from launching attacks on China’s interests from Afghan soil. Emboldened by Taliban gains across Afghanistan this year, terrorist groups have already targeted China — in Pakistan. In April, a car bomb exploded at a luxury hotel hosting Beijing’s ambassador in Quetta in an attack claimed by the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, or the Pakistani Taliban, a loosely organized terrorist group with ties to al-Qaeda, based along the vast Afghan-Pakistan border. Then last month, an attack in Dasu near the Pakistan border with China killed 12 people, including nine Chinese citizens.  Beijing immediately pressed Islamabad to find those responsible. The attacks highlighted the tenuous relationship between the two countries. China has never been fully confident that Pakistan had a real handle on these insurgent groups, Small notes. Pakistan has deep ties with the Taliban and has long played the role of intermediary with Beijing. At some point, he warns,  this could all go horribly wrong for Islamabad. For its part, Beijing is playing it safe. “China hopes the Afghan Taliban can unite with other political parties and with all ethnic groups and build a political framework in keeping with national conditions that is broadly inclusive and will lay the foundation for enduring peace,” Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters Monday in Beijing. In the long term, China wants Xinjiang to be a prosperous and stable neighborhood, and for that, there cannot be instability in their backyard. But with the Taliban back in power, instability is all there is.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-china-about-to-tuck-afghanistan-under-its-belt-and-road-1020908.html
18-08-2021||Opinion||The Taliban are only pretending they aren’t barbaric||By Eli Lake The Taliban would like the world to know that they’re no longer the child-bride-marrying mass murderers that they used to be. At a press conference Tuesday, Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahed said there would be no reprisals against Afghans who worked with the US military. Women would be free to work and study, and the media free to broadcast what it wished, so long as both stayed “within our cultural frameworks.” How enlightened. These promises are discredited by events on the ground. Those Afghans hanging from a US military jet taking off from Kabul clearly do not take the Taliban at their word. Nor do the women who Taliban gunmen escorted from their jobs at a Kandahar bank and ordered not to return. Nor do the journalists who work at a radio station in Kabul who saw their station manager murdered earlier this month by Taliban gunmen. But Mujahed is not trying to convince Afghans about the intentions of the Taliban. He is hoping his make-believe will persuade President Joe Biden and his administration to keep subsidising the Afghan government these jihadists just overthrew. It’s easy to see why. Mujahed’s boss, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, the likely interim president of Afghanistan, managed to sucker US envoy Zalmay Khalilzad into thinking the Taliban were interested in a political settlement to share power. It’s now apparent that the Taliban used those negotiations as a political weapon to demoralize the Afghan military, with no intention of ever reaching an agreement. The plan worked surprisingly well, as the rapid collapse of the Afghan army attests. So now the Taliban are hoping to fool America twice. Until this weekend, the Biden administration had committed to at least $300 million in reconstruction assistance after the US withdrawal to “demonstrate our enduring support for the Afghan people.” And the Afghan people certainly need it. According to a 2019 World Bank study, 75% of the Afghan government budget is funded by international donors, with the US the largest by far. The good news is that the Biden administration has begun to set out conditions for recognising the Taliban. Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Sunday told CNN that the US would recognize and work with a Taliban emirate in Afghanistan if it respected the rights of its citizens and didn’t harbor terrorists. More promising is news that the Treasury Department has frozen all Afghan government assets in US banks. But one never knows with the Biden administration. After all, it is still trying to negotiate the lifting of sanctions and return of frozen assets with another Islamic regime, in Iran, that shows as much respect for human rights — and as much hospitality to international terrorists — as the Taliban. When Afghanistan’s rapid collapse became apparent last week, Khalilzad dangled the prospect of US aid for a Taliban-led government if it spared the US embassy in its rout of Kabul. Biden would be wise to reject proposals that try to leverage US assistance to reform the Taliban. They are irredeemable. It was bad enough that Biden abandoned Afghanistan despite the warnings of his military leaders. Worse still was how the administration failed to plan for the rescue of American civilians and Afghan allies before the military withdrawal. To subsidize the barbaric regime that has now taken over would be a final, ignominious blow to America’s honor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-taliban-are-only-pretending-they-aren-t-barbaric-1020909.html
18-08-2021||Opinion||The Taliban: A new face or buying time to consolidate?||The political landscape of Afghanistan changed swiftly in the first two weeks of August, something which the world had not expected. The secret of the Taliban's easy victory over Kabul is not just their military strength and strategy. The members of the Taliban used social media along with armed offensives on the easy-to-capture districts. Social media became an effective weapon for propaganda - to spread rumours to widen the trust deficit among the political and military leaders involved in corruption. The Taliban creatively used photographs to secure the psychological upper hand and dent the morale of the government forces. These included pictures of soldiers surrendering before them and their bike squads' triumphant entry into cities or rural communities coming out in support. The Afghan forces could not refute the Taliban propaganda on the social media battlefield.  The killings of several media personnel in Kabul and other provinces, including the Government Media and Information Center (GMIC) head, Dawa Khan Menapal, Editor-in-Chief of Paktia Ghag radio station, Toofan Omari, and TV journalist Mina Khairi helped the Taliban's propaganda offensive. The killings spread fear in the media, and stories of killings and torture on the ground could not appear in the news. However, in contrast to its earlier regime of 1996-2001, the Taliban has not disrupted internet and phone lines this time. They have given interviews, sent text messages, and made videos to win the sanction of a wider community. After capturing Kabul, they have allowed foreign troops and officials to evacuate safely, but not the Afghans. The Taliban has captured all the international borders and controls supply lines. They have made several announcements, which vary from their earlier viewpoint on women, education and government officials. Is this the new face of the Taliban, or are they just buying time to settle in Kabul? A majority of the citizens have appealed to the world to help them end the violence. Cricketer Rashid Khan has urged world leaders to protect the people of Afghanistan. A social media campaign on Afghan Lives Matter has been launched. A father of three girls said earlier, "I have three daughters. They are all in school, but their future looks wicked here. Even if we are fortunate to persist, my daughters may not be permitted to attend school. I should have an alternative plan to go somewhere else." Such parents are at the mercy of the Taliban now. The parental concern indicates the growing anxiety and uncertainty despite the assurance given by the Taliban not to harm anyone. The horrific picture of people running on the runway while a plane takes off tells the story of desperation and fear. In July, the Taliban killed a comedian from Kandhar, Nazar Mohammad. The Taliban fighters have taken hostage Editor-in-Chief of the Boost radio station in Khost, Niamatullah Hemat. Women TV anchors have been asked not to work. The question facing professionals, such as actors, musicians, singers, sportswomen, and filmmakers, is where they would go? Currently, they don't have an option other than to hide and disappear. The Taliban had not allowed music, TV, and films in their earlier regime of 1996 to 2001. The Taliban have said they would give amnesty to government employees and others who had resisted them. Even after this, the majority of the people working with the Ashraf Ghani regime would be afraid to turn up in the offices. Several embassies and foreign-funded offices of Kabul, Mazar-e-Sharif, and other cities are closed until further notice international staff has left the country. Flights have suspended their operations. Each airport and the border is now under the Taliban control. In such a situation, where would these Afghani citizens go who have a difference of opinion with the Taliban? Countries may wait and watch the Taliban before taking their next step, but what options do the locals have? Children and women are at risk of largescale human trafficking. Recently, Turkish authorities caught a boat carrying more than 200 Afghan migrants. Iran has closed its border with Afghanistan in the Nimroz province and the crossing point in the Milak district of Sistan and Baluchistan province. Turkey is constructing a 295 km long wall at the border with Iran to stop refugee influx from Afghanistan. Internally displaced women, children, and old age people are spending nights in the open parks of Kabul. Young children and women have no food, water, medical, and sanitation facilities and are dependent on the locals. Now residents are also in the same situation with meagre resources. The Afghan people need humanitarian assistance as they wait for world leaders to respond to this emergency. Women and children should not feel hopeless. Why are they paying the price of a war brought in by others? (The writer is a development professional who has worked in Afghanistan) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-taliban-a-new-face-or-buying-time-to-consolidate-1021051.html
18-08-2021||Opinion||Why Punjab may not want to remember partition horrors day||Over the years, on my only visit to the Pakistan side of Punjab or interactions on the Indian side, I have found bitterness for the horrors of the partition has dissipated. One memorable meeting from my visit to Pakistan in October 2011 was with a frail old man in Lahore. His eyes lit up as I told him that I hailed from Shimla. "You see my broken tooth. I broke it near the tunnel at the Cemetery," he said. The Cemetery is a locality four km from The Mall, Shimla.    He gave me a tight embrace when I told him I, too, had lived in that area for the first seven years of my life. "Accha, you know there was one Patwariji?" he asked. The man went quiet and had tears in his eyes when I told him the Patwari died in 1978. "Patwarji's wife gave us food that lasted us five days till we reached Lahore a little before the partition was announced. He was like a father to me," he reminisced.   On the lookout for a story, the journalist in me started to quiz him if he had any bad memories from those days. He said, "No memories but a wish that I could live in Shimla forever. To relive those days, I still come to the Shimla Hills (another name for the Press Club in Lahore). But I don't want to recall any horrors. I am old, and I don't want to die of depression."   The Hindus and Sikhs who migrated from Pakistan have their third or fourth generations living in India. They have heard tales of horror from their grandparents or great-grandparents. Those stories had urgency and immediacy way back in the 1950s and 60s. But not anymore.    Jamna Devi, who came from across the border onto the Indian side in 1947, says, "There were tales of horror, courage, bravery but remembering them now is like rubbing salt on the wounds. The younger generations in my family don't relate to our stories. A child may listen to his grandparents' stories but not the stories related to great-grandparents. There is no connection. Even otherwise, why would one wish to remember tales of horror," she says.   For the Sikhs of Punjab and Haryana, who migrated from lehnda Punjab (Punjab of Pakistan) to charda Punjab (of India), Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call to observe August 14 as the "partition remembrance horror day" has no appeal. Indeed, the partition of the subcontinent happened on religious lines - Muslims against Hindus and Sikhs and vice versa. But today, since both the communities are minorities in India, the Sikhs see a reflection of themselves in the lot of the Indian Muslims. So in the suffering of a Muslim, Sikhs see their suffering.   "We have to reflect on the state of affairs today rather than what happened 75 years ago. Why do they want to divide us," says Professor Jagmohan Singh, nephew of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. "Communal people on both sides were responsible for the horror of the partition," he says.   This brings me to the call by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for observing the Partition Horror Remembrance Day. Most of those who witnessed partition have either died or are in the last stages of their lives. It could have made some sense had people started commemorating it a year after the partition. But 74 years later, it smacks of craftiness in purpose.   Another octogenarian, a family friend who passed away a couple of years back, would narrate umpteen tales from the days of the partition. But his stories were always about the pre-partition days and fond memories of the bungalow his father owned in Pakistan. He seldom narrated sad stories. Not that there were none, but they were too terrible to recount and unbearable to sit through. On the rare occasions that he would, his listeners would soon make themselves scarce unwilling to lend their ears to the expletives and violence in his words. While I would try to sit through it, it wasn't easy - a rape followed by a murder, kids having gone mission, found several years later as beggars.   Some years back, during the filming of his biopic, Bhaag Milkha Bhaag, I met the legendary athlete Milkha Singh. I egged him to recall the day when he saw his family butchered to death, his subsequent barefoot run for his life and what went on in his mind then. He put a hand on my shoulder and requested in his somewhat baritone voice, "Son, I want to forget it. You should remember happy moments, not horror. From Pakistan, I only want to remember that I outraced Abdul Khaliq and got the sobriquet of The Flying Sikh."   After 74-years, we cannot undo the horrors of the partition. We cannot punish the perpetrators of those horrors as they are no longer in this world. We can, however, fold our hands to pay our homage to those moments of sorrow. We can also resolve to cleanse our hearts of the hatred that had led to those events. Better still, as that frail old man from Lahore told me when I had bid goodbye to him those many years back, "Had I known you from before, I would have asked you to bring some soil from Shimla."    (The writer is a Chandigarh-based journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-punjab-may-not-want-to-remember-partition-horrors-day-1021180.html
18-08-2021||South||Inaction on womens' complaint triggers 'male dominance' allegation in Kerala's IUML||The Indian Union Muslim League leadership in Kerala is caught up in a 'male dominance' allegation owing to the party's inaction in a sexually toned abuse allegation raised by its women students' wing activists against party leaders. Irked over the women approaching the Kerala Women's Commission against the leaders, the party leadership acted against the women student's wing by freezing its state committee, while only an explanation was sought from the leaders who allegedly abused the women. The women leaders of the party are now overtly and covertly flaying male dominance in political parties by highlighting the fate of women leader of Communist party like K R Gouriamma, Susheela Gopalan and K K Shailaja who were allegedly denied the chief minister post by male-dominated leaderships. The fresh issues started with around some members of party women students' forum Haritha petitioning the Kerala Women's Commission against Muslim Students' Federation leaders including state president P K Nawaz and Malappuram district secretary V Abdul Wahab. The women alleged of sexually toned abuse by the leaders at a party meeting after Haritha leaders questioned some unilateral decisions of the MSF leadership. On Tuesday, the IUML leadership decided to freeze the state committee of Haritha accusing them of not conceding to party directive to withdraw the complaint. But no action was initiated against those facing the allegations. Haritha national vice president Tehelia Fathima said in a social media post that Communist leader Gouriamma who fought against male dominance was her hero. She also said that the women were forced to approach the Women's Commission after the party leadership did not act on their plight. Noorbina Rasheed, who flayed the young women for not consulting the senior women leaders of the party before women's commission and stood with the party leadership, however pointed out the plight of Communist leaders like Susheela Gopala and former Health Minister K K Shailaja, who were also allegedly denied chief ministership owing to the male dominance of the party. The IUML's decision to field a woman candidate in the recent Assembly polls, Noorbeena Rahseed at Kozhikode South, received much attention as it was after a gap of 25 years that the party was fielding a woman - though she was defeated in the polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/inaction-on-womens-complaint-triggers-male-dominance-allegation-in-keralas-iuml-1021053.html
18-08-2021||South||Nithyananda declares himself as head of Madurai mutt, gets rebuked||Fugitive self-styled godman Nithyananda on Wednesday declared himself as the chief of the Madurai Aadheenam (monastery) established 1,500 years ago by Thirugnana Sambandhar, one of the celebrated poet-saints of the Tamil Shaivite tradition.  Nithyananda, the controversial godman wanted by Karnataka Police in a slew of cases including those related to sexual harassment of inmates of his monastery, made the announcement on the social media pages of Kailasa, a country that he claims to have founded.  The statement said Nithyananda will succeed Arunagirinathar, the 292nd pontiff of the Madurai Aadheenam, who passed away on August 13, 2021, after a prolonged illness. It also claimed the “national flag of Kailasa” flew “half-mast” as a mark of respect to the departed soul.  However, the Aadheenam rubbished claims of Nithyananda, saying he was not even part of the mutt. It also said Harihara Desika Gnanasambantha Paramacharaya, who was named as the junior pontiff by Arunagirinathar, will take charge as head of the mutt soon. Arunagirinathar, who headed the monastery for over 30 years, was a living example of communal harmony. He used to invite clerics and priests from other faiths to the mutt and quote from Quran and Bible often to drive home the message that every religion teaches universal brotherhood. Nithyananda, who was appointed as junior pontiff of the famed Madurai Aadheenam in 2012 by Arunagirinathar, was removed from the post within a few months on the charges of misconduct. However, the self-styled godman continued to claim he was part of the mutt.  "All the spiritual, dharmic, traditional rituals as per the cosmic laws of Kailasa and official succession formalities as the 293rd pontiff of Madurai Aadheenam is completed," Nithyananda said in a post.  The Madurai Aadheenam has a rich tradition and is the oldest Tamil Shaivite monastery. Thirugnana Sambandhar is one of the most prominent of 63 Nayanmars who are believed to have lived between the sixth and 10th centuries BC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nithyananda-declares-himself-as-head-of-madurai-mutt-gets-rebuked-1021054.html
18-08-2021||South||DMK trying to frame me in Kodanad break-in case: Edappadi K Palaniswami||The four-year-old case involving a break-in at former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa’s Kodanad Estate in the picturesque Nilgiris district has come back to haunt Tamil Nadu’s principal Opposition AIADMK. The new DMK government’s decision to reopen the 2017 case and re-examine key accused, Sayan, reverberated in the Assembly on Wednesday with AIADMK legislators alleging “political vendetta” and staging a walkout after not being allowed to raise the issue in the House. Outside the Kalaivanar Arangam, where the temporary Assembly Hall is situated, former Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami alleged that the DMK was trying to “frame me and a few functionaries” of the AIADMK in the case. He also accused the DMK and Chief Minister M K Stalin of “reopening the case” out of “political vendetta” to settle scores with the AIADMK. Responding to allegations levelled by members of AIADMK and alliance partners PMK and BJP, Stalin said the re-investigation is taking place with “due permission” from the court and there was no “political angle” in the new development. “This is not a political vendetta. The DMK in its election manifesto promised to send real culprits behind the Kodanad break-in to jail. We will ensure that justice is served in the case. Nobody has to fear this case,” Stalin told the Assembly. Kodanad was the summer retreat of Jayalalithaa since she and her long-time aide V K Sasikala bought the sprawling bungalow in Kothagiri in the early 1990s. The former chief minister would visit the bungalow often when her party, AIADMK, was occupying the Opposition benches in the Assembly. Quoting media reports, Palaniswami said the Nilgiris district police has once again examined Sayan, one of the prime accused, at a time the case was nearing completion.  “What is the need to re-investigate Sayan? We feel the DMK government is trying to frame me and a few other AIADMK functionaries in the case. This is nothing but politics. The DMK is trying to take political mileage out of this case,” Palaniswami alleged. Party coordinator O Panneerselvam said the AIADMK will boycott the assembly session on Thursday. The two leaders are expected to meet Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday and discuss the issue. Sayan and nine others are accused of breaking into the sprawling mansion owned by Jayalalithaa in 2017, months after her death, and killing a guard who was posted there. Police had then alleged that C Kanagaraj, Jayalalithaa’s former driver, and Sayan plotted the crime. However, Kanagaraj, Sayan’s wife and their daughter died in separate road accidents, raising doubts. An “independent investigation” conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel alleged that Palaniswami was behind the break-in, but the former Chief Minister had steered clear of the issue, saying vested interests were trying to bring “disrepute” to him and Jayalalithaa. During the press interaction on Wednesday, Palaniswami sought to know why lawyers associated with the DMK appeared on behalf of the accused in the case. “DMK leaders applied for bail for the accused. Now DMK men are government lawyers and they have reopened the case. What is the connection between DMK men and the accused in the case?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-trying-to-frame-me-in-kodanad-break-in-case-edappadi-k-palaniswami-1021115.html
18-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt to bring legislation against NEET in Budget session||Tamil Nadu government will bring a legislation against National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in the ongoing Budget session of the Assembly. Chief Minister M K Stalin said the government was studying the legal aspects of the recommendations made by Justice A K Rajan in his report on the impact of NEET on students from economically weaker sections of the state. In response to DMK MLA and his son Udhayanidhi’s maiden speech in the Assembly, Stalin said political parties in Tamil Nadu should be on the “same page” to oppose NEET and ensure that the exam is dispensed of within the state. He recalled that the government appointed a committee under the chairmanship of Justice (retired) A K Rajan to study the impact of NEET among students from economically weaker sections of the society. The committee received 87,000 representations, the majority of which were against the conduct of NEET. The majority of them batted for reverting to admitting students to medical colleges on the basis of the marks they scored in their plus-two examination. The DMK, which opposed the exam tooth and nail, had promised in its election manifesto that it would bring legislation in the Assembly against the NEET exam. “The report submitted by Justice A K Rajan is being examined legally and a draft legislation will be brought in the ongoing Budget session,” Stalin said. This is the second time that the Tamil Nadu Assembly will pass a Bill seeking exemption from NEET – two legislations passed by the AIADMK government in 2017 were rejected by the Centre. NEET is an emotive issue in Tamil Nadu with 13 students ending their lives by suicide due to fear of facing the exam or having failed the test. The government is expected to use the data collected by the Justice Rajan committee to drive home its point that NEET is discriminatory against students from rural areas who are forced to compete with those from urban areas who have better access to education infrastructure. The committee received representations from students, parents, academicians, doctors, and others on the impact of NEET among students from rural areas and those belonging to financially weaker sections of the society. In his report, Justice Rajan is understood to have recommended the continuation of the 7.5 per cent horizontal reservation for government school students in medical admissions irrespective of NEET. The committee is believed to have noted that the reservation has ensured that a particular number of students from government schools will get into medical colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-to-bring-legislation-against-neet-in-budget-session-1021126.html
18-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu likely to reopen schools for classes 9-12 from September 1||Tamil Nadu government is likely to reopen schools for classes 9 to 12 from September 1 and a formal announcement is likely to be made later this week after consultations with stakeholders. Anticipating the reopening of schools, the Health Department on Wednesday came out with a Standard operating Procedure (SOP) to followed by all educational institutions in view of the Covid-19 situation. Chief Minister M K Stalin had last month said the government planned to reopen schools for students belonging to four standards from September 1. The School Education Department has been holding consultations with various stakeholders, officials, and managements of schools on reopening of schools. “Every opinion expressed by the stakeholders will be considered as this concerns the safety and health of students. We are likely to complete the consultations in the next few days. The Chief Minister will make an announcement on reopening of schools,” a senior official told DH. The Health Department said it is tentatively proposed that classes for standards 9, 10, 11 and 12 shall be permitted to be conducted in all schools with 50 percent of students at a time. The department asked schools to ensure that sanitizers and soap with water are made available to children and said temperature of every student should be checked before letting him or her into the school. “Symptomatic students/teachers or staff shall not be allowed inside the campus. All the Public Health Centres (PHCs) should be alerted to handle any suspected symptomatic children as per SOPs,” the department said, adding that sufficient quantity of Vitamin C, multi-vitamin tablets and immune-boosters should be given to children. The department also said health inspectors, block health supervisors, and non-medical supervisors will be assigned to each and every school, including private institutions, to monitor the follow-up of SOPs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-likely-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-9-12-from-september-1-1021148.html
18-08-2021||South||'Covid-19 under control', Telangana health officials worried about rising Dengue, Malaria cases||With the Covid-19 “spread largely under control”, the Telangana health department is now cautioning the public about the danger of Dengue, Malaria etc seasonal diseases. The state has recorded over 1,200 Dengue cases already in this season, with the vector-borne disease spreading fast in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area and a few other districts like Khammam. At the same time, Malaria cases are being reported from several districts. Dengue, Malaria cases are rising in Telangana even as the Covid-19 cases have declined sharply. Telangana has reported 405 and 417 cases on Monday and Tuesday, when the samples tested were 84,262 and 87,230 respectively. The active cases are 6,939. According to officials, Hyderabad has been reporting around 70-80 cases only for the past several days. “Covid-19 has come under control to a large extent and its R factor in our state is 0.7. People should not presume every fever as Covid-19 and should get themselves tested in case of symptoms like fever,” said Dr Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana on Wednesday. Rao stated that his department is implementing measures to check the growth of mosquitoes – the carriers of Dengue, Malaria etc infections, in this rainy season. The official added that the government is running diagnostic centres in 20 districts and is setting up fever clinics in major hospitals. Meanwhile, over 1.65 crore people in Telangana have received at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine till Tuesday night. 42.2 lakh people have received both doses. While the daily economic activities have resumed after the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions were lifted in mid-June, the K Chandrasekhar Rao government is yet to take a call on reopening the schools for offline classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-under-control-telangana-health-officials-worried-about-rising-dengue-malaria-cases-1021164.html
18-08-2021||State||Closure of Chamundeshwari Temple on Friday||Sri Chamundeshwari Devi Temple, atop the Chamundi Hill in Mysuru, will be closed on Friday, August 20 to check crowding, a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Even on other days, in view of the Covid crisis, the temple closes at 6 pm. 'Varamahalakshmi Vrata' is celebrated on the second Friday of Shravana month of the 'Chandramana' Hindu calendar. Shravana month started on August 9.  Besides, Friday is a government holiday on account of the last day of Muharram. In view of the festival and the holiday, people may visit places of worship and tourist places.   Therefore. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautham had issued a notification about the closure on August 12 itself. However, the regular rituals of the temple will be held by the priests and other staff of the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/closure-of-chamundeshwari-temple-on-friday-1021011.html
18-08-2021||State||Arogya Nandana to screen 1.5 cr kids for Covid, nutrition, comorbidities||With experts cautioning that the Covid third wave is likely to predominantly affect children, the state health department is all set to launch a new child screening programme, Arogya Nandana. It is a new initiative to test all children for Covid symptoms, low nutrition indicators, immunity and comorbidities in Karnataka. Chief Minister Basvaraj Bommai will launch the programme within a week, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar announced on Tuesday. "Karnataka has about 1.5 crore children in the 0-18 age group. Under this scheme, all children will undergo health screening. Children with malnutrition, low immunity and other comorbidities will be identified and in coordination with the Women and Child Welfare department, we will ensure children get necessary nutritious food and supplements to boost immunity. All measures will be taken to monitor their health," the minister said. "The project has been implemented in Haveri and Udupi districts where the CM was a district-in-charge minister earlier. The project will be extended to the whole state in the next one week as the state has all the required infrastructure," he added. Haveri district launched a similar programme called 'Vatsalya' on June 25 this year and has found 3,369 children with Covid symptoms, of whom 2,350 were tested with rapid antigen tests (RAT). As many as 8,443 children with other diseases were also found. The department visited 1,858 schools and 1,964 anganwadis. So far, 3,85,734 children have been screened in the district and 1,314 children were found with defects at birth, 3,629 with deficiencies, and 1,218 with developmental delays. As many as 1,031 children suffering from severe acute malnutrition were also identified. Haveri district reproductive and child health officer (RCHO) Dr M Jayanand told DH, "We had administered RAT tests to children with symptoms, and one child who tested positive has now recovered." In Udupi district, 1,35,842 school children and 43,502 Anganwadi children have been screened in the past two months. Severe acute malnutrition was seen in 53 children, moderate malnutrition was seen in 108, anaemia in 2,026, vitamin A deficiency in 516 children, vitamin D deficiency was found in 416 children, and 132 were obese. Severe thinning was observed in 239 children, 36 suffered from goitre caused due to iodine deficiency, and minor ailments were observed in 16,000 others. Virologist Dr V Ravi, state nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 virus and state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee member said, "All symptomatic children will be subjected to RAT tests and if that is negative, RT-PCR tests will be conducted."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/arogya-nandana-to-screen-15-cr-kids-for-covid-nutrition-comorbidities-1021025.html
18-08-2021||State||Digital village will be developed in each district: Rajeev Chandrasekhar||Minister of State for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship and Electronics and Information Technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar said that the Centre had taken up a digital village programme. Under the programme, a village in each district would be provided with better internet connectivity so that people can access various services from home. Accordingly, 5,000 villages will be provided with internet facilities. Speaking to mediapersons after janashirvada yatra in Mangaluru, he said digital village is a pilot project of the country under the BharatNet programme. BharatNet programme was launched prior to the Covid-19 pandemic. Now, there is a need to implement it effectively by reaching out to the villages. The demand for internet has increased drastically after the Covid-19 pandemic. The government is strengthening infrastructure that helps people to work in interior areas, he said. “There is a need to develop digital technology in the villages. I have already asked my ministry to study internet communication. There should be progress in communication. Becoming leaders of the world in technology is the mission of PM Narendra Modi. The digital village project has already commenced, he said. There were some specific issues, including internet connectivity in Mangaluru, Hubballi-Dharwad, Shivamogga and other parts of Karnataka. “I have asked people on the job to identify these issues and address them,” he said. Diversifying tech projects The minister felt the need for diversifying technology projects outside Bengaluru. There are plans to set up IT Park on PPP mode. Efforts are being made to upgrade communication and connectivity. IT companies will start investing in villages as well. There are efforts to have more centres of National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIEIT). A national mission on artificial intelligence, quantum computing, block chain, and other emerging technologies will be launched shortly. “My ministry aims at generating employment. I completed my engineering at Manipal. I have a close relation with Mangaluru and Manpal. I will extend all support for empowering youth , skill development and IT development in the region,” he said. BJP state president and DK MP has sought an IT Park to Mangaluru. “I will extend all the required support increase IT business in the region,” he added. Earlier during the Janashirvada yatra programme, the union minister said India is rising in the world. Several vested interests in the world do not want India to rise. “In the post covid era, we have to work with trust,” he said. He called upon the participants to inform people on the accelerated development works in the country in the last seven years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/digital-village-will-be-developed-in-each-district-rajeev-chandrasekhar-1021060.html
18-08-2021||State||FIR filed against BJP workers for organising Janashirvada Yatra||The police of Brahmapur police station booked a case against the BJP leaders who organised a stage function of Janashirvad Yatra at Veersahiva Kalyana Mantap on Tuesday, violating the Covid-19 curfew. The district administration has banned public functions, political programmes and congregation of the public in the wake of the Covid-19. But, the BJP had organised Janashirvad Yatra's stage function led by Union Minister of State for Renewable Energy, Chemicals and Fertiliser Bhagawanth Khuba. Police Commissioner Y S Ravi Kumar said on the direction of Deputy Commissioner V V Jyothsna, Tahsildar Prakash Kudari lodged a complaint for organising the function violating the curfew and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. An FIR has been registered based on the complaint and an investigation is going on, he told. Cut-outs were also erected across the city. Due to the Model Code of Conduct enforced for the Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike polls, those cut outs were removed on Tuesday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fir-filed-against-bjp-workers-for-organising-janashirvada-yatra-1021174.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka banks' bad loans up by Rs 7,000 crore||Banks in Karnataka have reported a 26 per cent rise in non-performing assets (NPA) in priority sectors, including agriculture, a fallout of the economic distress caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the drought-flood situation in the state.  Loans worth Rs 7,375 crore were added to the NPA category in the run-up to the financial year ending March 2021. These are loans disbursed to agriculture, MSMEs, housing and education sectors — four priority areas that witness the most credit activity.  Agriculture NPAs constitute 61 per cent of all the bad loans in the priority sectors, despite the farm sector being the only that recorded growth in the pandemic-hit 2020-21. “Karnataka faced repeated spells of drought. And, last year, there were floods,” said State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) convenor B Chandrasekhara Rao, who is also the Canara Bank general manager. “Also, in some districts, people think one more loan waiver will come, which impacts repayment,” he added.  Banks in the state have already restructured loans worth Rs 820 crore due to natural calamities. Sources in the Finance Department said there was no proposal to announce another loan waiver, even as the one implemented when the Congress-JD(S) coalition was in power is still open. However, the Cooperation Department is pushing for a waiver of crop loans of farmers who died due to Covid-19, but the government is yet to decide on this.  During the second wave of Covid-19, the previous BS Yediyurappa government decided to bear the interest amount for three months in small and medium cooperative bank loans availed by farmers, which amounts to around Rs 134.38 crore. Loan repayment date was also extended from May 1 to July 31. The Covid-19 pandemic was harsh on small businesses, with the lockdown preventing any form of business or economic activities. As a consequence, new bad loans worth Rs 3,226 crore have been added to the MSME sector in the state.  “The MSME sector faced a lot of stress, leading to stressed assets and NPAs,” Rao pointed out. “This sector was anyway stressed. The pandemic made fund-flow difficult,” he said.  Industries have asked the state government for a waiver in licence fees, power bills and other such concessions. Repayment of housing loans also took a hit due to job losses and salary cuts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-banks-bad-loans-up-by-rs-7000-crore-1020867.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||339 Afghans in Karnataka, we are with them: Home Minister Araga Jnanendra||There are 339 Afghans in Karnataka and the Basavaraj Bommai administration will talk to the Centre on renewing their visas to provide them “protection”, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said on Wednesday. “There are 339 Afghanis in Karnataka, according to my information. Of them, 197 are students. They are requesting us, they are helpless with their visa period expiring soon. There’s no reason for students to feel afraid,” Jnanendra told reporters. “The Bommai administration is with them from humanity's point-of-view,” he said. “Visa renewal comes under the Centre’s jurisdiction. Certainly, our government will talk to the Centre and try to give them all sorts of protection,” he added. Jnanendra was speaking at the sidelines of a police event. He said he will not tolerate police personnel colluding with criminals. “Only a handful of people do that, which makes citizens view with suspicion even the honest officers,” he said. “We will not tolerate, even for a second, police officers who join hands with rowdies and criminals. We will get their reports and show them their place.” The minister also said he would streamline flaws in the transfer of police personnel. Jnanendra said the government is looking into some “technical issues” that came in the way of implementing the recommendations of the Auradkar committee in full. The report recommended hikes in wages and allowances for police personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/339-afghans-in-karnataka-we-are-with-them-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-1020990.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka appoints officer, starts helpline for Kannadigas in Afghanistan||The state government on Wednesday appointed Additional DGP (CID) Umesh Kumar as the nodal officer to coordinate with the Centre to bring back Kannadigas stranded in Afghanistan.  Kumar will coordinate with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) to have Karnataka residents repatriated.  A control room has been established and the government has asked citizens to provide information by calling 080-22094498, 080-22942628 and 9480800187. Citizens can send an email to afghan_kar@ksp.gov.in The information should contain the name, contact number and address of the informant along with how he or she is related to the persons stranded in Afghanistan. The government also wants the name of persons staying in Afghanistan, their present location, occupation or purpose of visit, passport details, date of arrival in Afghanistan and so on. Meanwhile, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said the state government would talk to the Centre on extending the visa of Afghans, especially students, currently residing in Karnataka.  “There are 339 Afghans in Karnataka, according to my information. Of them, 197 are students. They are requesting us...they are helpless with their visa period expiring soon. There’s no reason for students to feel afraid,” Jnanendra told reporters. “The Bommai administration is with them from humanity's point-of-view. Visa renewal comes under the Centre’s jurisdiction. Certainly, our government will talk to the Centre and try to give them all sorts of protection,” he added.  Jnanendra was speaking at the sidelines of a police event. He said he will not tolerate police personnel colluding with criminals. “Only a handful of people do that, which makes citizens view with suspicion even the honest officers,” he said. “We will not tolerate, even for a second, police officers who join hands with rowdies and criminals. We will get their reports and show them their place.”  Jnanendra also said the government was looking into some “technical issues” that came in the way of fully implementing the recommendations of the Auradkar committee. The committee has recommended hikes in wages and allowances for police personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-appoints-officer-starts-helpline-for-kannadigas-in-afghanistan-1021100.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 1,365 new cases, 22 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,365 new cases of Covid-19 and 22 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,33,192 and death toll to 37,061. The day also saw 1,558 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 28,74,839. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 327 new cases, as the city saw 318 discharges and 2 deaths. Active cases stood at 21,266. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.76 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.61 per cent. Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru accounted for three deaths each, Belagavi, Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, Tumakuru and Udupi (2 each), followed by others. After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada accounted for the second highest of fresh cases at 268, Mysuru 123 and Hassan 107. Bengaluru Urban district has a total of 12,33,839 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,74,890 and Tumakuru 1,18,763. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,09,965, followed by Mysuru 1,71,519 and Tumakuru 1,16,960. Cumulatively, 4,13,32,380 samples have been tested in the state, out of which 1,79,016 were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-1365-new-cases-22-deaths-in-karnataka-1021116.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will walk extra mile with you, CM Bommai tells industrialists||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai assured industrialists Wednesday that he would "walk the extra mile" to ensure that Karnataka became the Number One state for industrial growth. Bommai was speaking at the Sir M Visvesvaraya Memorial Award ceremony organised by the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry at Vidhana Soudha. Bommai said that there was a requirement of another Visvesvaraya to take Karnataka forward in the 21st century. "When I say he (Visvesvaraya) must be reborn, I mean that there are people among us with his talents. The government will provide opportunities for such people in the coming days," he said. "In the coming days, to make Karnataka Number One on the industrial map, I am ready to walk the extra mile with you," he said. The 2021 edition of the award for outstanding contributions to the economic and social development of the state was conferred to M R Jayaram, chairman of the Gokula Education Foundation that runs the M S Ramaiah institutions. Speaking at the event, Jayaram said that there was an urgent need to promote greater cooperation between public and private agencies. "Covid-19 has shown how private and government hospitals can work together... The cooperation between public and private institutions should be further supported so that people are able to access the best of healthcare," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-walk-extra-mile-with-you-cm-bommai-tells-industrialists-1021151.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||II PU exams begin today across Karnataka||As many as 18,145 candidates will write II PU exams at 187 centres across the state, starting Thursday. A total of 17,469 private candidates have enrolled to write the exam while 593 and 353 are freshers and repeaters respectively. This year, the department of pre-university education had not conducted the examination for II PU due to the spike in Covid-19 cases and declared all students pass, except private candidates. As the department had provided options for students to take up the exams if they are not happy with the results announced, 946 students have rejected their results.   However, the students who have rejected the results and choose to write the exams cannot revert back to the earlier scores and have to stick to the marks secured in the examination. According to the PUE department, it is mandatory for students coming from Kerala and Maharashtra to submit a negative RTPCR test report for Covid-19.  It is mandatory for students appearing for the examinations to wear masks, undergo thermal screening and follow physical distance norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ii-pu-exams-begin-today-across-karnataka-1021153.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government plans to revive 'land bank' to woo investors||The state government is planning to reintroduce the ‘land bank’ concept, Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said Wednesday.  “The ‘land bank’ is crucial for Karnataka’s industrial growth, as several projects fail to take off on account of unavailability of land,” Nirani told DH.  Nirani pointed out that he had introduced the ‘land bank’ concept during his previous tenure as the industries minister. The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government discontinued it, “undoing our efforts”, Nirani said. “Back then, as part of the effort to create a land bank, Karnataka had secured 1.25 lakh acres of uncultivable land from farmers for industrial purpose,” he said.  In order to woo investors to the state, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, it was imperative to have readily available land, Nirani asserted. “We will gather district-wise information on available land. Then, we will come up with a plan for the amount of land to acquire,” he said. “Day by day, land acquisition is becoming a tough job. Hence, we need to ensure that there is some ready parcel of land available for investment.” The government’s plans to keep land ready comes ahead of the flagship global investors meet Invest Karnataka scheduled for March 2022. Through the meet, which will be held if the Covid-19 situation stabilizes, the state government hopes to draw investors to Karnataka to rejig the pandemic-hit economy, the minister said. “The government needs to be ready with land, competitive pricing on electricity and subsidies for investors to set up shop in Karnataka,” said Nirani, an industrialist himself. According to officials in the industries department, the state’s present approach to land acquisition is only need-based. “In the recent years, we have not made any efforts to procure large tracts of land to create a bank,” an official from the industries department told DH.  The industries department will also soon put in place a system where banks will contact investors directly once projects are approved. This will boost investors’ confidence, Nirani said. Also, while until now, issuing the absolute sale deed for industries drags on for years together, the government will make efforts to reduce this time period. “If the sale deed is issued earlier, the investor can apply for working capital. At present, investors are unnecessarily having to wait for a long duration,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-plans-to-revive-land-bank-to-woo-investors-1021154.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SSLC repeat exams scheduled for September 27, 29||The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has released the timetable for the SSLC supplementary examinations. The examinations will be held on September 27 and 29 with the paper consisting of three subjects each day. On September 27, the examination will be held for Mathematics, Science and Social Science and on September 29, for language subjects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sslc-repeat-exams-scheduled-for-september-27-29-1021156.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru-Mysuru expressway will be ready by 2022 Dasara: Pratap Simha||Come October 2022, the travel time between Bengaluru and Mysuru is expected to come down by at least 90 minutes as the extension work of the much-awaited expressway between the cities is likely to be completed by September 2022, prior to Mysuru Dasara. While 81 per cent of the civil works under Phase 1 have been completed, nearly 72 per cent of the works under Phase 2 were completed. MP Pratap Simha told reporters here, with the completion of the extension work, the travel time between the two cities was expected to be reduced to 90 minutes. Bypasses at prime locations along the expressway like Bidadi, Ramanagara, Channapatna, Maddur, Mandya and Srirangapatna will reduce the travel time. The works on all the six bypasses on the stretch would be completed by January 2022 and the highway will be functional before 2022 Dasara. The works were delayed due to outbreak of Covid-19. In order to ensure safety, chainlink fence will be established along the highway, the MP said. The work on the 118-km stretch is taken up in two phases. Phase-1, measuring 56 km, runs between Bengaluru and Nidaghatta, while the 61-km Phase-2 will connect Nidaghatta with Mysuru. According to the MP, Bidadi bypass will be 7-km long while the bypass between Ramanagaram and Channapatna is 22.35 km. Mandya bypass is 8.19 km long and Maddur bypass 4.45 km. The length of the bypass at Srirangapatana is 8.19 km. In addition, either side of the expressway will have service roads. The highway has a total of nine large bridges, 44 small bridges and four railway overbridges and underpasses for the movement of vehicles and for pedestrians. There will be two resting areas, the MP said. Simha said, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has taken up the project at a cost of Rs 8,066 crore, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-mysuru-expressway-will-be-ready-by-2022-dasara-pratap-simha-1021158.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||PU classes to begin on August 23 with 50% capacity||The department of pre-university education has issued standard operating procedure (SoP) for resumption of offline classes for I and II PU from August 23. The colleges have been asked to conduct classes with 50 per cent student capacity, on alternate days. “The colleges must divide students into two batches and conduct classes on alternate days. For example, those who attend offline classes on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, should attend online classes on Thursday, Friday and Saturday,” reads the SoP. In case of colleges where the number of students is less than 100, and have proper infrastructure, such colleges can conduct classes with full strength. However, only the districts where Covid positivity rate is less than 2 per cent are allowed to resume offline classes. For districts where the positivity rate is above 2 per cent, the classes will be conducted in online mode.  It is mandatory for students to submit consent letter from parents to attend offline classes and the parents should also certify that their wards do not have any Covid-like symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pu-classes-to-begin-on-august-23-with-50-capacity-1021163.html
18-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government mulls allowing devotees at temples||The government was mulling relaxing Covid-19 guidelines to allow devotees to visit temples in a phased manner. Muzrai, Haj & Wakf Minister Shashikala Jolle told officials to explore the option, during a meeting she chaired on Wednesday. As per the recent Covid guidelines, entry of devotees to temples is banned on weekends and general holidays in several districts to contain the spread of the virus. A survey of temple properties falling under the Muzrai department was also ordered by the minister, so as to ensure that such properties are protected across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-mulls-allowing-devotees-at-temples-1021165.html
18-08-2021||West||Rajasthan HC grants bail to former Congress MLA in Bhanwari Devi case||The Rajasthan High Court has granted bail to Malkhan Singh Bishnoi, a former Congress MLA and one of the main accused in the Bhanwari Devi abduction and murder case, while deferring the bail plea of other accused till August 23. A single judge bench of justice Dinesh Mehta accepted the bail application of Malkhan Bishnoi on Tuesday. With this, nine of the 17 accused in the case have been granted bail, while main accused, former minister Mahipal Maderna is out on interim bail on health grounds. The Supreme Court had granted bail to one of the accused in the case, Parasram Bishnoi last month on the grounds that it has been around 10 years and the trial was nowhere near completion. Citing the order of the apex court, Malkhan Bishnoi's counsel argued that the trial of the case has taken a long time and that the accused has already served 10 years in judicial custody. Maderna's bail plea is also pending before the high court, which will come up for hearing on August 23 along with that of some other accused. Bhanwari Devi, who was posted as Auxiliary Nurse Midwife at a sub centre in Jaliwara village of Jodhpur, had gone missing in September 2011.  Her husband Amarchand, who was later found to be involved in the case, had alleged that she was abducted at the behest of Maderna, who at that time was the state water resources minister in the Congress government. When the CD of Maderna with Bhanwari came out in thhe public domain, Maderna was sacked by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and later, on December 2, 2012, he was arrested by the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-hc-grants-bail-to-former-congress-mla-in-bhanwari-devi-case-1020978.html
18-08-2021||West||Maharashtra assures help to Afghan-origin students||The Maharashtra government has assured a delegation of Afghanistan-origin students to take up and convey their issues to the Centre in the wake of developments in the war-torn nation. A group of students from Afghanistan, mainly from Pune and Mumbai, met state’s Protocol, Environment and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, to discuss the issue. “Students of Afghanistan origin, studying and residing in Pune, called on me with their various concerns regarding their education, future and stay/ return. I heard them out and have assured them to convey it to the Government of India,” said Thackeray, the Yuva Sena President, and a prominent youth leader. “It was necessary to hear their concerns and assure them that till they are in Maharashtra, they do not have to fear. They are safe and will not have to face any difficulty. We will take care of them. We will convert their concerns to the Centre as most of the issues are in their jurisdiction,” he said. The group has conveyed issues like visas, visa extension, immigration, and asylum.  Besides, there are issues related to payment of fees, rent of accommodation, and the safety of their families back in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-assures-help-to-afghan-origin-students-1021009.html
18-08-2021||West||Maharashtra traffic cop bags reward for managing snarl amid downpour||A 48-year-old traffic policeman was rewarded for his dedication after a senior official spotted him single-handedly managing traffic at a busy junction even as heavy rains pounded the area in Maharashtra's Nanded city, an official said on Wednesday. Traffic policeman Ashok Wadewale got a pleasant surprise when he received a cash reward of Rs 10,000 from the department for single-handedly regulating traffic on Sathe Chowk, a crowded junction that sees heavy vehicular movement on all days. Deputy Inspector General of Police Nisar Tamboli was on his usual rounds on his two-wheeler, when he spotted Wadewale at Sathe Chowk on Monday evening, the official said. After seeing the policeman manning the busy junction alone amid heavy rains, the senior official recommended that he be awarded a prize of Rs 10,000, he said. Talking to PTI, Wadewale said, "I was unaware that such a senior official had seen my work while riding a motorcycle. I was on duty at Sathe Chowk from 2 pm to 9 pm on Monday. The square is so busy that the traffic here sometimes cannot be controlled by one person. But I was doing my best." The policeman was worried when the Deputy IG called him to his office the next day. "I was a little worried, but after reaching the office, I found out the reason and was relieved. I perform my duty with complete honesty," said Wadewale, who has completed 28 years in the police force and has been serving the traffic branch in Nanded since 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-traffic-cop-bags-reward-for-managing-snarl-amid-downpour-1021035.html
18-08-2021||West||In future, recommendations for boosters will come: Scientist||Studies are underway for Covid-19 vaccine booster doses and recommendations would come in the days ahead, said Dr Priya Abraham, Director of Pune-based ICMR-National Institute of Virology. “Studies on booster dose have been going on overseas and at least seven different vaccines have been tried out for booster dose. Now, the WHO has put a stop to it till more countries catch up with vaccination. This is because there is an alarming vaccine gap between high-income and low-income countries. But, in future, recommendations for boosters will definitely come,” she said. Dr Abraham said there was a situation where inadvertently two different vaccines were given in two doses. “We have tested those samples at NIV and found that the patients who received different vaccines in two doses were safe. No adverse effect was noted and immunogenicity was a little better. So, it is definitely not something that will cause a safety issue. We are studying this phenomenon and will be able to give more details in a few days,” she told India Science, the OTT channel of the Department of Science & Technology. A PIB press release, quoting Dr Abraham said: “Hospitals and laboratories were overwhelmed by the huge number of cases during the second wave. Many of their staff members were infected. So, the efficiency of testing had reduced during that time. There was a shortage of reagents also. All these affected the efficacy of testing. RT-PCR testing method is by itself only about 70% sensitive. But it is still recommended by WHO. But, in the future, we may see easier and quicker ‘point-of-care’ tests where we need not send samples to labs.” Talking about the Delta Plus variant, Dr Abraham said: “First of all, the Delta-plus variant is less likely to spread than the Delta variant itself. The Delta variant is present in over 130 countries.” “It has spread all over the world and it is this variant which is highly transmissible. In NIV we have done studies on this variant. We have studied the antibodies produced in the bodies of vaccinated people and checked them against this variant. It has been found that the efficacy of antibodies against this variant has been reduced two to three folds. Yet, the vaccines are still protective against the variants. They may show a little less efficacy, but vaccines are very important to prevent serious forms of disease due to which patients may get hospitalized and even die,” she said.  “So, whatever the variant, the vaccine is till now protective against all, including the Delta variant. So, there should not be any hesitancy at all,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-future-recommendations-for-boosters-will-come-scientist-1021091.html
18-08-2021||West||Former aide of Harshad Mehta arrested in drugs case||The Anti-Terrorism Squad of Maharashtra police has arrested Niranjan Shah, an aide of late Harshad Mehta, the notorious Big Bull of the nineties, in connection with a drugs case. For nearly five months, the ATS gave Shah a hot chase constantly changing locations and looks.  Shah, who was involved in an international drugs syndicate, was arrested during a covert operation from a village in Delhi, where he was pretending to stay in a one-room tenement.  The major breakthrough was made by the Juhu unit of the ATS. Shah, a history-sheeter, was a known drug trafficker on the record of various police stations in Mumbai, Delhi, the Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) of Mumbai Police, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI).  Besides, he was also wanted by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police. On 17 March, the Juhu Unit of ATS, Mumbai, acting on a specific piece of intelligence, had exposed a drug racket by arresting accused Sohel Yusuf Memon with a contraband of 5.65 kg of Mephedrone (MD), a banned psychotropic substance, then valued at Rs. 2.53 crore in the international market.  During the investigations, It was revealed that the arrested accused had procured the contraband from Shah. The Juhu Unit of ATS was continuously trying to trace and arrest the wanted accused.  “However, the accused had fled from Mumbai and was evading arrest by constantly changing his location across various states in the country - Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. He was also constantly changing his looks,” ATS officials said.  “It had thus become a great challenge to trace and arrest the wanted accused. However, the ATS, Juhu unit roamed across these states and with sheer hard work, perseverance and sustained pursuance traced the accused in Munirka village, Delhi where he was pretending to stay as a poor man in a single room hired on someone else’s name,” the added. Shah was produced before the court on Wednesday and he has been remanded to ATS custody till 25 August. “It was revealed that the wanted accused was an associate of the late notorious Harshad Mehta, the main accused in the huge shares’ scam of the 90s,” they said.  The operation was personally supervised by Additional Director General of Police Vineet Kumar Agarwal, who heads the ATS, Deputy Inspector General Sandeep Lande, Superintendent of Police Sohail Sharma and Assistant Commissioner of Police Shripad Kale.  The ATS Juhu team headed by Police Inspector Dnyaneshwar Wagh included Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Patil, Assistant Police Inspector Dashrath Vitkar, Assistant Police Inspector Sagar Kunjir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-aide-of-harshad-mehta-arrested-in-drugs-case-1021124.html
18-08-2021||West||Ex-Congress CM Ravi Naik scoffs at rumours about reported switch to BJP||Political circles in Goa were caught in a tizzy, amid rumours of yet another Congress MLA, this time a former Chief Minister, joining the BJP ranks on Wednesday. Former Chief Minister Ravi Naik, who has in recent times been slamming the state Congress leadership and whose two sons joined the BJP last year, has however scoffed at the rumours, even as state Bharatiya Janata Party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade also dismissed the reports as an instance of "100 per cent falsehood". "There are four former CMs. There's Rane, Luizoinho Faleiro, DIgambar and Ravi. These are the four ex CMs. Please confirm before writing, don't write half baked stuff... I have no idea about this. The reputation of journalism is being slandered, because of such news reports," Naik told reporters. Naik and the three other former Chief Ministers are a part of a five-member Congress legislative party. Naik, whose sons Ravi and Ritesh joined the BJP last year, also said that if he does plan to leave the party, he would announce it beforehand. State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade also dismissed the reports of a former Congress CM joining his party. "I don't know why these kinds of rumours are spread. There is no truth to this. I am the state president. If someone needs to be taken into the party, the discussion should have happened with me. I know nothing about this issue. It is meaningless. Someone may have started this rumour. There is no truth to this. It is a 100 per cent falsehood," Tanavade insisted. The Congress party in Goa has been at the receiving end of a series of betrayals by its MLAs over the last few years. 13 Congress MLAs have quit the party after being elected on a Congress ticket in 2017 state assembly polls.  In 2019, the party faced yet another exodus, with 10 MLAs, including then Opposition leader Chandrakant Kavlekar split the party's 15 member legislative unit before merging it into the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-congress-cm-ravi-naik-scoffs-at-rumours-about-reported-switch-to-bjp-1021139.html
18-08-2021||West||PM to inaugurate reconstructed old Somnath temple precinct on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the reconstructed Old Somnath temple precinct and other projects related to the Somnath Temple in Gujarat on Friday. Besides the Old Somnath temple precinct, the projects to be inaugurated include the Somnath Promenade and Somnath Exhibition Centre. The Prime Minister will also lay the foundation stone of Shree Parvati Temple during the virtual event. The reconstructed temple precinct of Old (Juna) Somnath has been completed by Shree Somnath Trust with a total outlay of Rs 3.5 crore. This temple is also referred to as Ahilyabai Temple since it was built by Queen Ahilyabai of Indore, when she found that the old temple was in ruins. The entire old temple complex has been holistically redeveloped for the safety of pilgrims and with augmented capacity. The Somnath Promenade has been developed under PRASHAD (Pilgrimage Rejuvenation and Spiritual, Heritage Augmentation Drive) Scheme at a total cost of over Rs 47 crore. The Somnath Exhibition Centre, developed in the premises of ‘Tourist Facilitation Centre’, displays the exhibits from dismantled parts of old Somnath temple and its sculptures having Nagar style temple architecture of old Somnath. Shree Parvati Temple is proposed to be constructed with a total outlay of Rs 30 crore and will include temple construction in Sompura Salats Style, development of Garbha Griha and Nritya Mandap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-to-inaugurate-reconstructed-old-somnath-temple-precinct-on-friday-1021149.html
18-08-2021||West||In nine months of harsh anti land-grabbing law, 345 FIRs against 1,178 people in Gujarat||In nearly nine months since the Gujarat government implemented the Gujarat Land Grabbing (prohibition) Act 2020, the police have filed a record 345 FIRs against 1,178 persons under the stringent law. The government said that it received 6,884 complaints related to land grabbing incidents, out of which 4,489 cases were investigated in which over 76.80 lakh square metres of land worth Rs 730 crore was found to be grabbed. State revenue minister Kaushik Patel in a statement said that in 190 cases chargesheets have been filed before the concerned courts. He said the purpose of enactment of the new law is "eradicate the land grabbing elements of the poor middle class and small marginal farmers of the state." He said that over the last two decades, there has been a significant increase in the value of property and because of that "organized land mafias are resorting to violence, intimidation, fraud or betrayal to grab the valuable lands." The Gujarat government brought the stringent anti land-grabbing law in December 2020 with provisions of 10 years of imprisonment, which can be extended up to 14 years. The provisions under this law are said to be the harshest in the country. Under the law, violators will attract a penalty equivalent to 'jantri' or government rate of the land in question. Initially, the complaints are examined by a seven-member committee headed by the district collectors. After primary investigation, the committee decides whether a case is genuine or false. The committee hands over the genuine cases to concerned police for filing FIRs. The law also has provisions for special courts to be constituted in each district and resolve such cases in six months. While bringing the new law, the Vijay Rupani-led government did away with the Special Investigation Team (SIT) which was set up during the time of former chief minister, and now prime minister Narendra Modi, to look into such cases. The new law has been challenged in the high court which has admitted the petition. The petitioners have contended that they have been booked for a land transaction that actually took place nearly 50 years ago. They have argued that many of the provisions under the act such as amalgamation of civil and criminal law, setting up of special court and appointment of judges by state government, booking suspects in the cases even when the law was non-existent are "unconstitutional" and should be quashed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-nine-months-of-harsh-anti-land-grabbing-law-345-firs-against-1178-people-in-gujarat-1021150.html
