19-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Trucks carrying Sonu Sood's oxygen plant reach Ullal||Multi-axel trucks carrying actor Sonu Sood's oxygen plant were accorded a grand reception by residents in Ullal on Thursday. Responding to MLA U T Khader's appeal, Sonu Sood had promised to set up an oxygen plant at Community Health centre in Ullal. On August 8, Sonu Sood had tweeted that the trucks with his oxygen plant had left for Mangaluru.  Sources in district administration said Sonu Sood foundation was setting up the oxygen plant in Ullal CHC premises at a total cost of Rs 64 lakh. The district administration was pitching in 20 per cent of its share which was around Rs 12.88 lakh. Work on setting up the plant will begin from Friday, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/trucks-carrying-sonu-soods-oxygen-plant-reach-ullal-1021306.html
19-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru International Airport shows growth in domestic traffic||The Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) has shown a massive growth in its domestic traffic with both arrivals and departures picking up pace in the first fortnight of August as compared to the same periods of June and July, with gradual re-opening of airports by various states and starting of flight services. Latest data shows that 12,717 passengers departed from MIA from August 1 to 15 as compared to 7,784 passengers on July 1 to 15, a jump of 63 per cent. In the same period of June, there were 4,989 departures. Similarly, 13,924 passengers arrived in the first fortnight of August as compared to 8,495 passengers in July 1 to 15, a rise of 64 per cent. In the same period of June, there were 3,818 arrivals at the airport, a release from the MIA said. MIA has worked relentlessly through the pandemic and has continuously provided uninterrupted connectivity to travellers while creating a safe environment for passengers and personnel, the release said. The gradual opening of offices across India is complemented with an increase in the flight capacity, which has been the other factor for sequential growth of services from the airport. Air India Express started flights to the UAE on Wednesday after the MIA provided world class Rapid RT PCR facility at the airport in association with Apollo Diagnostics. As per the health requirements for the UAE-bound passengers, each passenger must have a negative rapid RT-PCR test conducted at the airport within six hours of boarding the flight. In order to make it easier for the passengers to take their flights to Middle East and beyond, MIA has provided the facility. The airport also has a separate facility for RT PCR tests for the benefit of passengers. In the last few months, MIA had implemented numerous SOPs, including the preventive measures laid down by health and government bodies to safeguard the well-being of the passengers and airport personnel, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-international-airport-shows-growth-in-domestic-traffic-1021337.html
19-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada stands second in school admissions in Karnataka||Dakshina Kannada district stands second when it comes to admission of students to schools for classes one to 10 in the state. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, admissions into private, government and aided schools have been healthy, sources said. There are 34 educational districts in Karnataka. Based on the pass percentage in the previous classes and the population of children coming in the age group of six, the Department of Public Instruction issues target in school admissions to each district. The target for this year was to admit 1,05,51,951 students to classes one to 10 in the state. Accordingly, a target to enroll 3,18,436 children was fixed for Dakshina Kannada district. Wth the admission of 3,12,394 children (achieving 98.10%), the district stood second in the state. Sirsi educational district is on the top of the list by achieving 98.4% admissions. Udupi district stands seventh with 97.2% admissions while Bengaluru Urban South stands last in the state with 76.1% admissions. In Dakshina Kannada, interest was shown for admissions into aided and government schools, which is a positive development, officials added. In DK, the target was to admit 98,532 children in government schools while 99,663 children were admitted to the schools thus achieving 101% success. The target of admission in aided schools was 46,229 students while 49,608 children were admitted thus achieving 107% success. In the private schools, the target for admission was 1,67,614 students while 1,57,137 students were admitted thus achieving 93.75% success. “The admission process will continue till August 31. More number of children will be joining the government schools. Further, admission into Kannada-medium aided schools too has increased, which is a good development. There may be several social and economic reasons for the development,” DDPI Malleswamy said. He said, “SDMCs in schools and teachers are also a reason for increase in admission. Further, the introduction of bilingual medium -- Kannada and English -- in the government schools also boosted the admission process. Many students studying in private schools also shifted to government and aided schools.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-stands-second-in-school-admissions-in-karnataka-1021373.html
19-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru: Wife, paramour get life imprisonment for killing husband||The Third Additional and Sessions Court sentenced a woman, along with her paramour, to life imprisonment for murdering her husband in 2016. Judge Basappa Balappa Jakati found Ashwini alias Mamatha and her boyfriend Anand Mera guilty of murdering her husband Jayaraj. Mamatha alias Ashwini had married Jayaraj of Peramogar in Kedila of Bantwal taluk in 2014. The duo were residing in a rented house in Moodbidri. In 2015, Ashwini had delivered a girl child at her maternal house. Meanwhile, Jayaraj had picked up a fight with Ashwini after learning about her affair with Anand. On September 13, 2016, Ashwini invited her husband to her maternal house in Moodukonaje on the pretext of giving some money. But she had hatched a plan to murder Jayaraj with the help of Anand. When Jayaraj entered the house, Anand slammed his head with a iron rod and murdered him. Later, they dumped the body in an empty well and sprayed chemicals. To mislead police, Ashwini filed a 'missing person' complaint. Later, Anand claimed he had abducted Jayaraj. He had contacted Jayaraj’s mother using the latter's phone. He claimed Jayaraj owed Rs 62,000 to the abductors. Later, Jayaraj’s brother Girish, suspecting that something was amiss filed a complaint with police. Moodbidri Inspector Ramachandra Nayak had filed a chargesheet at the court. The court slapped a fine of Rs 5,000 each on the duo. Two years of imprisonment and an additional Rs 2,000 fine was also slapped on Mamatha and Anand for destruction of evidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-wife-paramour-get-life-imprisonment-for-killing-husband-1021379.html
19-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chitradurga will have component manufacturing unit: Union Minister||Union Minister of State for Social Justice & Empowerment A Narayanaswamy stated that Components Manufacturing unit will be established in Chitradurga. Speaking to media persons during his visit to Composite Regional Centre for persons with disabilities, on Thursday, he said, the proposed unit will produce various components required for persons with physical disabilities, including hearing aids. He has already directed the authorities concerned to identify suitable land for the purpose. He also opined that though the Centre is providing many equipment to persons with physical disabilities people and elected representatives are not aware of it. So, there is a need to give wide publicity about it. Various materials must be distributed to beneficairies through elected representatives so that they would be aware of it. He directed the authorities concerned to take steps to ensure that this is followed in the coming days without fail. He said around 12 acres of land had been identified near Vaddinahalli for the construction of Composite Regional Centre building. He promised that bhoomi puja for the same would be performed in two months. Davangere MP G M Siddeshwar, MLA N Linganna, former MLC A H Shivayogiswamy and officials of the department were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chitradurga-will-have-component-manufacturing-unit-union-minister-1021393.html
19-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Goods vehicle transporting cattle topples, 18 calves die||A goods vehicle, which was allegedly transporting cattle illegally, overturned near Dyavappanahalli near Halebeedu, killing 18 male calves on the spot, on Wednesday night. The remaining 23 calves have been shifted to Mahaveer Jain goshala at Banavara. To escape from the police at the check post, the goods vehicle driver avoided the main road and was driving the vehicle on the village road. The speeding vehicle hit a roadside electricity pole and overturned. 18 calves died on the spot. The legs and faces of the cattle were tied tightly with a rope. Hearing the sound, locals rushed and rescued the remaining calves. The driver and his companions abandoned the vehicle and escaped. After, post-mortem, they were cremated at Bidurkere. DC R Girish and SP Srinivas Gowda visited the spot. "If the farmers are not able to take care of the cattle, they can hand over them to the goshala. They should not be sold," Girish said. Many cattle died of asphyxiation as their mouth and legs were tied. Some calves died of injuries during the mishap, said Dr Gangadhar Naik, assistant director, animal husbandry department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/goods-vehicle-transporting-cattle-topples-18-calves-die-1021507.html
19-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP exhibiting 'goonda and Taliban' culture: Khandre ||KPCC Working President Eshwar Khandre on Thursday accused BJP of exhibiting 'goonda and Taliban culture' after its supporters opened fire in the air to welcome Union Minister of State for Renewable Energy, Chemicals and Fertilisers Bhagawanth Khuba at Yaragol village of Yadgir district. Speaking at a press meet in Kalaburagi, he said Khuba himself has contacted the district party leaders over the phone and directed them to accord him a grand welcome. The incident that took place in Yargol is a 'black spot' on the rich culture of Karnataka, he said. "Welcoming him by opening fire is a heinous crime. It is unclear whether the guns are licensed or permission was given to bring them to the public place. What were the police doing and why did they not prevent it?" the ex-minister asked. The BJP, which claims to be a disciplined party, seems to be sowing the seed of goonda culture in the state, the MLA charged.  Questioning the rationale behind organising Janashirvada Yatra, Khandre said thousands of people succumbed to Covid-19 in the state and lakhs of people came to the street. "Several people are ending their lives owing to unemployment due to Covid-19 induced lockdown. Rather than wiping out their tears by visiting them, the BJP leaders are showing their eccentric mindset. "Such an attitude will be detrimental to the whole democracy. When people faced the shortage of beds oxygen and remdesivir injections, the minister (Khuba) didn't dare to venture out of his house and didn't visit the houses of Covid victims to console their kins. What morality do they have to seek the blessings of the people?" he asked. Khandre urged the state government to convene a legislative session to discuss the injustice meted out to people by the centre and to the Kalyana Karnataka region. Developmental works came to a halt across the state and the lives of the people became miserable following the Covid-19 scourge, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-exhibiting-goonda-and-taliban-culture-khandre-1021447.html
19-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Technical issues keeping Karnataka caste census at bay: Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary||Karnataka Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary on Thursday said the state government had “an open mind” on making public findings of the contentious Social and Educational Survey, or the caste census.  “Only a small step is left, which is for the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes to submit the report to the government. The Commission has told us that there are some technical issues. We will discuss with the Commission on the status of the report and decide the next steps,” Poojary told reporters. The caste census was commissioned by the then Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, the first since 1931. Ahead of the 2018 Assembly elections, a part of the report was “leaked”. The alleged findings threatened to overthrow the traditional perception of the numerical strength of various castes, making the report a political hot potato.  Poojary specified that all files pertaining to the caste census were with the Commission chairperson K Jayaprakash Hegde. “About Rs 170 crore was spent on the survey during previous Commission chairperson H Kantharaju’s tenure. We hoped that the Siddaramaiah government would release the report, but it did not,” he said. “Once the Commission hands over the report to the government, it’s as good as the report being released.” Earlier in the day, the ‘Extremely Backward Classes Awareness Forum’ held a brainstorming session where they discussed the current 32% reservation for OBCs. The forum lamented that only dominant castes were availing the reservation benefits and that there was a need to reorganise the quota. But to do that, the findings of the caste census should be made public, they said and decided to mount pressure on the government.  The Forum’s honorary advisor CS Dwarakanath, honorary president ‘Mukhyamantri’ Chandru, president MC Venugopal, MLC PR Ramesh and former MLA NL Narendra Babu among others met Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai.  They urged Bommai not to include dominant castes under Category 2A of the OBC reservation in the state and have the caste census report tabled. Specifically, the Forum is against the numerically strong Panchamasali Lingayats demanding a shift from Category 3B (5% quota) to Category 2A (15% quota).  “Based on their caste and capability, Panchamasalis don’t fit the criteria. The criteria are that they shouldn’t own land, they should lack financial security and have socio-economic backwardness. But Panchamasalis have several ministers, they’ve had a chief minister, there are so many mutts... they are well represented,” Chandru said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/technical-issues-keeping-karnataka-caste-census-at-bay-minister-kota-srinivas-poojary-1021494.html
19-08-2021||Main Article||Extra-judicial killings and AFSPA||The horrific death of Mangboilal Lhouvum on June 4, 2021, in Manipur, reportedly killed by an army man, has rightly raised widespread concern and anger. The enormity of Lhouvum’s death demands justice. This, and similar earlier crimes of murder, custodial killing, rape, etc., allegedly by army or police forces, must be urgently and transparently addressed, to bring the perpetrators to justice. Since there is once again an outcry against the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958 (AFSPA), it is pertinent to re-visit the reasons and circumstances under which governments invoke and use AFSPA. AFSPA Article 246 in the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution provides for use of the Armed Forces (“military”, hereafter) in “aid of the civil power”. Parliament enacted AFSPA to confer special powers upon a state or central government to notify the whole or some part of a state as a “disturbed area [which is] in such a disturbed or dangerous condition that the use of armed forces in aid of the civil power is necessary.” The introduction of AFSPA indicates that governments need the military “...because state administration became incapable to maintain its internal disturbance” (sic, the word used should be “security”). Governments may thus deploy the military for internal security (IS) duties. A soldier serves under military law (Army Act, 1950), and AFSPA is the law which authorises him to act in the police role since “... the state administration [politician- bureaucrat-police] became incapable to maintain its internal security”. Police do not need protection under AFSPA. This is borne out in a 2020 Manipur State Home Department notification, which reads: “In exercise of the power conferred by Section 3 of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA), 1958, as amended [sic] time to time, the Governor of Manipur hereby accords ex-post facto approval declared [sic] the entire state excluding Imphal Municipal areas with retrospective effect from December 1...[because]...the Governor felt that the state is still in the grip of violence perpetrated by extremist or insurgent groups and it is necessary that armed forces remain deployed to help the civil administration ensure order and peace”. Citizens are denied civil liberties, political and civic participation, and the right to life with dignity when the central or state administrations impose AFSPA continuously over decades, as in several north-east states and J&K. It is an implicit admission of governments’ political-administrative incompetence and failure, which necessitates invoking AFSPA continuously. Governance by force is unacceptable in a democracy. In order to break this continuity, the Supreme Court directed that the declaration of “disturbed area” to invoke AFSPA must be reviewed every six months. However, state administrations continue to routinely issue fresh notifications every six months and, as in Manipur, even ex-post facto approval with retrospective effect. By continuously maintaining entire states as “disturbed area” under AFSPA, six months at a time, they are in contempt of the Supreme Court. Successive civil administrations have proven to be “incapable to maintain internal security”, and therefore use AFSPA to deploy the military for internal security in aid of the civil power. It is nobody’s argument that governance is easy. However, social disturbance and unrest, including extremism and insurgency, are the cumulative outcome of inappropriate development and socio-economic policies/programmes/projects/ proposals that have increased inequality or caused loss of habitat or livelihood to large sections of society. This combination of mal-governance and mis-governance by successive governments over decades has necessitated the use of military in aid of civil power for internal security (IS), natural disasters, accidents and even rescuing children fallen into borewells. Dissonance, dissent and protests are realities in any democratic society. When these are not addressed or resolved using the democratic political tools of honest and transparent dialogue, debate and negotiation, and situations get out of hand, governments resort to using the coercive tools of state police and central armed police forces (CAPF) to maintain law and order. When law and order is not restored despite the use of state police and CAPF, or because of their misuse, it can only be restored by the deployment of the military in aid of the civil power using AFSPA. The military on IS duties is to civil society what an ICU is to a critically ill person. A patient surviving in an ICU for many years is effectively dead. The patient needs treatment for the disease and right nutrition to regain normal health. Likewise, the military remaining deployed on IS duties continuously over decades makes civic and political freedoms effectively dead, without assuring peace, order or security in society. India's “disturbed areas” need the “treatment” of honest political effort through transparent dialogue and engagement with people, and the “nutrition” of good governance for their growth. Strangely, those who agitate seeking repeal of AFSPA never ask why successive central and state governments have continuously been incapable of dealing with a “disturbed or dangerous condition”. Unfathomably, the SC has not questioned the decades-long continuous deployment of the military for internal security, and successive parliaments and parliamentary standing committees have not found such abuse of AFSPA detrimental to democracy. No government, howsoever liberal, will repeal AFSPA and forego the option to use the military “in aid of the civil power”, but perhaps they would be open to amending it. An amendment to Section 3 to limit use of AFSPA to an aggregate of (say) 90 days in a calendar year, will allow governments to retain the coercive option of military deployment to maintain law and order, and prevent governments from imposing AFSPA continuously. Limiting AFSPA use will help civil societies to recover, and simultaneously release troops deployed on IS duties for their primary role of defending our borders. Soldiers who commit crimes while under AFSPA must be punished, but the government must be called to account for invoking AFSPA, not the military. Soldiers under AFSPA and police personnel accused of criminal acts must be brought to justice transparently and without delay. Then the soul of Mangboilal Lhouvum — and others before him allegedly killed, tortured or raped by members of security forces — will rest in peace. (The writer retired as Additional DG in charge of Discipline & Vigilance, Army Headquarters)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/extra-judicial-killings-and-afspa-1021304.html
19-08-2021||National||India, China, Russia, other BRICS nations agree to set up satellite constellation||India has clinched a deal with China, Russia, Brazil and South Africa to set up a constellation of remote sensing satellites launched and operated by the space agencies of the five nations to share data among themselves for management of disasters and natural resources K Sivan, the chairman of the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO), and the heads of the space agencies of the four other nations signed the Agreement on the BRICS Remote Sensing Satellite Constellation during a virtual meeting on Wednesday. The agreement was signed just weeks ahead of the virtual summit of the BRICS, a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. “The agreement will help accelerate cooperation between the BRICS countries in the peaceful use of outer space with use of data and applications across an array of sectors such as research on global climate change, agriculture and food security, disaster management and water resource management, amongst others,” said Sanjay Bhattacharya, Secretary at the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and India’s Sherpa for the BRICS summit, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi would host next month. The agreement will enable setting up a network of remote sensing satellites and the ground stations launched and operated by the space agencies of the five nations. The participating satellites include China-Brazil Earth Resources Satellite-4 (CBERS-4) system, Kanopus-V Earth observation satellites of Russia, ResourceSat-2 Remote Sensing satellite of India. China’s GaoFen-1 (GF-1) series of earth observation satellites will also participate in the network. The participating ground stations will include Cuiaba in Brazil, Shadnagar–Hyderabad in India, Sany in China, Hartebeesthoek in South Africa and Moscow in Russia. The BRICS summit next month will be the first multilateral conclave to be hosted by Modi and attended by Chinese President Xi Jinping after the relations between New Delhi and Beijing hit a new low over the military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-russia-other-brics-nations-agree-to-set-up-satellite-constellation-1021209.html
19-08-2021||National||Diesel prices slashed for second straight day: Check rates||Petrol prices remained unchanged while the price of diesel was slashed for a second straight day by 20 paise in Delhi and Mumbai, according to the latest notification by Oil Marketing Companies (OMCs). In Delhi, a litre of petrol still costs 101.84, whereas diesel is now cheaper by 20 paise at Rs 89.47 per litre. A litre of petrol in Mumbai remains unchanged at Rs 107.83 while the rate of diesel has been slashed by 20 paise to Rs 92.27. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/diesel-prices-slashed-for-second-straight-day-check-rates-1021247.html
19-08-2021||National||Reduced mortality among Delta-infected vaccinated people: ICMR study||The Delta variant has the potential to infect both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals, but it reduces mortality among the former group, an ICMR study conducted in Chennai has found. A study by the ICMR on covid-infected individuals in Chennai indicated that the prevalence of B.1.617.2 (Delta variant) "was not different between the vaccinated and unvaccinated groups." B.1.617.2, or the Delta variant of covid causing Sars Cov2 was the dominant circulating strain and one of the primary drivers for the country's covid second wave, the study, approved by the ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, said. Those involved in the study include researchers from the National Institute of Epidemiology, here. Covid-infected persons, both vaccinated and unvaccinated ones, who visited the Greater Chennai Corporation's triage centers between May 3 and 7, were enrolled in the study. "The study findings indicate that the prevalence of B.1.617.2 was not different between the vaccinated and unvaccinated groups. Delta variant was the dominant circulating strain and one of the primary drivers for the second wave of SARS-CoV-2 in India." "Studies have documented reduction in neutralization titres among Covishield and Covaxin recipients after infection with delta variant. This might be the reason for the breakthrough infections observed in the fully vaccinated individuals," it said. However, the proportion of patients progressing to severe illness and mortality was lower in the vaccinated groups, it added. While B.1.617.2 has the potential to infect both the vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals, however, the progression of illness seems to be prevented by vaccination. "Therefore, non-pharmaceutical interventions must continue to slow down the transmission. Additionally, the pace and scale of vaccination has to be increased to mitigate the further waves of the pandemic," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reduced-mortality-among-delta-infected-vaccinated-people-icmr-study-1021249.html
19-08-2021||National||India records 36,401 new Covid-19 cases, 530 deaths||India has added 36,401 new Covid-19 infections, taking the total tally of cases to 3,23,22,258, while the death toll has climbed to 4,33,049 with 530 more fatalities, according to Union health ministry data updated on Thursday. The national recovery rate has improved to 97.52 per cent, the highest since March last year, according to the data updated at 8 am. The ministry said that active cases have declined to 3,64,129, the lowest in 149 days, and comprise 1.13 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year.  A reduction of 3,286 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 18,73,757 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 50,03,00,840. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 1.94 per cent and it has been less than three per cent for the last 24 days, it said. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 1.95 per cent and it has been below three per cent for the last 55 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 3,15,25,080, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated.  Cumulatively, 56.64 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive so far. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 530 fresh fatalities include 179 from Kerala and 158 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,33,049 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,35,413 from Maharashtra, 37,061 from Karnataka, 34,610 from Tamil Nadu, 25,077 from Delhi, 22,787 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,049 from Kerala and 18,325 from West Bengal. The ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-36401-new-covid-19-cases-530-deaths-1021253.html
19-08-2021||National||Over 50 crore Covid-19 samples tested in India: ICMR||India on Thursday achieved a milestone of 50 crore Covid-19 testing but experts remain doubtful on whether the epidemic diagnosis is being carried out at the right places to pick up the missing patients. “With an average daily testing of more than 17 lakhs in August, India has tested 50 crore samples across the country till date. The last ten crore tests were conducted in 55 days,” the Indian Council of Medical Research said in a statement. This, however, is not the fastest ten crore in terms of the tests. That happened over 46 days in May and June when India was battling a ferocious second wave of the Covid-19 epidemic. Even then a question that many experts had was whether the tests were conducted at appropriate sites. “More than the number of tests, what is more important is where you actually do these tests. Given the very low reported test positivity rate at the national level, the current level of testing is sufficient if it is being done at places where it really matters,” Rijo John, a visiting professor at the Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode who was tracking the Covid-19 testing data told DH. In the middle of the second wave in May, the Centre announced setting up a target of 25 lakh daily tests in May, which was to augment further to 45 lakh in June as there was a threat of the epidemic hitting the countryside hard. But none of the targets were achieved and the peak that the government could reach was 21.81 lakh between May 21-27.  “Those higher targets of tests would have been ideally done when we were at the peak of the pandemic so that we did not miss many cases. However, having passed the peak, the current level of testing at the national level is sufficient but it is indeed low in states like Kerala & some northeastern states where the TRP continues to be high. It is important that states allocate these tests in areas where more cases are being reported,” said John. The total number of diagnostic laboratories stands at 2,876 of which dedicated government laboratories are 1,322 and private laboratories are 1,554.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-50-crore-covid-19-samples-tested-in-india-icmr-1021302.html
19-08-2021||National||State agencies now require to send traffic violation notice within 15 days||States enforcement agencies will have to send a traffic violation notice to the offender within fifteen days of the offence committed, and the electronic record should be stored till the disposal of challan, according to new rules notified by the transport ministry. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued a notification, under the amended Motor Vehicle Act, wherein electronic enforcement devices will be used for issuing challan. "The notice of offence shall be sent within fifteen days of the occurrence of the offence and the electronic record collected by way of electronic monitoring should be stored till the disposal of challan," the ministry said in a series of tweets. According to the new rules, the electronic enforcement devices include speed camera, closed-circuit television camera, speed gun, body wearable camera, dashboard camera, Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR), weigh-in machine (WIM) and any such other technology specified by the state government. "State governments shall ensure that such devices are placed at high-risk / high-density corridors on National Highways, State Highways, and at critical junctions, at least in major cities with more than 1 million population, including 132 cities mentioned in the notification," the ministry said. It also said the electronic enforcement device should be placed in such a manner so as not to cause any obstruction, line-of-sight issues or interruption in traffic flow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-agencies-now-require-to-send-traffic-violation-notice-within-15-days-1021305.html
19-08-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar and UK counterpart Raab agree to work together on Afghanistan||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his British counterpart Dominic Raab have exchanged views on the developments in Afghanistan and agreed to work together to tackle shared security threats, support refugees and ease the humanitarian plight of ordinary Afghans. Jaishankar arrived in New York on Monday to chair meetings in the UN Security Council on technology and peacekeeping and on counter-terrorism under India’s current presidency of the Council. During his visit, he held bilateral meetings and discussions with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and other foreign ministers, focusing on the situation in Afghanistan. "Welcome the conversation today with UK Foreign Secretary @DominicRaab. Exchanged views on the Afghanistan developments and the immediate challenges," Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with his British counterpart on Wednesday. Raab said he spoke to Jaishankar about the situation in Afghanistan. "The UK & India will work together to tackle shared security threats, support refugees, and ease the humanitarian plight of ordinary Afghans," Raab tweeted. On Wednesday, after chairing the UNSC open debate on peacekeeping, Jaishankar, speaking to reporters at the Security Council stakeout said India is closely following the developments in Afghanistan. “At the moment we are, like everybody else, very carefully following developments in Afghanistan. I think our focus is on ensuring the security in Afghanistan and the safe return of Indian nationals who are there,” Jaishankar said. "That is really what has been very much the focus of my own engagements here, talking to the UN Secretary-General and other colleagues who are here as well as the US Secretary of State.” India has said that the main challenge for travel to and from Afghanistan is the operational status of Kabul airport. "The Government of India is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals and will institute flight arrangements once Kabul airport is open for commercial operations," the Ministry of External Affairs said in New Delhi on Tuesday. Jaishankar also discussed the "latest developments” in Afghanistan with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and “underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul. India on Tuesday rushed back home its ambassador Rudrendra Tandon and staff from the embassy in Kabul in a military transport aircraft following escalating tension, fear and uncertainty gripping the Afghan capital after the Taliban insurgents seized the Afghan capital on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-and-uk-counterpart-raab-agree-to-work-together-on-afghanistan-1021322.html
19-08-2021||National||'No fear or anxiety': Sikhs, Hindus in Afghanistan assured of safety by Taliban||Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan have been assured of safety by the Taliban. There is no "fear or anxiety", according to a video statement in a news report shared by a Taliban leader on Twitter.  In the video by Qatar-based Al Jazeera, the insurgent group leaders are seen visiting a gurudwara in Kabul and meeting with members of the Sikh community who have taken refuge in the temple. After two decades, on Sunday, the Taliban took over Kabul as President Asraf Ghani fled the country.  Akali Dal's Manjinder Singh Sirsa, the President of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee, shared the video and confirmed that the Taliban has assured Sikhs in the country of safety.   "I am in constant touch with the President [of] Gurdwara Committee Kabul. S. Gurnam Singh & Sangat taking refuge in Gurdwara Karte Parwan Sahib in Kabul. Even today, Taliban leaders came to Gurdwara Sahib and met the Hindus and Sikhs and assured them of their safety," Sirsa wrote.  Taliban's M Naeem, a spokesperson for the Political Office of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, wrote on Twitter that heads of temples told them: "We are safe and secure and we do not feel any fear or anxiety."  The swift takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban has created a humanitarian crisis as Afghans and foreign nationals rushed to the Kabul airport, desperately seeking an exit from the country under the new regime.  External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said that the government is in touch with Sikh and Hindu leaders in the country and that their welfare will get priority. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had sought evacuation of around 200 Sikhs in the gurudwara and offered his government's help to the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-fear-or-anxiety-sikhs-hindus-in-afghanistan-assured-of-safety-by-taliban-1021326.html
19-08-2021||National||Police used force during lockdown but were helpful too: Survey||More than half of the respondents of a survey on Covid-19 lockdown reported witnessing police using force to enforce the restrictions even as a large number also acknowledged that police were largely helpful during the period. The use of force (very often or sometimes) by the police was reported the most by people in Karnataka (88%) followed by Bihar (83%) while Kerala was at the bottom with just 33% of people reporting such incidents. The national average in the survey was 58%. The lockdown period amplified the "stark class divide and other social cleavages" of the Indian society as the poor suffered the worst and the study also showed that the poor, Dalits and Muslims faced more trouble from police than any other sections of the society. The 'Status of Policing in India 2020-21: Policing in the Covid-19 Pandemic' report, however, claimed that 56% witnessed the police providing help to the civilians during the lockdown. Overall, 86% rated the behaviour of the police during the lockdown positively. It also said more than half of those surveyed for the study were fearful of the police imposing fines, beating them, taking them for Covid-19 testing or detaining and arresting them. The study conducted by Common Cause in association with CSDS, Lokniti, Tata Trusts and Lal Family Foundation said an index of 'fear of police' was created using the responses of people and it found that 55% were fearful of the police imposing fines, beating them, taking them for Covid-19 testing or detaining and arresting them. The findings were based on a survey of 3,607 people, including 1,200 police personnel, in 19 cities in ten states, including Karnataka and Delhi. In Karnataka, the survey was conducted in Bengaluru and Bellary. "The poor people and those belonging to lower class were more fearful of the police during the lockdown, in particular, fearful of physical violence by the police. They were also more likely to see the police's instructions during this period as threatening. The police personnel, on the other hand, were also more likely to report the poor localities as being least compliant with the lockdown rules," the study said.  "Nearly one out of two police personnel (49%) reported having frequently used force against migrant workers travelling back home. Further, one in three police personnel (33%) frequently encountered situations where the migrants were trying to enter shelters but police used force to prevent them from doing so," it said. The survey also said people in most states felt that the police presence in their locality increased during the lockdown -- nine out of ten respondents from Karnataka felt so, followed by Andhra Pradesh (90%) and Maharashtra (87%). Police in Andhra Pradesh (61%), followed by Karnataka (49%), reported the greatest number of incidents when they or their team had to detain or arrest people, either often or a few times. The study also said that the poor and the lower class were more compelled to go to work during the lockdown compared to other classes owing to financial difficulties while fearful of police action. It showed that the economic constraints of the lockdown were "predictably the harshest on the poorest classes of the society -- those employed in daily wage or casual/informal work. Noting that it was "thus unsurprising that the poorest were also the ones most likely to be compelled to go to work during the lockdown", the survey showed that a significant majority of the poorest respondents reported having to go to work (58%) while only 28% among the rich had such compulsions. Among the lower class, 54% were compelled to work while it was 50% among the middle-class. "The sudden announcement of the nation-wide lockdown not only brought out the stark class divide and other social cleavages of the Indian society but also exacerbated already existing inequalities. Containing the virus was of paramount importance but the absence of information and lack of preparation for a nationwide shut-down merely stoked panic," the study said. The actions of Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) also came up for scrutiny -- 47% felt it acted within its limits while 20% responded that they tried to needlessly police the residents while the rest did not respond. Among the respondents, those from Karnataka were most critical of the RWA role with 46% disapproving of the way RWAs conducted themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-used-force-during-lockdown-but-were-helpful-too-survey-1021329.html
19-08-2021||National||Afghanistan crisis: EAM Jaishankar to return from UN on August 20||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will return to India on Friday and not travel onwards to Mexico, Panama and Guyana in view of the developments in Afghanistan, sources said. India on Tuesday rushed back home its ambassador Rudrendra Tandon and staff from the embassy in Kabul in a military transport aircraft following escalating tension, fear and uncertainty gripping the Afghan capital after the Taliban insurgents seized the Afghan capital on Sunday. Jaishankar arrived here on Monday to chair meetings in the UN Security Council on technology and peacekeeping and on counter-terrorism under India’s current presidency of the Council. On Thursday, before he departs for India, he will chair the high-level event on counter-terrorism during which the Council will discuss the Secretary General’s six-monthly report on the threat posed by ISIL/Da'esh, under the agenda item ‘Threats to International Peace and Security caused by Terrorist Acts’. Sources said that given the developments relating to Afghanistan, Jaishankar will return to India sooner and not travel to Mexico, Panama and Guyana. The Ministry of External Affairs has not officially announced the minister's visits to the three countries. During his visit, he held bilateral meetings and discussions with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and other foreign ministers, with particular focus on the situation in Afghanistan. On Wednesday, after chairing the UNSC open debate on peacekeeping, Jaishankar, speaking to reporters at the Security Council stakeout said India is closely following the developments in Afghanistan. “At the moment we are, like everybody else, very carefully following developments in Afghanistan. I think our focus is on ensuring the security in Afghanistan and the safe return of Indian nationals who are there,” Jaishankar said in response to a question. "That is really what has been very much the focus of my own engagements here, talking to the UN Secretary-General and other colleagues who are here as well as the US Secretary of State.” In response to another question on India's investments in Afghanistan over the last two decades and whether New Delhi will be engaged in Afghanistan that now has a Taliban government, he said “you use the word investment. I mean, for us, it reflected what was a historical relationship with the Afghan people. “I think that relationship with the Afghan people obviously continues and that will guide our approach to Afghanistan in the coming days. At this time, as I said, these are early days. Our focus right now is on ensuring the safety and security of Indian nationals who are there.” In response to a question on whether India has had any communication with the Taliban in recent days, he said “at this point of time, we are looking at what is the evolving situation in Kabul. Obviously, the Taliban and its representatives have come to Kabul so I think we need to take it on from there.” Jaishankar also discussed the "latest developments” in Afghanistan with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and “underlined the urgency of restoring airport operations in Kabul. Deeply appreciate the American efforts underway in this regard.” Following his meeting with Guterres in the UN headquarters Tuesday, Jaishankar had tweeted “Good to meet UN Secretary-General @antonioguterres. Our discussions focused on Afghanistan, following upon the Security Council meeting yesterday.” He also met Estonia’s Minister of Foreign Affairs Eva-Maria Liimets and as “UNSC members, discussed our working together on maritime and cyber security and other global issues. Exchanged views on the developments in Afghanistan. Look forward to her presence at the Council meeting tomorrow.” State Department spokesperson Ned Price said that Blinken spoke with Jaishankar "about Afghanistan and the developing situation there.” Jaishankar said he also discussed the evolving situation in Afghanistan with French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs Jean-Yves Le Drian. “We will continue to coordinate in the UN Security Council. Thank him for evacuating 21 Indian nationals from Kabul to Paris,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghanistan-crisis-eam-jaishankar-to-return-from-un-on-august-20-1021339.html
19-08-2021||National||Rajnath Singh defends farm laws but says ready for talks if any clause against farmers' interest||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday defended the Centre’s three contentious farm laws but said his government is ready to talk to farmers if they feel there is any clause in the legislations against their interests. Stressing that there is a need to fully understand the laws, Singh said an "atmosphere of opposition" is being created and farmers should understand this. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders since late November in protest against the laws, demanding their withdrawal. Farmer groups have alleged that the laws will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. Addressing the gathering for a state-level Annapurna programme under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana through online mode on Thursday, Singh lauded the Narendra Modi government for taking steps for the welfare of farmers. "Our government brought three farm laws. But I think there is a need to fully understand these laws," said Singh. "Lekin ek virodh ka mahoul bhi paida kiya ja raha hai (But an atmosphere of opposition is being created). I feel that farmer brothers should understand this," he said. "Confusion" over the minimum support price was also spread, he asserted. "Farmers have started learning the truth and they have started doing calculations of their profit and loss," Rajnath claimed while pointing to benefits of the laws. "I have studied the farm legislations fully and I can say with confidence that there is no clause as per my information which is against the interest of our farmer brothers," he said. "If anybody feels there is any such clause in these laws which can affect the interest of farmers, I want to say with full confidence that we are ready to sit and hold talks with farmer brothers," the defence minister added. Listing out the Modi government's decisions taken for farmers' welfare, he said the MSP has been raised by one-and-half times and small farmers have been provided with cheaper loans. A sum of over Rs 1.50 lakh crore has been credited to the bank accounts of farmers, he said, adding that it had never happened in the history of the country. "All these steps were taken to empower and strengthen our farmers," he said. He also talked about the Prime Minister Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana, saying Rs 6,000 directly goes into the account of farmers. "There is no possibility of corruption. The whole money reaches your accounts," he stressed while reminding that once former PM Rajiv Gandhi had said that only 16 out of 100 paise reaches people. "We today send 100 paise and the whole amount reaches your accounts. There is no possibility of corruption. What will be more sensitivity towards farmers than this," he asked. Singh said the Centre and state governments complement each other in a cooperative federal structure. "The Centre may frame many plans but until it gets support from the state government, their successful implementation is not possible. Similarly, the state government may make many plans, if the Centre does not support them, their implementation also becomes difficult," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-defends-farm-laws-but-says-ready-for-talks-if-any-clause-against-farmers-interest-1021347.html
19-08-2021||National||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw embarks on BJP's 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in Odisha||Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday embarked on the BJP's 'Jan Ashirwad Jatra’ in Odisha and described the state as his “karma bhoomi”. The bureaucrat-turned-politician received a rousing welcome by the saffron party workers on his arrival at the Biju Patnaik International Airport here. Accompanied by Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Vaishnaw launched the four-day programme in the state to aware people of the benefits of various central schemes. "Odisha is always my karma bhoomi," Vaishnaw, the former IAS officer of the 1994-batch, said. He was district magistrate and collector of Cuttack and Balasore in the 1990s and later became the private secretary to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Vaishnaw said he was overwhelmed by the reception he received from the BJP activists on his maiden visit to the state after becoming a central minister. Pradhan and Vaishnaw went to Lord Jagannath temple in Puri and were welcomed by the people on their way to the pilgrim town from here. Taking to Twitter, the railway minister posted a photo of him with an elderly person who greeted him on his way to Puri. He stopped his vehicle at several places and interacted with the people standing on both sides of the road. Vaishnaw, who hails from Rajasthan, was elected to Rajya Sabha in 2019 with the support of the ruling BJD in Odisha and became the Union minister last month. The minister tried to prove that he belongs to Odisha as he kept on updating about his visit to the state on his official Twitter handle and wrote all the messages on the microblogging site in Odia. BJP state general secretary Golak Mohapatra said Vaishnaw will travel to Rayagada in a train on Thursday evening and visit Koraput the next day for the party's programme. He is scheduled to go to Nabarangpur on Saturday and to Kalahandi and Bolangir on August 22. Pradhan will also attend various programmes in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Khurda from August 19 to 22, Mohapatra said. The party sources said the two Union ministers will travel 419 km in the four days and hold programmes at 115 places in six parliamentary constituencies spread over seven districts. Another minister from Odisha, Biswaswar Tudu, however, could not participate in the party's programme as he is not well due to post-Covid complications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railway-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-embarks-on-bjps-jan-ashirwad-yatra-in-odisha-1021348.html
19-08-2021||National||Focus on kids as states prepare for third Covid wave||Several states are building facilities with more paediatric beds, plus oxygen, due to concern that children returning to school without being vaccinated will be among the most vulnerable during a third wave of coronavirus infections. Health administrators have taken heed of trends in the United States, where a record number of children have been hospitalised as the coronavirus Delta variant, first found in India, has surged through unvaccinated populations. During a second wave of infections in India that peaked in April and May, hundreds of thousands of people died for want of oxygen and medical facilities, and now there are concerns that another third wave will gather during the winter months. "We don't know how the virus will behave, but we cannot afford to be unprepared this time around," Suhas Prabhu, who heads the Paediatric Task Force in the big western state of Maharashtra, said. "No mother should have to run around looking for a hospital bed when her child is sick." The Maharashtra government has stockpiled medicines, and built facilities for additional pediatric beds and oxygen provisions in new centres in Mumbai and Aurangabad. Built on empty stretches of land or in re-purposed stadiums, the Mumbai facilities have a total of 1,500 pediatric beds, most of them with oxygen. "We can upgrade this capacity to double if needed," Suresh Kakani, a senior official with Mumbai's civic body said. In neighbouring Gujarat, authorities have set up 15,000 pediatric oxygen beds, health commissioner Jai Prakash Shivahare said. India provides vaccines to people above the age 18. Most vaccines administered in India are made by AstraZeneca Plc , while shots produced by local manufacturer Bharat Biotech are also being used. Another local firm Zydus Cadilla and Bharat Biotech are separately testing vaccines for children but the results are not expected until the year end. Meantime, schools in at least 11 of India's 28 states have opened after more than a year of closures, raising worries these could become breeding grounds for transmission of the virus. As of March 2021, less than 1 pct of India's coronavirus deaths were in the under 15 age group, according to the health ministry, and officials say the severity of the disease in this age group has been minimal so far. Epidemiologists say there is no evidence to show that the Delta variant or any other mutations affect children more than other parts of the population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-on-kids-as-states-prepare-for-third-covid-wave-1021364.html
19-08-2021||National||28 youths from Uttar Pradesh stuck in Afghanistan||At least 28 youths from different districts in the eastern Uttar Pradesh region were stuck in Afghanistan, where the Taliban have captured power. According to the reports, youths, who hailed from Azamgarh, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Ballia, Mau and some other districts, were locked in a steel factory on Bagram Road near Kabul. ''The youths have been locked inside a room in the factory...they are not being allowed to leave...their passports are also with the owner of the company,'' said the father of a youth, who was a resident of Azamgarh district. He said that his son had spoken to him soon after the Taliban had stormed into Kabul, the capital of  Afghanistan, and told him that the situation was tense and that the owner of the company had assured them that they would be allowed to leave once the situation improved. The brother of one Ranjit Maurya, who was also stuck inside the factory, said that attempts to speak to him proved futile. ''I had spoken to him a few days back....he was worried and wanted to return home,'' he said. He said that the trapped youths were unable to contact the Indian embassy in Kabul. According to the reports, all Indian embassy personnel have been evacuated from Kabul and brought back to the country.  The parents of the youths appealed to the government to bring them back. ''The government must bring all of them back,'' said Harkhu Chauhan, whose son was among the youths stranded in Afghanistan. Union Minister Ajai Kumar Mishra said on Thursday that the government would bring back all the Indians who were stuck in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/28-youths-from-uttar-pradesh-stuck-in-afghanistan-1021380.html
19-08-2021||National||India should be 'open-minded' about dealing with Taliban: Yashwant Sinha||Former external affairs minister Yashwant Sinha said India should be "open-minded" about dealing with the Taliban and suggested that it should open its embassy in Kabul and send back the ambassador. Noting that the people of Afghanistan have great love for India while Pakistan is not popular among them, Sinha told PTI in an interview that the Indian government should not conclude that the Taliban will place itself "in Pakistan's lap" as every country furthers its own interests. As a big country, India should approach the issues of the Taliban with a degree of confidence and should not indulge in a "widow's wail" as if Pakistan has taken over Afghanistan or has an advantage over it, he added. That the Taliban now controls most of Afghanistan is a reality, Sinha said, adding that India should adopt "wait and watch" mode and be in no hurry either to recognise or to dismiss its regime. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key Afghan towns and cities in the country following the withdrawal of the US forces from the country. Kabul also fell to the Taliban on Sunday after Afghan President Ashraf Ghani left the country for an unknown destination. "It appears on the face of it that the Taliban of 2021 is not the same Taliban of 2001. There appears to be some difference. They are making mature statements. That is something we have to take note of," Sinha said. "I am not saying that take their statements at face value but I will also suggest that they should not be dismissed off-hand because of their past behaviour. We have to look at present and future," he added. Sinha was the foreign minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government but became a critic of the Modi government and quit the BJP. He is currently vice president in the Trinamool Congress. He said India should have waited instead of immediately closing its embassy and evacuating its people after the extremist Islamist organisation captured Kabul. India on Tuesday rushed back home its ambassador Rudrendra Tandon and staff from the embassy in Kabul in a military transport aircraft following escalating tension, fear and uncertainty gripping the Afghan capital after the Taliban insurgents seized the Afghan capital on Sunday.  This policy needs to have a second look, Sinha said, noting that the Taliban is holding talks with former Afghanistan president Hamid Karzai, who took office after the US-led forces had toppled the previous Taliban regime after the 9/11 terror attack, and its former CEO Abdullah Abdullah.  It could not have been imagined earlier, Sinha said. He added, "India should immediately open its embassy in Kabul and send back the ambassador." "We must remember that the people of Afghanistan have great love for India. Pakistan is not popular with the people of Afghanistan, India is. That we must remember. Our development works have also been appreciated," he said. Organisations dubbed as terror groups have occupied the highest offices in the past and have changed, he noted, saying that India should wait to see how the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan pans out. To dismiss always is to turn your face from reality, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-be-open-minded-about-dealing-with-taliban-yashwant-sinha-1021385.html
19-08-2021||National||Taliban stops import, export with India: FIEO DG||After the Taliban took control over Afghanistan entirely, it has now stopped imports and exports with India, according to Dr Ajay Sahai, Director General (DG) of Federation of Indian Export Organisation (FIEO). In his conversation with ANI, Sahai informed that the Taliban has stopped the cargo movement through the Pakistan transit routes. Sahai also mentioned that India has healthy trade relations with Afghanistan. While India exports sugar, pharmaceuticals, apparel, tea, coffee, spices and transmission towers to Afghanistan, India imports dry fruits, gum, and onions from there.  "In fact, we are one of the largest partners of Afghanistan and our exports to Afghanistan are worth around $835 million for 2021. We imported goods worth around $510 Million. But besides the trade, we have a sizable investment in Afghanistan. We have invested around $3 billion in Afghanistan and there are 400-odd projects in Afghanistan some of which are currently going on," Sahai said He also said that the current situation can increase the price of dry fruits in India as it imports about 85 per cent of its dry fruits from Afghanistan. While the conflict in Afghanistan seems to be increasing, Sahai is hopeful that Afghanistan will resume its trade relations with India. "I am pretty sure over a period of time Afghanistan will also realise that economic development is the only way to move forward and they will continue with that kind of trade. I think the new regime will like to have political legitimacy and for that India's role will become important for them also," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-stops-import-export-with-india-fieo-dg-1021386.html
19-08-2021||National||SC allows mining baron Gali Janardhan Reddy to visit Ballari||The Supreme Court on Thursday allowed mining baron and former Karnataka Minister Gali Janardhan Reddy to visit and stay in his home town Ballari. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari modified the condition imposed by the top court in its Jan 20, 2015 bail order to allow Reddy to visit and stay in Ballari for eight weeks. The bench said in view of the facts and circumstances that the trial has not commenced and that the petitioner has not violated any of the bail conditions when he was earlier directed to visit his hometown Belllari earlier, we direct the condition to be modified. The top court also directed the trial court to make every endeavour to expedite the proceedings, saying these cases cannot be kept in hanging in fire and must be handled expeditiously. The court had in 2015 granted bail to Reddy in illegal mining case registered by the CBI on December 7, 2009. He was then ordered not to visit Ballari in Karnataka, and Ananthpuram and Cuddapah districts in Andhra Pradesh. In an application for modifying the conditions, Reddy, through senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Ranjit Kumar, contended that the trial in the case has yet not commenced and he should not made to suffer for it. His counsel submitted the CBI has not made any effort to expedite the trial and in case and certain stay orders were granted in applications by other co-accused, for which he cannot be held responsible. The CBI, for its part, vehemently opposed the plea, saying Reddy was an influential person and should not be allowed to visit Ballari as most of the witnesses in the case belonged to the place. Additional Solicitor General Madhvi Divan submitted that the petitioner has attempted to subvert the judicial process, including influencing of the judges so the bail condition ought not be modified. She also said 2015 bail order was consensual and the petitioner should not be allowed now to seek its modification. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-mining-baron-gali-janardhan-reddy-to-visit-ballari-1021390.html
19-08-2021||National||Over 3.86 crore people didn't get second dose of Covid vaccines within stipulated time: Govt||Over 3.86 crore people did not get their second dose of anti-Covid vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- within the stipulated period of time, the government has said in response to an RTI query. According to information on the CoWIN portal, as of Thursday afternoon 44,22,85,854 people have received their first dose, while 12,59,07,443 have also taken their second. Activist Raman Sharma had filed a query under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, seeking to know from the government the number of people who had received the first dose of vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin – but did not take the second within the stipulated time period. In response to the query, the Covid-19 Vaccine Administration Cell of the Union Health Ministry said it is recommended the second dose of Covishield be taken within 84-112 days after the first, while in case of Covaxin the gap should between 28-42 days. "The total number of vaccinees (beneficiaries) who got their first dose of Covishield Vaccine but did not get their second dose within stipulated period of time as prescribed by the Govt of India as per the Due Report of in Co-WIN portal is 3,40,72,993 (data as on 17th August 2021)," the response said. It further said the total number of beneficiaries who got their first dose of Covaxin Vaccine but did not get their second within the stipulated period of time as prescribed by the government as per the due report of in Co-WIN portal is 46,78,406 (data as on 17th August 2021). "It is recommended that vaccinees who got their first dose of vaccine get their second dose in the stipulated period. There is no recommendation for such vaccinees who got their first dose of Covid Vaccine but did not get the second dose within the stipulated period as prescribed by Government of India to get their first dose again," it said. In the Frequently Asked Questions sections on the website, the government recommends that "both doses of vaccine should be taken for realising the full benefit of vaccination". "Both doses must be of the same vaccine type," it says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-386-crore-people-didnt-get-second-dose-of-covid-vaccines-within-stipulated-time-govt-1021403.html
19-08-2021||National||Routine arrests cause incalculable harm to reputation: SC||The Supreme Court has said it is not mandatory to take the accused in custody at the time of filing a charge sheet, as an arrest, made in a routine manner, can cause incalculable harm to the reputation and self-esteem of a person. "If the investigating officer has no reason to believe that the accused will abscond or disobey summons and has, in fact, throughout cooperated with the investigation, we fail to appreciate why there should be a compulsion on the officer to arrest the accused," a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said. Dealing with Section 170 of the Criminal Procedure Code, the court said the word “custody” appearing there does not contemplate either police or judicial custody. But it merely connotes the presentation of the accused by the investigating officer before the court while filing the charge sheet, the bench added. The court expressed concern on trial courts insisting on the arrest of an accused as a pre-requisite formality to take the charge sheet on record in view of the provisions of Section 170 of the CrPC, saying such a course was misplaced and contrary to the very intent of the provision. "We may note that personal liberty is an important aspect of our constitutional mandate. The occasion to arrest an accused during investigation arises when custodial investigation becomes necessary or it is a heinous crime or where there is a possibility of influencing the witnesses or accused may abscond," the bench pointed out. The top court passed its order on an appeal filed by Siddharth against the arrest memo issued against him in an FIR lodged seven years ago in Uttar Pradesh. "Merely because an arrest can be made because it is lawful does not mandate that arrest must be made. A distinction must be made between the existence of the power to arrest and the justification for exercise of it," the bench said, citing upon a previous judgement in the case of Joginder Kumar Vs State of UP (1994). The bench said we can think of no reason why at this stage the appellant must be arrested before the charge sheet is taken on record as he has already joined the investigation and assured to appear before the trial court on summons. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/routine-arrests-cause-incalculable-harm-to-reputation-sc-1021443.html
19-08-2021||National||Took action on 31.5 mn pieces of content for hate speech in Q2: Facebook||Facebook has claimed that it took action against 31.5 million pieces of content for hate speech in the June 2021 quarter. "We removed 31.5 million pieces of hate speech content from Facebook, compared to 25.2 million in Q1 (March quarter), and 9.8 million from Instagram, up from 6.3 million in Q1...Prevalence of hate speech on Facebook continued to decrease for the third quarter in a row," Facebook Vice-President Integrity Guy Rosen said in a blog post. He also said hate speech content removal has increased over 15 times on Facebook and Instagram since Facebook first began reporting it. Rosen said in the second quarter, the prevalence of hate speech was 0.05% or 5 views per 10,000 views. This is down from 0.05-0.06% or 5 to 6 views per 10,000 views in the first quarter of the year. The statistics are part of Facebook's Community Standards Enforcement Report for the second quarter of 2021. The reduction was due to "continued improvement in our proactive detection". During the reported quarter, the company removed more than 20 million pieces of content from Facebook and Instagram globally for violating its policies on Covid-19-related misinformation. It removed over 3,000 accounts, pages, and groups for repeatedly violating its rules against spreading Covid-19 and vaccine misinformation. The social media platform also said it took action on 2.3 million content pieces on Facebook and 4,58,000 pieces on Instagram for child nudity and physical abuse content. (With inputs from PTI) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/took-action-on-315-mn-pieces-of-content-for-hate-speech-in-q2-facebook-1021444.html
19-08-2021||National||Court allows return of Nirav Modi's confiscated assets to Punjab National Bank||A special court has allowed "restoration" of properties worth Rs 440 crore of fugitive jeweller Nirav Modi, confiscated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), to the Punjab National Bank (PNB). Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi are accused of committing a Rs 14,000 crore scam by obtaining credit facilities fraudulently from the PNB, a public sector bank. The order was passed by V C Barde, special judge for Prevention of Money Laundering Act, last week. The detailed order became available on Thursday. The PNB in July 2021 had filed multiple applications seeking release of the properties mortgaged with the bank against the credit facilities extended to Nirav Modi's two firms, Firestar Diamond International Private Ltd (FDIPL) and Firestar International (FIL). The applications were filed by PNB as an individual claimant and also as lead bank of the PNB consortium and authorized representative of the UBI consortium. The court allowed two pleas seeking the release of properties of FIL worth Rs 108.3 crore and those of FDIPL worth Rs 331.6 crore. "The claimants' (banks) quantifiable loss has been recognised by the DRT (Debt Recovery Tribunal) who has passed judgments in their favour," the court noted. During its probe, the ED attached several properties owned by Nirav Modi though his family members and these companies. Several of the properties were confiscated after he was declared a "fugitive economic offender" in December 2019. The bank and lenders' consortium had objected to the confiscation, as the properties had been mortgaged with them when Modi and Choksi availed of Letters of Undertaking (LOUs). The court has now also directed the PNB to give an undertaking to return the properties or their value if directed in future. Nirav Modi and Choksi along with some bank officials are accused of cheating the Punjab National Bank of Rs 14,000 crore by obtaining LoUs fraudulently. LoUs are issued as a guarantee for the applicant to seek loans from overseas Indian banks. Nirav Modi is currently lodged in a UK jail and is fighting extradition to India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-allows-return-of-nirav-modis-confiscated-assets-to-punjab-national-bank-1021450.html
19-08-2021||National||India's national security challenges becoming complex: Rajnath Singh||India's national security challenges are becoming "complex" in view of rapidly changing geopolitical scenario globally and there is a need to create a capable and self-reliant defense industry besides a strong and modern military, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday. Singh's comments came amid growing concerns in India and elsewhere over the Taliban sweeping across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key Afghan towns and cities including Kabul following the withdrawal of the US forces. "Today, the security scenario in the whole world is changing very fast. Because of this, the challenges to our national security are increasing and becoming complex. There are constant changes in the global geopolitical situation," Singh said, without making specific references. He was speaking after launching the 'Defence India Startup Challenge  5.0 (DISC 5.0), an initiative under the Innovations for Defence Excellence (iDEX) that acts as an umbrella organisation to promote technology development for the defence sector. Singh said considering the fast-changing security challenges, India must focus on having a strong, capable, and 'self-reliant' defence industry to cater to the needs of the armed forces. "It is necessary that we not only create strong, modern and well-equipped forces, but also develop our defence industry, which is equally strong, capable, and most importantly, completely 'self-reliant'," the defence minister said. "There is neither a shortage of talent in our country, nor is there a lack of demand for talents. But in the absence of a common platform, the two could not match. 'iDEX' platform has been successful to a large extent in bridging this gap," he said. The DISC 5.0 focuses in areas such as artificial intelligence, non-lethal devices, 5G network, under-water domain awareness, Swarm drones and data capturing among others. The defence minister called upon the private sector to contribute in strengthening the defence manufacturing sector. "While assuring all possible cooperation from the government, I call upon the private sector to come forward and contribute in building a strong and self-reliant defence sector," he said. Sharing his insights on the broad contours of iDEX, the defence minister said that the initiative has succeeded in bridging the gap between talent and demand in the country. "iDEX provides a strong foundation of innovation, research and development to the industry. Initiatives like iDEX form a link between our youth, academia, research and development, start-ups and the armed forces," he added. In the last couple of years, the government has unveiled a series of reform measures and initiatives to make India a hub of defence manufacturing. Last August, Singh announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024. A second negative list, putting import restrictions on 108 military weapons and systems such as next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning systems, tank engines and radars, was issued recently. In May last year, the government announced increasing the FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent under the automatic route in the defence sector. The government has been focusing on reducing dependence on imported military platforms and has decided to support domestic defence manufacturing. The defence ministry has set a goal of a turnover of USD 25 billion (Rs 1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing by 2025 that included an export target of USD 5 billion (Rs 35,000 crore) worth of military hardware.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-national-security-challenges-becoming-complex-rajnath-singh-1021465.html
19-08-2021||National||Nothing on record to suggest Tharoor provoked wife to end life: Court||A Delhi court has said there was nothing on record to suggest that Congress MP Shashi Tharoor had "provoked, incited or induced his wife Sunanda Pushkar to commit suicide”. Special Judge Geetanjali Goel, while discharging Tharoor in the case, said the prosecution has not been able to point out even one instance where the accused had done something purposefully which facilitated the commission of the offence.  Releasing the 176-page order, the court said, “There is nothing to demonstrate any overt act on the part of the accused (Tharoor) and only on the ground that he continued the alleged affair with MT (a Pakistani journalist) (even if it is assumed) and exchanged messages with her, it cannot be presumed that he had abetted the commission of suicide by the deceased”.  The court said there is no material whatsoever against the accused much less any positive act to instigate or aid the deceased in committing the suicide, even if it is assumed that the death was a suicide.   "As such, it is not shown, even prima facie that the offence under Section 306 IPC is made out against the accused," the court said.  The court noted the deceased might have felt distressed or mentally disturbed with the alleged extra-marital relation of the accused but mental disturbance does not constitute the offence of abetment.   “No doubt a precious life was lost. But in the absence of specific allegations and sufficient material to make out the ingredients of the various offences and on the basis of which the court could, at this stage presume that the accused had committed the offence, the accused cannot be compelled to face the rigmaroles of a criminal trial," the judge said. The court had on Wednesday pronounced the order discharging Tharoor.  Pushkar was found dead on the evening of January 17, 2014, in a Delhi hotel. Initially, Delhi police investigated the case as a murder, with an FIR registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). However, it charged Tharoor under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 498A (cruelty by husband) of the IPC. In its detailed order, the court said even it cannot be said that a person subjecting a woman to cruelty is guilty of abetment unless something is brought on record. “Even for instigation, the intention to provoke, incite, urge or encourage doing of an act is an essential factor but the record does not bear out any such intention on the part of the accused,” the court said. The prosecution claimed that Tharoor had continued the affair with MT despite his assurance to stop it and this showed wilful misrepresentation and instigation by misrepresentation.  Rejecting the charge, the court again said, “There is nothing on record to show that the accused did some act in order to irritate or annoy the deceased until she reacted or strongly persuaded or advised the deceased to do some act with the intention to provoke, incite, urge or encourage the latter to commit suicide”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nothing-on-record-to-suggest-tharoor-provoked-wife-to-end-life-court-1021468.html
19-08-2021||National||India mum on Taliban, but warns world about its affiliate Haqqani Network||India on Thursday refrained from directly criticising the Taliban during a United Nations Security Council (UNSC) session, but conveyed concerns over heightened activities of its ally, Haqqani Network, which sent hundreds of gun-toting militants from Pakistan to Afghanistan over the past few weeks. New Delhi also tacitly took a dig at Imran Khan’s government in Islamabad, not only for its double-speak on terrorism, but also for providing sanctuaries to terrorists and extending “state hospitality” to people with “bloods of innocents on their hands”. It called upon the UNSC to avoid taking a “selective, tactical or complacent” view of the threat terrorism poses to international peace and security. China, however, took up the cudgels for its “iron brother” Pakistan and said that it was firmly opposed to “linking terrorism with certain countries”. With a large number of militants of the Haqqani Network deployed on the streets of Kabul and its leader, Anas Haqqani, representing the Taliban in negotiations for forming the next government in Afghanistan, New Delhi warned the world about the outlawed terrorist organization based in Pakistan. “Events unfolding in Afghanistan have naturally enhanced global concerns about their implications for both regional and international security,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said during a UNSC session on threats terrorism poses to international peace and security. “The heightened activities of the proscribed Haqqani Network justifies this growing anxiety.” The Haqqani Network is known for its close links with Pakistan’s military spy agency Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), which had in the past used the outfit to carry out attacks, not only on India’s diplomatic and consular missions in Afghanistan, but also on its citizens engaged in development projects funded by New Delhi in the conflict-ravaged country. Jaishankar expressed New Delhi’s concerns over increasing activities of the Haqqani Network, just a day after the outfit’s leader Anas Haqqani represented the Taliban in a meeting with former Afghan President Hamid Karzai and the chairman of Afghanistan’s High Council for National Reconciliation, Abdullah Abdullah, for discussion on formation of the next government in Kabul. President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul collapsed after the Taliban militants entered the city last Sunday, after taking over several provincial capitals across Afghanistan. Anas Haqqani is the son of the Haqqani Network’s founder Jalaluddin Haqqani and brother of its current leader Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is also one of the three deputy leaders of the Taliban, with the two others being Mullah Yaqoob, the son of Mullah Omar, and Mullah Baradar. The US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) had in 2014 handed over Anas Haqqani to the Afghan National Directorate of Security (NDS) after arresting him from Bahrain. He had been released in 2019 in exchange for the release of an American and an Australian professor from the captivity of the Taliban. The prisoner exchange had taken place when the US had been trying to restart the stalled negotiation with the Taliban in Doha. New Delhi over the past few months informally reached out to the Taliban, as it anticipated that the militant organization might take over Afghanistan after withdrawal of troops by the United States and Pakistan might try to use it to get a strategic edge over India in the region. The Government of India, however, remained averse to any engagement with the Taliban’s ally Haqqani Network, which was responsible for the deadly attacks on the Embassy of India in Kabul on July 7, 2008, and October 8, 2009. The 2008 attack killed four Indians – a diplomat, an Indian Army officer and two Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel – and 54 others. No Indian was killed in the 2009 attack, but 17 Afghans lost lives and 63 were injured. It is also suspected to have a role in the coordinated strikes in Kabul on February 26, 2010, killing nine Indians. The terrorist organisation is based at Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) in northern Pakistan and operates in southeastern Afghanistan. The organization and its leaders were sanctioned by Canada, the United Kingdom, the United States and the UNSC. Deposing before the American Senate’s Armed Services Committee in September 2011, Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, had said that the Haqqani Network had acted as “a veritable arm” of the ISI of Pakistan. “Whether it is in Afghanistan or against India, groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed continue to operate with both impunity and encouragement,” the External Affairs Minister said during the UNSC session. “We must never countenance sanctuaries for terrorists or overlook their raising of resources,” Jaishankar said at the UNSC session. “And when we see state hospitality being extended to those with innocents blood on their hands, we should never lack the courage to call out their double-speak. Let us always remember that what is true of Covid is even more true of terrorism: none of us are safe until all of us are safe.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-mum-on-taliban-but-warns-world-about-its-affiliate-haqqani-network-1021477.html
19-08-2021||National||Power ministry issues timelines for installing smart meters||The Ministry of Power on Thursday provided timelines for replacing existing electricity meters with smart meters with pre-payment feature in government offices, commercial establishments and industrial units, among others. According to a notification issued by the ministry on Thursday, all consumers (other than agricultural users) in areas with communication network shall be supplied electricity with smart meters working in pre-payment mode. All union territories, electrical divisions having more than 50 per cent consumers in urban areas with AT&C (aggregate technical and commercial) losses more than 15 per cent in 2019-20, other electrical divisions with AT&C losses more than 25 per cent in FY20, all government offices at block level and above, and all industrial and commercial consumers shall be metered with smart meters by December 2023. However, it provided that the State Electricity Regulatory Commissions may extend the period of implementation, after giving reasons, only twice but not more than six months at a time, for certain consumers or areas. It stated that all other areas shall be metered with smart meters with pre-payment mode by March 2025. In areas which do not have communication network, installation of pre-payment meters, conforming to relevant IS (information system), may be allowed by the respective State Electricity Regulatory Commission. All consumer connections having current carrying capacity beyond that specified in relevant IS, may be provided with smart meters having AMR (Automatic Meter Reading) facility, it added. All feeders and distribution transformers (DTs) shall be provided with meters having AMR facility or covered under AMI (Advanced Metering Infrastructure), as per the notification. All feeders shall be metered by December 2022. All DTs in electrical divisions having more than 50 per cent consumers in urban areas with AT&C losses more than 15 per cent in 2019-20, and in all other electrical divisions with AT&C losses more than 25 per cent in FY20, shall be metered by December 2023. All DTs in other areas shall be metered by March 2025. This notification shall be effective from the date of publishing in the Gazette of India (August 19, 2021), it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-ministry-issues-timelines-for-installing-smart-meters-1021479.html
19-08-2021||National||Is TMC trying to gauge whether Mamata will be accepted as Oppn alliance leader?||Even as Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo denied having any Prime Ministerial ambition, the effort by several leaders of her party in projecting her as a national leader capable of taking on Narendra Modi in the 2024 Lok Sabha election seems to be an attempt to gauge whether other opposition parties will accept her as the leader of the proposed anti-BJP alliance. Ever since her visit to Delhi where she held meetings with opposition party leaders, Mamata has been dodging questions about whether she will be the face of the proposed alliance against the BJP. Instead, she described herself as a “cadre, not a leader.” However, senior TMC leaders such as Transport Minister Firhad Hakim and Manas Ranjan Bhunia have tweeted slogans such as "Ab Ki Baar Didi Sarkar" and "Sachhe din." TMC sources said that the slogans are deliberately made to counter BJP’s "Achhe din" and "Ab Ki Baar Modi Sarkar" to remind the people of the "unfulfilled promises" made by the Prime Minister. The repeated reference to the "Bengal Model" is intended as a counter to the "Gujarat Model" touted by the BJP as a testimony of Modi’s success as former Chief Minister of Gujarat. They further revealed that seeing how she trumped the Modi-Shah duo in the West Bengal Assembly elections, the TMC is confident that she can lead the opposition alliance in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. "Mamata Banerjee is the only alternative to Narendra Modi. She is a seven-time MP, four-time Union Minister and a three-time Chief Minister,” said TMC State general secretary Kunal Ghosh. It remains to be seen whether the Congress will accept Mamata as the face of the proposed opposition alliance. Even though Mamata has cordial relations with Sonia Gandhi, the TMC seems to be not too keen on the prospect of Rahul Gandhi leading the alliance. "Mamata seems to be more comfortable with Sonia Gandhi than with Rahul Gandhi. Even though she met Sonia during her visit to Delhi, TMC not only skipped a protest demonstration called by Congress at the behest of Rahul but also sent a clear message to Congress that it has to treat them with respect," political observer and author Snigdhendu Bhattacharya told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-tmc-trying-to-gauge-whether-mamata-will-be-accepted-as-oppn-alliance-leader-1021488.html
19-08-2021||National||Builders only understand colour of money or jail term, says SC, holds firm guilty of contempt||“Builders only understand the colour of money or a jail term,” said the Supreme Court on Thursday as it held a real estate firm guilty of contempt for wilfully not complying with its order and imposed a fine of Rs 15 lakh on it. The top court directed that Rs 15 lakh be deposited by real estate firm Ireo Grace Realtech Pvt Ltd to National Legal Service Authority and Rs two lakh to the home buyers towards the cost of litigation, whose refund was not paid as directed by the top court. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah noted that on January 5 it has affirmed the last year verdict of National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) dated August 28 directing refund with 9 per cent interest. “We have directed you on January 5 to pay the refund amount within two months. Then you (builder) filed a plea seeking modification of the order, which we dismissed in March and directed you to pay the money within two months to the home buyers. Now, again the home buyers are before us with a contempt plea that you have not paid the money. We have to impose exemplary costs or have to send someone to jail. Builders only understand the colour of money or a jail term,” the bench said. The Counsel for the realty firm said that they have made RTGS payment of Rs 58.20 lakh today itself and ready with a demand draft of Rs 50 lakh more to be paid to the home buyers. The bench said, “you were supposed to make the payment in March but now in August you are saying that now you will do. You have wilfully not complied with our orders. We will not allow this to go lightly”. The counsel said she is apologising for the delay and inconvenience caused. However, the bench said, “We find the apology unacceptable. Every strategy was adopted by the builder to not comply with the order”. The top court said, “There is deliberate and clear breach of order of this court. Therefore the respondent (builder) is held guilty for contempt. There is no justification provided for delay in making payment. We direct that the entire amount payable to the petitioner (home buyer) be made during the business hours of the day”. It directed that the builder shall pay Rs two lakh to home buyer towards litigation cost and penalty of Rs 15 lakh payable to NALSA. One Shaheena Chadha and others have moved the consumer forum seeking refund of the amount paid to the builder firm on ground of delay in possession of their flat in group housing project known as “The Corridors” situated in Sector 67, Gurgaon of Haryana. According to the complainants against the total consideration of Rs. 2,02,71,390, they had paid Rs.62,31,906 to the builder and the agreement was executed on March 24, 2014. As per the agreement the possession of the flat was to be given within 42 months with a grace period of six months from the date of approval of the plan. They said that the allotment letter was issued on August 7, 2013 and the plan was approved by the competent authority on July 25, 2013 and therefore the possession was due in January, 2017. They had said that there was no demand from the builder for more payment, right from 2013, therefore no further amount was paid by the complainant. On August 28, 2020, the NCDRC directed the builder firm to refund an amount of Rs 62, 31, 906 to the home buyers along with interest at the rate of 9 per cent per annum from the date of respective deposits till actual payment. It directed the order be complied by the builder firm within a period of 60 days from the date of receipt of the order. The real estate firm challenged the order in the top court, which dismissed the plea and upheld the order of NCDRC on January 5 and directed for payment of the amount in two months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/builders-only-understand-colour-of-money-or-jail-term-says-sc-holds-firm-guilty-of-contempt-1021493.html
19-08-2021||National||Report about fake Covishield vaccine being probed: Mansukh Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday said the government has launched an inquiry into a report claiming that counterfeit versions of Covishield, India's primary anti-Covid-19 vaccine, had been seized. "It has been claimed that duplicate versions of Covishield vaccine were sold in the country. The Indian government is probing this claim, and will take action if it found any substance to the allegations," he told reporters in Rajkot. The report about counterfeit vaccine allegedly being seized quoted the World Health Organization. Mandaviya, who was recently elevated as health minister, also said that three more vaccines for adults would be available in India soon. "At present three vaccines are available in India - Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik. In coming days, three more vaccines would arrive, including one from Zydus Cadila. The other two will be from Genova and Biological Evans," he said. On the Centre's plan to tackle a possible third wave of the pandemic, he said it has already earmarked Rs 23,000 crore for the purpose. "We have planned to keep a buffer stock of medicines worth Rs 1 crore in each district along with one cryogenic tank for the supply of medical oxygen. We have also planned to deploy one ambulance at a block level. Hospitals have been instructed to reserve beds for Covid-19 patients and have separate beds for infected children," he said. Mandaviya took out 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' from Rajkot on Thursday and visited Virpur and Khodaldham temples on the first day of the tour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/report-about-fake-covishield-vaccine-being-probed-mansukh-mandaviya-1021498.html
19-08-2021||National||Centre recommends CBI probe into bus procurement by Delhi govt||The Centre has recommended a preliminary enquiry by the CBI into procurement of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi government, setting a new flashpoint with the AAP dispensation in the national capital. The recommendation for a CBI probe by the Ministry of Home Affairs came after the matter was referred to it by Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal. A three-member committee formed by the Lt Governor in June had found procedural “flaws” in the annual maintenance contract of the bus procurement by the Delhi Transport Corporation. In a statement, the Delhi government rejected the allegations and insisted that a committee to investigate the matter thoroughly, had given it a “clean chit”. The Delhi government also accused the Modi government of “harassing” it by using the CBI. “It is a politically motivated conspiracy against the Aam Aadmi Party. The BJP wants to prevent the people of Delhi from getting new buses,” the Delhi government said. Delhi BJP MLA Vijender Gupta, who had raised the matter in the Assembly, alleged there was a “scam” of thousands of crores of rupees in the bus procurement. “The CBI enquiry has begun in the DTC bus procurement scam. The Delhi transport minister should be immediately removed and arrested,” Gupta said in a video message. The DTC had last year floated two separate tenders for procurement of 1,000 low floor buses, and their AMC. The procurement contract was for Rs 850 crore, while the AMC for 12 year was worth Rs 3,412 crore. The bus procurement contract was awarded to JBM Auto and Tata Motors on a 70:30 ratio. JBM Auto was the lowest bidder in the AMC tender.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-recommends-cbi-probe-into-bus-procurement-by-delhi-govt-1021501.html
19-08-2021||National||As Uttar Pradesh polls loom, Centre moves to keep sugarcane growers happy||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections next year, the government has ensured record purchase and timely payment to sugarcane growers, who mostly hail from the region that has been the hotbed of the nine-month long farmers' agitation. A slew of measures taken by the government, such as export of surplus sugar, diverting the sweetener for production of ethanol have given sugar mills the elbow room to make timely payments to farmers. The farmers' agitation at the borders of the national capital, demanding roll back of the agri-marketing reforms, has been a major irritant for the Modi government, which is making extra efforts through record purchase of wheat and sugarcane to keep the ryots happy. “In the current sugar season 2020-21, sugarcane worth about Rs 90,872 crores has been purchased by sugar mills which is the record highest, against which about Rs 81,963 crores cane dues have been paid to farmers,” a Food Ministry spokesperson said. Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka are the top three sugarcane growing states. Acreage under sugarcane production in Uttar Pradesh is 23 lakh hectares as against 11 lakh hectares in Maharashtra. Sugar mills have also been asked to take advantage of firm global sugar prices and plan export of raw sugar in advance in the new season (October-September), the official said. This indicates that the government was unlikely to extend the export subsidy from the new season, as it would be easier for domestic mills to sell sugar abroad in view of high global prices. The ministry also asked mills to “sign forward contracts with the importers to take advantage of high international prices of sugar and global deficit.” Export of sugar and diversion to ethanol would help in improving the liquidity of mills, enabling them to make timely payment of cane dues of farmers. It will also stabilise ex-mill price of sugar in the domestic market, which in turn will further improve mills' revenue realisation and address the problem of surplus sugar, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-uttar-pradesh-polls-loom-centre-moves-to-keep-sugarcane-growers-happy-1021504.html
19-08-2021||National||DRDO develops advanced chaff technology to safeguard IAF's fighter jets||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed an advanced chaff technology to safeguard fighter aircraft against hostile radar threats and the Indian Air Force (IAF) has started the process of induction of the technology after completion of successful user trials. The DRDO’s Defence Laboratory in Jodhpur developed the advanced chaff material and chaff cartridge-118/I in collaboration with High Energy Materials Research Laboratory in Pune, meeting qualitative requirements of IAF, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of Defence. The chaff is a critical defence technology used to protect fighter aircraft from hostile radar threats. The chaff material deployed in the air acts as a decoy to deflect the enemy’s missiles for ensuring the safety of the fighter aircraft. The technology has been given to the industry for production in large quantities to meet the annual rolling requirement of the IAF, said the DRDO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-develops-advanced-chaff-technology-to-safeguard-iafs-fighter-jets-1021519.html
19-08-2021||National||P T Usha's coach O M Nambiar passes away||Dronacharya award recipient O M Nambiar, who was coach of legendary Indian athlete P T Usha, died on Thursday at the age of 89. Nambiar, who hails from Kannur, was also a recipient of the Padma Shri award. He earlier served in the Air Force and later became a coach. He shot to limelight with the achievements of Usha in 1980s. Usha always said that it was just because of Nambiar that she could make achievements in athletics. Nambiar also coached many other known athletes from Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/p-t-ushas-coach-o-m-nambiar-passes-away-1021526.html
19-08-2021||National Politics||BJP will win Mumbai civic polls, says Narayan Rane; pays tributes at Bal Thackeray's memorial||Union MSME Minister Narayan Rane paid homage to Shiv Sena supremo late Balasaheb Thackeray at his memorial here on Thursday and later claimed the BJP will win the forthcoming polls to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, currently ruled by the Sena. Earlier, Sena MP Vinayak Raut had opposed Rane's visit to the memorial at the Shivaji Park in Dadar area, saying he had no right to pay respects to Balasaheb Thackeray as the BJP leader's actions of "breaking the Shiv Sena" caused a lot of pain to the party founder. But, Sena's Dadar MLA Sada Sarvankar said he had no directives from the party leadership to prevent Rane from visiting the memorial, during the latter's 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in the city. Former Maharashtra chief minister Rane, who was earlier with the Sena before joining the Congress and subsequently switching over to the BJP in 2019, also visited Hindutva ideologue V D Savarkar;'s memorial located nearby. Later, talking to reporters, Rane said Balasaheb Thackeray may not be physically present, but he will bless him to do good work. "Through my ministry, I will work for generating employment opportunities. The BJP will win the BMC (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) polls and the job of ensuring it is with all the BJP leaders, including myself," he said. Referring to Vinayak Raut's comments that the Sena will prevent him from coming to the Shivaji Park, Rane said when it comes to paying tributes, people's sentiments must be respected. "Speak directly what you want to say. Don't ask your left or right to talk," he said in a veiled attack on state Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. "The BJP will win the BMC polls and end the sins committed over 32 years," asserted Rane, who was recently inducted into the Union cabinet. To a question on the CM's comments that political gatherings must be avoided in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Rane said, "Those who have come to power through backdoor shouldn't preach us. Seeing the response to the 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra', one must understand their days are numbered." The Shiv Sena fell out with the BJP after the state Assembly polls in 2019 over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post, and subsequently tied-up with the NCP and Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. Rane's tour is being seen a major show of strength by the BJP ahead of the crucial BMC polls, due early next year. His yatra was flagged off by Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Devendra Fadnavis from the city airport. Addressing party workers after reaching Kalanagar in suburban Bandra near the residence of CM Uddhav Thackeray, Rane sought the blessings of BJP workers for the civic polls. BJP's Trupti Sawant, who had defeated Rane when he was in the Congress and she was a member of the Shiv Sena, in the Bandra (East) Assembly byelection few years ago, was present at Kalanagar along with BJP leader Kripashankar Singh. Rane said he would use his MSME portfolio for the welfare of Marathi people and improvement of the country's GDP. "In two years, the present (MVA) government has taken the state backwards. People of Mumbai will teach you a lesson in the forthcoming BMC polls. You shouldn't speak things which you cannot do," he said. Apart from Mumbai, Rane will also visit the state's Konkan region during his seven-day tour. Earlier this week, Union ministers Bharti Pawar, Kapil Patil and Bhagwat Karad, who were also recently inducted into the Union cabinet, toured different parts of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-will-win-mumbai-civic-polls-says-narayan-rane-pays-tributes-at-bal-thackerays-memorial-1021346.html
19-08-2021||National Politics||Ashok Gehlot, Sachin Pilot 'fighting for chair': Bhupender Yadav||Union Labour Minister Bhupender Yadav on Thursday began his Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Rajasthan from Alwar district and targeted the ruling Congress, saying there is a "fight for the chair" between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and senior leader Sachin Pilot. During the BJP's Jan Ashirwad Yatra to introduce the newly inducted Union ministers, Yadav addressed a public gathering in Alwar and highlighted the achievements of the central government. The yatra began from Alwar bypass in Bhiwadi. He was received by the party leaders and workers. The yatra then moved to the BJP office in Bhiwadi. Addressing the gathering, Yadav said the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi is transforming India into 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. He also targeted the ruling Congress in Rajasthan, saying there is a "fight between Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot for the chair (chief ministership)". The BJP leader exuded confidence that the party will form the next government in the state. After the address, he resumed the onward journey in a specially-designed vehicle. Yadav, along with Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Shekhawat, Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia, Deputy Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Rajendra Rathore and other leaders, was mounted on the vehicle painted in saffron. The yatra was escorted by party workers on motorcycle by a large number of cars and other vehicles were also part of the yatra which is scheduled to reach Jaipur by the evening. He will cover Jaipur district on Friday and Ajmer on Saturday. Yadav had reached Jhunjhunu in Rajasthan from Haryana on August 17, after covering nearly 200 km under the yatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ashok-gehlot-sachin-pilot-fighting-for-chair-bhupender-yadav-1021352.html
19-08-2021||National Politics||Rape, murder is TMC's 'Khela': Smriti Irani||Rape and murder is 'Khela' (game) of the Trinamool Congress, Union Minister Smriti Irani said on Thursday. Speaking to ANI, she said: "What 'Khela' has TMC done? Rape, murder is their 'Khela'. TMC will now officially celebrate the rape of women. This is Mamata Banerjee's politics". The five-judge bench of the High Court also ordered that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) be set up to investigate the other cases related to post-poll violence. The bench in its order made it clear that both the investigations will be monitored by the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rape-murder-is-tmcs-khela-smriti-irani-1021466.html
19-08-2021||National Politics||Caste census chorus grows: Nitish Kumar to meet PM on August 23||Amid the chorus for caste census growing months before polls in Uttar Pradesh and six others next year, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will be leading an all-party delegation of leaders from the state to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 23 to press for it. Not only an array of Opposition parties including SP, BSP RJD, AAP LJD, NCP have backed the move, but even at least three NDA allies - JD(U) led by Kumar, RPI(A) led by Ramdas Athawale, and Apna Dal led by Anupriya Patel have pitched for it, even as the central government has so far been ruling it out even on the the floor of the Parliament. BJP is wary of the move. The clamour around the issue is all set to grow in the run up to state polls next year. The Bihar delegation which will also include RJD chief Lalu Prasad's son and the leader of Opposition in the Assembly Tejashwi Yadav, will try to convince the Prime Minister to agree to a caste-based census. On August 2, a group of JD(U) MPs had also met Home Minister Amit Shah to press for it. Kumar thanked the Prime Minister for giving the delegation time on coming Monday. While Kumar and other party leaders, backing such a census are arguing that this will benefit all sections of the society and facilitate more effective governance, the possibility of aggressive revival of OBC politics is perhaps weighing on the mind of the successive governments, which have eschewed from the move on the one pretext or another. The last caste census was carried out in 1931. With just eight months left for UP Assembly polls, the issue is gaining traction there. Samajwadi Party has argued that caste census was necessary for providing justice to the backwards and the Dalits. In Bihar also, the leaders from the Mahagathbandhan of five parties led by RJD had been building pressure on the Chief Minister on the issue. BJP ally Apna Dal not only demanded caste based census but also pitched for creation of a separate ministry for the welfare of OBCs. Centre which had recently got a constitutional amendment bill passed by Parliament to restore the powers of the states to make their own OBC lists to nullify the impact of the Supreme Court's May 5 order that held that the 102nd Constitution amendment took away the states' power to notify SEBCs for the grant of quota in jobs and admissions, is however, treading cautiously on the caste census issue. On July 20, Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai in a written reply in Lok Sabha had said, "the government of India has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste wise population other than SCs and STs in census" while noting that the Maharashtra and Odisha governments have requested the Centre to collect caste details in the forthcoming census. This only led to renewed demands from parties led by OBC leaders to seek the same for their community. OBCs are numerically the most dominant caste group both in UP and Bihar and in many other states as well. Bihar Assembly had in 2019 and 2020 passed unanimous resolutions in support of a caste-based census. With OBC politics in full swing in UP, not only the OBC census but also the issue of reservation distribution among most backward castes (MBCs) is gaining ground. The Opposition is raising questions over the non implementation of the 300-pages report social justice committee that had evaluated socioeconomic and educational backwardness of different classes/castes among the OBCs. In Maharashtra, NCP chief Sharad Pawar this week urged the central government to bring a law to do away with the Supreme Court-mandated 50 per cent cap on quota and allow states to exceed the existing limit. A group of MPs from Naveen Patnaik-led BJD had met  Shah on August 11 to make the same demand. BJD in Odisha last week declared fielding candidates from OBC for 27 per cent of seats in the upcoming three-tier panchayat elections in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/caste-census-chorus-grows-nitish-kumar-to-meet-pm-on-august-23-1021472.html
19-08-2021||National Politics||Sonia Gandhi to meet Opposition leaders on August 20; common campaign on agenda||11 days after Congress leader from G-23, Kapil Sibal, held a dinner meeting attended by a number of senior Opposition leaders, Congress President Sonia Gandhi will hold interactions with party chiefs and Chief Ministers from the Opposition camp on Friday to give teeth to a common Opposition strategy against the government. The virtual meeting by Gandhi is likely to be attended by top Opposition leaders including West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from Trinamool Congress, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray (Shiv Sena), Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin (DMK) and NCP boss Sharad Pawar, besides leaders from other in the Opposition ranks. The meeting on August 20, coinciding with the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi, is taking place at a time when all Opposition parties have upped the ante against the government on issues like snooping, unemployment, price rise and farm bills and were able to present a united face in the recently concluded Monsoon Session. With BJP in power in six of seven states going to polls next month, some of the recent meetings of Opposition have seen the clamour for putting up a united fight against the ruling party--particularly in Uttar Pradesh, which sends 80 Lok Sabha MPs to Parliament. Holding a meeting with leaders of 15 Opposition parties on August 3 in Parliament, Rahul Gandhi had said, "Within the foundations of unity, we can have a few discussions and arguments but I think it is important for us to come up with the principles of the foundations of our unity." Sonia Gandhi's Friday meeting is likely to explore the commonalities of the themes on which the Opposition parties can put up a joint show against the government. Congress seeks to build a campaign to find loopholes in BJP's key plank of national security, raises questions about Chinese aggression, turmoil in North East and the events in Afghanistan. Other Opposition parties have also attacked the government on these issues. "The Chinese threat continues to jeopardise our territorial integrity but Modi is silent, Is this nationalism, India you decide," asked Congress on Thursday. It also attacked the ruling party over the situation in North-East states. "North East under BJP, No law, No order..fake nationalism can only bring violence, destruction and disharmony in its wake," the Opposition party said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sonia-gandhi-to-meet-opposition-leaders-on-august-20-common-campaign-on-agenda-1021474.html
19-08-2021||North and Central||Now, online registration mandatory for people to enter Himachal Pradesh||Online registration has again been made mandatory for the people visiting Himachal Pradesh. "All inter-state movement to the state will be monitored through registration on Covid e-registration software” of the Himachal government, Chief Secretary-cum-Chairperson of State Executive Committee Ram Subhag Singh said in an order on Wednesday. The government, however, exempted certain categories of people from the provisions of this order. They include daily or weekend commuters such as “industrialists, traders, suppliers, factory workers, project proponents, service providers, government officials and people visiting the state on medical grounds”. “Children below 18 years of age, if accompanied by parents or guardians with vaccination certificate for both doses or negative RTPCR/RAT reports too are exempted from e-registration,” he added. Similarly, all goods carriers, whether loaded or unloaded and movement of goods or cargo for inland and exports are also exempted from any type of Covid restriction while entering or exiting the state, he added. Earlier in an order on August 10, the state government had made negative Covid-19 report or full vaccination mandatory for all people intending to visit the hill state from August 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/now-online-registration-mandatory-for-people-to-enter-himachal-pradesh-1021218.html
19-08-2021||North and Central||Restrictions imposed in Srinagar locality to thwart Muharram processions||Authorities on Thursday imposed restrictions in Abi Guzar area of the city to prevent members of the Shia community from taking out any procession to mark Ashoora, the last day of the 10-day Muhurram mourning period, officials said. Restrictions have been imposed in Abi Guzar area falling under police station Kothibagh while security personnel have been deployed in strength to maintain law and order on the 10th of Muharram, the officials said.  Police had detainee several members of the Shia community at various places in the city on Tuesday as they had tried to take out processions. The traditional Muharram procession, to mark the eighth day of the 10-day Muharram mourning period, used to pass through the areas of Abi Guzar, Lal Chowk and Dalgate areas, but has been banned since the eruption of militancy in 1990 as authorities maintain that the gathering has been used for propagating separatist politics.  Muharram processions are expected in other parts of the valley including the old city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrictions-imposed-in-srinagar-locality-to-thwart-muharram-processions-1021283.html
19-08-2021||North and Central||Army officer, militant killed in encounter in J&K’s Rajouri||An army officer and an unidentified militant were killed in an ongoing encounter between security forces and ultras in Thanamandi area of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday. A defence spokesperson said during an encounter with militants in Thanamandi area of Rajouri, one junior commissioner officer (JCO )of Rashtriya Rifles suffered bullet injuries while one ultra was killed. “The JCO was immediately evacuated to the nearest medical facility but later succumbed to his injuries. A search operation is going on,” he said. Reports said the encounter erupted after J&K police, army and the CRPF launched a search operation in Karyote Kalas area of Thanamandi belt near the Line of Control (LoC) following inputs about the presence of militants there. This morning, as the security forces were zeroing in on the suspected hideout, terrorists fired upon them resulting in death of a JCO who hailed from Pauri, Garhwal, in Uttarakhand, reports added. Sources said the militants hiding in the area may have infiltrated from Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) recently. On August 6, the army had encountered two militants in Pangai area of Thanamandi. In the past few weeks, several encounters have taken place in Rajouri’s Daddal in Nowshera, Sunderbani and Pangai in Thanamandi. J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh last week said that the infiltration from launch pads across the border has resumed. “The training camps and launch pads being run by the Pakistani army are full to their capacity. We generally assume the number of terrorists at such camps remains between 250 and 300 who are trained and ready for launching into Jammu and Kashmir,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-officer-militant-killed-in-encounter-in-jk-s-rajouri-1021300.html
19-08-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh schools may be closed if Covid-19 situation worsens; attendance not must, says govt||The Uttar Pradesh government, which has decided to open schools for physical classes, on Thursday said the attendance for students will not be compulsory and schools may be closed again if the Covid situation worsens. Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma told this to the state legislative council while replying to a question by teacher constituency member Dhruv Kumar Tripathi. "In basic education, attendance is not compulsory. We have also not made attendance mandatory for classes from 9 to 12," Sharma said. "Guardians, teachers and political organisations have also said the offline education should be started even if it is for a shorter period,” he said. “In UP, the present atmosphere is sufficiently secure but if there is any indication of any concern (regarding Covid), we can also close schools," he added. Tripathi also asked Health Minister Jai Pratap Singh if there was any arrangement for vaccination of teachers and students below 18 years of age. In a supplementary question, SP member Shatrudra Prakash asked the minister if it is safe for little children to go to school without vaccination. The minister replied that the vaccine for children below 18 is not yet available but it is expected to be available by September. He said after the vaccine is available, a campaign will be launched to inoculate children. The state government has opened schools from August 16 for classes 9 to 12. For classes six to eight, they will be opened from August 23 and for classes one to five from September 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-schools-may-be-closed-if-covid-19-situation-worsens-attendance-not-must-says-govt-1021345.html
19-08-2021||North and Central||UP court allows adult 'girlfriends' to live together||Two adult girls, who said that they were in a relationship, were allowed to live together by a court in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur district. According to police sources the parents of one of the girls, a resident of Suar area in the district, had lodged a complaint with the police stating that the girl had been missing for the past several days. The girl was later found to be living with her girlfriend in Shahabad area in the district. On being queried the two informed the cops that there had been in 'live in' relationship and that they did not want to live with their respective families. ''It was found that they (girls) had been living together for past several days,'' said a police official in Rampur. He said that the family members of the two girls were informed about their relationship. Their families tried their best to persuade the girls to break their relationship and return home but they remained adamant about living together. ''Since both of them were adults, we could not have forced them to go back with their families,'' said a senior police official in Rampur. Sources said that the girls were produced before a local magistrate, who after hearing them, allowed them to live together. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-court-allows-adult-girlfriends-to-live-together-1021349.html
19-08-2021||North and Central||Sidhu makes ex-IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa his strategic advisor||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday appointed former IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa as his principal strategic advisor. The development followed a day after Mustafa, the husband of Punjab Cabinet Minister Razia Sultana, had turned down Sidhu's offer to appoint him as one of his four advisors. “Mohd Mustafa is hereby appointed as the principal strategic advisor to the PPCC president, the undersigned, Navjot Singh Sidhu with immediate effect,” a statement issued by Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee said. “He would act as a PCC coordinator with the AICC on issues pertaining to his domain and any other matters that the president may deem fit,” it added. “Love to be associated with Razia Ji and Mustafa sahib,” Sidhu said in a tweet. Besides Mustafa, Sidhu on August 11 had appointed three advisors -- Lok Sabha MP Amar Singh, former registrar of Faridkot-based Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Pyare Lal Garg, and former government teacher Malvinder Singh Mali. But Mustafa had refused to take up the appointment. After becoming the PPCC chief, Sidhu had reached out to several leaders and visited their residences, including Mustafa’s. Mustafa along with another IPS officer Siddharth Chattopadhyaya had challenged IPS officer Dinkar Gupta’s appointment as Punjab police chief by the Amarinder Singh government in 2019. The state government had appointed Gupta as the Punjab DGP, suppressing the seniority of other IPS officers, including Mustafa. Sidhu has already appointed Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh as PPCC general secretary (organisation). The cricketer-turned-politician had on Wednesday also appointed two media advisors -- Jagtar Singh Sidhu and Surinder Dalla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sidhu-makes-ex-ips-officer-mohammad-mustafa-his-strategic-advisor-1021397.html
19-08-2021||North and Central||J&K Apni Party worker shot dead by terrorists in Kulgam||Militants on Thursday evening shot dead a leader of Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, the fourth such political killing in the last 12 days. A police official said that the militants fired upon JKAP zonal president, Ghulam Hassan Lone, at his residence in Devsar, Kulgam this evening. He was shifted to a nearby hospital but succumbed to his injuries later. Lone was previously affiliated with Mehbooba Mufti led People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and had switched back to JKAP just a few months back. The JKAP, which is believed to be a proxy of the BJP, is led by former Finance Minister of J&K, Altaf Bukhari, who was expelled by the PDP in early 2020. On Tuesday, militants had shot dead BJP’s Kulgam constituency in-charge, outside his residence in Brazloo Jagir in the same district. On August 9, militants had barged into the rented accommodation of Ghulam Rasool Dar and his wife Jawhara Banoo in neighboring Anantnag district, and shot at them from a close range. 65-year-old Dar was the Kulgam district president of BJP Kisan Morcha and a sarpanch. His wife was also a panch from the same village. More than 40 political activists, including panchayat members and grassroots workers, mostly affiliated with the BJP have been killed by militants in Kashmir since the abrogation of special status of the erstwhile state under Article 370 in August 2019. Meanwhile, PDP president and former chief minister Mehooba Mufti while condemning the latest killing, tweeted: “Unfortunately there seems to be no end to the spree of political killings in Kashmir. Unreservedly condemn the killing of Apni party leader Ghulam Hassan Lone. My deepest condolences to the bereaved family (sic)." National Conference leader and former chief minister, Omar Abdullah also condemned the killing. “Very sorry to hear about the assassination of Ghulam Hassan Lone in Devsar area of South Kashmir. This renewed trend of targeting mainstream politicians by militant outfits is very worrying & I condemn the same in the strongest possible terms. May Allah grant the departed Jannat,” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-apni-party-worker-shot-dead-by-terrorists-in-kulgam-1021451.html
19-08-2021||North and Central||Previous govts didn't promote Kumbh, they'd rather wear 'topis', say 'mubarakbaad': UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Indirectly suggesting that opposition leaders focus just on wooing Muslims, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said they would rather wear “topis” and say “mubarakbaad” than organise a Kumbh Mela. Replying to a debate in the assembly on the state’s supplementary budget, he also referred to the apparent endorsement by a Samajwadi Party MP of the Taliban takeover in Afghanistan. In the run-up to next year’s assembly elections, Adityanath’s remarks come days after he used the Urdu term “abba jaan” (father) in the assembly while referring to Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav. On Thursday – the last day of the assembly’s brief Monsoon Session -- Adityanath recalled the Allahabad Kumbh organised by his BJP government in 2019. He seemed to suggest that the previous governments hadn’t bothered to put in much effort into the organisation of the Kumbh Mela, which he said has a “written history” of 10,000 years. "Many people got the opportunity to organise the Kumbh with some getting the opportunities for decades, as they were in power then,” he said. But they lacked the intention, he charged. "They thought that if they organise the Kumbh, they will then be unable to do 'mubarakbaad' while wearing a 'topi'," Adityanath said. ‘Mubarakbaad’ is a greeting in Urdu. It is not clear if by the “topi”, Adityanath meant a Muslim skullcap or the red caps often worn by SP members. "Today, the caps are off," he said, claiming that the success of the Kumbh had overshadowed everything else. Adityanath said it was a safely organised event in which over 24 crore people participated. “This happened in Uttar Pradesh, and today UP is number one in tourism," he added. Without naming SP MP Shafiqur Rehman Barq, he said, "Some people are supporting the Taliban, which is committing atrocities on women and children.” He charged that such people wanted “Talibanisation” and were now exposed. Questioned by reporters, Barq recently equated the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan with the Indian freedom struggle. He has been booked for sedition. Adityanath said river Ganga flows through UP and it’s the land of Ram, Krishna and Vishwanath, and the has been the hub of the freedom struggle. "In spiritual tourism, heritage tourism and eco-tourism, UP's role has been that of a leading state, but no attention was paid to this,” he claimed. He said leaders built memorials in their own honour. “Nobody even peeped towards Ayodhya, and today everybody is claiming that Lord Ram belongs to them as well,” he said. "Earlier, Ram, Krishna and Shankar were considered communal. Now, when they have realised that the majority in society will not forget them, they are prostrating in reverence and saying that they too are devotees of Lord Ram, Lord Krishna and Lord Shankar,” the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/previous-govts-didnt-promote-kumbh-theyd-rather-wear-topis-say-mubarakbaad-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-1021485.html
19-08-2021||North and Central||Meerut sports varsity to be named after Dhyan Chand, UP to adopt two sports: Adityanath||The upcoming sports university in Meerut will be named after legendary Hockey player Major Dhyan Chand, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday. He also said the Uttar Pradesh government will adopt two sports -- wrestling and one more -- and finance their promotion in the state for the next ten years. The chief minister made the twin announcement in a felicitation ceremony for India's Tokyo Olympics medalists here at the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Ekana Stadium. "Of the two sports to be adopted by Uttar Pradesh, one will be wrestling. The second one for adoption will be selected soon by the Sports Department," he said. "A sports university is being built in Meerut. The state government will name it after Major Dhyan Chand,” said Adityanath, adding the government will also set up a wrestling academy in Lucknow. He said the state government is also working expeditiously for the construction of sports grounds in every village of the state. He said the government will soon increase the diet money for players in sports colleges from Rs 250 to Rs 375 per day per player, matching the Sports Authority of India's sum for the purpose. The government will also appoint UP's medalists in international sports events like the Olympics, Commonwealth Games, Asian Games, World Cup and World Championships on gazetted posts like that of deputy superintendent of police. The CM said athletes of the country make the country proud. "This performance shows a player actually plays for the country. When he plays for the country, there is nothing in front of him except the country and that is why he is able to do something,” he said. He added that amid the Covid-19 epidemic, "our players tried to give their best performance”."The state government will give Rs 6 crore to the Olympics gold medalists from UP, Rs 4 crore to silver medalists and Rs 2 crores to bronze medalists in singles,” he said.“In team games, Rs 3 crore will be given to gold medalists, Rs 2 crore to silver medalists and Rs 1 crore to those from UP winning bronze medals," the CM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/meerut-sports-varsity-to-be-named-after-dhyan-chand-up-to-adopt-two-sports-adityanath-1021492.html
19-08-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh Congress MLA 'abuses' revenue official; audio clip goes viral||An audio clip surfaced on social media on Thursday in which an MLA of the ruling Congress in Chhattisgarh is purportedly heard abusing a revenue department official posted in Balrampur district over allocation of a pond for fish farming. Prafull Rajak, posted as Deputy Collector in Ramanujganj town of the district, claimed the official in the purported audio clip was him and alleged the MLA abused him over the phone on Wednesday evening, a charge denied by the legislator. The MLA, Brihaspat Singh, elected from Ramanujganj, however, dismissed the charge and accused the opposition BJP and some senior leaders of his own party of hatching a conspiracy to defame him. Singh was in news recently for alleging a threat to his life from party colleague and Chhattisgarh Health Minister TS Singh Deo. The MLA later expressed regret for his comments against the minister. After the audio clip went viral on a social media platform, the opposition BJP demanded that the state assembly speaker take cognizance of the matter and remove Singh as MLA. According to Rajak, the entire matter pertains to leasing out a pond for fish farming to a group. “There was a dispute between two groups which were seeking lease for fish rearing in the pond. The (Balrampur) Collector sir had given his decision in favour of one of the groups and complying with that order, I allocated the lease. I just did my job, but in return I got abuses," the Deputy Collector told PTI. “On Wednesday evening, I got a call from one of the associates of the MLA, saying the legislator wanted to speak to me. I immediately called him during which he abused me over the pond allocation”, he claimed. Rajak said he had apprised his senior officials about the matter and sought an inquiry. Rejecting the allegations, the Congress MLA told reporters in Raipur that the voice in the audio clip was not his. “The audio clip did not belong to me and it is not my voice. Allegations were levelled at me as part of a conspiracy hatched by a national level leader of the opposition (apparently referring to the BJP), while some senior Congress leaders who are in the government also have their role in it,” Singh claimed, without naming anyone. The MLA claimed he was being continuously targeted as part of the conspiracy that was aimed at defaming him, but his detractors will never succeed in their designs. “I have got information that a morphed video of mine is also soon going to be released but nothing will happen with that. People and god know everything," he said. Singh said he is going to write a letter to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi seeking an appointment with him to inform him about developments related to him. Meanwhile, senior BJP MLA Narayan Chandel demanded an apology from the Congress MLA. “The Congress leadership in the state should clarify its stand on the issue and the MLA should immediately apologise to the state for his behaviour. Assembly Speaker Charandas Mahant should take cognizance of the matter and sack the MLA from his post,” Chandel said. Singh had landed into a controversy in July after he accused minister TS Singh Deo of engineering an attack on a vehicle in his convoy. The legislator had alleged a threat to his life from the minister. After the issue triggered a row, the Congress MLA had expressed regret in the assembly for making allegations against the minister and said it was a result of an emotional outburst.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-congress-mla-abuses-revenue-official-audio-clip-goes-viral-1021505.html
19-08-2021||Opinion||The Taliban in Kabul: Time India fortifies the guardrails||For the past three days, since August 15, the world's attention is riveted on the developments unfolding in Afghanistan. The scorching pace of events left the world community of strategic analysts caught in a breathless cycle attempting to interpret the emerging scenario as most of them read the tea leaves wrong. The world is still soaking in the unedifying spectacle of swarms of people scurrying across Hamid Karzai airport in Kabul to save lives amid fears of impending enforcement of strict Sharia laws by the Taliban, especially against the rights of women and girl children. The US and countries in Europe promised to evacuate Afghans who assisted the ISAF in Afghanistan. On its part, the Taliban came out in the public offering its vision of governance, portraying its 2.0 version that will be more accommodative, respect boundaries, not offer its soil to launch militant activities against another country while quietly reminding women in the country will be accorded respect in tune with what Sharia permits. These are early days for the world to come to any conclusion on the nature of policies that the Taliban, which seeks to establish the Islamic Emirate in the war-torn country, would pursue conforming to the contours drawn at the first-ever press conference on Tuesday. Reams have been written, and thousands of words spoken attempting to decode the capitulation of the Ashraf Ghani government and the surrender of the Afghan National Army as the Taliban arrived at the gates of Kabul. The new narrative ranges from charges of an intelligence failure in estimating the resistance capacity of the nearly three-lakh Afghan forces trained and equipped by the United States, the world's most powerful military, to a major miscalculation by the American President Joe Biden. Yet, the harsh truth is the exit of the United States and its NATO forces from Afghanistan is a done deal. The Taliban is set to take over the reins of governance amid a signal shout from a section led by Amrullah Saleh, the first vice president under former President Ghani, offering resistance. Is there the possibility of a civil war? Today's landscape is different from when the Northern Alliance of Ahmed Shah Masood put up resistance during the 1996-2001 phase of the Taliban in control of the war-torn country. The ground situation has altered rapidly over the past few months as the Taliban advanced to capture provinces even as the Americans began pulling out troops from the country. The vacuum created by reduced strategic space for the United States and the loss of its leverage with the Taliban is now being filled by China and Russia. Pakistan finds itself in another unique position as the pieces of the geopolitical chessboard are rearranged with Iran, too, making its presence felt. China stays invested in Afghanistan under both the Belt and Road Initiative projects and mining for rare materials. Besides commercial engagement, Beijing also seeks the Taliban's assistance to break its ties with the East Turkistan Islamic Movement, the Uyghur Muslim militant group from Xinjiang province in China. Russia today can find solace that the mighty Americans beat an inglorious retreat than it did in the "Graveyard of Empires" in the mid-1990s. India now finds itself in a different position. Having invested in building upon the reservoir of goodwill among the people of Afghanistan, New Delhi spent US$ 3 billion in infrastructure projects, education, drinking water and health sectors. It now awaits the policies when a new regime takes over governance in Kabul. The scars of the 1999 hijack of an Indian Airlines plane are a grim reminder of the difficult times. The aircraft parked at Kandhar under the watch of the Taliban and the ignominy of trading three prisoners incarcerated in Indian jails for terror acts in exchange for passengers' safety continues to haunt. The transition of power in Afghanistan will bring about a significant change in the regional security situation. Kabul is part of the extended neighbourhood and shares borders with Pakistan, whose proximity with the Taliban and patronage by the Pakistan Army is well known. As the world was preparing for a change of guard, there were reports that New Delhi opened communication channels with the Taliban, though there was no official confirmation. Yet, in a recent interview with a news magazine, a spokesman for the Taliban took a dim view of support in the form of military assistance extended by New Delhi to Kabul, which was deployed against it. In such a scenario, the options before India remain limited. Besides the wait and watch approach, New Delhi should explore alternate channels to reach out to a new dispensation that would assume governance. It is here that traditional friendly ties with countries like Russia and Iran should provide a pathway. The manner in which the Taliban came out to announce its approach is an indicator that its leaders are more sensitive to changed realities. The declarations made on Tuesday were politically correct. The Taliban may now want greater acceptance, unlike two decades ago when only a few countries like Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE recognised it. While quiet diplomacy should be efficacious, the evolving situation will be the one on which security planners will keep a close watch. Reports that militants from the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed are reaching and mingling with the Taliban underlines the possibility of blowback in Jammu and Kashmir. This accentuates when Pakistan's ISI plays a role in drafting such elements to create trouble in India. The guardrails need to be fortified. (The writer is a Delhi-based journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-taliban-in-kabul-time-india-fortifies-the-guardrails-1021254.html
19-08-2021||Opinion||Government sawing off the branch it’s sitting on||Why divest stake in LIC? The government says it is not privatisation, but only an Initial Public Offer of some stake. That was what Anurag Thakur, the then Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs, unequivocally stated in Parliament sometime back. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has recently given its in-principal approval for the IPO. The government’s fast, preparatory steps indicate that the actual sale is most likely to start during the last quarter of the current fiscal (January-March 2022). IPO, or by whatever name it is called, the government is going to ease its monopoly control over LIC by selling a part of its stake. It’s part privatisation to begin with. Considering its unparalleled achievement in terms of not only the enormous social benefit it has generated but the support it has provided to the exchequer in troubled times, does not LIC qualify to be at the top of the list of exclusions from privatisation? But the enormous potential of the milch cow (LIC’s IPO alone is estimated to fetch around Rs 1 lakh crore of the Rs 1.75 lakh crore disinvestment plan for the year) and the urgent need for funds has made the government blind to the damage it will cause in the long run. It is not at all reasonable to sell the stake in LIC to meet fiscal deficit needs. Even a cursory look at the birth and evolution of LIC shows how ludicrous the idea of easing control over it is. Private insurance did not work in the public interest during the pre- and early post-Independence years. The very first life insurance company, Oriental Life Insurance Company, set up in Calcutta in 1818, served only the European community. This and many other foreign companies did not cover Indians’ lives at all. It required concerted efforts by people like Babu Mutty Lal Seal to make the British companies to agree to insure Indians’ lives. Even after agreeing to this, Indian lives were treated as sub-standard and heavy extra premiums were charged. Although this anomaly was eventually removed, private insurance could not be freed from its frauds and incompetence. Private frauds Before nationalisation, 25 insurance companies went into liquidation, 80 did not even file their statutory returns, 245 life and 108 general insurance companies failed the policyholders. The Vivian Bose Commission, set up during Nehru’s time, noted many other irregularities, such as money laundering and the false claims of the big business houses and their accommodating sister concerns in the insurance business. Thus, to protect the public interest, the LIC was formed in 1956 with just Rs 5 crore capital, amalgamating 245 private entities, which included 154 Indian and 16 foreign insurance companies and 75 provident fund societies. Although the capital was enhanced to Rs 100 crore later, it was not an extra burden; the LIC generated the sum internally. The present increase of Rs 25,000 crore authorised capital doesn’t serve any useful purpose as long as the sovereign guarantee to policyholders (Section 37) remains intact. Humongous growth Despite minimal government support and private competition since 1999, LIC’s growth has been phenomenal. Its market share in the number of policies (the number is more important than money because the public sector’s focus is on insuring low-income individuals) last financial year was 74.58%. In premium amount, it was 66.18%. With its Rs 31 lakh crore balance sheet, LIC is the country’s second-largest financial services institution, next only to SBI with its Rs 39.51 lakh crore assets. The sum assured stands at Rs 56.86 lakh crore. It has 1,14,498 employees, besides over 12 lakh agents, which means it provides direct employment to more than 13 lakh people. Although the government gets only 5% of the surplus, leaving 95% to the policyholders, it got Rs 2,697.74 crore in dividend in 2019-20. The net total income was about Rs 6.16 lakh crore. The taxes LIC paid that year amounted to Rs 10,225.24 crore. Besides being the biggest institutional investor in the country (Rs 30.7 lakh crore as of March 2020), LIC gives funds to support the government in a big way. During 2019-20, it subscribed to nearly Rs 1.79 lakh crore of Government of India securities and Rs 1.28 lakh crore in states’ borrowings. In the same year, it invested about Rs 52,298 crore in the infrastructure sector: power, housing, water supply and sewerage, roads, bridges and railways. The investments, as of March 2020, in central, state, social sector and other government- guaranteed securities, stood at over Rs 24 lakh crore. In addition, LIC operates varied other activities: It owns LIC Housing Finance Ltd (with Rs 2.1 lakh crore outstanding loans as of March 2020), LIC Mutual Fund Asset Management Company Ltd, LIC Pension Fund Ltd, LIC Cards Services Ltd., and IDBI Bank. Disinvestment support At least one thing that should deter the government from LIC disinvestment is the support it gets for its ‘disinvestment’ from other PSUs. LIC buys a substantial portion of the government’s stake in other PSUs. For instance, LIC was allotted 4.4% of the 5% disinvestment in ONGC in 2012; 60% (Rs 6,000 crore) of the stake in NMDC (of Rs 9,928 crore) in 2009-10, and Rs 4,263 crore of NTPC’s Rs 8,480 crore. Other purchases include: SAIL (71% in 2013), BHEL (Rs 2,685 crore in 2014), Coal India Limited (Rs 7,000 crore), Indian Oil Corporation (Rs 8,000 crore), GIC (Rs 8,000 crore), all in 2015; New India Assurance Company (Rs 6,500 crore, 2017) and HAL (Rs 2,900 crore, 2018). Also, LIC bought 51% of the beleaguered IDBI bank in 2019. Thus, LIC is not only providing efficient life insurance service to the people but also utilising people’s money for the country’s economic development besides giving huge financial support to the government. It is an ‘Apatbhandhava’ in the true sense of the word, to this, previous and future governments. So, the present government has no right to sell the stake without the approval of the people in general and the LIC workforce in particular. Nor would it be wise for the government to kill the goose that lays golden eggs. The government must reconsider the decision to put LIC on the path to privatisation.   (The writer is a Development Economist and commentator on economic and social affairs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/government-sawing-off-the-branch-it-s-sitting-on-1021275.html
19-08-2021||Opinion||India out in the cold in Afghanistan||India’s worst fears have come true in Afghanistan. Having assiduously worked to safeguard its vital strategic interests in the landlocked country, its swift takeover by the Taliban has upended New Delhi’s stratagem for a friendly ally in the neighbourhood. For now, New Delhi finds itself out in the cold, forced to play the wait-and-watch game on the margins as an Afghanistan in turmoil heads towards becoming an Islamic Emirate, with more than gleeful support from Pakistan and China. With the US’ abject abdication and withdrawal of military forces from Afghanistan, all that New Delhi can do now is to watch the unfolding political machinations as the Taliban prepares to form a government. In remarks before the UN Security Council, India has said it hopes for an “inclusive dispensation” and that a “broader dispensation would help the arrangement gain more acceptance and legitimacy”. India will throw in its lot with the “democratic bloc” when it comes to taking a decision on whether it should recognise the Taliban regime.  But it won’t be an easy call for New Delhi to take, having thus far desisted from actively engaging with the Taliban, though there have been a few reports of backchannel talks with the radical outfit. But for now, India has few options if it is to remain a stakeholder in a nation going through yet another cycle of strife and turmoil.  Pakistan has systematically been working against Indian interests in Afghanistan and the region for long. Given the deep animosity the GHQ Rawalpindi and ISI harbour towards India, they have made determined efforts over the years to limit India’s role in Afghanistan while providing safe havens to the Taliban and hoodwinking the US. New Delhi’s worries have increased manifold now that the Taliban, nurtured by the Pakistani deep-state, is back in the saddle. Pakistan PM Imran Khan went so far as to say Afghanistan has finally broken the “shackles of slavery” now. With relative stability on its eastern borders in the months ahead, Pakistan might well step up its efforts to foment further trouble in Kashmir on its west. Pakistan-based terror outfits such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed could use Afghanistan as a base to plan strikes in Kashmir.  This lurking fear of jihadi groups getting a fillip and fuelling terrorism in countries in the region has already made India voice concerns in a statement before the UN Security Council a day after the Taliban captured power.  “If there is a zero-tolerance for terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, and it is ensured that the territory of Afghanistan is not used by terrorist groups to threaten or attack any other country, then Afghanistan’s neighbours and the region would feel safer,” said T S Tirumurti, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN. The increasing role of Pakistan in Afghanistan will not be the only cause for Indian anxieties. It also needs to watch out for China’s moves in Afghanistan, which could include bankrolling the Taliban and getting access to the rich resources in the country.  India-China ties have taken a nosedive after the ongoing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh since April-May last year. Moreover, India’s pronounced US-tilt as the two work to isolate China through the `Quad’ and others in the Indo-Pacific region has left Beijing seething. Afghanistan presents China and Pakistan with an opportunity to strike back together to shrink India’s strategic space in the neighbourhood.  There’s another worry for New Delhi. The Afghan government’s ouster could well mean a setback for the development of the strategic Chabahar port in Iran. The Iranian port is seen as a vital connectivity project giving landlocked Afghanistan access to the sea. For India, the port enables it to bypass Pakistan to access Afghanistan and Central Asian countries. While the Chabahar project has taken some hits due to US sanctions on Iran, India has remained steadfast in its resolve to develop it. The port’s Shaheed Beheshti terminal has been used for transshipments between India and Afghanistan.  Over the last two decades, India has also invested a lot of money and resources into infrastructure building in Afghanistan, pouring nearly $3 billion into it by way of development assistance.  Unlike President Joe Biden’s breezy explanation since the Taliban takeover that the US mission in Afghanistan “was never supposed to have been nation-building” or creating “a unified, centralised democracy”, India’s messaging has been very different.  India has always held that it’s there to assist the Afghans in their nation-building efforts with assistance for infrastructure projects and military aid and training of thousands of military personnel. And that it was there for the long haul, undertaking major projects such as the Salma dam, Afghan Parliament and the 218-km long Zaranj-Delaram highway over the years. But the best-laid plans can come undone. For now, India can only watch the new Great Game from the sidelines. And for all those with fanciful notions that the return of the Taliban in Afghanistan will see it become more moderate this time, they are living in a make-believe universe. Let’s not forget that the current Taliban chieftain Haibatullah Akhundzada is considered much more of a conservative hardliner than Mullah Mohammed Omar ever was in the 1990s.  (The writer is a senior New Delhi-based journalist)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-out-in-the-cold-in-afghanistan-1021315.html
19-08-2021||Panorama||Pakistan is rejoicing, but its joy may be short-lived||A day after the Taliban’s gun-toting  militants entered Kabul and President Ashraf Ghani’s government collapsed, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan could not hide his glee. He was launching a government education programme in Islamabad on August 16, where he referred to the Taliban’s return to power as Afghans breaking the “shackles of slavery”. For the Taliban’s cheerleaders in Islamabad and at the headquarters of the Pakistan Army in Rawalpindi, it’s indeed time for celebration. Pakistan finally defeated America in Afghanistan with the help of America, just as Hamid Gul, the former chief of its military spy agency InterServices Intelligence (ISI), had boastfully predicted in 2014. Pakistan perhaps thinks it’s now on the cusp of gaining in Afghanistan Islamabad’s long-cherished ‘strategic depth’. Pakistan’s signature is well etched in the blood-soaked history of Afghanistan, dating back to the 1970s, when it started supporting the Islamists opposed to the Mohammad Daud Khan government in Kabul – a dispensation that was backed by the Soviet Union. Pakistan helped the US Central Intelligence Agency arm the ‘Afghan Mujahideen’ to fight the Soviet army, which had marched into Afghanistan in 1979. The Mujahideen continued to receive support from Pakistan and the US even after the Soviet army withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989. Though the Mujahideen came to power in Kabul through an accord signed at Peshawar in Pakistan in April 1992, the ISI was unhappy as the new regime, led by Burhanuddin Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Massoud, was friendly to India. It supported Gulbuddin Hekmatyar’s offensive against the Rabbani government, leading to a fierce conflict that resulted in the death of about 50,000 people in Kabul. It was in the early 1990s that Pakistan’s Internal Security Minister Naseerullah Babar, a former military officer, asked the ISI to look for new assets in Afghanistan. The ISI mid-wifed the Taliban, which was born with Pashtun Talib or students of the seminaries set up for refugees from Afghanistan in northern Pakistan. It soon spread its influence across southern and eastern Afghanistan. The Taliban occupied Kandahar in November 1994 and, with militants recruited, trained and armed by the ISI in Pakistan swelling its ranks, it took over Kabul in September 1996. Pakistan was among the few nations that continued diplomatic relations with the Taliban’s Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, which, led by its Amir al-Mu’minin, Mullah Omar, ran a medieval rule, enforcing a strict  version of Shariah, banning TV, denying women the right to education and work, carrying out summary executions in public. The Taliban’s collusion with anti-India terror outfits based in Pakistan became evident during the hijacking of Indian Airlines flight IC-814 in December 1999. The US and its NATO allies invaded Afghanistan in 2001 after Mullah Omar’s ‘guest’ Osama bin Laden led Al Qaeda’s 9/11 terror attacks. Omar fled to Quetta in Pakistan, where the ISI hosted him till his death in 2013 – two years after US Navy SEALs hunted down bin Laden at his lair close to the Pakistan Military Academy in Abbottabad. Pakistan helped the Taliban to not only survive over the past two decades but also to regroup, even as it maintained the charade of supporting the US and NATO forces in its “war on terror” in Afghanistan and of  facilitating the talks between the US and the Taliban. The ISI was so desperate to control the Afghan ‘peace process’ that it arrested Omar’s successor Mullah Baradar in Pakistan when he started talks with Hamid Karzai’s government in Afghanistan on his own initiative. Baradar eventually fell in line and, when he returned to negotiate with the US and Afghan governments in Doha, it was with the blessings of Rawalpindi and Islamabad, which meticulously set the stage for his ascent to power in Kabul. The Taliban regaining control of Kabul will give Rawalpindi’s planners “strategic depth” in Afghanistan in case of an Indian military advance against Pakistan. India’s development projects in Afghanistan and its popularity among the people of the war-ravaged country had given Rawalpindi the jitters. Even if New Delhi does not sever its diplomatic relations with Kabul, the ISI will now try to make the Taliban restrict India’s presence in Afghanistan and hit its strategic interests in Central Asia. The weapons and ammunitions the US supplied to the Afghan National Security and Defence Forces have fallen into the hands of the Taliban over the past few weeks, and a part of the booty may soon find its way to anti-India terrorist groups based in Pakistan, such as the  Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad. New Delhi has reasons to worry about the cascading effects of the Taliban’s return to power on the security scenario in Kashmir. Islamabad will also try to scuttle India’s plans for connectivity through Afghanistan to Central Asia and Europe. The celebrations in Rawalpindi and Islamabad are unlikely to last forever, though. Pakistan may soon have to deal with a new wave of refugees from Afghanistan. The Taliban may be ensconced in Kabul, but Northern Alliance veterans Abdul Rashid Dostum and Ata Muhammad Noor have not yet given up. Ghani’s Vice-President Amrullah Saleh has declared himself ‘caretaker president’ and is trying to mount a resistance against the Taliban. A new civil war may again break out in Afghanistan and the revival of the Covid-hit economy of Pakistan could be stymied by such uncertainty and instability in its western neighbourhood. The Taliban in Afghanistan has ideological links with the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which had carried out the terrorist attack at the Army Public School in Peshawar in December  2014, killing 149 people, including 132 children. The TTP congratulated the Taliban after its militants entered Kabul on August 15. The possibility of collusion between the two cannot be ruled out. Monsters often turn against their own masters eventually, not only in Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein, but in the real world, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/pakistan-is-rejoicing-but-its-joy-may-be-short-lived-1021277.html
19-08-2021||Panorama||Always the journey, not the destination||Like kindness and charity, education must also begin at home. Unwittingly, parents take the role of providing both roots and wings to their children. Roots to keep them grounded in reality and wings so that children can reach out beyond themselves in search of their dreams. Another role that some parents subliminally take on is that not paving the path for their children. Instead, they prepare the child for a very uncertain, often difficult road ahead. My nephew was working on a project as part of community service. He had come up with a wonderful idea of designing a flower bed near the entrance of the community temple. An arduous, ambitious undertaking but something that would perhaps pass the test of time and stand as an ode to beauty and service. The idea behind the task was to realise the importance of community and teamwork and naturally, the community rose to the occasion and helped him raise funds for the task. His parents helped him in planning, procuring material and the initial groundwork. The rest of the negotiations and the actual task was left to him. The project was rather challenging and required several external variables to work in cohesion. My nephew continued to build his dream flower bed from the stumbling blocks that came in his way. He learnt how obstacles can actually work like blessings and help us change and grow. As he was nearing the completion of the project one of the external variables shifted. Something beyond his control loomed over the success of his project. His parents could have resolved the situation for him, but they wanted to keep it real. In life, even the best laid plans are sometimes thwarted and more often than not we have to either come up with a new plan or find ingenious ways to resolve the situation. This is after we have dealt with the frustration and disappointment that comes with trying to accommodate things beyond our control. They could have paved the road for him, but instead they prepared him for the difficult road ahead by letting him face and come to terms with the hard realities of life. The journey, they say, is more important than the destination and some very onerous paths have shaped some very sublime souls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/always-the-journey-not-the-destination-1021278.html
19-08-2021||Panorama||Taliban: Monster Pakistan created in Afghanistan may turn against its master||A day after the Taliban’s gun-toting militants entered Kabul and President Ashraf Ghani’s government collapsed, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan could not hide his glee. He was launching a government education programme in Islamabad on August 16 and ended up referring to the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan as people breaking “shackles of slavery”. For the Taliban’s cheerleaders in Islamabad and at the headquarters of the Pakistan Army in Rawalpindi, it’s indeed the time for celebration. Pakistan finally defeated America in Afghanistan with the help of America, just as Hamid Gul, the former chief of its military spy agency Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), had boastfully predicted way back in 2014. It’s now on the cusp of gaining in Afghanistan the long-cherished strategic edge against India. Pakistan’s signature is well etched in the blood-soaked history of Afghanistan, dating back to the 1970s when it started supporting the Islamists opposed to the Mohammad Daud Khan’s Government in Kabul – a dispensation that was backed by the Soviet Union. It helped the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States support the ‘Afghan Mujahideens’ to fight the Soviet Army, which had marched into Afghanistan in 1979. The mujahideens continued to receive support from Pakistan and the US even after the Soviet Army withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989. Though the mujahideens came to power in Kabul through an accord signed at Peshawar in Pakistan in April 1992, the ISI was unhappy, as the new regime led by Burhanuddin Rabbani and Ahmad Shah Massaoud was friendly to India. So it supported Gulbuddin Hekmatyar’s offensive against the new Afghan Government, leading to a fierce conflict, which resulted in the death of about 50000 people in Kabul. It was in mid-1990s that Pakistan’s Internal Security Minister Naseerullah Babar, a former military officer, asked the ISI to look for new assets in Afghanistan. So the ISI midwifed the Taliban, which was born with Pashtun Talibs or students of the seminaries set up for the refugees from Afghanistan in northern Pakistan. It soon spread its influence across southern and eastern Afghanistan. It occupied Kandahar in November 1994 and, with militants recruited, trained and armed by the ISI in Pakistan swelling its ranks, it took over Kabul in September 1996. Pakistan is among the few nations that continued diplomatic relations with the Taliban’s Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, which, led by its Amir al-Mu’minin, Mullah Omar, ran a medieval rule, enforcing a strict version of Shariah, banning TV, denying women’s rights to education and work, carrying out summary executions in public. The Taliban’s collusion with anti-India terror outfits based in Pakistan was evident during the hijacking of Indian Airlines flight IC-814 in December 1999. The US and its NATO allies invaded Afghanistan in 2001 after Mullah Omar’s guest Osama Bin Laden coordinated the Al Qaeda’s 9/11 terror attacks. Omar fled to Quetta in Pakistan, where the ISI hosted him till his death in 2013 – two years after US NAVY SEALs hunted down Laden near Pakistan Military Academy in Abbottabad. Pakistan helped the Taliban, not only to survive over the past two decades, but also to regroup, even as it maintained the charade of supporting the NATO forces in its “war on terror” in Afghanistan and of facilitating the peace talks between the US and the militant organization. The ISI was so desperate to control the pace process that it had once got Omar’s successor Mullah Baradar arrested in Pakistan, only because he had started talks with Hamid Karzai’s government in Afghanistan without taking its approval. Baradar eventually fell in line and, when he returned to negotiation with the US and Afghan Government in Doha, he had the blessings from Rawalpindi and Islamabad, which meticulously set the stage for his ascent to power in Kabul. The Taliban’s imminent return to power in Kabul will give Pakistan its long-cherished “strategic depth” in Afghanistan. India’s development projects in Afghanistan and its popularity among people of the conflict-ravaged country has been giving jitters to Pakistan. Even if New Delhi does not severe its diplomatic relations with Kabul, the ISI will now try to make Taliban restrict India’s presence in Afghanistan and hit its strategic interests in Central Asia. The weapons and ammunitions the US supplied to the Afghan National Security and Defence Forces fell in the hands of the Taliban over the past few weeks and a part of the booty may soon find its way to the anti-India terrorist groups based in Pakistan, like the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammad. New Delhi has reasons to worry about the cascading effect of Taliban’s return to power on the security scenario in Kashmir. Islamabad will also try to scuttle India’s plans for connectivity through Afghanistan to Central Asia and Europe. The celebrations in Rawalpindi and Islamabad are unlikely to last forever though. Pakistan may soon have to deal with a new wave of refugees from Afghanistan. The Taliban’s military offensives have brought it back to power in Kabul, but the warlords like Northern Alliance veterans, Abdul Rashid Dostum and Ata Muhammad Noor, have not yet given up. Ghani’s Vice-President Amrullah Saleh has declared himself the caretaker president and is trying to mount a resistance against the Taliban. So, a new civil war may again break out in Afghanistan and the revival of the Covid-19-hit economy of Pakistan could be stymied by such uncertainty and instability in its western neighbourhood. The Taliban in Afghanistan has ideological links with the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which had carried out the terrorist attack at the Army Public School at Peshawar in Pakistan on December 13, 2014 – killing 149 people, including 132 children. The TTP congratulated the Taliban after its militants entered Kabul on August 15 and the possibility of collusion between the two cannot be ruled out. The monsters often turn against their masters, not only in Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein, but in the real world too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/taliban-monster-pakistan-created-in-afghanistan-may-turn-against-its-master-1021279.html
19-08-2021||South||Chennai surgeon designs 3D printed heart valve||A city-based surgeon has designed and developed a unique prototype of 3D printed specialised biopolymer heart valve to replace the valves currently made with metal components (mechanical) or animal tissue (bioprosthetic). The 3D printed heart valves, made with specialised biopolymers that are very similar to human tissue, can be directly implanted in heart patients requiring valve replacement, according to Dr Sanjay Cherian. "We are happy to announce we have designed and developed India's first 3D printed heart valve. We came up with four different prototypes and this is the fourth generation. It seems to be working well," Dr Cherian, who has been researching on this project for about a year, told PTI. This scientific innovation was undertaken in collaboration with the Centre for Automation and School of Mechanical Engineering, Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Chennai, he said. Dr Cherian claimed the 3D printed heart valve will revolutionise valve replacement surgeries and will considerably improve the chances of the body accepting the implant. "Valve surgeries are being performed for over half-a-century. In several cases the patients turn up after 5 or 10 years with the valve probably infected or torn off in the case of valves made with animal tissue," he said. As to his inspiration, he said, "We have been doing extensive research on the concept of 3D printing in the field of medicine." Earlier, 3D printing was used to plan the surgical approach, especially for complex procedures, in order to help cardiac surgeons and cardiologists to navigate and choose the best approach to treat heart diseases. "This time, we focused our efforts on using 3D printers to manufacture heart valves using specialised biopolymers that are very similar to human tissue, which can be directly implanted in heart patients," he explained. The process of patenting this 3D printed heart valve, and testing it to confirm its biocompatibility, efficacy and durability is on, he added. Declining to reveal the biopolymer, which he proposes to use, Dr Cherian said "we need to conduct a series of tests (in laboratory) before trying it on animals like dog, pig or sheep models that have heart valves similar to humans." This would take some time before commencing human trials, he said and indicated that the biopolymers will be divulged at a later stage. As this innovative produce is being made under the "Made in India" programme, the cost of implant would be much lower than the imported heart valves currently used in India, he claimed. The cost of imported surgically implantable heart valve ranges between Rs 45,000 (mechanical) and Rs 65,000-80,000 for animal tissue valve. Presently, they are imported mainly from the US.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-surgeon-designs-3d-printed-heart-valve-1021314.html
19-08-2021||South||Italian marines case: SC notice to boat owner; stays disbursement of any compensation||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the owner of St Antony boat in Kerala on a plea by crew members, seeking a share in Rs 2 crore compensation for injuries suffered by them during the firing incident by Italian marines leading to the death of two fishermen in 2012. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee, and V Ramasubramanian also stayed the disbursement of compensation to the owner of the boat. The court sought a response from the boat owner on the plea by the crew members who contended that they were also entitled to compensation. The top court had in its order earlier on June 15, 2021, closed all the proceedings and cases in India against two Italian Marines -- Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone -- accused of killing two fishermen in Kerala in 2012, after noting that the amount of Rs 10 crore had been deposited by the Italy government before it.  On Thursday, the court also indicated that it may send the matter to the Kerala High Court for final adjudication of the case.  Out of the total amount of Rs 10 crore, Rs 4 crore was to be paid to the family members of each deceased Kerala fishermen and Rs 2 crore to the Boat’s owner.  Two Kerala fishermen, Valentine Jalastine and Ajesh Binki were allegedly shot dead by two Italian mariners Latorre and Girone mistakenly on February 15, 2012, treating the fishing boat ‘St. Antony’ as a pirate boat.  As per the May 21, 2020 order by the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS) India has agreed to the compensation of 10 crore and Italy consented to launch prosecution against marines there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/italian-marines-case-sc-notice-to-boat-owner-stays-disbursement-of-any-compensation-1021342.html
19-08-2021||South||Covid-19 second wave over in Telangana: Health official||"It can be said that second wave has fully come to an end in Telangana. If we take various parameters like the number of new cases being reported, daily positivity rate and hospitalisation rate, coronavirus, as of now, is fully under control across Telangana, in all districts and all regions," state Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao said. He said the administration is, however, fully alert in dealing with the situation and urged people not to let their guard down. Telangana on Wednesday recorded 424 new Covid-19 cases taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 6,53,626. The recovery and case fatality rates were at 98.35 per cent and 0.58 per cent, compared to the national average of 97.50 per cent and 1.3 per cent, respectively. While the Covid-19 situation is under control, seasonal diseases like dengue and malaria are being reported in some districts of the state, he told reporters on Wednesday. Observing that the state government has initiated various measures to deal with the rise in cases of malaria and dengue, he urged people to take precautionary measures to avoid contracting them. Though the state is at a stage of eliminating malaria, he said the districts of Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Mulugu have seen cases of malaria this year, Rao said. Dengue cases are witnessed predominantly in urban areas, with 50 per cent of them being reported in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), he said. The state government has taken up anti-larva operations and other measures to prevent the spread of seasonal diseases, he said. A door-to-door fever survey has been taken up in the GHMC. Preparedness in hospitals has also been stepped up. The Health department official cautioned people against mistaking or neglecting the symptoms of seasonal diseases with Covid-19 symptoms and suggested seeking medical care without delay. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-second-wave-over-in-telangana-health-official-1021388.html
19-08-2021||South||IIT-M helps empower potters in Tamil Nadu to meet modern demands||The Rural Technology Action Group (RuTAG) of the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology (IIT-M) has helped establish a Common Facility Centre to help potters in a village near Chennai to meet consumer demands like microwaveable cooking utensils. Since these products have higher market value, selling them would help potters help sustain their profession. The RuTAG introduced modern machinery alongside additional skill and product training to improve the productivity as well as wages of the artisans. The Common Facility Centre at Perumudivakkam in Tiruvallur District was established with CSR funding from Southern Region Pipelines Division of Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL-SRPL), and Centre for Social Development (CSD), a Nagercoil-based NGO as the implementation partner. IIT-M collaborated with Central Glass and Ceramic Institute (CGCRI), Kolkata, to leverage technology to aid the potters. “RuTAG has coordinated with CGCRI, CSD, IOCL, government agencies and local artisans to bring forth the benefits in a shared setup. For follow-up technology activity, we always strive to identify needs of artisans in terms of technological solutions. Once identified, these needs can be conveyed to faculty/students to carry out further technology development,” Prof. Abhijit P. Deshpande, Professor-in-Charge, RuTAG-IIT Madras, said. The Common Facility Centre envisages a three to four-fold increase in income for potters, market opportunity and export quality for these products, and adoption and scaling up such initiatives in other pottery clusters across the state. As many as 82 persons have been trained in this centre so far, the IIT-M said. The trained potters are exhibiting diversified clay products which included household appliances, microwaveable clay products with higher market values, artistic products, cooking utensils and storage containers. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-helps-empower-potters-in-tamil-nadu-to-meet-modern-demands-1021430.html
19-08-2021||South||AIADMK leaders ask Governor Banwarilal Purohit to intervene in Kodanad case||Tamil Nadu’s principal Opposition party, AIADMK, on Thursday knocked at the doors of Governor Banwarilal Purohit complaining that the DMK government was “culling the voice of opposition dissent” by foisting false cases against its members, including reopening of the Kodanad break-in case. A high-level AIADMK delegation led by coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami submitted a five-page memorandum against the DMK government dubbing its agenda as “Corruption-Collection Vendetta.” The meeting with Purohit assumes significance as it came a day after Palaniswami alleged that the new DMK government was trying to frame in the 2017 case involving heist-cum-murder at the sprawling Kodanad estate owned by J Jayalalithaa. The AIADMK has boycotted the assembly proceedings on August 18 and 19 in protest against the DMK’s move to reinvestigate the four-year-old case. The prime accused in the case, Sayan, had alleged that Palaniswami was involved in the case, a charge strongly refuted by the former CM. Besides the Kodanad case, the AIADMK leaders also drew Governor’s attention to “false cases” being filed against former ministers to intimidate them. “The present drama of further investigation which has been sought for collusively by the prosecution and the accused is only to make allegations against the Leader of Opposition. The fate of a common citizen in the hands of the present Government is completely jeopardised if a Leader of Opposition is being targeted in such a manner,” the memorandum said. Change of stance by the prosecution is also to be seen in the cases against the present ministers of the DMK Government, the leaders said, adding that the Public Prosecutor in the High Court has been completely lenient in making his objections in cases against the present ministers. Both the Public Prosecutor and Advocate General are DMK men, the leaders noted. Palaniswami also alleged that the DMK was “ably and illegally influencing” the official machinery to bring a quietus to the pending criminal cases against its own members and leaders. “Such being the strategy played out by the government, as the Constitutional Head, your Excellency, in the interest of protecting the state and the democracy in the state ought to call for the records on the above issues, investigate and take necessary action in the interest of welfare of the state,” Palaniswami and Panneerselvam said in the memorandum. Kodanad was the summer retreat of Jayalalithaa since she and her long-time aide V K Sasikala bought the sprawling bungalow in Kothagiri in early 1990s. The former chief minister would visit the bungalow often when her party, AIADMK, was occupying the Opposition benches in the Sayan and nine others are accused of breaking into the sprawling mansion owned by Jayalalithaa in 2017, months after her death, and killing a guard who was posted there. Police had then alleged that C Kanagaraj, Jayalalithaa’s former driver, and Sayan plotted the crime. However, Kanagaraj, Sayan’s wife and their daughter died in separate road accidents, raising doubts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-leaders-ask-governor-banwarilal-purohit-to-intervene-in-kodanad-case-1021435.html
19-08-2021||South||20 months on, Hyderabad encounter probe commission asks Telangana govt to present evidence||The Justice Sirpurkar commission probing the police “encounter killing” of the four men accused of rape-murder of a young veterinarian in Hyderabad in December 2019 has asked the Telangana government to present its evidence on Saturday. The Supreme Court had constituted the three member panel headed by former SC judge Justice V S Sirpurkar, after the sensational encounter was challenged by civil liberties activists as “extra-judicial killings.” The term of the commission was extended again by another six months on 3 August by the Court which observed that the probe has been “going on and on.” The SC bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana has reportedly remarked that a similar panel formed to probe the July 2020 encounter killing of gangster Vikas Dubey in Uttar Pradesh had already submitted its report. While Justice Sirpurkar commission's first sitting took place on 3 February 2020 the later proceedings like physical hearings, it stated, were impeded by the Covid-19 pandemic. The commission has however received 1,333 affidavits from the public, 103 from the police, government officials, witnesses and doctors. Voluminous records of SIT investigation, call data, medical forensic and ballistic reports were also collected. The inquiry commission has now decided to commence  hearings in a hybrid form – both physical and virtual, “where in some witnesses will be examined in the physical presence and some in the virtual presence of the commission.” Nevertheless, all the witnesses, advocates of the commission, state government and persons served with notices, others are required to appear physically before the commission operating from the Telangana high court premises. An official of the commission said that Chairman Sirpurkar and other members would preside over the Saturday hearing, where the Telangana government is asked to present its evidence, virtually through video conferencing. Thereafter 18 witnesses will be examined on 26, 27, and 28th August in the same manner, the commission secretary said in a statement. The case Mohammed alias Arif (26) a lorry driver and A-1, and three others – Gollu Shiva, Gollu Naveen and Ch Chennakesavulu – all in twenties and hailing from Maktal in south Telangana were shot dead by the Cyberabad police, just over a week after the gruesome rape-murder on 27-28 November night at Shamshabad on the Hyderabad-Bangalore highway. The suspects were arrested on 29 November and were produced before a court. Like in the Dubey case, the four were in police custody when they were killed. In the pre-dawn hours of 6 December 2019, the men were taken to the Chatanpally underpass where the body of Disha, as the vet was later referred to, was found in half burnt condition. Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar had claimed that the accused, taken there to recover the victim’s mobile and other belongings, snatched two weapons and started firing at the police team. “We warned them to surrender but the accused did not heed, forcing us to open fire. They were later found dead with bullet injuries,” Sajjanar stated. Though the commission hearings are open to the public, in view of Covid-19 a limited number of pass holders will be allowed inside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/20-months-on-hyderabad-encounter-probe-commission-asks-telangana-govt-to-present-evidence-1021446.html
19-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt to train interested women to be temple priests; revive 6 training schools||Close on the heels of appointing non-Brahmin priests in temples managed by the HR & CE department, the DMK government in Tamil Nadu has decided to revive six Archakar Payirchi Palli (Training School for Priests) in the next two months to admit interested students from all communities for training.  The training schools will also open their doors to women for the first time, highly placed sources told DH, adding that women who are interested in getting trained as priests can also apply for the one-year course for which admission is likely to begin in a month. Tamil Nadu will probably be the first state to train women as priests -- the HR & CE minister had in June said the government will find ways to train interested women.  The sources also said the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments department has been asked to bring in changes to the curriculum in the year-long course to ensure that the to-be priests are given practical training for a few hours every day on ways to perform poojas and exercise their duties.  The then DMK Government established six training schools – four for Shaivite tradition and two for Vaishnavite tradition – in 2007 to end “caste discrimination” in the appointment of priests and ensuring social justice, a core principle of the Dravidian movement. Due to a slew of court cases and a regime change in 2011, the training centres became non-functional. “All the six Archakar Payirchi Palli will be revived in two months. We want to start the admission process in a month and begin classes in October. Now that trained people from all communities have been appointed as priests in temples, we hope many students will join the course,” a senior government official told DH. He said the revised curriculum will include practical training for the students in temples inside the campus or near the institute to ensure that abhishegams are performed as per tradition.  On whether women can apply for the course, the official said anyone irrespective of gender who fulfils the basic qualification criteria is welcome to send in their applications. “We have already said we will train interested women as priests. The archakar course is open to anyone, and if female students apply for the course, they will be trained. There shall be no doubt about this,” the official explained.  The decision to revive the training schools after about 13 years comes on the heels of CM Stalin handing over orders of appointments to 24 trained persons from different communities as priests in temples. Earlier, only two priests from non-Brahmin communities were working in HR & CE temples.  The new government’s move was hailed as “historic” and was projected as one of the achievements of the DMK dispensation in the first 100 days in office. The move also landed in a row with reports that existing priests were removed to make way for the trained ones, a charge stoutly denied by Stalin himself in the state Assembly. The official said the Archakar Payirchi Palli in Palani in Dindigul district is being spruced up to welcome students, while work on reviving buildings of the remaining five schools will begin soon. “Most of these schools still have a headmaster and an agama teacher and there is no problem in admitting students,” the official added.  Another senior official said the government will fast-track the process of filing 500 vacant posts, including that of priests, in temples. He added that the process is “transparent” and anyone who has undergone training at a government or institutes run by religious mutts and private individuals can apply for the jobs.  “What matters is merit. That is how the 200-odd appointments for which were orders were given last week took place. Experienced priests sit on the panel and interview the applicants,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-to-train-interested-women-to-be-temple-priests-revive-6-training-schools-1021456.html
19-08-2021||South||Covid gives global reach to Kerala's Onam celebrations||Malayalis and art lovers across the globe can enjoy this year's popular Onam celebrations of Kerala as the state tourism department is observing the festival online, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.  From 'Vilpattu' of South Kerala to 'Yakshagana' of Northern district of Kasargod, as many as 53 traditional and folk art forms performance of Kerala will be telecast through various mediums during the five-day virtual event that began on Thursday  The virtual Onam celebrations are also giving fresh hopes to the traditional artform performers who have been in a dire financial crisis owing to prolonged shutdown. A virtual Onam floral carpet competition is another highlight of the event. The artforms will be telecast over Youtube and Facebook as well as various television channels.   'Nangiarkoothu' Bamboo music, Velakali, 'Arjuna Nritham', 'Garudan Thookkam', tribal dance, 'Ottanthullal', 'Pava Kathakali' , 'Tholpavakkoothu', 'Arbana Muttu', 'Vatta Mudiyattam' and 'Alamikkali'. Thus goes the list of various traditional folk arts of Kerala being performed during the Onam celebrations. Apart from giving a global reach to the traditional art forms of Kerala, the virtual Onam week celebrations also aim at giving relief to the hundreds of performers of traditional art forms who were among the worse-hit by Covid. Tourism Minister P A Mohamed Riyas said the state’s folk and traditional artists were in deep financial crisis owing to the pandemic. Hence the major aim of the online Onam celebrations would be a help for them. The virtual celebrations will give global reach for the state's art forms. Kerala Tourism director V R Krishna Teja said that all the videos for the week-long telecasting were already kept ready. It started telecasting from Thursday and will be on till 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-gives-global-reach-to-keralas-onam-celebrations-1021467.html
19-08-2021||South||Health experts worried about Covid surge in Kerala amid Onam||With commercial streets and shopping centres in Kerala busy owing to the onset of the Onam celebrations, health experts are concerned over a possible surge of Covid-19 in the state. In a counter strategy, the state has enhanced its vaccination drive that already crossed the 50 per cent mark. Already, the Covid TPR is giving indicators of a surge with 16.15 per cent being reported on Thursday. Lockdown restrictions were relaxed in the state over the last couple of weeks. Effective enforcement of social distancing norms at shops are remaining more or less only on paper these days. The TPR of the state was hovering around 15 per cent over the last few days. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya who came down to Kerala to review the Covid situation on Monday had also cautioned the state about the chances of Covid surge during Onam. An official of Kerala Health department said that the present scenes from commercial streets and shops in the state were really disturbing. Socially distancing has literally gone for a toss. Though almost all people could be seen wearing masks, how many are wearing  properly. Sanitisers are placed in front of shops. But how many are using it? Hence there was no surprise if there is further Covid surge in Kerala in the coming weeks, he said. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive of the state has been intensified. Even drive-in vaccination camps where vaccination would be provided in the vehicle was launched mainly targeting the aged population. So far 1.86 crore were given first dose and 68.3 lakh got second dose also. Even as many fully vaccinated or partially vaccinated were also testing Covid positive, major chuck of them are asymptomatic and doesn't have any symptoms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/health-experts-worried-about-covid-surge-in-kerala-amid-onam-1021486.html
19-08-2021||South||Opposition TDP demands CM Jagan for financial support to private teachers||Covid-19 caused a financial crisis in the private education sector and has claimed the lives of an educator couple in the Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh. Karnati Subrahmanyam (33) and Rohini (27), who run a private school in Koilakuntla town took the extreme step after failing to repay the huge loans they availed to develop their school named Life Energy. Though the English medium school was functioning for the past few years, the lack of new admissions during the pandemic and the regular fee collection hit for the second consecutive year has worsened their debt situation. Unable to face the pressure from the money lenders, the couple consumed poison halting their car at Karivena, while returning from their relative's place on Sunday night. They sent out a video addressed to their family, students and parents explaining their plight. According to the police, the couple invested about Rs two crore in the school. Citing the incident as yet another tragic story of private-sector teachers in the Covid-19 time, TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh has demanded CM Jaganmohan Reddy to extend financial help to private school and college teachers in Andhra Pradesh, on the lines of Telangana and Karnataka, “in order to rescue them from severe financial crisis and hunger pangs.” "It is deeply distressing to note that, on the day schools reopened in AP, a teacher couple running a private school in Koilakuntla committed suicide. They buckled under pressure from money lenders. How many more such incidents must happen before the AP government takes meaningful action? There are more than 12,000 private schools in AP, providing employment to nearly 1.25 lakh teachers," Lokesh, an MLC said on Thursday. Stating that dozens of private teachers have committed suicides in the Telugu states, Lokesh added that the Koilakuntla teacher couple suicide “was alarming and an eye-opener to the deteriorating situation.” In a letter to the Chief Minister, Lokesh said that thousands of teachers in private schools have not been receiving salaries regularly since the lockdown last year and that there is no clarity on when the retrenched teachers would be rehired. Lokesh said that contract teachers in government junior colleges are facing similar problems. “Their hunger pangs and rising debts is the hidden epidemic afflicting our education sector. There have been multiple news reports of teachers forced to sell vegetables, undertake construction work and other manual labour. A Telugu lecturer with a PhD in Kadapa was forced to do agricultural labour to support his family,” the former minister said. Pointing that Telangana has earlier announced Rs 2,000 financial assistance and 25 kilos of rice per month to private teachers and Karnataka a relief package of Rs 5,000 for primary school teachers, Lokesh said that the YSRCP government should also extend similar immediate financial and in-kind transfers to such families in AP. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/opposition-tdp-demands-cm-jagan-for-financial-support-to-private-teachers-1021496.html
19-08-2021||State||Karnataka expresses interest in home-grown oxygen concentrator||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has issued an expression of demand to procure an indigenously developed oxygen concentrator to outfit all 2,508 primary health centres in the state as part of its preparations for the third wave. Sources said that this is the first sizable state government interest in an indigenous Covid-19 response technology, which happens to be developed by researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc). Professor Praveen C Ramamurthy, and Bhaskar K of IISc’s Department of Materials Engineering, whose team developed the concentrator, explained that the concentrator can supply up to 10 litres per minute of 93-95% oxygen concentration, and had been tested to run continuously for up to eight months in lab conditions without suffering a drop in oxygen percentage. Clinical trial is complete with a report concluding that this system is on par with performance of medical grade compressed oxygen cylinders. In a letter to Spectrum Tools Engineers Pvt Ltd, a Kamakshipalya-based firm which is set to produce the concentrator on licence from IISc, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar noted that the firm had proposed to supply “two units of 10 litres capacity...for each of the healthcare centres which in overall caters to the need of about 5,000 units in Karnataka.” Dr Sudhakar told DH that the plans for procurement from either IISc or Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) had been precipitated by a need to prepare for the possible third wave. “Thanks to the Centre's quick response and help, we (have already) received 3,800 units of oxygen concentrators through the PM Cares Fund,” he added. The concentrators are to be potentially acquired through the CSR activities of Vision Karnataka Foundation and Rotary International, Bengaluru. Sudarshan V, Managing Director of Spectrum Tools, pointed out that most concentrators currently deployed in India are internationally sourced. “This is the first indigenous device to be acquired by the state government. The next stage is discussions with CSR partners,” he added. Professor Ramamurthy said that his lab has transferred the concentrator technology to 24 firms across India. “One company has already manufactured 35 units which were distributed to hospitals in Tumkur,” he said. He said the unit price largely depends on the order size, which is still in discussion. Professor Ramamurthy said that his lab has transferred the concentrator technology to 24 firms across India. “One company Revaron has already manufactured 35 units which were distributed to hospitals in the Tumkur region,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-expresses-interest-in-home-grown-oxygen-concentrator-1021340.html
19-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nine districts in Karnataka await oxygen refilling plants||As many as nine districts in the state are yet to have oxygen refilling plants. Though there are 64 such units across Karnataka, none have set up shop in these districts. While no private player is interested to foray into some districts, a few others have made it up with advanced technology, which has leveraged their production capacities. Gadag, Chikkaballapur, Chitradurga, Bidar, Yadgir, Chamarajanagar, Kodagu, Mandya and Udupi are the districts without oxygen refilling plants. Chamarajanagar district officials said a refilling unit is desirable, especially against the backdrop of the tragedy in May when 24 Covid patients died due to lack of oxygen. For now, it is awaiting oxygen plants with 20 kilolitre capacity to be operational on its new medical college hospital campus, and still uses the services of a private agency 70 km away in Mysuru district. On August 16, Chamarajanagar’s oxygen consumption was 1.43 metric tonnes at five government and two private hospitals treating Covid patients. The district has 350 oxygenated beds out of which 30 are occupied. On Wednesday, there were 191 active cases in the district. During the peak of second wave, it saw 840 cases in a single day, with a peak active caseload of 6,000-7,000. Chamarajanagar District Health Officer Dr MC Ravi said, “If any industrialist comes forward, it will be good, but there are no industries here. Only private players can set up refilling plants, there are no government-run refilling plants anywhere; even the one in Mysuru is private. The district administration has promised all support to those interested in establishing one, but no one came. Additionally, we have got two PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen generation plants but they are yet to be functional. In May, we had only six kilolitre LMO (liquid medical oxygen) plant in the district hospital.” The district has 600-700 jumbo cylinders and has also deployed two oxygen concentrators per primary health centre (PHC). Kodagu district health officer Dr K Mohan said there are no refilling plants in the district but three new PSA plants have been set up, which are yet to be functional though. Technicians are awaited for one plant in Virajpet with 500 litres per minute (lpm) capacity, and instruments are awaited for another with 1,000 lpm capacity on medical college campus, and Somwarpet’s 390 lpm capacity plant. “We may need oxygen cylinders only in peripheral PHCs where already two to three oxygen concentrators have also been given per PHC,” he said. Yadgir district has also similarly got two new PSA plants, one with 500 lpm capacity and another with 1,000 lpm capacity, in addition to its existing six kilolitre LMO plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nine-districts-in-karnataka-await-oxygen-refilling-plants-1021194.html
19-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to give financial aid to Muslim women for medical treatment||The BJP government in Karnataka will provide financial assistance of up to ₹1 lakh to Muslim women suffering from major health ailments. This assistance will be provided through the Karnataka State Wakf Foundation for Women Development. “Muslim women suffering from cancer, heart problems and other major health issues that require operation will get up to ₹1 lakh assistance,” Muzrai, Haj & Wakf Minister Shashikala Jolle said. The state government has set aside ₹1.74 crore funds in the current financial year for this. “This scheme needs more awareness,” Jolle said. “As a legislator, I didn’t know about it until I took charge as the minister. All legislators should know about it. We will write to all of them detailing programmes being offered by our department,” she said.  Asked about encroachment of Wakf properties, Jolle said there were 1,600 cases pertaining to 8,480 acres pending in court. She also noted that a report prepared by former Karnataka State Minorities Commission chairperson Anwar Manippady on encroachment of Wakf properties had been tabled in the Assembly. The report, tabled last year after being in cold storage since 2012, names several Congress leaders for the alleged misappropriation of Wakf properties. Jolle said he was not unhappy with her new portfolio; she was the women & child development minister in the previous B S Yediyurappa’s government. “I am fond of this portfolio since I’m a spiritual person. I will travel around the state and spread awareness on the schemes and programmes,” she said. For her swearing-in ceremony earlier this month, Jolle drew flak for getting zero traffic facility to reach Raj Bhavan from the airport. The High Court also took note of this. “I didn’t know there was zero traffic. I got to know only after boarding the vehicle. I hadn’t asked for it,” she said. She declined to answer questions on the corruption allegations against her. “I haven’t done anything wrong,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-give-financial-aid-to-muslim-women-for-medical-treatment-1021321.html
19-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SC Collegium approves 6 names as permanent judges of Karnataka HC||The Supreme Court Collegium has approved the proposal for appointment of six Additional Judges of the Karnataka High Court as Permanent Judges. The Collegium headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana in a meeting held on August 17, 2021 okayed the proposal and the statement was uploaded on the apex court website on Thursday. The judges who have been made permanent are: Justices Neranahalli Srinivasan Sanjay Gowda, Jyoti Mulimani, Nataraj Rangaswamy, Hemant Chandangoudar, Pradeep Singh Yerur and Maheshan Nagaprasanna. The Collegium has also approved the proposal for appointment of Justice Kausik Chanda, Additional Judge of the Calcutta High Court, as Permanent Judge. Besides Ramana, Justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar are part of the three-member Collegium which takes decisions with regard to the high court judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-collegium-approves-6-names-as-permanent-judges-of-karnataka-hc-1021353.html
19-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After 19 months in Saudi prison, Karnataka man returns home||After a traumatic 19 months behind bars in a prison in Saudi Arabia for a blasphemous post against the Saudi crown Prince and the holy land of Makkah made out by fraudsters in his name, Harish Bangera from Udupi district is back home thanks to the efforts from various quarters including the Udipi police and Union Minister Shobha Karandlaje. Bangera from Koteshwar in Udupi district, who was arrested in December 2019 on charges of making contemptuous remarks about the crown prince and Makkah on Facebook, was freed from a Saudi prison on August 17. He reached his homeland on Wednesday. Bangera, who was working as an air-conditioning technician in Saudi Arabia, had shared a post supporting the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) of Indian government which angered his employer. He later apologised for sharing the post via a video and deactivated the account. Meanwhile, apparently provoked by his pro-CAA post, two Muslim brothers from Dakshina Kannada district had allegedly opened a fake Facebook account in Bangera's name and posted objectionable material against the holy land and the crown prince. The Saudi police acted swiftly and arrested him. His wife Sumana filed a complaint with the CEN police station here stating that her husband was a victim of a conspiracy and explained that it was a fake account. Police investigation revealed that Bangera had absolutely no connection with the account. The accused duo were arrested in October last year after it was found out that they had created the fake account. Udupi police shared the information collected with the Saudi Arabian government, which paved the way for his release. Many people including social activist Ravindranath Shanbhag, former minister K Jayaprakash Hegde, MLA Halady Srinivas Shetty and police officials put in efforts to secure his release all these months. The efforts of the Udupi police and later the intervention of Union Minister of state for Agriculture Shobha Karandlaje and several other political leaders resulted in Bangera being freed from a Saudi prison on August 17. His friends were present at Bengaluru airport when he arrived from Saudi Arabia on Wednesday morning. Expressing happiness over Bangera's release, Udupi district superintendent of police Vishnuvardhan said the case against the two people who created the fake account is still before the trial court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-19-months-in-saudi-prison-karnataka-man-returns-home-1021370.html
19-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Legislature session from September 13||The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday decided to convene the state legislature session for 10 days from September 13 to 24. "We have decided to call the legislature session from September 13 to 24, it will be for 10 days," Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J C Madhuswamy said. Speaking to reporters in Bengaluru after the cabinet meeting, he said, it will be held at Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru. This is the first legislature session after the new government led by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai took charge. The cabinet has also given its approval for various "Amrith" programmes announced by the Chief Minister on Independence Day to mark the Platinum Jubilee of Indian Independence. Madhuswamy said Amrith Nirmala Nagara programme that was announced will be launched in 75 urban local bodies to keep them clean and beautiful. "We are providing Rs 75 crore for this." Also, a total of 750 Primary Health Care (PHCs) centres will be upgraded for which Rs 150 crore is being provided, he said, also, a total of 750 farmer producer organisations would be set up to promote production and marketing of agriculture, fisheries and weavers products. The grant will be given for three years and a total of Rs 225 crore will be spent on this. Further, a total of Rs 75 crore will be spent on providing basic infrastructure such as digital library, smart teaching class, lab and toilets at the select 750 schools at a cost of Rs 10 lakh per school, the Minister said. It has also planned to provide Rs 1 lakh as seed money to each of the selected 7,500 self-help groups whose transactions are transparent and have done a good job, to set up Micro Enterprises, for this a total of Rs 75 crore grant is being given, he said. In about 750 gram panchayats works will be taken up for improving basic infrastructure like street lights, drinking water, waste disposal, installing Solar Power, digital libraries among others and for this each gram panchayat will be given a grant of Rs 25 lakh, he added. The cabinet has also decided to procure and distribute sanitary napkin pads to adolescent girls, 10 pads per girl student, in government and aided schools and colleges under the "Shuchi" programme, aimed at maintaining hygiene. Rs 47 crore is being provided for this, and the Health Department will implement the programme, the Minister said. Administrative approval has been given to upgrade 2,859 Health Sub-Centres to "Health and Wellness Centres" at the cost of Rs 478.91 crore. "Sixty per cent of the grant will be given by the centre....wherever there are vacancies staff nurse and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) will be outsourced or BSc nursing graduates will be taken for three years, giving them consolidated salary," he said. With a new government coming in, the cabinet has authorised CM Basavaraj Bommai to reconstitute all the cabinet sub-committees. Also, the cabinet has cleared the Karnataka State Mental Health Care Rules-2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-legislature-session-from-september-13-1021382.html
19-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||1,432 new Covid-19 cases, 27 deaths in Karnataka||The total number of active cases in the state is 21,133. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.80 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.88 per cent. Out of 27 deaths registered on Thursday, 7 each are from Dakshina Kannada; Mysuru 3, Bengaluru Urban, Haveri, Kodagu, Mandya and Udupi 2, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 326, Bengaluru Urban 318, Udupi 162, Mysuru 103, Hassan 94, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,34,157, followed by Mysuru 1,74,993 and Tumakuru 1,18,809. Cumulatively a total of 4.15 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,76,977 were tested on Thursday alone. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/1432-new-covid-19-cases-27-deaths-in-karnataka-1021454.html
19-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet clears Rs 478-cr facelift plan for health centres||The Karnataka Cabinet on Thursday approved a plan to upgrade 2,859 health sub-centres into 'Health and Wellness Centres', adding additional infrastructure and staff in the primary healthcare space. Briefing reporters, Law Minister JC Madhuswamy said the upgrade would be done up under the National Health Mission. "There are several sub centres scattered across the state. These are health sub-centres in rural areas that function with nurses and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs). We will now upgrade the infrastructure in these facilities and also recruit staff wherever necessary," he explained.  The Cabinet approved Rs 478.91 crore for this project. The Centre will chip in 60 per cent while the state government will bear 40 per cent of the cost. The Cabinet also approved providing sanitary napkins to adolescent girls in government schools and colleges, under the 'Shuchi' scheme. The government will provide ten sanitary napkins per student, Madhuswamy said. The government has earmarked Rs 47 crore for the purpose.  In another decision, the Karnataka State Mental Health Care Rules, 2021 to implement the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 was also approved. The state government had constituted a committee led by NIMHANS director. In December 2019, the state had sent draft rules to the Centre for approval. However, the Centre had issued some objections to it, following which the state government had sent back a revised version in May 2020. These draft rules have now received the Centre's nod and have been approved by the Cabinet. Further, the 'Amrith Schemes' that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai announced in his Independence Day speech were approved by the Cabinet. Bommai had announced upgrading infrastructure through 14 different programmes covering schools, gram panchayats, towns apart from financial aid to self-help groups and entrepreneurs. "All these schemes have the Finance Department's concurrence," he said. In other decisions, the Cabinet authorized Bommai to reconstitute 14 Cabinet sub-committees. They have to be reconstituted as there is now a new government in place. Also, the Cabinet cleared an allocation of Rs 73.73 crore to clear 'legacy waste' (9 lakh tonne) at Pachchanadi waste processing unit under the Mangaluru City Corporation limits. Madhuswamy specified that the Cabinet did not discuss the threat of the third wave of Covid-19. "We haven't felt the panic still as the situation is under control right now," he said. Nothing was discussed on renaming the Indira Canteens, he added. Legislature session next month The Cabinet decided to convene a 10-day session of the legislature starting September 13, which will be the first for Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. The session will be held in Vidhana Soudha and not the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi, Madhuswamy said. The Opposition Congress is likely to target the government on Covid-19 and developmental issues. It remains to be seen if former chief minister BS Yediyurappa will attend the session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-clears-rs-478-cr-facelift-plan-for-health-centres-1021490.html
19-08-2021||West||Gujarat HC stays some sections related to interfaith marriages of new anti-conversion law||In a setback to the Vijay Rupani-led BJP government, the Gujarat High Court on Thursday stayed several sections of controversial "anti-love jihad" law including the section that makes an interfaith marriage itself a criminal offence amounting to religious conversion. While suspending those particular sections of law, the bench observed that it was necessary to "protect the parties solemnized in interfaith marriage from being unnecessarily harassed". The division bench of Chief jJustice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav in the interim order granted stay on section-3, 4, 4-A, 4-C, 5, 6 and 6A of Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amended) Act, 2021. The bench stated, "...we are therefore of the opinion that pending further hearing, the rigours of section-3, 3, 4A to 4 C, 5, 6 and 6A shall not operate merely because marriage is solemnised by person of one religion with another without force, or allurement or fraudulent means and such marriages can't be termed as marriages for the purpose of unlawful conversion." The Rupani government inserted several controversial provisions by amending the principal act implemented in 2003 for the purpose of curbing religious conversion. Section-3 of the old law prohibited forcible conversion which stated, "No person shall convert or attempt to convert, either directly or otherwise, any person from one religion to another by use of force or by allurement or by any fraudulent means". The present government amended it by inserting, "or by marriage or by getting a person married or by aiding a person to get married nor shall any person abet such conversion", making interfaith marriage as a criminal offence. Section-4 provides punishment for violating section-3 which can be extended up to four years of imprisonment, section 4A has provision for punishment for violating section 3 in case of marriage by unlawful conversion. The violators can be jailed for seven years if found guilty. Section 4C is meant for institutions or organisations found to be violating section-3. It stipulates punishment upto 10 years of imprisonment. Sections-5 and 6 stipulate prior permissions of district collector in case of conversion and for prosecution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-stays-some-sections-related-to-interfaith-marriages-of-new-anti-conversion-law-1021325.html
19-08-2021||West||Param Bir Singh fined Rs 25,000 for not appearing before inquiry commission||An inquiry commission headed by a retired high court judge has imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for not appearing before it. The Maharashtra government in March this year formed a one-member commission of Justice (retd) Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal to conduct a probe into corruption allegations levelled by Singh against the then state home minister Anil Deshmukh. As Singh failed to appear before the commission on Wednesday, a fine of Rs 25,000 was imposed on him, a government lawyer said on Thursday. During the previous hearing, the probe panel had given Singh the "last chance" to appear before it. This is the second instance of fine being imposed on Singh. In June, the commission had asked the senior IPS officer to pay a fine Rs 5,000 for not appearing before it despite a summons. The amount was to be deposited in the Chief Minister's Covid-19 Relief Fund. Days after he was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner and transferred to the Home Guards in March, Singh claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh used to ask police officers to collect money from restaurant and bar owners in Mumbai. Deshmukh, an NCP leader, has denied the allegations. The Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by the senior IPS officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-fined-rs-25000-for-not-appearing-before-inquiry-commission-1021331.html
19-08-2021||West||Gas leak in Maharashtra sugar factory: NGT directs IIT-Mumbai to conduct study on damage to soil||The National Green Tribunal has directed the IIT-Mumbai to conduct a study within three months on damage to the soil caused due to methane gas leak in a sugar factory in Maharashtra's Solapur district. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the report of the IIT may be submitted to the Chairman of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board. The NGT also directed a six member expert committee, formed by it, to look into the monitoring of ground water in context of leaching of spent wash (residual liquid waste generated during alcohol production). "On that basis, recommendations be made to ensure that contaminated water does not affect other wells of public use. The Chairman State PCB may, based on the final report of the Committee and the study report to be submitted by IIT Mumbai, ensure further remedial action," the bench said in its recent order. Compliance will be treated as a consent condition for functioning of the factory except that if it is aggrieved by final report or study report, it will be open to it to file objections before this tribunal, it said. The interim report and the final report may also be placed on the website of the CPCB for six months so that the same can be accessed by the concerned stakeholders, the tribunal said. Two workers were killed and eight others taken ill or injured after a methane gas tank fell from the structure holding it, leading to gas leakage at a sugar mill in Solapur district. The incident took place on the premises of Lokenete Bapurao Patil Agro Industries Ltd, which has a sugar factory and distillery located in Mohol taluka of Solapur district. The NGT initiated the proceedings in this matter on the basis of media report of deaths and injuries on account of methane gas leak in a sugar factory called Lokenete Bapurao Patil Agro Industries Ltd. in Mohol Taluka of Solapur District, Maharashtra on November 21, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gas-leak-in-maharashtra-sugar-factory-ngt-directs-iit-mumbai-to-conduct-study-on-damage-to-soil-1021336.html
19-08-2021||West||Race to Zero: Nashik first non-metro city in Maharashtra to commit to go carbon neutral by 2040||Following the Maharashtra government’s announcement on Earth Day, Nashik Municipal Corporation Commissioner Kailas Jadhav signed the Race to Zero pledge – making Nashik the first non-metro city in Maharashtra to commit to going net-zero by 2040. Organised ahead of the Conference of Parties, the UN gathering responsible for the historic Paris Agreement, the Race to Zero is the largest credible alliance of companies, cities, states, regions, investors, universities and all actors aiming to halve carbon emissions by 2030 and individually committed to achieving net-zero emissions as soon as possible, by 2040 at the very latest. As part of this initiative, cities will prevent future climate threats, create jobs and unlock sustainable growth. Participating cities will also report their greenhouse gas emissions and strategise to reduce these by mid-century, in line with the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Nashik has been a frontrunner in many states and central government initiatives that address climate change directly such as the Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Smart City Mission and the National Clean Air Programme. The Race to Zero campaign supports the exemplary work done by Nashik as part of these initiatives. Nashik has received grants of Rs 20.5 crore to reduce air pollution from the 15th Finance Commission. This grant will be utilised for the construction of electric crematoriums and waste management technologies for Nashik Municipal Corporation – which directly tackle greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. “Cities are the solution to addressing climate change. Cities should, would and could lead the way forward,” said Minister of Environment, Tourism and Protocol Aaditya Thackeray in a recent conversation about the importance of cities and net-zero pathways in addressing climate change. “Nashik Municipal Corporation is committed to tackling climate change – reducing air pollution is a major step towards this direction. The Race to Zero initiative, C40 Cities and Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan gives a much-needed platform to share our best practices towards addressing these key issues” said Jadhav. In addition, Nashik has also prioritised carbon-free transport in the city by developing smart roads and dedicated cycling infrastructure. The city has also planned the development of a clean public transport system using electric buses and CNG fuel. Such initiatives have displayed the city’s long-standing commitment to the environment and its citizens. As part of the Race to Zero campaign, Nashik has committed to set aggressive targets for reducing air pollution, procure more electric buses and reduce municipal solid waste. In addition, the city will advance towards resilient and sustainable energy systems by promoting clean energy sources such as solar energy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/race-to-zero-nashik-first-non-metro-city-in-maharashtra-to-commit-to-go-carbon-neutral-by-2040-1021354.html
19-08-2021||West||Covid-19 may turn the tide in Mumbai's political discourse||The back-to-back waves of the Covid-19 pandemic may turn the tide in India’s political discourse vis-a-vis the health sector. This holds true in the financial capital of Mumbai, one of the worst-affected cities of India, and the fact that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), one of the biggest and richest civic bodies, is going to polls next year. Three Mumbai-based medical professionals - Dr Akshay Baheti, Dr Trupti Gilada and  Dr Sanjay Nagral, made this point in a paper published in the British Medical Journal. The paper discusses the Mumbai Model spearheaded by BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. While Baheti is with the Department of Radiodiagnosis, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, Dr Gilada is an Infectious Disease Physician, Unison Medicare and Research Center, Mumbai and Dr Nagral works with the Department of Surgical Gastroenterology, Jaslok Hospital and Research Center, Mumbai. “The city of Mumbai, where we work, witnessed some unique phenomena in its healthcare infrastructure during the pandemic. The BMC temporarily took over 80% of private hospital beds to ensure a common admission route with strict triaging and capped rates,” the paper said. The elite, who normally avoid engagement with public hospitals, and were always guaranteed a bed in private hospitals on the basis of expensive deposits, had to call municipal telephone lines and wait to secure a hospital bed. This transient centralisation and regulation of healthcare facilities, routine in many countries, demonstrated visible results and was commended as the 'Mumbai model'. A deeper look into the reasons for the success of the Mumbai model also demonstrates a more longstanding systematic investment to create a more robust public healthcare infrastructure compared to many other cities in India. Apart from its large private medical infrastructure, Mumbai boasts of five central academic teaching hospitals, and over 20 peripheral municipal hospitals, attracting top medical trainees from across the country. “During the pandemic, medical interns and post-graduate trainees became its strongest workforce. Importantly, unlike the central budget, health has been a relative priority in the municipal budget, accounting for 12 per cent of overall budget. This partly ensures no shortage of funds in procuring medicines or equipment for creation of larger Covid care facilities,” the paper states. The biggest strength of the model was allowing decentralised management at the local ward level (Mumbai is divided into 24 administrative divisions called wards), with each having individual “control rooms” for the management of Covid patients, right from testing, sanitisation, home isolation, contact tracing and quarantining, and hospital admission. The dramatic load on private healthcare in the second wave led to the middle class experiencing first-hand what it means to face a dysfunctional healthcare infrastructure and perhaps even grasp its tragic consequences, besides also understanding the crucial role of public healthcare for overall national wellbeing. “This may translate into sustained public pressure for bringing healthcare into the mainstream political agenda. This will soon be tested in the local Mumbai Municipal elections due early next year, along with elections in a few states. In New Delhi, a local political party which has placed health and education at the centre stage for some time has managed in the past to upstage national parties and win the elections, with support both from the working class and substantial sections of the middle class,” the paper points out. “Will Mumbai’s poorer and the middle and upper classes come together in the aftermath of Covid to force permanent changes in its public healthcare infrastructure, by altering the usual identity politics on which elections are won? This is a question that only time will answer. But if it does happen, it could also be another Mumbai model for the rest of the country to follow,” it says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-may-turn-the-tide-in-mumbais-political-discourse-1021356.html
19-08-2021||West||BJP stages show of strength ahead of BMC polls||With the mega Mumbai civic polls just months away, the BJP on Thursday staged a mammoth show of strength in Mumbai vowing to end the quarter-century rule and dominance of its erstwhile ally Shiv Sena in the civic body. The elections to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is going to be keenly contested as the BJP is using all its might to take on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena in Maharashtra. On Narayan Rane's arrival at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport, he was welcomed by the Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar and other top leaders. “We will win the BMC elections…we will end the sins they (Shiv Sena) committed over the last three decades,” said Union Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises Minister Narayan Rane as he embarked on the Jan Ashirwad Yatra. It needs to be mentioned that Rane, a grassroots firebrand leader, is Uddhav Thackeray's bete noire. While in Shiv Sena, he started as a Corporator in the BMC and rose to become the Chief Minister and later Leader of Opposition. However, owing to differences with Uddhav, he was expelled by late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray, after which he joined Congress. A few years ago, he joined the BJP. “I became a minister because of the blessings of people of the state…I pledge my ministry to you….I will work to generate employment opportunities,” he said. “Uddhav Thackeray is leading the state of Maharashtra towards demolition. Through Jan Ashirwad Yatra, we begin the process of change to provide people with a good government led by BJP,” said Rane, who is known as the Konkan strongman. On Friday, he is expected to address a news conference after which he will embark on a tour of the Konkan region - passing through Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. All four newly-inducted ministers from Maharashtra who were recently inducted into the Narendra Modi government —  Rane, Kapil Patil, Bhagwat Karad and Bharati Pawar — are conducting yatras. “I have been given an opportunity by (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi, (Home Minister) Amit Shah to serve you,” he said and also thanked Fadnavis and Darekar. To a question on the Shiv Sena leader's comments that political gatherings must be avoided in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Rane said: "Those who have come to power through backdoors should not preach and teach us. Seeing the response to the Jan Ashirwad Yatra, one must understand their days are  just numbered.” Allies for nearly three decades, the Shiv Sena joined hands with Congress and Sharad Pawar-led NCP to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and keep the BJP out of power in the state. The forthcoming elections to the BMC and over a dozen big corporations including Thane, Navi Mumbai, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Amravati would be a “mini-Vidhan Sabha” of sorts. While the BJP has started preparations, the Congress is likely to go alone even as the Shiv Sena-NCP are expected to forge an alliance. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-stages-show-of-strength-ahead-of-bmc-polls-1021369.html
19-08-2021||West||Rajasthan man kills toddler after throwing her on ground as he was upset with wife for not wearing veil||Upset that his wife was not wearing a veil to cover her face, a man in Alwar district snatched their three-year-old daughter from her and allegedly threw the child on the ground, killing her, police said on Thursday. Later, the accused and his family members secretly cremated the girl, they said. The woman, Monika Yadav, accompanied by her parents, lodged a complaint with the Behror Police Station on Wednesday. She alleged that her husband, Pradeep Yadav, quarrelled with her on Tuesday for not covering her face with a veil, and during the argument he snatched their daughter from her and threw the child outside the room, resulting in her death. The accused and his family members then performed the last rites of the girl secretly, Monica Yadav alleged. "She said her husband always insisted on her wearing a ghunghat (veil). On Tuesday also they had a fight over the issue. Then, he slapped their daughter and when the woman objected, he snatched the girl and threw her the on the ground due to which she died," the police said. Behror Police Station SHO Prem Prakash said the accused is absconding and efforts are on to arrest him and others who participated in the cremation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-man-kills-toddler-after-throwing-her-on-ground-as-he-was-upset-with-wife-for-not-wearing-veil-1021374.html
19-08-2021||West||Modi’s statue removed from Pune temple amid criticism||Four days after a temple of Narendra Modi was inaugurated in the Aundh area of Pune district, the statue of the Prime Minister had to be removed amid widespread criticism and embarrassment. The Maharashtra BJP leadership seems to have distanced themselves from the issue and the cellphone of Mayur Munde, the local builder who made the temple, remained switched off throughout the day.  Coinciding with Independence Day festivities, Munde, a local BJP activist, erected a temple and board hailing Modi for his leadership.  According to Munde, it was his tribute to Modi who built the Ram temple at Ayodhya, abrogated Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir and ended the practice of triple talaq. "I thought that for a person who built Ram temple in Ayodhya, there should be a shrine, so I decided to construct this temple on my own premises," he had said. A total of Rs 1.6 lakh was spent to make the temple and the red stone and marble was brought from Jaipur.   The Congress and NCP have come down heavily on the BJP for the act even as there was widespread criticism by the public at large.  The NCP unit also undertook a protest and the Pune unit President described it as intellectual bankruptcy.  “After the temple came up, there was a sense of optimism in the city... There were hopes that the fuel prices would come down, inflation would come down and people would get Rs 15 lakh in their accounts. However, we came here to worship and saw that the 'God' is missing from the temple," he said. “It is the mentality of slaves,” said the Pune Congress Seva Dal unit in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/modi-s-statue-removed-from-pune-temple-amid-criticism-1021387.html
19-08-2021||West||Justice Kanade sworn in as Maharashtra’s Lokayukta||Justice Vidyasagar M Kanade, a former Judge of the Bombay High Court, was sworn in as the new Lokayukta of Maharashtra on Thursday. As a judge of the Bombay High Court, he delivered more than 34,000 judgments.  Over 1,200 judgments of his are reported in Law Reports.   Justice Kanade had also served as an  Administrator of the Maharashtra Cricket Association from 11th March 2018 to 15th September 2018 Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari administered the oath of office to Justice Kanade at a brief oath-taking ceremony held at Raj Bhavan, here.   Justice Kanade succeeds Justice M L Tahaliyani whose term as Lokayukta ended in August 2020. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Minister of Protocol and Environment Aaditya Thackeray, Mayor of Mumbai Kishori Pednekar, Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, Director General of Police Sanjay Pande, Chief Commissioner of Right to Services Swadhin Kshatriya, Upa Lokayukta Sanjay Bhatia, judges of the Bombay High Court and senior government officers were present.   Principal Secretary to Governor Santosh Kumar read out the Warrant of appointment of Justice Vidyasagar Kanade. The oath-taking ceremony started and concluded with the singing of the National Anthem  Justice Kanade (born on 22nd June 1955) started practising in the High Court, Bombay in June 1979. He worked as Assistant Government Pleader from 1988 to 1990 in Writ Cell. He was a High Court Panel Counsel for Union of India from 1986 to 1989 and ‘A’ Panel Counsel for the state of Maharashtra from 1992 to 2000. He appeared on behalf of various Government Corporations. On 12th October 2001, Justice Kanade was elevated as High Court Judge. He was Chairman of the Governing Council of the Government Law College. Justice Kanade was Acting Chief Justice of the Bombay High Court from 2nd December 2015 to 9th December 2015 and again from 15th January 2016 to 20th January 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/justice-kanade-sworn-in-as-maharashtra-s-lokayukta-1021389.html
19-08-2021||West||Shiv Sena workers 'purify' Thackeray memorial after Narayan Rane's visit||Hours after Union Minister for Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises Narayan Rane visited Shivaji Park and paid tributes to his mentor late Balasaheb Thackeray, a group of Shiv Sainiks visited the park and conducted a “purification” of the place. Rane is bete noire of Shiv Sena President and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.  In the afternoon, Rane, during the Jan Aashirwad Yatra, accompanied by Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar, visited the park and paid tributes at the memorial of the late Shiv Sena supremo. A local Shiv Sainik Appa Patil washed the area where Rane had offered floral tribute with ‘gau mutra’ cow urine and performed a dudh-abhishek on the portrait of the late leader. Patil told reporters Rane had come here to pay tributes to late Balasaheb but at the same time criticises the party formed by him. “This place had become impure by his visit which we wanted to clean up,” he said. Meanwhile, Darekar came down heavily for the Shiv Sena act. "Balasaheb is not anyone's private property. Shiv Sena will not get any sympathy out of this," he said. BJP leader Ashish Shelar described the purification act as “nautanki”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-workers-purify-thackeray-memorial-after-narayan-ranes-visit-1021484.html
