20-08-2021||First Edit||Court recognised danger in IT Rules||The stay ordered by the Bombay High Court on the operation of a part of the new Information Technology Rules of the government is prima facie an acceptance of the contention that these rules are in violation of the right to free speech and expression. The government had notified these rules earlier this year without adequate consultation and even legislative support. The court stayed Clauses 9(1) and 9(3) on both substantive and technical grounds as it felt that they do not conform to the Information Technology Act and are an intrusion into the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 19(1) of the Constitution. The IT Rules had been challenged by some digital news and current affairs publishers and a journalist who had contended that they go beyond the scope of the IT Act and can have a chilling effect on freedom of speech. The IT (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, had mandated that digital news media and online publishers should adhere to the "code of ethics" prescribed by the rules. Clause 9(1) prescribes that digital media publishers must adhere to the code, and introduces subjective notions of ‘half-truths’, ‘decency’ and ‘good taste’ into the code. Clause 9(3) proposes to set up a three-tier grievance redressal committee that would enable governments to minutely regulate all media content. The court refrained from staying the operation of Clause 9(2) and Rules 7, 14 and 16, which deal with various matters like penalties for violation of the rules, the constitution of an oversight mechanism, and the power of the government to block access to content. But it gave the petitioners the chance to raise these issues at a later stage if required.  There are widespread apprehensions, especially among publishers, that the rules will give the government control over news and digital platforms and give it the power to take unilateral action against those which are critical of it or are out of favour for some reason. The powers may also be used to deter others and make them fall in line. The court said that with the rules operating in their present form, a news organisation or a journalist exposes himself to punishment even without transgressing the boundaries of reasonable restrictions under Article 19(2). It also thought that the rules would make a publisher or a journalist think twice before criticising the administration and so agreed with the petitioners that they can have a chilling effect on freedom of speech. Hopefully, the entire corpus of the rules will be subjected to a through scrutiny by the courts in the interest of protecting the citizens’ freedom of speech and expression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/court-recognised-danger-in-it-rules-1021631.html
20-08-2021||First Edit||A Parliament vs Supreme Court fight has been set up||The passage of the Tribunal Reforms Bill by Parliament in its Monsoon Session has given rise to uncomfortable questions about parliamentary propriety and even the relations between Parliament and the Supreme Court. The Bill revived an ordinance that had been struck down by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has made critical remarks about it and the Chief Justice of India, Justice NV Ramana, has himself raised some questions. The bill passed by Parliament abolished nine appellate tribunals and revived provisions of an ordinance regarding conditions of service and tenure of tribunal members and chairpersons. In July, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court had struck down similar provisions of the ordinance as unconstitutional as they interfered with the independence of the judiciary. “Impartiality, independence, fairness and reasonableness in decision-making are the hallmarks of the judiciary,” the bench had said.  There are substantial issues about the merit of the provisions in the ordinance and the bill, which is now an Act. These relate to the independence of the tribunals, which are also judicial forums. But the question whether it is right for Parliament to re-enact provisions that have been held as unconstitutional by the Supreme Court is moot. Does that not amount to ignoring the court’s judgement, disturbing the balance of power between various organs of the State and upsetting the checks and balances in the system? The situation has been made more complicated by the fact that there was no debate on the bill in Parliament. The court pointed out this also. “We have not seen any discussion in Parliament. Of course, Parliament has the prerogative to make laws. At least, we must know why the government has introduced the bill despite being struck down by this court...Please show us the debate, the reasons and all that,” the court asked. These are strong words.  The Supreme Court’s verdict had also presciently discussed the possibility of a legislation overriding the court’s directions. It had even said that “setting at naught a decision of the court without removing the defect pointed out in the judgement would sound the death knell of the rule of law. The rule of law would cease to have any meaning, because then it would be open to the government to defy a law and yet to get away with it,” the court had said. The court will have to address the matter now, as a petition has been filed with it to declare the bill unconstitutional. As the petition pointed out, the constitutional limits of Parliament’s legislative power and the power of judicial review by the court are involved in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-parliament-vs-supreme-court-fight-has-been-set-up-1021864.html
20-08-2021||In Perspective||J&K delimitation: Gerrymandering to the extreme||Delimitation is the act of redrawing boundaries of Lok Sabha and Assembly seats to represent changes in population. While this exercise will be conducted post-2026 for the rest of India, it has recently begun in Jammu and Kashmir and is set to be completed in 2022. In this context, there are several concerns that need to be addressed. All of these apprehensions flow from one word -- gerrymandering. Largely an American expression, gerrymandering refers to the act of manipulating the boundaries of election districts in a way that gives an unfair edge to the ruling party. With Kashmir being India’s only Muslim-majority province, there is a strong suspicion that the BJP government will influence the delimitation process in a way that politically cripples the region’s Muslims. The way to achieve this would be to either reduce the number of Assembly seats in the Muslim-majority areas or to equalise them with the seats in the Hindu-dominated areas. Let us unpack the underlying issues with the ongoing delimitation exercise in J&K, now a Union Territory, but awaiting its return to being a state. In all parliamentary democracies worldwide, the norm is to demarcate electoral constituencies on the basis of the distribution of population. However, the ruling BJP has demanded that area be introduced as a criterion for consideration. If we dig deeper into this seemingly innocent suggestion, the motive becomes quite clear. The Hindu-majority Jammu area has a geographically larger are, but numerically weaker population than the Muslim-dominated Kashmir Valley. If area is considered as a factor for delimitation, then there would in effect be more seats for the Hindu-dominated area vis-a-vis the Muslim regions. This would increase the possibility of installing a Hindu chief minister in the state as a significant percentage of the BJP’s voter base consists of Hindu voters. One could probably turn a Nelson’s eye to such deceptive moves if the BJP were at least consistent in its demands. On the contrary, we see that it has insisted that population as recorded in the 2011 census be the basis for drawing the boundaries of constituencies in areas where the Hindu population is numerically stronger. This is despite BJP politician Sunil Sharma boldly claiming that the 2011 census was ‘lopsided’.  The standard manipulation techniques used by parties intending to gerrymander electoral districts are ‘packing’ and ‘cracking’. ‘Packing’ refers to concentrating the bulk of the opposing party’s voters into a few districts where the opposing party has a stronger hold. In contrast to this, ‘cracking’ means dispersing the opposition’s voters into several districts, effectively reducing them to a permanent minority in those districts. Usually, political parties aim to create more ‘cracked’ than ‘packed’ electoral districts so that they can have a better chance at winning the election and gaining control of the legislative body. However, what the BJP is doing in J&K is different, in the sense that we see the phenomenon of ‘cracking’ in almost every district, whereas ‘packing’ is largely absent. In effect, the BJP is trying to ensure that Muslims are reduced to a political minority in every electoral constituency and that the Hindus emerge as the majority. This is the most extreme method of approaching gerrymandering, and can almost certainly guarantee the BJP a landslide victory in the upcoming elections. Given the lack of Indian jurisprudence in this regard, the US Supreme Court’s decision in Shaw vs Reno immediately comes to mind in this situation. There, the court held that if the redistricting of an electoral map is so bizarre that one cannot explain it on grounds other than race, then the same is violative of the right to equality of the citizens. Delimiting constituencies on the basis of religion in India is the equivalent of race-based gerrymandering in the US. The question that needs to be asked is, whether there is any way to stop the production of such gerrymandered maps. The fix to this increasingly apparent issue in India would be to introduce a central legislation that enhances transparency, bans partisan gerrymandering, and introduces the possibility of votes challenging gerrymandered maps in courts. This is exactly what a proposed piece of legislation in the US seeks to achieve. However, it is unrealistic to expect this to happen in India given that it is the BJP that is ruling at the Centre and has a brute majority in Parliament. Hence, a temporary solution can be found in the world of computing. Mathematicians are developing algorithms that can assess the manipulation component of an electoral map. Democratising this technology and placing it in the hands of the citizens might be the most effective way to counter gerrymandering threats. Till then, Narendra Modi’s BJP will continue with its goal of electorally engineering J&K behind the constitutionally valid facade of delimitation, and electoral constituencies will continue to look like images used for the Rorschach test.  (The writer is a student at the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR), Hyderabad)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/jk-delimitation-gerrymandering-to-the-extreme-1021869.html
20-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police exam: 4, including impersonator, held in Malpe||The Malpe police arrested an impersonator who appeared for a written exam held for the post of armed police constables and three mediators who helped him in the process. According to the police, Ismail Appasaheb Nadaf from Mudalagi in Belagavi had appeared for the exam on the behalf of Praveen Khot held at Mount Rosary English Medium School at Santhekatte on October 18, 2020. However, Khot had appeared for the physical test and medical examination held on December 19 and January 13. The impersonation came to light when the thumb impression of the candidate who wrote the exam and appeared for physical test did not match. The others arrested are Hanumanthappa Mesti of Gokak, Appayya Nayak of Mudalagi, Holyappa Muthappa Bagevadi of Mudalagi. All the arrested have been remanded in police custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-exam-4-including-impersonator-held-in-malpe-1021675.html
20-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Truck terminal to come up at Baikampady||A full-fledged truck terminal will come up on NMPT land at Baikampady on the outskirts of Mangaluru, said D Devaraj Urs Truck Terminal Ltd president D S Veeraiah. "There is a need for setting up a truck terminal in each district. There are five truck terminals including at Yashvanthpura, Dasapura, Hosapere, and Mysuru. Facilities for the sale of spare parts, clinic, rooms, stalls, toilets, and police outpost have been arranged at these truck terminals. A similar truck terminal is needed in Mangaluru," he told mediapersons. The parking of lorries, trucks by the side of the highway has been resulting in accidents. Mangaluru is developing in terms of industries and business. The truck terminal should have come up in Mangaluru. However, owing to lack of land, there was delay in the process. Now, the land belonging to NMPT will be used for constructing the terminal at Baikampady, he added. Veeraiah said that he will discuss with the transport minister about banning the parking of heavy vehicles, trucks, lorries by the side of the road. Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said that a detailed project report will be sent to the Corporation within a month. The issue of whether constructing truck terminal on PPP mode or through D Devaraj Urs Truck Terminal Ltd will be discussed. The truck terminal at Baikampady will be helpful for those travelling on NH 66. There are plans to set up another truck terminal on NH 75 near Uppinangady and four to five truck bays in the district. There are also plans to set up a terminal on Mangaluru-Mysuru highway on NH 275 as well, explained the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/truck-terminal-to-come-up-at-baikampady-1021677.html
20-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Will hold talks with Centre on setting up NIA branch in Mangaluru'||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said that he will hold talks with the Centre on setting up a branch of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Mangaluru. "The MLAs from the coastal belt have also demanded the setting up of an NIA branch in Mangaluru in the backdrop of terror links to the coastal region. The government is considering the demand for the setting up of a unit of NIA in Mangaluru positively.  We have considered the issue of the recent raid by the NIA in Ullal and Bhatkal on the alleged link with ISIS seriously. The police has already taken several measures to prevent terror activities in the region. We are also discussing adopting stringent measures. The police have also been asked to remain alert," he told media persons. "Terror link to the coastal region is not new. Even in the past, there were issues related to the terror links that had cropped up. The police will be vigil," he said. To a query on a number of Kannadigas stranded in Afghanistan, the minister said there is no exact statistics. The government has appointed senior IPS officer Umesh Kumar, Additional Director General of Police-CID, as a nodal officer to coordinate with the Union government to bring back residents of Karnataka stranded in Afghanistan. "The officer will be coordinating with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) regarding residents of Karnataka in Afghanistan. The Centre has taken all steps to bring back the stranded Indians. People can contact the nodal officer seeking help," said the Minister. To a query on a bullet being fired in the air at Yaragol, a border village in Gurmatkal taluk of the district to welcome Union Minister of State for Renewable Energy, Chemicals and Fertilisers Bhagawanth Khuba, he said that an FIR has been registered. "It is a custom to fire in the air to celebrate the happiness in Malnad area. Such practices are being followed even in Kodagu and other districts in Malnad. It is wrong to display such an act in public. Such incidents of firing in the air might prove fatal sometimes," he said. On SDPI disrupting Independence Day celebrations in Kabaka, the Minister said that the police have already taken legal action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-hold-talks-with-centre-on-setting-up-nia-branch-in-mangaluru-1021788.html
20-08-2021||Main Article||Afghanistan: A tragedy in many acts||Afghanistan has fallen to the Taliban. The words of W B Yeats -- spoken a century ago -- that the worst are full of passionate intensity, while the best lack all conviction, come to mind. The United States, the greatest power in the world, lacked all conviction in mainstreaming the Taliban, determined to make an exit from a ‘forever war’ that provided no promise of victory. America’s precipitate and hurried withdrawal -- the image of the exit from Bagram airbase in the cover of darkness in early July will be etched indelibly on the flagstones of history -- and the flawed agreements at Doha provided the cue for the final Taliban onslaught. The passionate zealotry of the Taliban, which quickly overwhelmed the forces of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan once the Americans had left, has brought them back, triumphant, to Kabul.  The country has reverted to default, and one recalls the British diplomat Martin Ewans -- from 20 years ago -- that in its most acute form, Afghanistan is a ‘failed’ state, an acutely traditional Islamist society, especially in its villages, and a nation of divided ethnic and tribal loyalties that run extremely deep. Its people -- particularly its women -- immersed in a despair that has little parallel, have become once more the wretched of the earth. For the last 40 years and more, Afghanistan’s trials and tribulations have only multiplied in a macabre, repetitive dance of self-destruction, aided by foreign forces. The Taliban is a Pakistani creation. Its restoration to power in Kabul signals a victory equally for Pakistan. The speed and sophistication with which the Taliban have moved to secure strongholds through the country point to a great deal of professional and personnel inputs from cross-border minders. Questions are also being raised about the ‘wrong’ approach taken by the US in training the Afghan National Army. Also, a unified national identity is absent in Afghanistan. The more influential narrative, it is said, was created by the Taliban. A by-product of their return is that the terror pipeline that feeds the rest of the region -- in Central and South Asia -- could be back in business. The Taliban proved during their stint in power in the nineties that they are proponents of radical Islamic overreach. The question before the world is -- have they changed? There is no evidence that they have. Crucially, their survival depends on strategic subservience to Pakistan, which has always regarded Afghanistan as providing it vital ‘strategic depth’ that the generals in Rawalpindi have always sought against India.   The US is now seen in the region as having backtracked “on everything” -- especially by legitimising the Taliban through what former US National Security Advisor H R McMaster calls the “capitulation negotiations” at Doha, in a “reversal of morality and in self-delusion”. The US withdrawal has also meant that there is an open pathway for China and Russia, whose partnership gets closer and closer in the region, to become key players in Afghan affairs. China, in fact, will now enter Afghanistan as a long-term player, and increasingly, for the rest of Asia, excluding nations like India, Japan and Vietnam, the Asian order will be seen as dominated by Beijing. China will work very carefully with Pakistan as this new phase begins. It displays no signs of discomfort with Afghanistan’s strategic subservience to Pakistan, while the Iranians, the Russians and the Central Asians also have no fundamental quarrel with this state of affairs. More importantly, the US ‘defeat’ in Afghanistan -- even if it is argued that America remains the supreme military and economic power in the world and defeats of this nature will not eclipse its supremacy -- points to the botched nature of its actions, both in that country and in Iraq over the last two decades, failures that have egged the Chinese on to believe that the West, particularly the US, is in decline. Gloating mouthpieces of the Chinese establishment are already warning Taiwan not to rely on the US for military intervention in the event of a showdown with the PRC. The pursuit of the dream of establishing inclusive democracy in Afghanistan, as the analyst Francisco Sisci recently said, was bound to fail when a vast majority of its population remains poor, illiterate, in the shadow of the most extreme Islamist practices in the modern world, all in a terrain that is one of the most formidable and difficult on earth. If China now picks up the reins of imperial overstretch in Afghanistan -- for its own ends -- the going will be as treacherous for Beijing as it was for Washington. The Taliban are fickle clients -- and they will be difficult to manage. The Chinese are gamblers by nature, but the risks in Afghanistan defy even the most daring of that ilk. China would like to build a great wall of steel between radical Islamist influences emanating out of Afghanistan and Chinese Xinjiang, while at the same time have the upper hand in securing access to the country’s precious natural resources, and also pursuing the agenda of ‘Belt and Road’ development, through Afghanistan into Iran and West Asia. Whether China will be able to influence the Taliban to embrace development-oriented governance in place of medieval methods remains a question. China may be thinking big, and trying to play the long game, but will this be a stepping stone to further ‘greatness’ or decline (as the image of Afghanistan being the ‘graveyard of empires’ suggests)? India has not been a key influencer in the trajectory of events in Afghanistan --Pakistan has striven hard to exclude it from being one. But India was seen in these last two decades by most Afghans as a champion of what may be called Afghaniyat. It was the recipient of enormous goodwill from the Afghan people for its generous investments and aid for people-oriented development programmes and projects stretching across the 34 provinces of the country, and promotion of the interests and the welfare of Afghan women and children. It is not known whether India has established substantive, future-oriented contacts with the Taliban. For now, it has signalled that it favours an inclusive political dispensation in Kabul, that it will ‘wait and watch’, and that it is examining policy options. The priority is to safely evacuate all Indian nationals from the country. It is hoped that India will offer relief and refuge, if so called upon, to those Afghans -- civil society leaders, journalists and rights activists, as well as women and children -- who seek to escape from the Taliban. The departure of the ambassador and Indian staff of our embassy in Kabul has been a dramatic development. It illustrates that, presently at least, for India, the equities created over the last 20 years are under threat. Deft and agile diplomacy is the need of the hour. (The writer is a former Foreign Secretary)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/afghanistan-a-tragedy-in-many-acts-1021633.html
20-08-2021||Mysuru||Rajani Annaiah likely to be Congress candidate for Mysuru Ward 36 bypoll||Congress party is likely to field Rajani Annaiah for Mysuru Ward 36 bypoll. Handing over the B form to Annaiah, Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah on Friday, wished her the best. He also urged the party leaders to work for Annaiah's victory. The Court annulled the membership of Rukmini Madegowda of JD(S) as Rajani Annaiah filed a case against her claiming that Madegowda failed to disclosure her asset in her affidavit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/rajani-annaiah-likely-to-be-congress-candidate-for-mysuru-ward-36-bypoll-1021686.html
20-08-2021||National||MEA's Afghanistan cell working round the clock, ascertaining assistance sought by stranded Indians||A round-the-clock special cell set up by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) following the Taliban takeover of Kabul has been focusing on keeping track of stranded Indians in Afghanistan, ascertaining assistance being sought and advising further course of action. According to a rough estimate, the number of Indians stranded in Afghanistan could be around 400 and India has been looking at ways to evacuate them including by coordinating with the US and other friendly countries, people familiar with the development said. The most difficult challenge to evacuate those stuck in Kabul is to arrange for transport from their residences to the Kabul airport as the Taliban put up several layers of check-posts across the city. The 'Special Afghanistan Cell' was set up in MEA on the evening of August 16 to coordinate repatriation and other requests from Afghanistan in a streamlined manner. The cell is being manned 24x7 by young officers of the MEA under the guidance and supervision of senior officers and more than 20 officials have been deployed to it, people familiar with the matter said. The officers manning the cell answer calls, respond to emails and WhatsApp messages, enquire about the well-being and current status of people contacting them, they said. It also updates the database of Indians still in Afghanistan, ascertains assistance being sought, and advise further course of action, they said. The cell was set up prior to the departure of India-based personnel from the Indian embassy in Kabul in order to ensure seamless contact of Indians still remaining in Afghanistan. It has been working in close coordination with various divisions of the MEA to ensure the smooth flow of most updated information to all concerned, the people cited above said. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. Kabul fell to the Taliban on Sunday. By Tuesday, India completed the evacuation of all its diplomats and other staff members from the Afghan capital under a difficult and complicated exercise, effectively closing its mission for the second time since 1996 when the militant group captured power. The mission to evacuate close to 200 people including the Indian envoy and other staffers in two military aircraft was accomplished with support from the US. Following the evacuation, the MEA said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital. The MEA said the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. It also requested the Indians as well as their employers to urgently share the relevant details with the special Afghanistan cell. "Government of India is committed to the safe return of all Indian nationals and will institute flight arrangements once Kabul airport is open for commercial operations," the MEA said on Tuesday. "Our immediate priority is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently in Afghanistan. They and/or their employers are requested to urgently share the relevant details with MEA's Special Afghanistan Cell," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meas-afghanistan-cell-working-round-the-clock-ascertaining-assistance-sought-by-stranded-indians-1021552.html
20-08-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccines for children will be launched 'very soon': Mandaviya||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday said results of an ongoing research for development of Covid-19 vaccines for children may arrive next month and the antidote may be launched "very soon". He said the Centre is committed to vaccinate every citizen against coronavirus. "Our aim is to vaccinate every citizen. The Indian government has already given permission to Zydus Cadila and Bharat Biotech to conduct research for developing a Covid-19 vaccine for children. "We are expecting that results of their research will arrive next month. I am confident that vaccines for children would become a reality very soon," Mandaviya told reporters in Rajkot. Recently, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria had said that data of phase two and three trials of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on 2 to 18 years age group is expected by September. The Centre had recently informed the Supreme Court that the vaccine developed by Zydus Cadila will be available soon for children who are 12 and above, subject to statutory permissions. It is claimed Zydus Cadila's coronavirus vaccine ZyCoV-D can be given to both adults and children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccines-for-children-will-be-launched-very-soon-mandaviya-1021553.html
20-08-2021||National||India working with global partners to bring stranded Indians from Afghanistan: Jaishankar||India is working with international partners, principally the US, in bringing stranded Indian nationals back home from strife-torn Afghanistan, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said here on Thursday. Jaishankar said this while addressing reporters at the UN Security Council stake-out after chairing the Security Council briefing on the 'Threats to international peace and security caused by terrorist acts’, held under India’s current Presidency of the Council. In response to a question, he said on the issue of “where we go on from now” with the Taliban in control in Afghanistan, he said: “the immediate issue that we are looking at is really the repatriation of our nationals. In India’s case, India’s nationals, other countries have their concerns”. “We are working with international partners in this regard, principally the US, because they control the airport,” Jaishankar said, adding that he had thanked the French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian because France took back some Indians to Paris from Afghanistan. “So, I think that was the right thing to do. But in terms of the longer perspective, we have a historical relationship with the Afghan people and I think that relationship will continue to guide our thoughts,” he said. In response to a question by PTI on the situation in Afghanistan and that Pakistan-based terror groups like Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed can take advantage of the situation to increase cross-border terrorism, he said India has unfortunately had a long experience with cross-border terrorism. "I think I made it very clear that we have had unfortunately a long experience with cross border terrorism. We are not the only country which has had it, there are other countries. I mentioned Afghanistan,” Jaishankar said. “I specifically, in fact, mentioned some of the groups that you did - Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba. I think this is a continuing issue and we made the point very strongly that it's important therefore that there are no double standards, that there are no distinctions” in the fight against terrorism, he added. India on Tuesday rushed back home its ambassador Rudrendra Tandon and staff from the embassy in Kabul in a military transport aircraft following escalating tension, fear and uncertainty gripping the Afghan capital after the Taliban insurgents seized the Afghan capital on Sunday. The C-17 Globemaster aircraft of the Indian Air Force carrying around 150 people, including diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians, landed at the Hindon airbase near the national capital at around 5 PM after a brief halt at Jamnagar in Gujarat, in the wake of escalating tension, fear and uncertainty gripping the Afghan capital after its take over by the Taliban two days back. It was the second evacuation flight as another C-17 aircraft brought back around 40 people from the Hamid Karzai International (HKI) Airport in Kabul on Monday as part of India's emergency evacuation mission that was carried out following coordination with relevant authorities including US officials handling security at the airport in the Afghan capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-working-with-global-partners-to-bring-stranded-indians-from-afghanistan-jaishankar-1021554.html
20-08-2021||National||DH Toon | We've crossed our 'endurance border'; horrific!||Domestic cooking gas LPG price on Wednesday was increased by Rs 25 per cylinder - the second straight month of increase in rates. Subsidised LPG now costs Rs 859 per 14.2-kg cylinder in Delhi, according to a price notification of oil companies. This is the second straight month of a price increase. Rates were hiked by Rs 25.50 per cylinder on July 1. Non-subsidised LPG rates were increased on August 1 by the same proportion, and now the subsidised cooking gas prices have been raised. There is hardly any difference in the rate of subsidised and non-subsidised cooking gas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-weve-crossed-our-endurance-border-horrific-1021584.html
20-08-2021||National||Indian exports at nearly $15 billion till mid-August, says Piyush Goyal||Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday said exports have reached nearly $15 billion for the first half of August, after posting the highest-ever monthly performance in July at $35 billion. On free trade agreements (FTAs) with countries, he urged the industry to internalise a "give and take" approach, where they also show willingness to open the domestic market to foreign firms. With the opening up of the major economies after the setbacks of the Covid-19 pandemic, Indian exports rose by nearly 50 per cent to touch a lifetime high of $35.43 billion in July. The government is targeting to take the merchandise exports to $400 billion for the fiscal. In the first 15 days of August, the exports have touched nearly $15 billion. During April to August 2021, exports are 23 per cent higher than what they were in the corresponding period in the pre-pandemic FY20. "It will be a record-breaking year for exports. Exports are engaging with new products, new services, new markets and the world is looking at India as a trusted partner," Goyal told reporters on the sidelines of an event organised by his ministry here. He said the merchandise exports target for FY23 will have to be kept higher than $400 billion, and specified that he wants the overall exports to be $2 trillion by 2030, contributed equally from merchandise and services side. On the FTAs, he said Australia has shown the highest interest in moving ahead for an "early harvest", while UK will be the second in forging such a deal. Discussions are also on with UAE and one more country in the Middle East for such a pact, he said, adding that in the case of the US, the discussions are on the backburner because of the new administration's reluctance to ink such partnerships. The minister hoped that signing an FTA with Australia, a developed country with which India has made progress, will make it easier to ink similar agreements with others. India is also in discussion with the European Union (EU), but getting the bloc on board will take some time because it has 27 countries, he said. As the country marches ahead on signing such agreements which have the potential to increase bilateral trade and give India deeper access to markets, Goyal exhorted the industry to be more pragmatic. "We are trying to ensure that the FTAs are fairly and equitably crafted to bring in more elements of reciprocity. FTA cannot be a one way traffic, we also have to open our markets to others if we want a larger pie in their markets. "My appeal and request to all of you is to also identify areas where we have the confidence that we can withstand competition. "And if we can get a fair understanding about which are the critical sectors we need to negotiate with each country, and which are the sectors where we have the ability to compete with them and open for them, then I think we will be able to get FTAs sorted out fairly quickly," he said. Goyal said the decision to walk out of the RCEP (Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership) trade deal was taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after discussions with all stakeholders and added that the bold and decisive move was an "unexpected" event for many. The minister also said Indian exporters will have to be conscious of quality and set standards in such a way that there is no differentiation between goods produced for domestic or international markets. He pointed out that the pharma sector has done the same, which has helped the country become the pharmacy of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-exports-at-nearly-15-billion-till-mid-august-says-piyush-goyal-1021588.html
20-08-2021||National||President Ram Nath Kovind gives assent to amend general insurance law, OBC bill||President Ram Nath Kovind has given assent to the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Act, 2021. The Act further amends the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972.  The President has also given his assent to the Constitution (One Hundred and Fifth Amendment) Act, 2021 empowering States to identify socially and educationally backward classes. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-gives-assent-to-amend-general-insurance-law-obc-bill-1021600.html
20-08-2021||National||As festive season nears, AIIMS Directors appeal for following Covid-19 norms||The trajectory of daily Covid cases shows a declining trend in India but the threat of a spike in infection continues to loom, and with the festive season approaching, there is a need to be extra cautious, warn AIIMS Directors. In a collective appeal, Directors of All India Institute of Medical Sciences across the country asked people to continue following Covid appropriate behaviour to avoid any possible spike in the daily caseload. AIIMS, Delhi, Director, Dr Randeep Guleria said that the Covid pandemic is not over yet and we need to be more cautious. "Avoid stepping out of the house unless absolutely necessary. Whenever you step out of the house, wear a mask. Keep washing your hands with soap. After touching anything, definitely use sanitiser. Health is important now," he advised. AIIMS, Rae Bareli, Director, Dr Arvind Rajvanshi said that if all strictly follow Covid-compliant behaviour, then surely a new Covid wave can be prevented. "People will have to follow Covid compliant behavior, wear masks properly, keep cleaning or sanitising hands continuously, avoid going to crowded places, and follow social distance to prevent the third wave." The government is trying to make the vaccine accessible to all equally, he added. AIIMS, Bhopal, Director, Dr Sarman Singh, said that all should ensure that the treatment guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare are followed properly. "We need to connect influential people of the community in panchayats, gram sabhas, and villages to educate people about the severity of the disease, various preventive measures and the importance of vaccination. These local bodies should also lay emphasis on infrastructure development at the local level to reduce future calamities," she added. AIIMS, Patna, Director P.K. Singh said that following Covid-compliant behaviour will not only stop the chain of infection, but also help reduce the economic burden of the government on the entire population due to vaccination.    "We can avoid next wave of Covid only if the vaccine is being administered on a large scale and even after getting the vaccine, the Covid-compliant behavior needs to be followed," he added. AIIMS, Raipur, Director, Dr Nitin Amnagarkar said that the second wave of Covid was very serious and had affected the state badly. Rural India was also not untouched, he noted. "In fact, there was not much difference between urban and rural areas in terms of infection. The infection spread from city to village, from small place to big town and from city to village in places where restrictions were not being strictly followed even after the lockdown was imposed," he said. He added that the people are now becoming aware of the infection, but they have to include Covid-appropriate behaviour in their regular routine. "If we want to control the epidemic, we have to follow Covid compliant behaviour... that is our social responsibility," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-festive-season-nears-aiims-directors-appeal-for-following-covid-19-norms-1021602.html
20-08-2021||National||Reply in English to representations in English, Madras High Court tells Centre||The Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Central government to respond in English to a representation in English, and follow the provisions of the Official Languages Act, 1963, strictly. "Once a representation is given in English, it is the duty of the Union government to reply in English only," it said. The direction by a division bench of the High Court's Madurai bench comprising of Justices N. Kirubakaran and Justice M. Duraiswamy came on a Public Interest Litigation filed by Madurai MP, Su Venkitasan, seeking English alone be used in all communications between the Centre and state governments. Venkitasan had approached the court after the Minister of State for Home had replied to his letter, seeking setting up of examination centres for CRPF paramedical staff recruitment at Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, in Hindi only. Justice Kirubakaran, citing Article 350 of the Constitution, said that every person is entitled to give representation in any languages used in the Union or the state. He said that once a question is given in English, it is the duty of the Union government to reply in English only. He added that this was in consonance with the Official Languages Act. The court also directed the Union government and all its instrumentalities to follow the Official Languages Act, especially its Section 3, which says that both the Hindi and English languages should be used for the official documents. Justice Kirubakaran also said: " There are several languages in India which are hundreds or even thousands of years old" and that governments should take efforts to preserve the language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reply-in-english-to-representations-in-english-madras-high-court-tells-centre-1021604.html
20-08-2021||National||India registers 36,571 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload dips further||India logged 36,571 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases  to 3,23,58,829, while the national recovery rate improved to 97.54 per cent, the highest since March 2020, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,33,589 with 540 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,63,605, the lowest in 150 days, and comprise 1.12 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, the ministry said.  A reduction of 524 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 18,86,271 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 50,26,99,702. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 25 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.93 per cent. It has been below three per cent  for the last 56 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,15,61,635, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Cumulatively, 57.22 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Friday morning. The 540 new fatalities include 197 from Kerala and 154 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,33,589 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,35,567 from Maharashtra, 37,088 from Karnataka, 34,639 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,789 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,246 from Kerala and 18,337 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-36571-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-dips-further-1021614.html
20-08-2021||National||Johnson & Johnson seeks nod to conduct Covid vaccine trials on 12-17-year-olds in India||Pharmaceutical major Johnson & Johnson has sought approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation to carry out a clinical trial of its Covid-19 vaccine on 12-17 year olds. “On August 17, we submitted an application to the CDSCO to conduct a study of the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine in India in adolescents aged 12–17 years. We are committed to facilitating global equitable access to our Covid-19 vaccine and recognise the unmet needs of children,” a company spokesperson said in a statement. “To ultimately achieve herd immunity, it is imperative that Covid-19 vaccine clinical trials continue to move forward in this population, and we remain deeply committed to the critical work needed to make our Covid-19 vaccine equitably accessible for all age groups.” Since children are considered the lowest risk in a Covid-19 epidemic, they are not vaccinated in most of the countries. The experts, however, are of the opinion that it is a matter of time for vaccination to start at least for children in the 12-18 years age group. Last month Zydus Cadila submitted its safety and tolerability data on kids to the CDSCO and said it would take about a month to analyse and submit the efficacy data on kids. The indigenous DNA vaccine ZyCoV-D has been found to be 66.6% effective in adults. "Since it may take another 8-10 weeks for the Central Drug Standard Control Organisation to review the Zydus Cadila vaccination data, the Drugs Controller General of India may take a decision on giving vaccines to 12-18 year olds sometimes between October and December,” NK Arora, one of the Centre’s top advisors on Covid-19 vaccination policy told DH last month. Arora said 10-12% of the Indian population would fall into the 12-18 years category, which means there would be 13-14 crore adolescents requiring the vaccine. They would be in addition to the 94.47 crore target population identified by the government. Indian vaccine manufacturer Bharat Biotech is also carrying out a trial of its Covaxin on 2-18 year olds. Arora and CMC Vellore professor Gagandeep Kang said reopening of schools should not be linked to Covid-19 vaccination. Rather it's important that every staff in a school is vaccinated so that a ring of vaccinated people surrounds the children. But when inoculation happens, those with comorbidities should get the shots first.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/johnson-johnson-seeks-nod-to-conduct-covid-vaccine-trials-on-12-17-year-olds-in-india-1021628.html
20-08-2021||National||Mandaviya lauds Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah for encouraging people to get vaccinated||Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Friday lauded SAB Comedy sitcom Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah for encouraging people to get vaccinated against Covid-19 and called for making the vaccination campaign a huge success. He also retweeted a video clip posted by the show. "Gokuldham Society is on the right path! Strengthen our fight against #COVID19 by getting vaccinated as soon as possible, and encourage your friends, family and neighbours to do the same. Let us make the #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine campaign a huge success!," the minister tweeted. "Gokuldham society me ho raha hai Vaccine Mahotsav. Compulsory wear a mask while going out. Use hand sanitizer or wash hands thoroughly. Maintain social distancing in public places. Please get vaccinated as soon as possible. Take care of yourself and your family," Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah tweeted along with a video clip.  With the administration of 54,71,282 Covid-19 vaccine doses in the last 24 hours, India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has surpassed the cumulative figure of 57.22 crore (57,22,81,488) as per provisional reports till 7 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mandaviya-lauds-taarak-mehta-ka-ooltah-chashmah-for-encouraging-people-to-get-vaccinated-1021646.html
20-08-2021||National||PM Modi pays tributes to Rajiv Gandhi on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid tributes to Congress leader and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on his 77th birth anniversary.  Born in 1944, Gandhi was the prime minister during 1984-89 and was assassinated in a terrorist attack in 1991. Modi tweeted, "Tributes to our former PM Shri Rajiv Gandhi Ji on his birth anniversary." Tributes to our former PM Shri Rajiv Gandhi Ji on his birth anniversary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-rajiv-gandhi-on-birth-anniversary-1021648.html
20-08-2021||National||Destructive, terror forces can dominate for some time, their existence not permanent: PM Modi||As the Taliban got a firmer grip on Afghanistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said empires built on the basis of terror are never permanent. Addressing a public function in Gujarat’s Somnath through a video link, the Prime Minister said destructive forces and the ideology of terror cannot suppress humanity forever. “This was true when some attackers were demolishing Somnath, it is equally true even today when the world is apprehensive of such ideologies,” Modi said. The Prime Minister inaugurated multiple projects at Somnath, where a temple dedicated to Lord Shiva was ravaged several times by Muslim invaders before being rebuilt under the leadership of first Home Minister Sardar Patel after Independence. “The destructive powers, the thought that believes in building empires on the basis of terror may dominate for some time, but its existence is never permanent, it cannot suppress humanity forever,” Modi said. The Prime Minister recalled how the Somnath temple had been rebuilt after every attack and described it as a symbol of the belief that truth cannot be defeated by falsehood and faith cannot be crushed by terror. Earlier, the prime minister inaugurated the Somnath Promenade built at a cost of Rs 47 crore and the Somnath Exhibition Centre that displayed the exhibits from the dismantled parts of the old Somnath Temple. He also inaugurated the temple precinct of the Old Somnath temple that was built by Queen Ahilyabai Holkar of Indore which lay in ruins for the past several years. Modi also laid the foundation stone of the Shree Parvati Temple which is proposed to be constructed with a total outlay of Rs 30 crore. The temple will be built in Sompura Salats style along with the development of the Garbha Griha and the Nritya Mandap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/destructive-terror-forces-can-dominate-for-some-time-their-existence-not-permanent-pm-modi-1021656.html
20-08-2021||National||Taliban search closed Indian consulates in Kandahar, Herat||The Taliban militants have carried out searches at India’s consulates at Herat and Kandahar in Afghanistan, according to reports reaching New Delhi. The militants entered the premises of the consulates and searched for documents although no official of the Government of India was present. New Delhi had repatriated all officials of the Government of India from its consulates in Herat over the past few weeks. A source said that not only the missions of India, but the militants had also searched consulates of some other nations in Kandahar and Herat too. No such search or raid was conducted at the Embassy of India in Kabul though. Another source in New Delhi said that the militants had taken away the cars parked at the consulates of Kandahar and Herat. New Delhi evacuated its envoy and diplomats from posted at the Embassy of India Kabul on Tuesday – less than 48 hours after the Taliban militants entered the capital city after occupying many provincial capitals across Afghanistan and President Ashraf Ghani escaped from the country marking the collapse of his Government. India, however, did not formally shut down its embassy in the capital of Afghanistan, as it would have meant severance of diplomatic relations between the two nations. New Delhi had shut down the Embassy of India in Kabul when the Taliban had taken over power in Afghanistan in 1996. India’s then acting envoy to Afghanistan, Azad Singh Toor, and other officials had left Kabul by a special aircraft of Ariana Airlines on September 26, 1996 – just before the Taliban had entered the capital city and taken over. The Taliban militants had not found any Indian when they had raided and ransacked the Embassy of India in Kabul after executing the former Afghan President Mohammad Nazibullah and hanging his body from a traffic light pole. India’s diplomatic and consular missions in Afghanistan came under repeated attacks from terrorist organisations based in Pakistan over the past 20 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-search-closed-indian-consulates-in-kandahar-herat-1021661.html
20-08-2021||National||Drug regulator panel recommends Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine: Report||The committee added that Zydus needs to submit additional data for the 2-dose regimen of its vaccine, CNBC-TV18 said in a tweet. The generic drugmaker, listed as Cadila Healthcare Ltd, applied for the authorisation of the vaccine ZyCoV-D on July 1, based on an efficacy rate of 66.6% in a late-stage trial of more than 28,000 volunteers nationwide. If approved, Zydus Cadila's vaccine will be the second home-grown shot to get emergency authorisation in India after Bharat Biotech's Covaxin. Zydus Cadila and India's drug regulator did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drug-regulator-panel-recommends-zydus-cadilas-covid-19-vaccine-report-1021679.html
20-08-2021||National||Palghar factory blast: NGT junks review plea against its order directing payment of compensation||A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the facts on the basis of which the green panel passed the order have not been disputed. "We have heard counsel for the review applicant and asked a pointed question whether facts on the basis of which the Tribunal has proceeded are disputed and if not, what is the ground for review. "He was unable to dispute the facts nor put forward any ground for review. In the review application apart from inability to appear on an earlier date, no ground has been stated which may call for review," the bench said. The tribunal had directed the Maharashtra government to initially pay a compensation of Rs 15 lakh to workers injured in a blast inside the factory. It had, however, said that the state will be at liberty to recover the same from the occupier or owner of the premises. The NGT had also directed the Director of Industrial Safety in coordination with the state pollution control board (SPCB) and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to conduct a study of the potential for accidental, occupational and environmental hazards from such activities in the state within three months. The green panel had directed that review be conducted at the highest level in the state to consider remedial steps. 'Hazardous activities need to be regulated in terms of quantity of material to be used in the process of hazardous activities, the number of persons to be allowed to work and safeguards to be followed and monitoring compliance of such safeguards. It had asked the Chief Secretary, Maharashtra, to hold a meeting with all stakeholders concerned within one month. After necessary deliberations, appropriate remedial measures will be identified to avoid the recurrence of such incidents in future, it had said. The order came after taking cognisance of a media report to the effect that 10 workers were injured in a blast inside a firecracker factory in Palghar district inside the premises of Vishal Fireworks, located at Dehne village about 15 km from Vangaon-Dahanu Road. According to the report of the District Magistrate, Palghar the incident took place on June 17 due to a spark from the welding work which fell on the explosive meant for making firecrackers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/palghar-factory-blast-ngt-junks-review-plea-against-its-order-directing-payment-of-compensation-1021689.html
20-08-2021||National||Person from reserved category can claim benefit from Bihar or Jharkhand: SC||The Supreme Court has ruled that a person belonging to a reserved category is entitled to claim benefit of reservation in either of the successor states of Bihar or Jharkhand. However, a person cannot claim benefit of the quota simultaneously in both the successor states upon their reorganisation in November, 2000, the court said. The top court also held that members of the reserved category, who are residents of the successor state of Bihar, while participating in open selection in Jharkhand shall be treated to be migrants and they can participate in the general category without claiming the benefit of reservation and vice-versa. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi decided the “peculiar question” after a resident of Jharkhand, Pankaj Kumar, a member of Scheduled Caste filed an appeal against the 2:1 majority High Court order denying him appointment in state civil service examination of 2007 on the ground that his address proof showed that he was a permanent resident of Patna, Bihar. “It is made clear that person is entitled to claim benefit of reservation in either of the successor state of Bihar or state of Jharkhand, but will not be entitled to claim benefit of reservation simultaneously in both the successor states and those who are members of the reserved category and are resident of the successor state of Bihar, while participating in open selection in state of Jharkhand shall be treated to be migrants and it will be open to participate in general category without claiming the benefit of reservation and vice-versa,” the bench said. The top court said it holds that the majority judgement of the High Court of February 24, 2020 is unsustainable in law and is hereby set aside. “We are also not in agreement with the minority judgment on principle and clarify that the person is entitled to claim the benefit of reservation in either of the successor state of Bihar or state of Jharkhand but would not be entitled to claim the privileges and benefits of reservation simultaneously in both the states and if that is permitted, it will defeat the mandate of Articles 341(1) and 342(1) of the Constitution,” the top court said. It directed that Pankaj Kumar shall be appointed pursuant to his selection in reference to advertisement number 11 of 2007 within six weeks and said that he is entitled for his seniority as per his placement in the order of merit with notional fixation of pay and allowances. The bench said that the collective readings of the provisions of the Bihar Reorganisation Act, 2000, makes it apparent that such persons whose place of origin/domicile on or before the appointed day (November 15, 2000) was of Bihar now falling within the districts/regions which form a successor state, that is Jharkhand under Section 3 of the Act, 2000 became ordinary resident of the state of Jharkhand. The top court said that at the same time, so far as the employees who were in public employment in Bihar on or before November 15, 2000, apart from those who have domicile of either of the district which became part of Jharkhand, such employees who have exercised their option to serve in Jharkhand their existing service conditions shall stands protected by virtue of Section 73 of the Act, 2000. “It will be highly unfair and pernicious to their interest if the benefits of reservation with privileges and benefits flowing thereof are not being protected in the state of Jharkhand after he is absorbed by virtue to Section 73 of the Act 2000 that clearly postulates not only to protect the existing service conditions but the benefit of reservation and privileges which they were enjoying on or before the appointed day, i.e. November 15, 2000 in the state of Bihar not to be varied to their disadvantage after they became a member of service in the state of Jharkhand,” the top court said. The top court said that in its considered view, such of the employees who are members of the SC/ST/OBC whose caste/tribe has been notified by an amendment to the Constitution(SC)/(ST) Order 1950 or by the separate notification for members of OBC category, benefit of reservation shall remain protected by virtue of Section 73 of the Act, 2000 for all practical purposes which can be claimed (including by their wards) for participation in public employment. “We are of the view that the present appellant Pankaj Kumar…, being a serving employee (as an assistant teacher) in the state of Jharkhand by virtue of Section 73 of the Act 2000, would be entitled to claim the benefit of reservation including the privileges and benefits admissible to the members of SC category in Jharkhand for all practical purposes including participation in open competition seeking public employment,” it said. Kumar was born in 1974 in Hazaribagh district of Jharkhand, where his father, a permanent resident of Patna was posted and at the age of 15 in 1989, Kumar shifted to Ranchi, the state capital which came into effect after Bihar's reorganization on November 15, 2000. He was appointed as assistant teacher in a school in Ranchi from December 21, 1999 and continued his job as teacher till 2008 in the same school. In 2008, Kumar applied for the 3rd Combined Civil Services Exam in Jharkhand and was called for an interview. He has submitted his Caste Certificate dated January 12, 2007 showing him as resident of Ranchi along with his application for the Civil Services, which showed his ‘original residence’ as Patna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/person-from-reserved-category-can-claim-benefit-from-bihar-or-jharkhand-sc-1021690.html
20-08-2021||National||India, US discuss ways to increase trade||A day after Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said hopes of an India-US trade pact are off the table for now, US Ambassador to India Atul Keshap spoke to the Indian minister for over two hours, discussing trade between the two countries. While Keshap tweeted about the meeting, there were no immediate comments from the commerce ministry over the discussions that happened on Friday. "I had a very spirited exchange of views with Commerce Minister @PiyushGoyal  about how #USIndia trade can and should attain the $500 billion vision set by  @Potus. Across our 2+ hour discussion we agreed that our great democracies should work more closely to advance our mutual prosperity," Keshap said. Goyal while speaking at an industry event in Mumbai on Thursday had said hopes of an India-US trade pact are off the table for now, with the Joe Biden administration conveying to India that it is not interested in a free trade agreement. "The US as of now has kind of indicated that they are not looking for new trade agreements, but we look at working with them for more market access issues on both sides and I think that would also be a big relief and a big opportunity opener for our export sector," he had said. According to the data of the commerce ministry, in 2020-21, the bilateral trade between the US and India stood at $80.5 billion as compared to $88.9 billion in 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-discuss-ways-to-increase-trade-1021695.html
20-08-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi recalls sacrifice of Imam Hussain on Muharram||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday recalled the sacrifice of Hazrat Imam Hussain on Muharram and also his courage and commitment to justice. Muslims mourn the martyrdom of Hussain and his family on Muharram. In a tweet, Modi said, "We remember the sacrifices of Hazrat Imam Hussain (AS) and recall his courage as well as commitment to justice. He devoted great importance to peace and social equality."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-recalls-sacrifice-of-imam-hussain-on-muharram-1021714.html
20-08-2021||National||Facebook removes Rahul Gandhi's post for policy violation||Facebook removed a post by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi that identified the family of a nine-year-old victim of alleged rape and murder in Northwest Delhi. The US-based social media platform cited that Rahul Gandhi posts violated the social media platform's policies for its removal. The move came days after micro blogging platform Twitter took similar steps after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) demanded immediate removal. "We have taken action to remove the content as it was in violation of our policies," a Facebook spokesperson said in an emailed statement on Friday. Facebook and its photo sharing app Instagram take action against a content if it violates its Community Standards or upon receiving a valid legal request as per Indian laws. Facebook has informed Gandhi and the NCPCR about the removal of the posts from Facebook and Instagram. Earlier this week, Facebook had written to Gandhi asking him to remove the said post from Instagram -- Facebook's photo sharing platform. Earlier, NCPCR, which issued notice to Twitter about Gandhi's post, had asked Facebook to take appropriate action against Gandhi's Instagram profile over violation of provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, and the Indian Penal Code. The NCPCR further demanded the removal of the video from the platform. Following the communication from Facebook to Gandhi earlier week, NCPCR withdrew its direction to the company to appear before the commission with an explanation over non-action regarding Gandhi's post. Earlier this month, Gandhi kicked up a row by sharing an image of his meeting the family of the nine-year-old girl in his Twitter account and asserted that he is with them on the path to justice. Soon after, NCPCR took up the matter and BJP leaders criticised him for politicising the tragedy. Twitter had locked accounts of Gandhi as well as many other Congress leaders who tweeted the controversial post. Gandhi then took to Instagram and said he was guilty if fighting for justice for a rape and murder victim is a crime. On August 14, Twitter restored Gandhi's account after the Congress leader submitted a consent letter from the family of the victim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-removes-rahul-gandhis-post-for-policy-violation-1021719.html
20-08-2021||National||Centre prepared to tackle possible third wave of Covid-19: Anurag Thakur||The Centre is fully ready to tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19 and a provision of Rs 23,123 crore had been set aside for this purpose, Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said on Friday. He said special emphasis is being given to strengthening paediatric care amid apprehension that the third wave may affect children more than others. Thakur, who is on a five-day 'Jan Ashirwaad Yatra' in his home state Himachal Pradesh, was speaking to reporters. This is his maiden visit to the state after being sworn in as a Union Cabinet minister. The Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is fully ready to tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19. A provision of Rs 23,123 crore had been made to deal with it, said Thakur, who is also the minister for youth affairs and sports. Special emphasis is being given to strengthening paediatric care as experts fear that the third wave may affect children more than others, he said. Some experts have warned that the third wave of Covid-19 may affect children more while others have said there is little reason to believe this theory. However, experts concur that there is a need to improve paediatric Covid-19 services in the country. So far, India has reported 3,23,58,829 Covid-19 cases and 4,33,589 deaths due to the disease, according to the Union Health Ministry. Thakur started his 'Jan Ashirwaad Yatra' from Parwanoo in Solan district on Thursday. He will cover a distance of 623 km across four Lok Sabha constituencies and 37 Assembly segments in eight districts in the hill state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-prepared-to-tackle-possible-third-wave-of-covid-19-anurag-thakur-1021724.html
20-08-2021||National||Shiv Sena could not make a befitting memorial for Balasaheb Thackeray: Narayan Rane||On Thursday, after Rane, accompanied by Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar and top BJP leaders, a group of Shiv Sainiks “purified” the place with “gaumutra” and performed “doodh-abhishek”. Rane, the Union Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises Minister, is bete noire of Shiv Sena President and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. On Friday, Rane hit out at Shiv Sena and Thackeray. “They have their Chief Minister in Maharashtra, but they could not construct a memorial befitting their founder. The people who have purified the memorial need to first purify their mind,” Rane said. “Bescause of rains there was mud on the approach to the memorial…it does not have a proper photo of Balasaheb,” he added.  While in Shiv Sena, Rane, who was mentored by Balasaheb, had started as a Corporator in the BMC and rose to become the Chief Minister and later Leader of Opposition. However, owing to differences with Uddhav, he was expelled by late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray, after which he joined Congress and became a minister in the erstwhile Democratic Front government. However, he was never made the Maharashtra Congress President or Chief Minister, and he quit the party. Later he floated Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha. A few years ago, he joined the BJP and became a Rajya Sabha member.  Ever since the Maha Vikas Aghadi government came to power, Rane and his son and MLA Nitesh Rane have adopted an aggressive stance against the Sena and have left no stones unturned in targetting Thackeray and his son Aaditya, who is the Minister for Tourism, Environment and Protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-could-not-make-a-befitting-memorial-for-balasaheb-thackeray-narayan-rane-1021725.html
20-08-2021||National||Delhi cop suspended for assaulting fire services employee||A Delhi Police constable has been suspended from his duty for allegedly assaulting and abusing fire services personnel at Samaypur Badli area in northern part of the city, officials said on Friday. The alleged assault took place on Thursday around 6 pm, they said. According to police, constable Jitender assaulted and abused a Delhi Fire Services man who stopped him from driving on the wrong side of the road in Samaypur Badli. The video of the incident went viral on social media. In the video, the accused constable, who is in plain clothes, is seen abusing and assaulting a fireman. The constable holds a wooden stick in his hand and also tries to snatch the mobile phone of the fireman. Police refused the allegations that Jitender was drunk at the time of the incident. The fireman was coming from a spot and heading towards the fire station to refill the fire engine, police said. On the complaint of the fireman, a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Delhi Fire Services Act has been registered at Samaypur Badli police station, a senior police officer said. The accused has been suspended from his duty and likely to be arrested on Friday, the officer said. Jitender was posted at Samaypur Badli police station and was on leave from the past three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-cop-suspended-for-assaulting-fire-services-employee-1021727.html
20-08-2021||National||Udaan, Throttle Aerospace Systems complete trial-run for drone delivery of medicines||B2B e-commerce company Udaan and Throttle Aerospace Systems (TAS) on Friday said the organisations completed a trial run for drone delivery of medicines in Bengaluru. The pilot was led by (TAS) and Udaan under the supervision of the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), a statement said. The trial was conducted within a 15-km radius at Gauribidanur in the outskirts of Bengaluru by Udaan for the last mile delivery of medicines, it added. During the pilot, two variants of drones were successfully tested - Medcopter X4 and Medcopter X8 - with simulated deliveries to Udaan customers. As a use case, Pharma Deliveries of up to 2kg payload were tested at various distances in the designated area varying from 2-7 kms aerial distance. The pilot deliveries saw an average of 3.5 kms distance being covered in 5-7 minutes. Two different modes of deliveries were also tested - tethered lowering of shipment and landing of copter with the shipment, the statement said. The success of the pilot run opens up the possibility of using beyond-line-of-sight drones for last-mile delivery of shipments in minimum time, to areas with improper road connectivity as well as faster deliveries in dense urban settings, it added. Once commercialised, in addition to regular deliveries in remote areas, the technology can also be used to supply lifesaving drugs and medicines at the time of the natural disaster, pandemics, and calamities to the remotest corners of the country without facing any infrastructure or logistical challenges. "The efforts by the authorities to integrate drones in the supply-chain ecosystem is a major step towards creating a framework for efficient last-mile delivery. The success of today's trial run opens a massive opportunity to revolutionise customer experience in the distribution and logistics space," Udaan Product Engineer Soumyadeep Mukherjee said. It is aligned with Udaan's vision to build tech-enabled solutions to empower small businesses such as kiranas, shop owners, chemists, and MSMEs (Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises) that are based in the remote corners of Bharat, he added. Bengaluru-based TAS is India's first DGCA approved drone maker for civil drones and having a licence to manufacture military drones from the Ministry of Defence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/udaan-throttle-aerospace-systems-complete-trial-run-for-drone-delivery-of-medicines-1021737.html
20-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: India approves Zydus Cadila vaccine for children aged 12 and above||Recently, AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria had said that data of phase two and three trials of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin on 2 to 18 years age group was expected by September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-india-approves-zydus-cadila-vaccine-for-children-aged-12-and-above-1021743.html
20-08-2021||National||Kerala Governor extends Onam greetings||Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday extended his "heartiest Onam greetings" to the people of the state and other Keralites all over the world. "I convey my heartiest Onam greetings to the people of the state and other Keralites all over the world," the Governor tweeted. Khan, in a series of tweets said the celebration of Onam rekindles the splendid legacy of a life of equality, oneness and prosperity. "The celebration of Onam rekindles the splendid legacy of a life of equality, oneness and prosperity, filling minds and homes with the celestial joy of festivity. I sincerely wish that the melody, beauty and sparkle of Onam spread across the globe as Kerala's unique message of love, equality and harmony," Khan said. Keralites across the world on Saturday will celebrate the Onam, a festival connected with the return of Asura (demon) King Mahabali, under whose reign everyone lived in happiness and equality. According to folklore, envious of his popularity, the Devas (Gods) sought the help of Lord Vishnu to get him banished into the netherworld but before going down, Mahabali secured a boon from Vishnu to visit his subjects every year on 'Thiruvonam' day, which this year falls on August 21. The demon king's annual visit is celebrated by Keralites, who lay by their front yards with floral carpets, wear new clothes and prepare a sumptuous feast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-governor-extends-onam-greetings-1021744.html
20-08-2021||National||Rajiv Gandhi's farsighted policies helped build modern India: Rahul||The Congress on Friday paid rich tributes to Rajiv Gandhi on his 77th birth anniversary, with Rahul Gandhi saying that the former prime minister was a man with a tremendous vision, whose farsighted policies helped build modern India. Rahul Gandhi paid floral tributes to his father at the former prime minister's memorial, Vir Bhumi, and spent some time there. "Rajiv Gandhi ji was a man with tremendous vision, whose farsighted policies helped build modern India," the former Congress chief said in a Facebook post. "He was a wonderful father, a compassionate and loving human being. He will always stay alive in my heart. Paid my respects to him at Vir Bhumi," Rahul Gandhi said. Senior Congress leaders Pawan Kumar Bansal, K C Venugopal and Indian Youth Congress (IYC) chief Srinivas B V were among those who visited Vir Bhumi along with Rahul Gandhi. "A secular India alone is an India that can survive," Rahul Gandhi posted his father's quote on Facebook. "Remembering Shri Rajiv Gandhi ji on his birth anniversary," he said in a post. Congress president Sonia Gandhi paid tributes to the former prime minister at the Parliament House. Rahul Gandhi inaugurated a photo-exhibition dedicated to Rajiv Gandhi, and it was organised by the IYC. He also unveiled a bust of the former prime minister at the IYC headquarters here. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi posted a picture of hers with Rajiv Gandhi when she was a child along with a note which read, "The brave do not fall silent before injustice, they speak up for what is right and good, they do not cower when it is dark, they stand strong, they spread the light of truth across skies blackened by deceit. The brave never die." The Congress, from its official Twitter handle, tweeted, "India's youngest Prime Minister. The architect of 21st Century India. The visionary, the pioneer, the patriot. Today we pay homage to Bharat Ratna, Rajiv Gandhi and celebrate his immense contributions to the nation." Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also hailed the former prime minister and recalled his contribution to the country. "Remembering Rajiv ji on his 77th birth anniversary - the visionary who shaped India's destiny for 21st century, who touched lives in every sphere, who translated dreams into reality, who empowered the young-women-backward classes an poor," Surjewala tweeted. Remembering Rajivji on his 77th Birth Anniversary - the visionary who shaped India’s destiny for 21st century, who touched lives in every sphere, who translated dreams into reality, who empowered the young-women-backward classes & poor. Chief ministers of Congress-ruled states Amarinder Singh (Punjab), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Bhupesh Baghel (Chhattisgarh) paid rich tributes to the former prime minister. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal also remembered Rajiv Gandhi on his birth anniversary and said he was delighted that party chief Sonia Gandhi is set to meet Opposition leaders on this day to discuss issues that matter. Sonia Gandhi is holding a virtual meeting with opposition leaders on Friday. "Rajiv Gandhi ushered India's era of modernisation and launched the technology revolution," he tweeted. Rajiv Gandhi77th Birth Anniversary Delighted that Sonia Gandhi is set to meet Opposition leaders on this day to discuss issues that matter Rajiv Gandhi ushered India’s era of modernisation and launched the technology revolution We remember him with love Senior party leaders Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Mallikarjun Kharge, Shashi Tharoor, Sachin Pilot, Salman Khurshid, among others, also paid tributes to Rajiv Gandhi on Twitter. Born in 1944, Rajiv Gandhi was prime minister from 1984 to 1989. He was assassinated in 1991.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajiv-gandhis-farsighted-policies-helped-build-modern-india-rahul-1021747.html
20-08-2021||National||Images from Kabul airport reminds me of Kandahar horror: IC814 pilot||The images of Kabul airport in the past few days remind him of the horror he experienced 22 years ago, according to Devi Sharan, who was captain of the Indian Airlines flight IC814 that was hijacked in December 1999 and taken to Kandahar in Afghanistan. Various images and videos have come out where people can be seen crowding inside as well as outside the Kabul airport and scrambling to enter into the planes on the runway in order to escape from the Taliban that took control of Afghanistan's capital city on Sunday. "It was like I have gone 22 years back. Over 20 years have passed, but the images (of today) are the same," Sharan, 59, told PTI in an interview. "The difference is that we were the only people at that time in Kandahar but now you can see a crowd at the (Kabul) airport. But definitely, these people are desperate to come out just like we wanted to come out," he added. IC814 was heading from Kathmandu to New Delhi on December 24, 1999 -- with 179 passengers and 11 crew members on board -- when it was hijacked and taken to Taliban-controlled Kandahar by five Pakistani terrorists. Sharan was the captain, Rajinder Kumar was the first officer and Anil Kumar Jaggia was the flight engineer of IC814. The hijackers executed one passenger, Rupin Katyal, and finally negotiated the release of terrorists Masood Azhar Alvi, Syed Omar Sheikh and Mushtaq Ahmad Zargar from Indian jails on December 31, 1999, in exchange for the hostages. On Friday, Sharan said: "I find the images to be quite like of that time. Definitely, it gives us all the memories of horror of that time. It reminds us of that." He said there were two kinds of Taliban forces that they encountered at the Kandahar airport in December 1999. "One was Kabali. You can see these Talibanis with turbans and civil clothes and rocket launchers and all. So one force was this one which was type of a moral police. The other one was commandos," he stated. "These Kabalis, I would say, they were quite in favour of our hijackers. The commands were there only to ensure that there is no bloodshed there. They might be with the hijackers but they were definitely not with us," he added. Sharan said no direct threat was issued by Taliban to him but you can see the "threat" as these Kabalis had surrounded the aircraft with rocket launchers and all. "So, you can see that threat that they would not let us go without agreeing to the demands (of the hijackers)," he said. On December 24, 1999, Sharan was first asked by hijackers to take the IC814 plane to Lahore. After Pakistan refused to let the flight land there, the aircraft was taken to Amritsar airport. Then, it was taken to Lahore airport, which allowed the plane to land this time at the last moment. Later, it departed from there and went to the Dubai airport, from where it was taken to the Kandahar airport. Sharan said he retired last year from Air India. Indian Airlines was merged with Air India in 2007. He said Jaggia passed away 7-8 years ago while Kumar is still with Air India. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. Kabul fell to the Taliban on Sunday. The Taliban was removed from power in Afghanistan when the US-led forces attacked them in October 2001, a few weeks after terrorist attack on World Trade Centre on September 11, 2001.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/images-from-kabul-airport-reminds-me-of-kandahar-horror-ic814-pilot-1021757.html
20-08-2021||National||Netaji kin wants colonial-era sedition law used to incarcerate Bose repealed||Colonial-era laws such as sedition, which are continued to be used to stifle dissent, should be repealed, said Sugata Bose, the grandnephew of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Bose, who won the Lok Sabha elections from Jadavpur in 2014 as a TMC candidate but refrained from contesting the last parliamentary polls, said he would like to "play a role" to bring about qualitative change "in support of democracy" -- a comment seen as an indication that he may return to active politics soon. Expressing concern, he pointed out that several colonial-era laws, which were used to try silence freedom fighters such as Netaji, Mahatma Gandhi and Bal Gangadhar Tilak, are still being used by the government. "We have to strengthen the pillars of our democracy and there is a need to repeal these lawless colonial-era laws... I am especially worried by the fact that even the writ of Habeas Corpus can be suspended in some cases," he told PTI in an interview. Bose, who is the chairman of Netaji Research Bureau, besides being the Gardiner Professor of History at Harvard University, pointed out that the Supreme Court too recently questioned the need for the sedition law. "We have continued with a whole battery of these colonial laws, sometimes under new names such as the UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act). These need to be scrapped to protect erosion of democracy," he said. "Even without a formal Emergency, application of these laws is enough to create a state of Emergency," he added. The charge of sedition was imposed against Netaji several times. Bose noted that even some new rules, including those under the IT Act, "which may be well-intentioned" but has the potential to be misused. The former lawmaker said that he would "like to play a role closer to bring about a qualitative change in support of democracy", even as he refrained from spelling out the exact part that he is eyeing in the national political arena. Bose is known to be close to TMC chief Mamata Banerjee and the Gandhi family, which may help him in playing a major role as the opposition parties look to unite ahead of the 2024 elections to take on the BJP. "I firmly believe in federalism and consequently feel that we will have a stronger Union if we have a flexible union," he said, indicating his political priorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/netaji-kin-wants-colonial-era-sedition-law-used-to-incarcerate-bose-repealed-1021759.html
20-08-2021||National||Man attempts suicide outside Mantralaya in Mumbai||A 48-year-old man allegedly tried to commit suicide outside the state secretariat Mantralaya in south Mumbai on Friday, police said. As per preliminary information, the man identified as Subhash Jadhav allegedly tried to consume pesticide while standing in front of the entrance of the secretariat building at 12 pm, an official said. The man was immediately rushed to the state-run GT Hospital for treatment, and his condition is stable, the official said. A resident of Ambegaon in Pune district, Jadhav had come to meet some officials at the Mantralaya in connection with a land dispute, he said, adding that the man also has some criminal cases to his name. Jadhav was not allowed to go inside, as the entry was restricted due to Covid-19 safety norms, following which he allegedly tried to consume pesticide, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-attempts-suicide-outside-mantralaya-in-mumbai-1021762.html
20-08-2021||National||SC to examine if state can fix higher qualification for admission to MBBS course||The Supreme Court has decided to examine if a state government can stipulate a higher qualification for the candidates than the one prescribed by the Medical Council of India for admission to MBBS course. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah admitted for consideration a plea by the State of Assam which fixed minimum 60% marks in Physics, Chemistry and Biology for the candidates at the qualifying class XII examinations to appear in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, conducted at all India level for admission to MBBS course. The court issued notice to the Union government as well as the National Medical Commission on a petition filed by the state government. The bench asked senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for the state government, if they can deny admission to a candidate because he has not secured more marks in the qualifying examination than what was prescribed by the NEET. The court pointed out a student across the country can appear in the NEET if he got an aggregate of 50 % marks. The court also noted another criterion fixed by the state government which stated that the candidate should have cleared the qualifying examination, i.e, class XII in one attempt. The counsel for state, for his part, submitted the judgement of the Constitution Bench in Modern Medical College and Research Centre vs State of Madhya Pradesh (2016) and other judgements thereafter, would indicate that it is open to the State to provide a higher qualification. He further maintained that the amendment in the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 by the insertion of Section 10D and Regulation 33(mb) --- prescribing uniform criteria and empowering MCI to fix qualifications--- would not preclude the State from laying down a higher and additional qualification. He also pointed out the advertisement, issued for the NEET as well as the information bulletin, also indicated that it is open to the State to provide its own condition of eligibility and merit. The court, however, the issue needs to be resolved. The state government filed a special leave petition against a decision of the Gauhati High Court passed on August 16, 2019 striking down Rule 4(2)(c) of the Medical Colleges and Dental Colleges of Assam (Regulation of Admission into 1st Year MBBS Course) Rules, 2017, prescribing higher and additional qualifications than the ones fixed by the Centre and the MCI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-examine-if-state-can-fix-higher-qualification-for-admission-to-mbbs-course-1021773.html
20-08-2021||National||High time legacy waste sites cleared, garbage disposed of scientifically: NGT observes ||Expressing concern over legacy waste, the National Green Tribunal has said it is high time such sites are cleared and solid waste collected is disposed of scientifically. Legacy waste by itself continues to be a serious problem at most of the places with the potential to cause air, water and land pollution, affecting public health, the Principal Bench of the NGT headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said. The bench made this observation while dealing with a plea alleging illegal dumping of solid waste in Adampur village, Tehsil Wadim in Rajasthan's Dholpur district. "Legacy waste by itself continues to be a serious problem at most of the places with potential to cause air, water and land pollution and affect public health. Huge valuable urban land is unnecessarily held up under the legacy waste," the Bench observed.  The green panel said it is well known that the challenge of solid waste management is of universal nature and the NGT has dealt with the issue of non-compliance of statutory rules on the subject by various orders applicable throughout the country. It is high time that all legacy waste sites are cleared and the solid waste generated and collected is scientifically disposed of so as to result in zero leftover waste at the end of the day, the NGT said. Last week, Karnataka, while submitting a compliance report to the NGT about the solid waste management rules, said that a total of 313 urban local bodies are generating 11,085 tonnes of municipal solid waste per day including wet and dry waste. Of which 10,662 tonnes of waste is being collected every day. The state also informed that approximately 1.5 crore tonnes of legacy waste existed in the state in 26 cities having one lakh population and steps are being taken to its scientific disposal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-time-legacy-waste-sites-cleared-garbage-disposed-of-scientifically-ngt-observes-1021806.html
20-08-2021||National||CSC, Vodafone Idea Foundation team up to vaccinate vulnerable sections against Covid||The common services centres - under the Ministry of Electronics and IT - and Vodafone Idea Foundation have partnered for the registration of citizens to receive vaccination against the deadly Covid-19 virus. The initiative would focus on vulnerable and disadvantaged communities, according to a statement. Vodafone Idea Foundation is the (corporate social responsibility) CSR arm of VIL. "The CSC Academy, the CSR and Education wing of CSC, will facilitate registration and scheduling of one million beneficiaries for vaccination across the country through the Village Level Entrepreneurs (VLEs)," the statement said. The VLEs will act as a focal point for identifying and reaching out to the ageing population, slum dwellers, and daily wage workers. The target "is to register a million on Cowin Portal for driving vaccination for the elderly, people with disabilities, slum dwellers and daily wage workers" the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-vodafone-idea-foundation-team-up-to-vaccinate-vulnerable-sections-against-covid-1021816.html
20-08-2021||National||Rajnath likely to name stadium after Neeraj Chopra during Pune visit||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will visit Pune's Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) and Army Sports Institute (ASI) on August 23 and is likely to name a facility here after Olympic javelin gold medalist Neeraj Chopra, officials said on Friday. A release from the Defence PRO said Singh, during his visit to Army Sports Institute, is likely to name the stadium in the campus as 'Neeraj Chopra Army Sports Institute, Pune Cantonment'. Chopra, a Naik Subedar in the Army who won gold in the javelin competition in the recently-concluded Tokyo Olympics, had himself trained at the ASI. As per the release, Singh will felicitate 16 Olympians from the Services during his visit to ASI, apart from addressing troops and sportsmen training at the premier facility. At DIAT, Singh will chair the institute's general body meeting and interact with M.Tech and PhD students apart from inaugurating a new building in the campus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-likely-to-name-stadium-after-neeraj-chopra-during-pune-visit-1021822.html
20-08-2021||National||Centre wants states to say there were no deaths due to oxygen shortage: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has again rejected the Delhi government's proposal to form a panel to "investigate deaths due to oxygen shortage" in the national capital. No one can deny that Delhi grappled with an oxygen crisis in April and May during the second Covid wave and also no one can deny that people died in the capital due to shortage of oxygen, he said during an online press conference. "We had resubmitted a file for the constitution of a panel to probe deaths due to oxygen shortage. The LG (lieutenant governor) is saying that there is no need for that," Sisodia said The deputy chief minister said that on one hand, the Centre has been asking states to tell how many people died due to oxygen shortage and on the other, "you have not been allowing us to investigate such deaths". "Then how will states tell?" he asked. "That means the Centre wants us to give in writing that no death occurred due to the shortage of oxygen. It will be a big lie," Sisodia said. He claimed that the Centre was responsible for oxygen mismanagement in April and May and whether it was deliberate or a mistake is a matter of investigation. The Centre will have to accept that it was responsible for the oxygen crisis, Sisodia said. The deputy chief minister had last week written to Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya that it is difficult to ascertain without a probe if there were any oxygen-related deaths during the second Covid wave, and the Delhi government is seeking fresh approval from the LG to form an expert panel for it. The Delhi government had in June formed a four-member expert committee to look into the deaths due to the shortage of oxygen during the second wave of COVID-19. The committee was rejected by the LG.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-wants-states-to-say-there-were-no-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-sisodia-1021828.html
20-08-2021||National||India approves Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use for adults, children over 12||The world’s first DNA vaccine against Covid-19, made by Zydus Cadila, received an emergency use authorisation for use on children and adults from the Indian regulator on Friday, clearing the decks for its commercial rollout. While the homegrown vaccine is the first Covid-19 shot approved for 12-18-year-olds, it is not immediately clear whether the shot’s initial roll out will include the adolescents as a target group. But eventually it would be administered to them. Developed by Zydus Cadila with support from the Department of Biotechnology, the three-dose intradermal vaccine, ZyCoV-D, showed a primary efficacy of 66.6% for symptomatic RT-PCR positive cases in phase-III clinical trials over 28,000 volunteers. “With this approval, India now has its first Covid-19 vaccine for the adolescents in the 12-18 age group, besides the adult population,” the company said in a statement. “It is a matter of great pride that on Friday we have the EUA for the world’s first DNA Covid-19 vaccine by Zydus developed in partnership with the DBT. This is an important milestone in our indigenous vaccine development mission and positions India on the global map for novel vaccine development," said Renu Swarup, Secretary, DBT. The plus points of a DNA vaccine, explains eminent scientist Shahid Jameel, is that it is easy to manufacture and the process can be automated since DNA is a far more stable molecule than RNA. Also such vaccines have better temperature stability.  The minus points are generally less immunogenicity than proteins (and now RNA) and intradermal delivery of such vaccines. For this Zydus uses a very good needle free technology. Also ZyCod-D needs three doses and it would be logistically difficult to ensure compliance. “But overall it's a useful vaccine to have, especially with its approval for 12-18 year olds. This comes as good news as schools open,” Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University told DH. ZyCoV-D will be administered using a needle-free applicator known as PharmaJet, which ensures painless intradermal vaccine delivery. The shots will be given on first-28th-and 56th day. The company plans to manufacture 10-12 crore doses of the vaccine every year. In a statement, Pankaj Patel, chairman of the Zydus Group said, “This is a historic milestone with ZyCoV-D, a product of Indian innovation becoming the world’s first DNA vaccine being offered for human use and supporting the world’s largest immunisation drive. We are particularly happy that our vaccine will enable the country to vaccinate a larger population especially in the age group of 12-18 years.” Before the Zydus vaccine, the CDSCO approved five Covid-19 vaccines – Covishield, Covaxin, Sputnik, Moderna and the single shot vaccine of Johnson and Johnson. The last two are yet to be launched commercially in India. The DNA platform used in the Zydus vaccine provides ease of manufacturing with minimal biosafety requirements. Another of its advantages is to allow generating new constructs quickly to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring. The company plans to seek approval for the two dose regimen of the vaccine, on which the CDSCO sought more data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-approves-zydus-cadilas-covid-19-vaccine-for-emergency-use-for-adults-children-over-12-1021833.html
20-08-2021||National||PV Narasimha Rao father of economic reforms in India: CJI Ramana||Describing former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao as the father of economic reforms in the country, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana on Friday said that dispute resolution through negotiations and mediation is part of Indian culture. Speaking at the Registration of Trust Deeds of the International Arbitration and mediation Centre here, Justice Ramana said the city is well placed to have an international arbitration centre and the cost of dispute resolution through the centre would be much cheaper when compared to other countries. "You know the father of the economic reforms in the country is none other than P V Narsimha Rao, Telangana Bidda (son of Telangana). Under his leadership, in India for the first time economic reforms started," the CJI said. "This (arbitration and mediation) is not a new thing that we innovated. You know that in Indian culture we sort out all our disputes through mediation and negotiation and conciliation. Every day we negotiate with our children, brothers and friends," he said. Supreme Court judge Justice L Nageswara Rao and former SC Judge justice Ravindra will be the life Trustees of the Arbitration Centre here and they will co-opt some more members in future, Justice Ramana said. He said earlier foreign investors were apprehensive about the time taken for dispute resolution process in the Indian judiciary and added that after the Arbitration and Conciliation Act came into being in 1996, the momentum has started for out of court procedures. He asked the state government and Telangana High Court Chief Justice Hima Kohli to encourage companies to settle their disputes through arbitration and mediation. He said the centre here should become an internationally acclaimed one in dispute resolution. The CJI thanked Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao for acting quickly on his proposal and making necessary arrangements for starting the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pv-narasimha-rao-father-of-economic-reforms-in-india-cji-ramana-1021848.html
20-08-2021||National||New Vande Bharat train sets to come with features to aid emergency evacuation||The next set of Vande Bharat trains will come with new facilities, including centralised coach monitoring systems and features specially designed for emergency evacuation, officials said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi this August 15 had announced that 75 Vande Bharat Express trains will connect every corner of the country in 75 weeks of the Amrit Mahotsav of Independence. These will be in addition to the Indian Railways two existing Vande Bharat Express trains. The first was launched on the Varanasi-Delhi route and the second on the Katra-Delhi route. The Shatabdi-type semi-high speed trains already have amenities like onboard infotainment, GPS-based passenger information system, CCTV cameras, automatic sliding doors with retractable coach footsteps and zero discharge vacuum-based bio-toilets. The new improved features on these Vande Bharat trains will include four emergency windows for easy evacuation of passengers in case of emergencies, the officials said. Four disaster lights will also be provided in each coach to be used in the event of failure of all other lights in a disaster situation, they said. The number of emergency push buttons will also be increased from the present two to four. The officials said that a centralised coach monitoring system for all electrical and climate controls and functioning of other vital systems of the train set has been introduced. The trains will have a push back arrangement for reclining of seats for a more comfortable travel experience, they said. The new trains will also have fire survival cables in door circuits, the officials said. The system of air purification has also been reworked with availability of ventilation for three hours in case of failure of power supply to the roof mounted air conditioning package unit. This will mean better availability, and a more reliable and bacteria free air conditioning system, officials said. The trains will also be provided with higher flood protection underframe equipment to ensure reliability during heavy rains. The first prototype rake with these specifications is tentatively planned to be dispatched in March 2022, which will be put for commercial service tentatively by June 2022, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-vande-bharat-train-sets-to-come-with-features-to-aid-emergency-evacuation-1021859.html
20-08-2021||National||India to prioritise granting visas to civil society members, opinion makers, women activists from Afghanistan||In line with its historical ties with Afghan people, India will prioritise granting visas to civil society members, opinion makers, women activists, students and NGO workers from Afghanistan in view of the current situation in the country, people familiar with the development said on Friday. Afghan people feeling threatened or facing the fear of persecution and those who supported India in rolling out various welfare and development projects will also be given priority for grant of visas, they said. However, they said the government's immediate priority is to evacuate the stranded Indians from Kabul and arrangements are being made in coordination with the US and other partner countries to bring them home. It is learnt that all back-up plans have been put into place to facilitate their return at the earliest. Amid fears of a humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, a number of countries such as the UK, Canada, have already announced resettlement schemes for Afghan refugees while several others have agreed on providing temporary shelter to them. Two days after Kabul fell to the Taliban, India on Tuesday introduced a new category of electronic visas called "e-Emergency X-Misc Visa" to facilitate the grant of visas to Afghan nationals after reviewing the situation in the conflict-ridden country. The people cited above said India will continue to stand by those Afghan people who have supported India in various ways. Following the Taliban's takeover of Kabul, thousands of people rushed to the airport in the Afghan capital in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality. "We have a historical relationship with the Afghan people and I think that relationship will continue to guide our thoughts and outlook," External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said in New York on Thursday. India has been a key stakeholder in Afghanistan and it has invested nearly $3 billion in carrying out nearly 500 projects across Afghanistan. The people said another priority for the government has been to facilitate the evacuation of the members of the Hindu and Sikh minorities from Afghanistan. The majority of the people from the Sikh community in Afghanistan possess long-term Indian visas. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Monday set up a round-the-clock special cell set to keeping track of stranded Indians in Afghanistan, ascertaining assistance being sought and advising a further course of action. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. Kabul fell to the Taliban on Sunday. By Tuesday, India completed the evacuation of all its diplomats and other staff members from the Afghan capital under a difficult and complicated exercise, effectively closing its mission for the second time since 1996 when the militant outfit captured power. The mission to evacuate close to 200 people including the Indian envoy and other staffers in two military aircraft was accomplished with support from the US. Following the evacuation, the MEA said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital. The MEA said the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. It also requested the Indians as well as their employers to urgently share the relevant details with the special Afghanistan cell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-prioritise-granting-visas-to-civil-society-members-opinion-makers-women-activists-from-afghanistan-1021861.html
20-08-2021||National||India seals deal with Russia to procure AK-103 rifles||India has finalised a deal with Russia to buy a sizeable number of AK-103 series of assault rifles for the Indian Army under the provisions of emergency procurement, people familiar with the development said on Friday. The Army is implementing a mega infantry modernisation programme under which a large number of light machine guns, battle carbines and assault rifles are being purchased to replace its ageing and obsolete weapons. "A deal has been finalised with Russia for direct purchase of a batch of AK-103 series of assault rifles," one of the persons cited above said without specifying the number of rifles or the cost of procurement. There is no official announcement on the deal yet. The people said the rifles are being procured under the emergency financial powers granted to the three services to make urgent purchases. In October 2017, the Indian Army began the process to acquire around seven lakh rifles, 44,000 light machine guns (LMGs) and nearly 44,600 carbines. The government has accorded priority to the modernisation of the armed forces and the infantry modernisation has been initiated as part of the larger process to further enhance the combat capability of the Army. Meanwhile, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh approved a proposal on putting up relevant details of planned procurements by the three services on their or the defence ministry's website. "To promote 'Ease of Doing Business' and provide more transparency in the capital acquisition process, aligning with the aspirations of industry, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has approved a proposal mandating the service headquarters to publish the relevant details on the service headquarters/MoD website within one week of receipt of approvals," the defence ministry said in a statement. "The details shared will be subject to sensitivities keeping the security aspect in mind," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seals-deal-with-russia-to-procure-ak-103-rifles-1021882.html
20-08-2021||National||Vrindavan widows send 251 handmade rakhis to PM Modi||Ahead of Rakshabandhan, widows of Vrindavan on Friday sent rakhis to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as they missed an in-person meeting with him for a second year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 251 rakhis that were prepared by a group of old-aged widows living in the temple town of western Uttar Pradesh have been sent to the prime minister, an NGO supporting them said. The rakhis have colourful pictures of the prime minister and many of them have messages of caution against the pandemic and Modi's call for 'Atmanirbhar Bharat', the Sulabh Hope Foundation said. Some of the widows have even prepared cotton face masks to be presented to him on Sunday, the day of the festival symbolising a bond between a brother and a sister. Usha Dasi, 77, who had personally tied rakhi to the prime minister said she has been spending her days inside the ashram for the last five months but is happy that her rakhis and masks have been sent to Modi. "I have personally designed special masks carrying messages like 'Stay safe' and 'Aatmnirbhar' and rakhis having Modi ji's picture with a covered face," the septuagenarian said. Foundation's vice president Vinita Verma recalled that during the pre-Covid era, on behalf of thousands of widows, four-five mother widows would visit Delhi to present baskets of rakhis and sweets to Modi. "The ongoing pandemic has disheartened them but it didn't shatter their spirit so they started preparing rakhis and special Vrindavan-themed masks for Modi," Verma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vrindavan-widows-send-251-handmade-rakhis-to-pm-modi-1021885.html
20-08-2021||National||PM Modi hails Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine getting emergency use authorisation||PM Narendra Modi on Friday hailed Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine receiving emergency use authorisation, calling it a "momentous feat". The Department of Biotechnology on Friday said indigenously-developed Zydus Cadila Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D has received approval for emergency use authorisation from the Drug Controller General of India and it will be administered to people 12 years and above. With the emergency use authorisation (EUA), ZyCoV-D has also become the first vaccine to be administered to those in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. "India is fighting Covid-19 with full vigour. The approval for world’s first DNA based ‘ZyCov-D’ vaccine of @ZydusUniverse is a testimony to the innovative zeal of India’s scientists," Prime Minister Modi tweeted. "A momentous feat indeed," he added. Vaccines Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, which is three-dose, these are administered in two doses. The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) said that ZyCoV-D is the world's first DNA-based vaccine against the coronavirus and when injected produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from the disease as well as viral clearance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hails-zydus-cadilas-covid-vaccine-getting-emergency-use-authorisation-1021919.html
20-08-2021||National||Jaishankar discusses Afghanistan situation with Qatar FM||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in Qatar Government, Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani, discussed the situation in Afghanistan in Doha on Friday. Jaishankar had a stopover in Doha while returning from New York to New Delhi. He met Al Thani and discussed the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban had entered the national capital Kabul last Sunday after occupying many provinces across the country over the past few weeks. The Qatar Government has been hosting several leaders of the Taliban in Doha and facilitating the militant organisation’s peace talks with the United States and with President Ashraf Ghani’s government. “Met Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani @MBA_AlThani_ DPM & FM Qatar during my stop over in Doha. Had useful exchange of views on Afghanistan,” Jaishankar posted on Twitter. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-discusses-afghanistan-situation-with-qatar-fm-1021923.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||Vajpayee, Nehru 'ideal' leaders, says Nitin Gadkari||Expressing dismay at the disruptions during the Monsoon Session of the Parliament, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has described former prime ministers Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Jawaharlal Nehru as “ideal leaders”, and asked all political parties to introspect about their conduct in Parliament. Gadkari’s praise of Nehru and Vajpayee in the same breath came at a function organised by Hindi news channel News Nation, at a time when a large number of BJP leaders lose no opportunity to criticise Nehru for his policies ranging from the handling of Kashmir to the 1962 war against China. “Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru were the two ideal leaders of Indian democracy. Both of them used to say that they will maintain democratic dignity,” the former BJP president said. He was responding to questions on the disruption by Opposition parties during the recent Monsoon Session of Parliament. He said that Vajpayee's legacy was a source of inspiration for all leaders and Nehru had also made a significant contribution to Indian democracy. Gadkari recalled how Vajpayee had once chided him for repeated disruptions in the Maharashtra Legislative Council. “When I met Atalji, he told me that this was not the way to act in a democracy and that it was important to convey one’s message to the people,” the Union Minister said. Gadkari said the opposition's favourite retort to questions on disruptions was that the BJP too behaved in a similar manner when in opposition. “That is true... I would say that the nature of the chair is such that whoever sits there behaves the same way. We should all introspect and maintain some dignity,” he said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vajpayee-nehru-ideal-leaders-says-nitin-gadkari-1021649.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||NCP slams BJP for holding 'Jan Ashirwad' yatras amid threat of Covid-19 third wave||The NCP, which is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, on Friday hit out at the BJP, saying that the leaders of that party were taking out 'Jan Ashirwad' yatras across the country with elections in mind, although there was a threat of the third wave of coronavirus pandemic. Talking to reporters, NCP's chief spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik said the BJP leaders should realise that people's lives were more important than elections. Newly-inducted Union ministers Narayan Rane, Bharti Pawar, Kapil Patil and Bhagwat Karad have embarked on 'Jan Ashirwad' yatras in different parts of Maharashtra to reach out to people and thank them for the BJP's win in elections in the recent past. Talking about it, Malik said although the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the World Health Organization (WHO) and several experts have appealed that crowding should be avoided to prevent the possible third wave, the BJP was doing exactly the opposite. "Due to the BJP's programme of the yatras, there is a threat of the third wave. If Covid-19 rules are violated, cases will be files against the organisers," he said. The NCP leader said, "Elections will come and go, but people's lives are important. BJP leaders should realise this fact."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ncp-slams-bjp-for-holding-jan-ashirwad-yatras-amid-threat-of-covid-19-third-wave-1021698.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||Congress kept democracy intact during its 70-year rule: Ashok Gehlot||Hitting out at the BJP for repeatedly asking the Congress what it did during its 70 years in power, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday said the grand old party kept the country undivided and democracy intact and it was due to this that new governments were formed. He said the country got independence because Congress leaders made sacrifices and went to jails. Gehlot was speaking at a programme held to commemorate the 77th birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi. He said it was very easy to ask what the Congress did during its 70 years in power. In these 70 years, the Congress kept the country and democracy intact and further strengthened them. Unlike Pakistan, India did not fall under military rule, he added. "Governments in the country keep coming and going. The present government, too, was formed only because the roots of democracy were strong. These people forget this," Gehlot said without naming anyone. In a democracy, criticism is welcomed but these people cannot tolerate it and consider it sedition, he said, targeting the Centre. Gehlot said former prime ministers Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi sacrificed their lives for the nation. "Our leaders made sacrifices and went to jails and it was because of their sacrifices and struggle that the country got independence," he said. "The new generation will have to understand this and they will understand when they study history, be it of pre-independence or post-independence era. Those who learn from history are able to make history," he said. Gehlot said Rajiv Gandhi took hundreds of decisions during his tenure as PM that transformed the country in the following years. He said the former PM launched various missions, promoted IT and telecom, gave voting rights to youths aged 18 and prepared the nation for the 21st century. Speaking at the event via videoconferencing, Sam Pitroda, who served as the advisor to Rajiv Gandhi during his tenure as PM, said it was mainly because of Rajiv Gandhi that India was in a leading position globally now. "His (Rajiv Gandhi's) idea was to improve the health system, education, justice, financial system through e-governance and it really improved productivity while using modern technology and tools," he said. Rajiv Gandhi had launched six technology missions related to telecommunications, water, literacy, immunisation, dairy production and oilseeds, he added. Pitroda claimed that today, civil society only has a small role to play and scientific temperament is not being encouraged. "I am concerned that institutions are being captured today," he said. If Rajiv Gandhi was around, India would be very different, he added. During the event, Gehlot also launched the Kisan Sathi portal for the convenience of farmers, an e-booklet prepared by the agriculture department, I-Start virtual incubation centre and announced Rajiv Gandhi Innovation Awards for start-ups. Born in 1944, Rajiv Gandhi was the prime minister from 1984 to 1989. He was assassinated in 1991.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-kept-democracy-intact-during-its-70-year-rule-ashok-gehlot-1021704.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh, Sidhu agree on strategic policy group for better party-govt coordination||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and State Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday agreed to set up a 10-member strategic policy group to ensure better coordination between the party and the state government and expedite implementation of various government programmes. The development is seen as a sign of thaw between Singh and Sidhu, amid the ongoing tussle between the two of them. In another development, the chief minister has deputed his ministers to sit at Congress Bhawan here for interacting with the party cadre and public. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had earlier advised that the Punjab government and the state unit of the party must work together. To be headed by the chief minister, the Group will have Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal and Social Security Minister Aruna Chaudhary as members along with Sidhu. The four state Congress working presidents, Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Pawan Goel, and Pargat Singh will also be members. The decision was taken on Friday when Sidhu, along with Nagra and Pargat, called on the chief minister to discuss Punjab related issues and steps to strengthen party-government coordination, a statement here said. The Group will hold weekly meetings in consultation with other ministers and experts as may be required. It will discuss and review the progress of various state government initiatives already under implementation, and will also suggest measures to expedite the same, it said. In another decision, which came after Sidhu wrote a letter to the chief minister, Singh has also assigned his cabinet colleagues the task of being available in Punjab Congress Bhawan, the party's state headquarter here, every day, by rotation, for meetings with MLAs and other party functionaries to discuss issues relating to their constituencies or areas and address any grievances.  One minister each will be available at the Congress Bhawan from Monday for three hours between 11 am and 2 pm, the roster for which has been put up by Sidhu on his Twitter handle, and in any case the minister deputed for a particular day is unable to make it for some reason, he or she shall arrange for a substitute in consultation with any other minister. The arrangement will be in place five days in a week, from Monday to Friday, said the chief minister, adding that this will help in better coordination between his government and party functionaries in the run-up to the 2022 Assembly elections. Sidhu, who released a photograph with the CM on his Twitter handle, said in a tweet, “Highly positive Co-ordination meeting on proposal for roaster (sic) of Ministers to sit at Punjab Congress Bhawan !!”. In his letter to chief minister, Sidhu said Punjab Congress workers are the backbone of the party, “whose persistence, hard work and dedication led us to a sweeping victory in 2017 elections.” “Ever since the esteemed Congress high command has given me the pivotal responsibility as President, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, I have been interacting with hundreds and thousands of our party colleagues on a daily basis and listening to their concerns. "I, along with PCC working presidents and senior state Congress leadership are of the opinion that there are issues of dire importance to the people of Punjab, which are brought to the notice of PCC on a daily basis,” Sidhu wrote.         The Punjab Congress chief said these can be effectively resolved if ministers of the state Cabinet sit in the Punjab Congress Bhawan, Chandigarh on basis of “one minister a day”. “Ministers spending quality hours in PCC office for five days a week to hear concerns of Congress workers, Unions and people of Punjab, and taking immediate action will be a great way to discharge their duty,” he said in the letter.  Creating a roster for efficient management, giving turns to each minister to sit and hear issues related to different departments and areas of Punjab can be a crucial step towards hearing and resolving the issue of the people of Punjab, he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-sidhu-agree-on-strategic-policy-group-for-better-party-govt-coordination-1021710.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||Uddhav is helpless, hence attending meeting called by Sonia: Rane||Union minister Narayan Rane on Friday targeted Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, saying that he was attending a meeting called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi due to his helplessness. Speaking to reporters here, Rane said, "If Balasaheb Thackeray was alive today, he would not have compromised with his Hindutva ideology. But Uddhav Thackeray is helpless as he is attending the meeting called by Congress leader Sonia Gandhi." The Shiv Sena had earlier said that Uddhav Thackeray will take part in the virtual interaction to be held by Sonia Gandhi with the leaders of various opposition parties on Friday. Rane downplayed the incident in which Shiv Sena workers 'sanitised' the memorial of party founder late Bal Thackeray at Shivaji Park in Mumbai after his visit to that place on Thursday. "It is my outlook to bow before whoever I want. I visited other memorials as well and it was part of my dialogue with the people after I have been inducted into the Union cabinet," the BJP leader said. "The (Thackeray) memorial is surrounded by mud. If Sena workers are so keen on sanitising it, then they should first keep it in a better condition. It should be on par with an international standard memorial. But its condition resembles the situation of Mumbai under the 32-year-long rule of the Shiv Sena...It is time to get rid of Sena," he said. Rane added that the BJP would transform Mumbai into a "truly international standard" city. "If Sena workers are acting out of some revenge, they will be rejected by the people of the state. The attitude of Sena workers is sad," the former Maharashtra chief minister said. He also said that police cases being filed against BJP workers for alleged violation of Covid-19 norms would not deter him from continuing his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra'. "This government has miserably failed in controlling the coronavirus situation in the state. There was a shortage of medicines, doctors and medical staff. The Sena could not even buy enough doses of vaccine for Mumbaikars because they were demanding 12 per cent commission from one supplier who had responded to the tender floated by the BMC," Rane alleged, and added, "I can produce that person before you at the right time."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uddhav-is-helpless-hence-attending-meeting-called-by-sonia-rane-1021753.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||BJP leader tells journalist to go to 'Taliban' for cheaper petrol||A video of Madhya Pradesh BJP leader Ramratan Payal who told a journalist to "go to Taliban-ruled Afghanistan" after being questioned over the rising petrol and diesel prices is doing rounds on social media. The Katni district President can be heard telling a journalist to go to "Taliban" because fuel only costs Rs 50 in Afghanistan.  " ...Nobody is there to refill the fuel. At least in India, we have safety. The third wave of coronavirus is about to come while two Covid waves India has already faced," he told a journalist in the viral video. The leader who wasn't wearing a face mask further advised people to follow Covid-19 protocols. "You are a reputed journalist. Do you even realise the kind of situation in the country? How PM Modi is controlling the situation. He is still giving free ration to 80 crore people," he reportedly said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leader-tells-journalist-to-go-to-taliban-for-cheaper-petrol-1021755.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||Why did you not bother to answer any questions in Parliament: TMC's O'Brien asks PM Modi||Mounting a fresh attack on the BJP-led Centre, TMC’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien on Friday posed several questions over the just-concluded Parliament session, one of them being the reason for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s absence during a debate on the constitutional amendment bill on other backward classes (OBCs). O'Brien, in a video, asked as many as nine questions to Modi and his cabinet of ministers on a range of issues, claiming that the opposition was "not allowed" to hold discussions on the Pegasus controversy and the contentious farm laws in the two Houses. The TMC leader in Rajya Sabha further wondered why the Parliament session was wrapped up ahead of schedule. "Why did you (PM) not bother to reply to any query asked by the opposition...? Why was our PM missing during the OBC debate in Parliament? Former PMs Deve Gowdaji, Manmohan Singh ji were present. Where was Modiji?" O'Brien said in the video posted on his Twitter handle. NEW👇Worked on my Hindi for this video A constitutional amendment bill to restore the powers of the states to make their own OBC lists was passed by Parliament on Wednesday, the last day of the monsoon session. The Rajya Sabha MP noted that "38 bills were passed in both Houses with an average discussion time of 10 minutes on each of them." He said that Modi hasn’t replied to any question raised in Rajya Sabha in the past five years. O'Brien also sought to know the rationale behind the delay in electing a deputy speaker to Lok Sabha, a post that has been lying vacant over the last two years. "Why was the opposition not allowed to discuss Pegasus internal security issues and farm laws? The government must have its way, and the opposition must have its say," O'Brien observed. In his last question to the cabinet ministers, he said, "Whose business is it to wrap up Parliament. Is it government’s responsibility or opposition’s? Who is the government accountable to? The people. We are accountable to the people." Taking a dig at O’brien and his party, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said the TMC was "staging a drama", after having disrupted proceedings in both Houses of Parliament. "The conduct of Trinamool MPs in Parliament brought disgrace to Bengal. Their only intention was to disrupt proceedings and gain political mileage. Important discussions on the pandemic could not be properly held due to the irresponsible behaviour of opposition leaders. "Mr O'Brien and others should first explain the rationale behind their conduct," Ghosh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-did-you-not-bother-to-answer-any-questions-in-parliament-tmcs-obrien-asks-pm-modi-1021800.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||Winning 2024 polls ultimate goal, time to rise above compulsions: Sonia Gandhi to Oppn leaders||Holding a meeting with top leaders of 19 Opposition parties including, four Chief Ministers from non-Congress parties Mamata Banerjee, Uddhav Thackeray and M K Stalin and Hemant Soren, Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Friday called for the coming together of the entire spectrum of the Opposition for the "larger political battle" telling them in no uncertain terms that the "ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections". "The ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections for which we have to begin to plan systematically with the single-minded objective of giving to our country a government that believes in the values of the Freedom Movement and in the principles and provisions of our Constitution," she said in her opening remarks. While making the unity pitch, Gandhi also acknowledged the difficulties, which was very much evident with BSP, a major regional party from poll bound Uttar Pradesh skipping the meeting and Delhi's ruling party AAP not having been invited. Akhilesh Yadav's SP was a signatory to the letter by 20 parties but did not attend the meeting, "This is a challenge, but together we can and must rise to it because there is simply no alternative to working cohesively together. We all have our compulsions, but clearly, a time has come when the interests of our nation demand that we rise above them," Gandhi said at the meeting which was also attended by NCP chief Sharad Pawar, CPI-M's Sitaram Yechury,  CPI's D Raja, NC's Farooq Abdullah, PDP's Mehbooba Mufti and others. Gandhi assured that "Congress will not be found wanting" in efforts in this direction as she noted that the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence is indeed the most appropriate occasion for us to reaffirm our individual and collective resolve. Mamata Banerjee, who is emerging as a key personality to bring together Opposition forces after her Hat-trick poll victory in West Bengal, is learnt to have said, "forget who is the leader, let us keep our personal interests aside. People will lead." She is learnt to have pitched in for bringing "every opposition party in the fight against BJP." She was of the view that even parties, which are not allied with Congress, must be invited for such meetings. Her indication was apparently towards parties like BJD, TRS and YSR Congress. Banerjee also pitched for creating a core group of leaders from Opposition parties to work out a common agenda and charter of programmes to take on the BJP. Sharad Pawar lauded the "much needed meeting" in view of the present circumstances which he said appeared "very gloomy". " Those who believe in democracy and secularism, those who like to work together for saving the democratic principles and ethos of the country must come together," he said, underlining the need to take up a "time bound action plan collectively". In a joint statement issued later, the parties announced to organise protest actions including dharnas, protest demonstrations, hartals all over the country from September 20 to September 30, the contours of which will be decided at state level by all the parties. "We the leaders of twenty Opposition parties, all upon the people of India to rise to the occasion to defend our secular, democratic Republican order with all our might," the statement said. The Opposition leaders made 11 demands in the joint statement including holding "immediate Supreme Court monitored judicial enquiry into the use of Pegasus Spyware for surveillance of people. "The procuring of the Pegasus Military Spyware for surveillance of people by the GoI is extremely alarming. The government refuses to answer one straight question - Has it or any of its agencies purchased the Spyware. The government must answer and come clean. Such surveillance is not only a gross violation of people's fundamental rights to privacy but is an attack on Indian democracy and democratic institutions," the statement said. Other demands were repeal of the three contentious farm laws passed by the government last year compulsory guarantee of MSP to farmers, implement free cash transfer of Rs 7500 per month to family outside the income tax bracket, withdraw petrol, diesel, LPG price hike and reverse the "unbridled privatisation" of the public sector, which it called the "loot of national assets". At the meeting, which was attended also by leaders from RJD, AIUDF, VCK, Loktantrik Janata Dal,  JDS, RLD,  RSP, Kerala Congress Mani, IUML, Gandhi noted how the Monsoon session was marked by the "determined unity that all Opposition parties demonstrated for over twenty days" in both the houses and expressed confidence that this unity will be sustained in future sessions of Parliament as well. "But the larger political battle has to be fought outside it," she stressed. The joint statement as well Gandhi herself put the blame on the government for the total washout of the Monsoon session and took note of how "MPs including women MPs, were injured by Marshals deployed to disrupt Opposition protests." Gandhi also credited the Opposition parties for the passage of the Constitutional Amendment Bill to restore the long-standing rights of states to identify and notify OBCs. Gandhi's meeting with Opposition leaders came 11 days after Congress leader Kapil Sibal had held a similar meeting with Opposition leaders over dinner, which was interpreted as the dissenting group in Congress asserting itself. At the virtual meeting, Gandhi recalled that the Opposition parties had earlier written a joint letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 12 on the vaccination strategy to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, on the repeal of the three anti-farmer laws and on the free distribution of food-grains to the needy. They also issued two more public statements jointly on May May 23 on the Covid-19 pandemic and on May May 2 on the issue of the repeal of the three anti-farmer laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/winning-2024-polls-ultimate-goal-time-to-rise-above-compulsions-sonia-gandhi-to-oppn-leaders-1021823.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||Those who believe in democracy, secularism must come together: Sharad Pawar||Those who believe in democracy and secularism must come together and draw up a "time-bound action program", NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said after taking part in a virtual meeting of opposition leaders convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday. He appreciated the initiative to organise a meeting of like-minded parties in view of the present circumstances in the country, the former Union minister said on Twitter. "The current scenario in India appears very gloomy. Farmers are protesting for many months, it's an anguishing picture for a democratic country like India. The nation is facing many issues like inflation, economic slowdown, Covid mitigation, unemployment, border disputes, issue of the minority communities etc," he tweeted. The present government has failed to address these issues, he said. "Those who believe in democracy and secularism, those who like to work together for saving the democratic principles and ethos of our country must come together," Pawar said. "A time-bound action program needs to be taken up collectively, and I strongly suggest that instead of dealing with all these issues together, we must collectively prioritise each issue and solve them one by one to give our country a good present and future," he said. A total of 19 parties including the NCP and Shiv Sena participated in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-who-believe-in-democracy-secularism-must-come-together-sharad-pawar-1021824.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee moots panel of leaders to decide on programmes to fight BJP||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday proposed to form a core group of opposition leaders to decide on joint movements against the BJP ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Virtually attending a meeting of opposition parties convened by Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi, the Trinamool Congress supremo asked the opposition leaders to keep aside differences and put up a united fight against the saffron party. "Let us forget who is the leader, let us keep our personal interests aside. Every opposition party should be brought in. People are the leader. Let us set up a core group and work together to decide on the next line of action and programmes,” a senior TMC leader quoted her as saying at the meeting. Banerjee also raised the issue of how "impartial institutions like the NHRC has been misused by the central government to malign opposition ruled state governments". She also raised the farmers' issue and torture allegedly unleashed by the Centre against states ruled by opposition parties, another TMC leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-moots-panel-of-leaders-to-decide-on-programmes-to-fight-bjp-1021841.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||NCP, TMC bat for focussed approach on core issues||The Opposition unity meeting called by Sonia Gandhi saw a demand from Trinamool Congress and NCP leaders, Mamata Banerjee and Sharad Pawar, to stay focussed on fewer core issues at a time while taking over the government. While the joint statement issued by the 20 parties trained guns on the government on 11 points, both Banejree and Pawar preferred to prune it. "The joint statement we have issued has too many demands. Going forward, we should restrict our agenda to only five issues of national importance," it said listing 'vaccine for all, repealing farm laws, withdrawing unprecedented hike in petrol, diesel and cooking gas, giving Rs 7500 per month to all outside income tax bracket and judicial probe on Pegasus" as "urgent issues", which need to be focussed on. Calling for a time bound action programme, Pawar strongly suggested that "instead of dealing with all these issues together, we must collectively prioritise each issue and solve them one by one". Remarking "forget who is the leader", Banerjee asked for keeping personal interests aside. "The people of India will lead," she said and emphasised that all opposition leaders have to move fast, walk together and forget their egos". Banerjee said every Opposition leader should be brought in to fight against BJP and took the name of CPI-ML in this regard. CPI-M's Sitaram Yechury, however, said that so far on parties, who have presence in Parliament are called in these meetings and if any change is brought about then Forward Bloc, too, should be invited. The significance of the meeting is that it comes soon after unity in Parliament. It is no longer only floor coordination now and has extended to party coordination. The general feeling was that all should be united before UP polls. "The new India is a Modi project which is based on disruption and destruction of the Constitution and erect RSS' rapidly intolerant Hindu Rashtra. It is a battle for which the time has come to firmly decide where you stand," CPI(M)'s Sitaram Yechury said. Sidelights There was a small hiccup with some Chief Ministers objecting to junior persons from the AICC set up coordinating the virtual meeting, which was assigned to AICC general secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal first. Later Sonia Gandhi and Sitaram Yechury called up some leaders. CPI-M's office also got into coordination. A draft of the joint statement was shared with leaders by Yechury. SP's Akhilesh Yadav first called Yechury to express his inability to attend but he said he agreed with the joint statement. Later, he sent a letter to Yechury expressing his inability to attend the meeting. Mayawati was informed about the meeting and was invited but there was no response. AAP was not invited as AAP and Congress do not want to be seen together. In the meeting after Sonia, Pawar spoke first. He said he has  gone through the draft prepared by Yechury. He agreed with it but spoke about one issue on the formulation of farmers issue in the statement. Pawar's point was that different states have different laws. Later, Yechury clarified that is exactly the point and the Centre should first repeal the laws. Then laws should be drafted through consultations with all stakeholders. Pawar agreed. Mamata wanted a Core Committee to be set up to discuss issues before meetings. Sonia said will think about it. Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren said there is a need to make people understand Pegasus otherwise it won't make any sense.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ncp-tmc-bat-for-focussed-approach-on-core-issues-1021877.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||Opposition parties to organise joint protests across country between September 20-30||The leaders of 19 political parties on Friday said they will organise joint protests and demonstrations across the country from September 20 to 30 even as they urged the people of the country to save India for a better tomorrow. After a virtual meeting of the Opposition parties, where they stressed unitedly moving forward to defeat the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, the leaders also put out an 11-point charter of demands before the government. "We will jointly organise protest actions all over the country from 20th to 30th September, 2021," they said in a statement.  The leaders said the forms of these public protest actions will be decided by the respective state units of their parties, depending on the concrete conditions of the Covid regulations and protocols in the states. These forms, amongst others, may include dharnas, protest demonstrations and hartals, they said in the joint statement. "We, the leaders of 19 Opposition parties, call upon the people of India to rise to the occasion to defend our secular, democratic, republican order with all our might. Save India today, so that we can change it for a better tomorrow," they said. The leaders also strongly condemned the manner in which the Centre and the ruling BJP disrupted the Monsoon Session of Parliament, refusing to discuss the alleged illegal usage of the Pegasus military spyware to conduct unauthorised surveillance, a repeal of three "anti-farmer" laws, the gross mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic, inflation and price rise as also the spiralling unemployment.  All these and many other issues affecting the country and its people were deliberately ignored by the government, they alleged. Attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Opposition leaders said his Independence Day address did not focus on a single issue concerning people's miseries. "The speech was full of rhetoric, empty slogans and disinformation. In fact, it was a repackaging of earlier speeches given in 2019 and 2020. This speech is an ominous warning that lives of our people will continue to be ruined further," the joint statement said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-to-organise-joint-protests-across-country-between-september-20-30-1021880.html
20-08-2021||National Politics||'They meet every other day': BJP dismisses Opposition unity||BJP on Friday was dismissive about the meeting of opposition leaders convened by Congress President Sonia Gandhi to chart a joint action plan to take on the Modi government. "Congress and some opposition leaders meet every other day over breakfast and lunch. What is there to debate?" BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said. He said the opposition had come together even in 2018, when Gandhi, BSP chief Mayawati and other leaders shared the stage. "We all know what was the result," Patra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/they-meet-every-other-day-bjp-dismisses-opposition-unity-1021914.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Two Hizbul Mujahideen militants killed in J&K’s Pulwama||Two militants affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen outfit were killed in an encounter with security forces in Khrew area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Friday. Reports said the gun battle broke out in the wee hours of Friday after Army and J&K police cordoned off the area following a tip-off about the presence of militants there. In the ensuing firefight, police said, two militants were killed while an AK rifle and pistol was recovered from the encounter site. A police spokesman identified one of the slain militants as Musaib Mushtaq of Khrew who was involved in the killing of a school peon Javid Ahmad of Lurgam last month. Police are trying to ascertain the identity of the second militant. Nearly 100 militants and 21 security forces and J&K police personnel have been killed in Jammu Kashmir since the beginning of this year. The highest number of militants (31) were killed in July, which included several top commanders of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Among 100 militants killed in J&K this year, only 11 are Pakistanis while the rest are all locals. According to the Army, there are still 200-225 militants active across the J&K despite the fact that almost no infiltration has taken place so far this year. Official data reveals that 82 locals joined militancy in the first seven months of 2021, while 88 ultras were killed in the same period in encounters with the security forces. The spate of recruitment suggests that the counter-offensive of security forces is proving to be a zero-sum game, as for every militant killed a new one is immediately being recruited. Last year, there were around 220 active militants in Kashmir and despite the killing of 80 militants this year, the number, as per police records, remains more or less the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-hizbul-mujahideen-militants-killed-in-jk-s-pulwama-1021596.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Yogi meets Shah, Nadda, discusses poll preparations in UP||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath met Union Home Minister Amit Shah in the national capital on Thursday and discussed BJP's poll preparedness in the northern state which is scheduled to go to the polls next year, sources said. BJP chief J.P. Nadda, the party's Uttar Pradesh unit chief Swatantra Dev Singh and state unit general secretary Sunil Bansal were also present in the meeting held at Shah's official residence here. The meeting lasted for over three hours. Sources said that BJP's poll preparedness for next year's Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh was the main agenda of the meeting. "Shah, Nadda, Adityanath and others discussed BJP's poll preparations and the party's upcoming programmes till the elections," sources said. The sources further said that the BJP's strategy to reach out to all sections of the society was also discussed at the meeting. "Plans to win every caste and community were part of the discussion as the party is working hard to gain support of everyone," sources said. It is also learnt that public response to the ongoing 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' was also discussed. With an eye on next year's Assembly polls, seven leaders from Uttar Pradesh were inducted into the Union cabinet last month. Of the newly-inducted ministers from Uttar Pradesh, barring Anupriya Patel of Apna Dal, all are from the BJP. This was the third visit of Adityanath to Delhi since June. Amid speculation of a change of guard in Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath had earlier visited the national capital for two days and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Nadda and Shah. Last month during the Monsoon Session of the Parliament, the UP CM was present in a meeting with MPs from the state with Nadda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-meets-shah-nadda-discusses-poll-preparations-in-up-1021599.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||In Kashmir, few now dare to speak out||Public protests in Indian-controlled Kashmir were once an almost weekly occurrence but two years after New Delhi imposed direct rule on the region, locals say arbitrary arrests and intimidation by security forces wielding batons and snatching phones have left many too scared to voice dissent. A week before the region's partial autonomy was abolished, and as a massive troop deployment fanned out to help forestall a local backlash, "Rafiq" was one of thousands put in "preventative detention". He believes he was arrested because in the past he had "protested against injustices". Freed after a harrowing year behind bars, the 26-year-old -- too frightened to give his real name -- says he is a "broken man". Echoing accounts from a dozen other Kashmiris told to AFP, he and 30 others were bundled onto a military aircraft to a jail hundreds of miles from his home where they were "abused and intimidated". "A bright light was kept on all night in my cell for six months... It was hard to imagine that I would come out alive," he said. He at least was finally released. Activists say that scores of other Kashmiris are languishing in India's notoriously harsh jails. Mother-of-five Tasleema hasn't seen her husband Gulzar Ahmed Bhat, who used to belong to a separatist group but left in 2016, in two years. Initially when police and soldiers raided his home, Bhat was out. So they held his 23-year-old nephew until his uncle turned himself in. "I almost beg for work to feed my children," a tearful Tasleema said, a young child on her lap. India has for decades stationed more than half a million soldiers on its side of divided Kashmir. Its troops are fighting rebels demanding independence or a merger with Pakistan, which controls the western part of the region. Saying it wanted finally to achieve peace, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government scrapped a section of the constitution guaranteeing the territory's partial autonomy in August 2019. Kasmhiris now no longer have a locally elected government and are ruled by a lieutenant governor appointed by New Delhi. A legislative blitz has seen new laws applied and others scrapped. There are now hardly any senior Kashmiri police officers or bureaucrats in important decision-making positions. Changes in land ownership rules have sparked accusations of "settler colonialism" aimed at achieving an irreversible demographic shift in the Muslim-majority region. Neither the Home Ministry in New Delhi nor the government's spokesperson in Kashmir responded to requests for comment from AFP for this article. Many of the 5,000 officially arrested two years ago -- and scores more since -- were booked under the Public Safety Act, a "preventative detention" law allowing two years' imprisonment without charge or trial. "In the majority of cases, preventative detention is little more than a tool used... to silence dissent and ensure self-censorship," Juliette Rousselot from the International Federation for Human Rights told AFP. India has also made sweeping use of vaguely-worded anti-terror legislation -- the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act -- which effectively allows people to be held without trial indefinitely. Authorities have raided homes, offices and premises of civil society groups, journalists and newspapers, confiscating phones and laptops. One group raided was the Jammu Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society. "All the state institutions that are supposed to protect human rights and civil liberties have also been silenced now, made dysfunctional or threatened into capitulation," the group's head Parvez Imroz said. Local journalists say they are under increased scrutiny. Photographers have been assaulted and foreign reporters are effectively barred from the region. When shopkeepers attempted a shutdown in protest this month, police smashed locks to force them to open. Young people say they are questioned and sometimes beaten up at checkpoints if encrypted apps like WhatsApp or Signal are installed on their phones. Over a dozen government employees have recently been dismissed for "anti-national activities" or social media posts critical of the government. Last month police were told to reject security clearance for government jobs and passports to those with past involvement in protests, stone-throwing or activities against "security of the state". Violence has continued. This month a local official from Modi's party was killed along with his wife, while 90 suspected rebels have died in clashes so far this year. But while there used to be almost weekly protests, which police would often respond to with tear gas and pellet-firing shotguns, now they are fast becoming a thing of the past. Relatives and even neighbours of those who have protested in the past -- or just suspected of having done so -- are regularly pressed by police to give written promises to ensure they desist. "I'm now forced to think of my family and relations before opening my mouth to say anything," said one young man, who spent a year in prison and whose father was made to sign one such undertaking. "It has separated us. Solidarity with each other is no longer possible."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/in-kashmir-few-now-dare-to-speak-out-1021639.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||UP ex-CM Kalyan Singh's health condition deteriorates||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh's condition deteriorated on Friday. "His blood pressure is low and he's not passing urine normally. He has been placed on dialysis," Prof R K Dhiman, Director, SGPGIMS, Lucknow told ANI. Singh is on ventilator.  The 89-year-old BJP veteran was admitted to the ICU of the hospital on the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-ex-cm-kalyan-singhs-health-condition-deteriorates-1021647.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand govt sends names of 110 natives stuck in Afghanistan to Centre||The names of 110 Uttarakhand natives stuck in Afghanistan have been sent to the Ministry of External Affairs by the state government, official sources here said on Friday.  On Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's direction the administration has sent a list of 110 names to the MEA on the basis of information available with it so far, they said.  The list has been sent with a request that any information about them should also be shared with the state government, the sources said.  The families of Uttarakhand natives stranded in Afghanistan since the Taliban takeover are worried and have been requesting the state government to facilitate their safe return.  The chief minister has already spoken to National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and the MEA, urging them to take all steps necessary for their safe return. The state government has also asked people, whose kin are stuck in Afghanistan, to furnish the district administration with all relevant information about them like their names, passport details etc so that they can be passed on to the Centre for further action. The information can also be provided to the district administration on helpline no 112, an order issued by Additional Chief Secretary Anand Bardhan said. The state government is making all efforts with help from the Centre to ensure safe return of the people from Uttarakhand stranded in Afghanistan, Dhami said. "We are in constant touch with the Centre. All steps are being taken to ensure that each Indian stranded in Afghanistan returns home safely," the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-govt-sends-names-of-110-natives-stuck-in-afghanistan-to-centre-1021669.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||NGT directs committee to assess compensation payable by UP sugar mill for causing pollution||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a committee to assess compensation to be paid by a sugar mill in Uttar Pradesh for discharging untreated effluents in a surrounding drain and also in a water body resulting in pollution. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said the mill has failed to maintain record of waste generated and its disposal. "The unit is liable to compensate for the past violations and also to take remedial action. In view of violations found, the unit has to take remedial action and for the past violations, the unit has to pay compensation on polluter pays principle to be used for restoration purposes," the bench said. The NGT said that remedial measures may be taken within one month which may be assessed by a joint committee comprising of CPCB (represented by the level not below Scientist E), State PCB (represented by the level not below Chief Engineer/Regional Officer) and District Magistrate, Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh. The CPCB and State PCB will be the nodal agency for coordination and compliance, it said. The green panel also directed the committee to meet within 15 days and said it would be at liberty to associate any other expert/institution and consider the viewpoint of the industrial unit also. The action taken report may be filed by the joint Committee to this tribunal within two months by e-mail and it should mention the status of compliance and mode of disposal of effluents, considering the circumstances and impact on river Kali, the NGT said. The green panel was hearing a plea filed by Uttar Pradesh resident Vinit Kumar against the pollution caused by DSM Sugar Mills Ltd. which is operating in Mansurpur in Muzaffarnagar in violation of environmental norms. The plea alleged that the sugar mill is discharging untreated industrial effluent into the storm drain nearby, which is then released into a Gram Sabha pond, and from there it is eventually released into river Kali, in violation of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and Environment (Protection) Act, 1986.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-committee-to-assess-compensation-payable-by-up-sugar-mill-for-causing-pollution-1021685.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Three-member panel probing Vikas Dubey's encounter gives clean chit to police||A three-member commission probing the encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey has given a clean chit to police, stating their version of events about his death were supported by evidence. The commission said that Kanpur ambush in which eight cops were killed occurred because of "poor planning" by the police as it did not assess the situation correctly and there was "total failure" of Kanpur local intelligence. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Khanna tabled the report in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Thursday. "The evidence adduced in the (Dubey encounter) case supports police's version of the incident. The injuries suffered by policemen could not be self-inflicted or fabricated. Dr RS Mishra, who was on the panel of doctors, conducted the post-mortem and clarified that the injuries found on his person (Dubey) could be caused as per the version of police," the report said. "Nobody came forward from the public and media to controvert the police version and no evidence is filed in rebuttal. Richa Dubey, wife of Vikas, filed an affidavit calling the incident a fake encounter but she did not appear before the commission," it said, adding that in such eventuality, no suspicion or doubt arises about the police's version of the incident. A magisterial inquiry conducted by Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Kanpur Nagar has a similar finding. Eight police personnel, including deputy superintendent of police, were killed during a raid on Dubey's house at Bikru village in Kanpur district on the night of July 2-3, 2020. Later, Dubey was killed in an encounter when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from custody, the police had said. The commission comprised Justice (Retd) BS Chauhan, Justice (Retd) SK Agarwal and former UP director general of police KL Gupta. It had submitted a 824-page report to the state government on April 21. The commission said there is "sufficient material on record" to show that Vikas Dubey and his gang were patronised by the local police, revenue and administrative officials. "He (Vikas) and his associates had been in touch with such officials, and the officers were also communicating with them. If any person lodged any complaint against Vikas or his associates, the complainant was always humiliated by the police. Even if higher authorities gave directions to lodge a complaint, the local police dictated the terms," it said. Though his name appeared in the list of top 10 criminals in the circle, he did not feature among top 10 criminals of the district, it said, adding that the members of his gang were included in a peace committee to resolve communal disputes. "His wife was elected as a Zila Panchayat member and his brother's wife was elected as Bikru village's pradhan. They were both living in Lucknow. If any person of the area wanted help from them, he would contact Vikas Dubey and he would resolve their problem. The elected people never came into the picture," the report said. Most of his family members had arms licences, and recommendations for them had been made by competent authorities by concealing material facts of their involvement in criminal cases. Their position was the same when it came to issuance of passports in their favour and/or grant of fair price shop licences, the commission noted. "Investigation in any case lodged against them (Dubey's gang) was never impartial. Sections relating to serious offences were dropped before filing the chargesheet. During the trial, most of the witnesses turn hostile. Vikas Dubey and his associates got bail orders from courts easily and quickly as there was no serious opposition by state authorities or government advocates," it added. "He was involved in 64 criminal cases. State authorities never considered it appropriate to engage a special counsel for his prosecution," it said, adding the state never moved any application for cancellation of bail or approached a superior court for cancellation of any bail orders. In most of the cases, the high court had granted interim relief to Dubey, staying the proceedings before subordinate courts in criminal cases, and he remained under the protection of such orders for 13-14 years, it said. The commission said the HC granted bail to Dubey and his associates mainly on the ground that he had been acquitted in a large number of cases, without attempting to know under what circumstances he was acquitted and how and why the witnesses turned hostile in most of the cases. About the ambush, it said some police personnel posted in Chaubeypur police station had intimated Dubey about the impending raid which gave him an opportunity to call his associates with arms. "There was a total failure of intelligence unit in Kanpur in collecting information about criminal activities and possession of sophisticated weapons (legal and illegal) by Vikas Dubey and his gang. No proper caution was taken while preparing for the raid, as 38/40 police personnel reached village Bikru and none of them was wearing a bulletproof jacket. Only 18 of them had arms, the rest had gone empty-handed or with sticks," the report said. The incident occurred because of "poor planning" by the police as it did not assess the situation correctly. "In fact, it did never expect that Dubey would retaliate with sophisticated weapons and his associates would take positions on on the roofs of houses. They were unaware that some police officials of Chaubeypur had already informed Dubey about the raid," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-member-panel-probing-vikas-dubeys-encounter-gives-clean-chit-to-police-1021687.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Nadda arrives on 2-day visit to Uttarakhand||BJP president J P Nadda arrived on a two-day visit to Uttarakhand on Friday to galvanise party workers ahead of the 2022 state assembly polls. He was received by Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and Pradesh BJP president Madan Kaushik as he arrived at the Jolly Grant Airport at around 10.30 am.   Despite light rains, party workers lined up on either side of the road at Bhaniyawala, Chiddarwala, Nepali Farm and Raiwala to welcome Nadda as he proceeded for a hotel in Haridwar where he is slated to hold a slew of meetings. Nadda is to hold around half a dozen meetings with party legislators, members of Dhami cabinet, heads and office bearers of the Pradesh BJP, its different cells and 'morchas' during his visit. He will also hold a dialogue with army personnel and seers during his visit. The BJP president will discuss the party's strategy for the 2022 assembly elections in the state which are just a few months away, party sources said.  The main challenge before the BJP this time is to repeat its own electoral performance of 2017 when it had won 57 out of a total of 70 assembly seats in Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nadda-arrives-on-2-day-visit-to-uttarakhand-1021702.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 57 cases, no Covid deaths - eleventh time since onset of second wave||No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Friday, while 57 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the eleventh time since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11 and August 12, August 13 and August 16 too, no death due to Covid-19 was recorded, according to official data.  On March 2 this year, the city had reported zero deaths due to the virus. On that day, the number of single-day infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May period. Twenty-five fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest since April 15 last year, and two deaths due to the disease were recorded on Thursday, while the positivity rate had stood at 0.04 per cent, according to the official figures. On Wednesday, the city had registered 36 cases and four fatalities, while the positivity rate had stood at 0.05 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-57-cases-no-covid-deaths-eleventh-time-since-onset-of-second-wave-1021709.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Govt official booked for outraging modesty of woman||Police here booked a government official for allegedly outraging the modesty of a woman, whom he pressured for marriage. Hukumchand Meena (52), posted as a GST superintendent at the service tax office here, has been booked on the complaint of the proprietor of a private tax consultancy firm, who alleged that he has been harassing a tax assistant at her office for past a few days. The superintendent demanded that the woman assistant marry him to get the files cleared from his office, police said. Police booked the official under Section 354 of the IPC and investigation is under progress, said a police official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-official-booked-for-outraging-modesty-of-woman-1021712.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Sumedh Singh Saini case: Punjab minister seeks removal of AG, home secy, vigilance bureau chief||After the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered release of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in a cheating case, state cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Friday sought removal of the advocate general, home secretary and vigilance bureau chief director for their “professional incompetence.” However, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, while responding to Randhawa's sharp remarks, asked the ministers and party colleagues to “check facts” before making any statement. The high court on Thursday night had ordered release of Saini, who was arrested on charges of cheating, forgery and corruption among others. “In view of the fiasco in Sumedh Singh Saini case, I urge chief Minister @capt_amarinder to immediately remove Advocate General, Home Secretary and Chief Director Vigilance, for their professional incompetence," said Randhawa in a tweet. The Jails minister also tagged Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Saini was released from vigilance custody early Friday on the directions of the high court, which termed his arrest in a cheating and forgery case as illegal. A single bench of Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi pronounced the verdict on Thursday night. Saini was arrested by the state's Vigilance Bureau on Wednesday night in connection with a case registered in September 2020 for cheating, forgery, corruption and other offences. Reacting to Randhawa's remarks, the CM asked his ministers to discuss issues especially sensitive ones with him or at the party platform before going public.  “'I advise all cabinet & party colleagues to check facts before issuing statements. I suggest they should discuss all issues, especially sensitive ones, either with me or on @INCPunjab platform before going public': @capt_amarinder in response to remarks by @Sukhjinder_INC,” according to a tweet issued by the chief minister's media advisor. Randhawa had been critical of the chief minister over the issue of poll promises including alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and post sacrilege police firing incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sumedh-singh-saini-case-punjab-minister-seeks-removal-of-ag-home-secy-vigilance-bureau-chief-1021713.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Ex Punjab DGP Saini released from custody, high court says arrest illegal||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini was released from vigilance custody early Friday on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which termed his arrest in a cheating and forgery case as illegal. A single bench of Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi pronounced the verdict on Thursday night. Saini was arrested by the state's Vigilance Bureau on Wednesday night in connection with a case registered in September 2020 for cheating, forgery, corruption and other offences. After the high court order, Saini, who was at Mohali court premises, was released. Saini left the Mohali court complex at around 2 AM. The former DGP was produced before a Mohali court at around 12:30 pm on Thursday for seeking remand. He remained there for more than 12 hours. The court held that Saini's arrest was illegal and in violation of earlier court orders. “In view of the above referred judicial precedents and above discussed facts and circumstances of the case evidencing illegality of the arrest of the detenue, the habeas corpus petition is allowed and the detenue is held to have been illegally arrested in circumvented violation of protection orders dated 11.10.2018 and 23.09.2020 and interim anticipatory bail order dated 12.08.2021 passed by the Co-ordinate Bench of this Court," the order said. "Therefore, the detenue is ordered to be released forthwith,” according to the court order which was uploaded on the high court website past midnight. The high court on October 11, 2018 had held that Saini would be served a seven-day notice if any action was to be contemplated against him. In the September 23, 2020 order, the court had extended the protection of the October 2018 order to any incident during Saini's entire service career. The court also ordered that a seven-day prior notice is to be given if he is to be arrested in this case. The order came after hearing two petitions. One petition was habeas corpus and another to seek protection as per the last year's high court order in which it was directed to give a seven-day notice before arresting in any case pertaining to any incident during Saini's entire service career. Saini, a 1982-batch IPS officer, was appointed the Director General of Police (DGP) in 2012. He was removed from the post in 2015 after protests erupted over a series of sacrilege incidents. He retired in 2018. Saini was arrested on Wednesday night when he had arrived at the Vigilance Bureau headquarters in Mohali to join investigation in a disproportionate assets case. The high court on August 12 had granted interim anticipatory bail to Saini in a disproportionate assets case that was registered against him and six others on August 2. But the court had asked him to join the investigation within a week. According to the Vigilance Bureau, he has been arrested under several sections, including 420 (cheating), 409 (criminal breach of trust), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The case was registered on September 2020 against Davinder Singh Sandhu, director of WWICS Estates Private Ltd, Ashok Sikka PCS officer (now retired), and some other officials of the local government department for illegal change of land use for a piece of land at Kurali with fake documents. Later, the Vigilance Bureau booked PWD executive engineer Nimratdeep Singh, his father Surinderjit Singh Jaspal and some other persons for allegedly receiving a bribe from Davinder Sandhu for getting the colonies set up at Kurali certified. The bureau claimed that the money received was used for purchasing a house in Chandigarh's Sector 20 in which Saini later stayed as a tenant. In May 2020, Saini was also booked in the case of disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani in 1991. Multani was then a junior engineer with the Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-punjab-dgp-saini-released-from-custody-high-court-says-arrest-illegal-1021721.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi records zero Covid-19 fatality, eleventh time since onset of 2nd wave; 57 cases||No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Friday, while 57 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the eleventh time since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11 and August 12, August 13 and August 16 too, no death due to Covid-19 was recorded, according to official data.  On March 2 this year, the national capital had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of single-day infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May period. On Friday, 57 fresh cases as the positivity rate rose to 0.08 per cent, according to the latest bulletin. Twenty-five fresh cases of Covid-19, the lowest since April 15 last year, and two deaths due to the disease were recorded on Thursday, while the positivity rate had stood at 0.04 per cent, according to the official figures. On Wednesday, the city had registered 36 cases and four fatalities, while the positivity rate had stood at 0.05 per cent. On Tuesday, the city recorded 38 cases and four deaths, while the positivity rate stood at 0.07 per cent.  The infection rate which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, has now come down to 0.08 per cent. On February 16, ninety-four people were diagnosed Covid positive while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. Despite fall in daily cases in the last several days, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, and the oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals had added to the woes. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, according to the official data. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several weeks. The number of deaths per day, has also been showing a decline in the last several days. On May 15, Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway", while sounding a tone of caution. Following the relaxations in norms, the Delhi Metro is running with full seating capacity from July 26, with still no provision for standing travel for commuters. A total of 73,718 tests, including 51,028 RT-PCR tests and 22,690 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin issued on Friday. The number of cumulative cases on Friday stood at 14,37,274. Over 14.11 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The number of active cases increased to 459 on Friday from 448 a day before, according to the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation was 135 on Friday while it was 140 a day before, and the number of containment zones slightly increased to 237 from 234 on Thursday, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-zero-covid-19-fatality-eleventh-time-since-onset-of-2nd-wave-57-cases-1021756.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Ensure safety of Hindu-Sikhs in Afghanistan: VHP||Expressing concern over the Taliban capture of Afghanistan, the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Friday urged the Modi government to ensure the safety of the Hindu-Sikh community in the strife-torn country. In a statement, VHP General Secretary Milind Parande slammed a section of “pseudo-secular” groups for glorifying the “moderate” face of Taliban and sought to remind them of the “brutalities” unleashed by the militia that has overrun Afghanistan. “Those glorifying the Taliban should also spend a few days with their families in Afghanistan under the umbrella of their cherished and adorable Talibs,” Parande said. A section of the leadership, within India and abroad, have claimed that the Taliban militia were a changed lot and had presented a moderate face unlike the intolerant stand taken more than two decades back when it first came to power in 1996. Parande lauded the efforts of the Modi government in the evacuation of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan. “But until and unless all the Pravasi Bharatiyas and the people of the Hindu-Sikh community of Afghanistan arrive safely in Bharat, there is an urgent need to make serious efforts at every level to protect their lives and properties,” the VHP leader said. “VHP has been engaged for decades in the service of millions of Hindus exiled from Pakistan. We will also help our exiled Afghan Hindu-Sikh brethren in every possible way,” he said. Parande said the Taliban was known across the world and was opposed in Afghanistan due to serious violations of human rights of even their women and children. “Today, irrational pseudo-secular gangs are engaged in cheering this brutal, fundamentalist religious group and promoting radical Jihadism,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ensure-safety-of-hindu-sikhs-in-afghanistan-vhp-1021812.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi man robs person to buy expensive gift for girlfriend; arrested||A 22-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly robbing a person at knife point here in order to give an expensive gift to his girlfriend on her birthday, officials said on Friday. The accused has been identified as Virat Singh, a resident of Dabri in southwest Delhi, they said. On the intervening night of Friday and Saturday, an incident of robbery was reported at Dabri police station, where a man alleged that when he was going home and was near Sitapuri bus stand, Dabri, four men robbed his mobile, Rs 5,500 and his identity card at knife point, a senior police officer said. He also alleged that one of the accused stabbed him with a knife during the robbery, police said. On Tuesday, information was received regarding the criminals involved in the incident. Police reached near Gurjar Dairy, Dharmpura, Najafgarh and apprehended Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said. During interrogation, he disclosed that he was working in a call centre in Gurgaon, but he lost his job during lockdown. He wanted to give an expensive gift to his girlfriend on her birthday, police said. To fulfil their financial requirements, the accused committed the robbery, they said. One robbed mobile phone was recovered from Singh's possession, police said, adding that efforts are being made to nab the other accused persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-man-robs-person-to-buy-expensive-gift-for-girlfriend-arrested-1021814.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Over 1.44 lakh Covid vaccines administered in Delhi on August 19||Over 1.44 lakh people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the national capital on Thursday, according to the Delhi government's vaccination bulletin. The bulletin issued on Friday showed that 1,06,728 people received their first dose while 38,192 were administered the second dose of Covid vaccine. The city has administered 1,21,16,533 Covid vaccines so far, of which 86,86,698 were first doses and 34,29,835 second doses, it showed.  As of Friday morning, the national capital had only two days of vaccine stocks left, the bulletin claimed. Delhi had a balance stock of 4,07,270 coronavirus vaccines, of which 2,02,280 doses were of Covishield and 2,04,990 of Covaxin. The national capital has 915 Covid vaccination centres with a capacity of inoculating 1,77,496 beneficiaries per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-144-lakh-covid-vaccines-administered-in-delhi-on-august-19-1021826.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Gujarat govt's anti-conversion law interferes with right to choice: HC||The Gujarat High Court, while suspending several sections of the state government's contentious Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, described by the state government as "anti-love jihad" law, has observed that the law "interferes" with "the right to choice of an individual" and criminalises all interfaith marriages and consequential religious conversion. "Prima-facie, inter-faith marriages between two consenting adults by operation of the provisions of Section 3 of the 2003 Act interferes with the intricacies of marriage including the right to choice of an individual, thereby infringing Article 21 of the Constitution Of India," the division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and justice Biren Vaishnav has noted in the order passed on Thursday while its copy was made available on Friday. The state government recently amended the Gujarat Freedom Of Religion Act, 2003 by inserting several sections against religious conversion and made punishment harsher for the violators. In Section 3 of the principal Act, the government had prohibited religious conversion of any person by use of force or allurement or by any fraudulent means. The Vijay Rupani government amended this section by adding marriage as a medium of conversion. The high court has said, "A plain reading of Section 3 would indicate that any conversion on account of marriage is also prohibited." The order notes that the way state government is trying to interpret its reasoning may not be understood by the common man, the bench has noted, "The interpretation of Section 3 of the 2003 Act as (Kamal) Trivedi, Advocate General wants us to read would be a subject matter of adjudication but prima facie on a plain reading of Section 3 of the 2003 Act, we feel that marriage inter-faith followed by conversion would amount to an offence under the 2003 Act. Marriage itself and a consequential conversion is deemed as an unlawful conversion attracting penal provisions." The court has said, "From the perception of the common man, it appears that merely because a conversion occurs because of marriage, it per se cannot be held to be an unlawful conversion or a marriage done for the purpose of unlawful conversion." It adds, "We feel that marriage inter-faith followed by conversion would amount to an offence under the 2003 Act. Marriage itself and a consequential conversion is deemed as an unlawful conversion attracting penal provisions."   The court has also pointed out how Section 6A of the Act places the burden of proof on interfaith couples "to prove that the marriage was not solemnised on account of any fraud, allurement or coercion" which again puts the parties validly entering into an inter-faith marriage in great jeopardy. Ordering a stay on these sections as an interim relief, the bench has stated, "interim order is provided only on the lines of the arguments advanced by Trivedi, Advocate General and to protect the parties solemnizing marriage inter-faith from being unnecessarily harassed." The interim relief came on a set of petitions moved by Jamiat Ulama-e-Hind and Ahmedabad-based activist Mujahid Nafees, challenging the constitutional validity of the amended law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gujarat-govts-anti-conversion-law-interferes-with-right-to-choice-hc-1021844.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Farmers block rail tracks, national highway over sugarcane prices in Punjab||Several trains were cancelled while vehicular traffic was disrupted after farmers blocked rail tracks and a national highway near Jalandhar on Friday. On the call of the BKU (Doaba), farmers on Friday went on protest for an indefinite period to press the state government to accept their demands related to pending dues of sugarcane and hike in cane prices. Protesters blocked the Jalandhar-Amritsar national highway near Dhanowali railway crossing besides the Ludhiana-Amritsar and Ludhiana-Jammu rail tracks in Jalandhar. At least nine trains were cancelled while 13 were either short terminated or diverted, according to railway officials. Farmers blocked the national highway around 9 am by parking tractors and other vehicles in the middle of the road. They have also put up tents on the busy highway. The road block severely affected the road traffic on the highway, though the administration diverted traffic through some other routes. Commuters, especially those coming from Amritsar, Ludhiana and Pathankot, were harassed a lot. Farmers said they blocked the rail tracks at 4 pm. Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba) general secretary Satnam Singh Sahni said they resorted to agitation for an indefinite period because of the government's apathetic attitude towards their demands. Sahni said they have been demanding that the cane rate in Punjab should be hiked. “We have not been getting remunerative rates for sugarcane for the past several years,” lamented Sahni. He said a Rs 15 per quintal hike announced by the Punjab government was grossly inadequate. The SAP of sugarcane went up from Rs 310 to Rs 325 for early variety, Rs 300 to Rs 315 for mid variety and Rs 295 to Rs 310 per quintal for late maturing variety. Sahni said Haryana was giving more than Rs 350 per quintal. He further said the government should also clear cane arrear of Rs 250 crore which was pending towards sugarmills. The district administration officials met the farmer leaders to lift their blockade but the protesters refused to do so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-block-rail-tracks-national-highway-over-sugarcane-prices-in-punjab-1021945.html
20-08-2021||North and Central||Farmers' agitation: 2 sedition cases, 136 FIRs registered against protesters, Haryana Assembly told||Two cases of sedition and 136 other FIRs have been registered against protesters so far during the agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws in the state, the Haryana Assembly was informed on Friday. In a written reply to a question raised by Congress MLA B B Batra, Home Minister Anil Vij said during the agitation against the farm laws in Haryana, 136 First Information Reports (FIRs) have been registered till date against the protesting farmers. Apart from this, two FIRs have been registered against the farmers under Section 124-A of the IPC relating to sedition. According to the reply, the cases were lodged in 18 districts and thousands of protesters, most of them unknown, have been booked in 136 FIRs, which pertain to various IPC sections, including rioting, armed with deadly weapon, disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty. All the 138 cases were registered since September 2020. In the first sedition case registered in Sirsa in July, two people have been named while 80-90 unidentified individuals are also mentioned as accused. In the second such case registered in Jhajjar's Bahadurgarh in January, one person has been named as accused. Vij said the two cases were registered on the basis of the statement of complainants. A case was registered on July 11 at the Civil Lines Police Station, Sirsa under Section 124-A, and the statement of the complaint was recorded by the duty magistrate, according to which the agitating farmers attacked the convoy of the deputy speaker of Haryana Assembly. Another case was registered on January 15 at Bahadurgarh Police Station, Jhajjar against an individual for allegedly uploading a video on social media in which he vowed to “attack the government with a cannon” if it did not pay heed to the protesting farmers, Vij said in his reply. Most of the cases have been registered in Kurukshetra, Sonipat, Bhiwani, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad districts, Vij said. During Zero Hour, Congress MLAs raised the issue of farmers' agitation and said thousands of peasants have been protesting against the farm laws for nearly nine months. Batra said farmers are being booked under sedition charge and questioned the need for invoking such a provision. “Due to which action of farmers is the sovereignty and integrity of the country in danger. This law was brought by the British to curb freedom of movement and now it is being used against peasants,” said Batra, while alleging that maximum number of sedition cases in the country have been registered during the BJP rule “as they cannot tolerate any voice of dissent”. Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the issue is not of the farmers of Haryana alone, but the entire country. “For nine months, farmers are sitting at the borders. Why cannot government frame a law making it a punishable offence for anyone purchasing farmers' produce below MSP,” Hooda, who is the Leader of Opposition in Haryana Assembly, said. However, BJP MLA Abhe Singh Yadav said the opposition has been unable to point out any shortcomings in the farm laws and has only been politicizing the issue. Another BJP legislator Ganshyam Dass Arora said the agri laws were in interests of farmers. Everyone has the right to protest within the ambit of law, but that should not infringe upon the rights of others, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-agitation-2-sedition-cases-136-firs-registered-against-protesters-haryana-assembly-told-1021948.html
20-08-2021||Oasis||What is beauty?||Defining beauty is no less than fixing a jigsaw puzzle. It is a conundrum of colossal complexity. Intellectuals have delineated the various contours of beauty in their own subtle and sublime way. The laymen, though less profoundly, also dwell on the idea with their sense of understanding. A literary adage "the beauty lies in the eyes of the beholder" cuts ice with the scholarly and the rustic alike. With our own self created notion of this beguiling and bewildering beauty that gravitates us towards its overwhelming charms, all of us have tried to captivate the object of beauty and rule over seeking a monopoly.  However, the vast majority of people have a very erroneous idea of beauty. Wearing swanky attire with mind-boggling price tags can make one extremely pleasant to the outward eye. An artistically and aesthetically dressed individual will certainly be the cynosure of a party as his conspicuous presence will win him many plaudits and laudatory compliments but if he does not observe decency and modesty can exude inordinate and obdurate pride. He is just immediately reduced to a bête noir to the others because of his sheer callous and condescending ways. The dictum "handsome is that handsome does" can never be relegated to the corner of obsolete cliches. It is our actions that make us either attractive or repulsive. If a person is clad in ordinary clothes but his mind is shorn of all the malice and malevolence, he can rightly be adjudged as the paragon of real beauty. There is a large number of such people worldwide and with their handsome deeds and beatific behaviour that endears masses alike. This world can only be redeemed of its shoddiness and slovenliness if the mind is beautified, whereas a modern man with his distorted definition of beauty is squandering with his energies and resources in the futile and fruitless rounds to salons. The revered Buddha appareled in the cloak of a hermit is worth emulating. His charismatic charms are still capable of holding us spellbound. Once while delivering his sermons, when Buddha was in his meditative ecstasy, he was asked to wax eloquent on the subject of beauty by one of his followers. In his deliberative and precise manner, he responded that one must not be proud of one's physical beauty rather one must diligently cultivate the beauty of the soul. The body is bound to perish. Therefore the bodily attractions are only nine days wonder. One must strive to make one's soul hugely beautiful not with cosmetic but karmic changes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/what-is-beauty-1021634.html
20-08-2021||Panorama||Telehealth laws still in nascent stages||The Covid-19 pandemic has severely impacted physical access to medical services. This has boosted the telehealth sector enabling easier, quicker and cheaper access to medical help. However, prevention of online frauds, ensuring patient consent, data privacy and fixing liability were pertinent issues that needed addressing. Therefore, the implementation of Telemedicine Practice Guidelines (TPG) under the Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations 2002 (PCEE Regulations) with effect from March 2020 was a welcome move. TPG governs consultations and counselling through telecommunication between doctors and patients, caregivers or healthcare workers within India. Telemedicine modes include audio, video and text-based platforms like phone calls, SMS, emails, chats over Zoom, Whatsapp, Skype etc.  TPG governs only allopathic medicine and is permitted for both first-time and follow-up consultations. It can be initiated for non-surgical diagnosis and is restricted to first-aid in emergency cases. If telemedicine seems unviable, doctors need to insist on personal check-ups. Tele-consultations must be charged similar to in-person consultations and fee receipts must be provided. TPG places additional responsibilities on doctors apart from adherence to medical ethics. Doctors need to assess the viability of teleconsultation and identify the apt mode basis diagnosis. Doctors are permitted to provide prescriptions and can directly transmit them to the pharmacy only with patient consent. Medicines permitted to be prescribed also vary with the mode and session of teleconsultation. For instance, OTC drugs can be prescribed over all modes, skin ointments after the first time video consultation, and diabetic drugs only in a follow-up session.  Consent is implied if consultations are initiated by patients. If initiated by health workers or caregivers on behalf of the patient, written explicit consent of the patient is compulsory. Minors or mentally disabled patients need to be accompanied by an adult to provide consent. Patients may choose to withdraw consent at any point in time. Patient confidentiality and privacy are protected through adherence to the PCEE Regulations and the Information Technology Act 2000. Medical records are considered sensitive personal data in law and doctors are not permitted to disclose details unless sought by the law. They can be held responsible for data leaks unless proven that they had taken reasonable care and such leaks were due to a technology breach. Apart from breach of patient confidentiality, doctors can be liable for various other acts of misconduct including insistence on telemedicine without patient consent, prescribing prohibited drugs, misusing patient images, soliciting patients for telemedicine.  Despite advances, Telehealth laws are in their nascent stage. For instance, TPG excludes ayurvedic and homeopathic practitioners. It also does not cover the liability of nurses and other tertiary players. Consultations with doctors or patients outside India fall outside its ambit. The maintenance of digital records through the electronic health record systems and their protection is not adequately governed.  Similarly, though telepsychiatry operational guidelines have been issued, they do not have any force in law. The Bombay High Court has however considered aspects of patient consent and drug prescriptions in mental care in the pending case of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. There is confusion around e-pharmaceuticals as well. While the Madras High Court has permitted the sale of drugs online with prescriptions, the Delhi High Court has banned retail sales until the government enforces the amendment to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940 regulating the e-sale of prescription drugs. Nonetheless, various apps continue to operate amidst such legal confusion. Hopefully, the coming days will see legally sound and safer access to medical care. (The writer is an advocate based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/telehealth-laws-still-in-nascent-stages-1021635.html
20-08-2021||Panorama||30 years later, severe underemployment remains our biggest problem||Thirty years have passed since India, under the Narasimha Rao-Manmohan Singh duo, embarked on the path of economic liberalisation in 1991. Looking back, what are the main achievements and failures? The most important changes were the virtual abolition of industrial licensing (which had restricted investment, production, technology, expansion and location of business firms in India) and (gradual) reduction of taxes and removal of restrictions on imports and exports of goods, services, capital and technology. These policy changes put an end to the so-called ‘licence-permit raj’ and allowed a much greater role of prices (including international prices) and markets in allocation of resources. Since Independence, India’s GDP growth rate had hovered around 3.5-4% until the 1980s. The average growth rate clearly accelerated in the post-liberalisation period, averaging over 6% a year. However, the economy has begun to come down from this high growth path, and this happened even before the Covid pandemic hit us. This has made some economists believe that, after three decades, the efficiency and growth-inducing effects of the initial economic reforms may have started to peter out. The rate of inflation (CPI) – a major concern for common people -- which in many years during the pre-liberalisation period exceeded the 10% mark, has slowed to an average of 5-6%. This is a direct result of self-sufficiency in food grains production, a better distribution network, and an abundant supply of manufactured consumer goods from both domestic production and imports at relatively stable prices.  The biggest gain has been in terms of the availability of a much greater variety and quality of consumer goods for an increasing number of people, legally, at internationally competitive prices. The days when a person had to wait for years for a landline telephone connection, LPG gas connection, a Bajaj Chetak scooter or a Maruti 800 car are long behind us. Today’s generation is spoilt for choices in cell phones, colour TV sets, motorbikes and cars.  The global perception about India has changed a lot. India has already proved its prowess in several areas, like IT and ITeS (IT-enabled service), pharmaceuticals, auto components and financial services, in a highly competitive global marketplace. But in consumer electronics, first Japanese, then Korean and now Chinese firms have set up factories in India where indigenous Indian firms have largely failed to establish their brand images. However, Indian workers have gained jobs, to the extent that manufacturing is taking place in India (even if by foreign firms).    The stigma of ‘Made-in-India’ has largely vanished as a result of the much-improved quality of Indian goods, thanks to stiff competition from world-class products and collaboration arrangements with MNCs. Foreign investors (both portfolio funds and FDI) have started believing in the growth potential of India, leading to a booming stock market and a steady rise in foreign exchange reserves. Currently, our forex reserves have exceeded $600 billion, which stands in sharp contrast to only $1.5 billion in June 1991, which could cover only 15 days’ imports. At the same time, we must recognise that, unlike China which has earned their huge forex reserves through trade surplus, much of our forex reserves are ‘borrowed’ funds and hence less reliable and more volatile.  In the post-liberalisation era, higher growth rate has brought about a faster reduction in the percentage of people below ‘the poverty line’, whichever way it is measured. Growth has reduced poverty in two major ways -- by creating new jobs and by generating more tax revenues that is used to finance various anti-poverty programmes. Along with these successes, there are several areas of concern. First, the growth rate of employment has been slowing down. This ‘jobless growth’ is a global phenomenon which has more to do with automation and labour-saving technological progress. A modern steel or automobile plant uses less than 10% of the workers that a 1960s plant would do. Moreover, modern plants require workers with specific skills, who can work with sophisticated machines which further reduces the need for unskilled workers. To compensate, an economy has to grow at a much faster rate, like 9-10%, over several decades (as in China), instead of around 6% that India has been able to achieve.   Second, there is rising inequality in distribution of income and wealth. To a large extent, this is inevitable in a liberalised economic regime which creates more market opportunities, which people with better endowments of physical, financial and human capital are able to make use of. That is why China and India -- two of the fastest growing big economies of the world but having vastly different political systems -- have both experienced sharply rising inequality of income and wealth, along with reduction in the poverty ratio. To counter this inevitable tendency, we need a more progressive tax-subsidy regime than we currently have.  Third, the poor state of our infrastructure -- bad roads, congested ports and airports, slow-moving trains, power shortage, unreliable and slow internet connectivity, insufficient irrigation and water supply, particularly in the rural areas. We have huge problems in acquiring land, getting myriad clearances from the slow-moving government machinery and clogged judicial courts taking decades to resolve legal disputes. In addition, the education, health and skill levels of our workers need a lot of upgrading. These infrastructural bottlenecks are holding up the development of large-scale labour-intensive manufacturing and modern agriculture, both of which are required to improve the incomes of the vast majority of poor Indians.  We need to move workers from low-productivity agriculture to higher-productivity manufacturing and service industries. Here, progress has been much below the required pace. As a result, jobless rural migrants flock to cities in search of jobs, further straining the urban infrastructure, or are forced to take up, as a last resort, low-income self-employment as street-hawkers, vegetable sellers or fast-food vendors. Severe underemployment, rather than open unemployment, continues to be our biggest problem, despite 30 years of economic liberalisation. Changing economic policies on paper is the easier part. Improving the implementation machinery by reforming the political and administrative culture, along with the associated incentive and accountability systems, is a far more daunting task. This is all the more so when reforms supported by political parties in power are almost invariably opposed by the same when sitting in the Opposition.  (The writer is a former professor of economics at IIM Calcutta, India, and Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/30-years-later-severe-underemployment-remains-our-biggest-problem-1021636.html
20-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Encounters with henna||Henna is a quintessentially Indian body art form--less taxing than a tattoo, and certainly less painful. Adored by brides, it’s a fairly simple yet insufferably long process that leaves the wearer feeling confident and possibly dead arm.  As a teenager celebrating the end of the school year, I decided to get mehendi done on my right hand, and following the cliche decided to put it on Instagram. My DMs have been pretty quiet as of recent, but I was incredibly surprised to find my messages bursting the next morning! My British friends aren't used to henna at all but are obsessed with it so immediately enquired about where to buy henna, complimented it almost excessively and vowed to try it as soon as possible.  Every other night with henna can be appreciated, even celebrated--but the night during which the henna hardens and dyes the hand is truly hell. While it dries, the hand has to be completely still and must not crease up even the slightest bit. To get the best effect, it must be left on overnight and the scene on the bed that meets the eye the next morning is almost horrifying. Thankfully, this time, it had dried before the damage had been done so all it took was a quick brush. Still, the fear is disproportionate to the result. Body art has always been a specific interest of mine. I’ve always been fascinated by makeup. Eyeliner has to be my favourite makeup tool--there’s something about the careful, precise application and the unimaginable glee when the wings flick perfectly and symmetrically (not forgetting the pained screams that are expressed when it is ruined, of course). Having never used henna before, I was very optimistic that it would be similar. Wrongly so. I decided to try a flower on my finger first, and this culminated in me wiping it off hurriedly every twenty seconds and just praying for the best. Next, I tried drawing some hearts. These didn’t work. Finally, I decided to be artistic and wrote the word ‘hope’ on my wrist. Unfortunately, no one except me could read this word fully. Impatience defeated me this time, and after only twenty minutes I vigorously tried to wash it off (to my annoyance, it stubbornly stayed). I’m not sure I could call this a complete win, but it was the closest I could get! My only tip for both the henna-wearers and the henna-appliers: don’t give in to impatience. For your own sake, or the price will be paid for many long weeks spent washing hands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/encounters-with-henna-1021638.html
20-08-2021||Second Edit||A rap on the knuckles for police, govt||With the Karnataka High Court reprimanding the police for questioning students of Shaheen Primary and High School, Bidar, in a case of sedition in violation of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, the state government should initiate stringent action against the errant officers to ensure that such transgressions do not occur in the future. Perusing photographs placed before the court, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka observed that the schoolchildren, two boys and a girl studying in Classes 4, 5 and 6, were interrogated by five police personnel in January last, in full police uniform, with at least two of them carrying fire arms. While noting that only personnel in plain clothes can interact with children, the court also expressed dismay that a woman officer was not present though one of the students was a girl. Based on the complaint of an activist and obviously acting under political pressure, the Bidar police registered a case of sedition because one of the students had allegedly delivered certain lines critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi while staging an anti-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) play. The single mother of an 11-year-old girl student, and a lady teacher, both belonging to the minority community, were subsequently arrested, charged with having coached the students to speak the “seditious” lines.  The two were later granted bail by a Bidar judge who noted that ingredients of sedition were prima facie lacking and that the play had not caused any disharmony in society. Though these unlawful, and inhuman, acts of the police had led to national outrage, the then state Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who is now the Chief Minister, defended them publicly, while the then Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, instead of acting as a custodian of the harassed children, had chosen to look the other way. Director General of Police Praveen Sood also preferred to remain silent. The High Court, while directing the government to respond on what action was initiated against the guilty officers, has also ordered the DGP to issue a circular across the state to ensure that such incidents do not recur. Given the government’s own complicity, not much can be expected. The court would do well to pass severe strictures against not just the officers involved but also their superiors so that this serves as a deterrent. Only a sharp rap on the knuckles, not a polite nudge, will ensure that draconian laws like the sedition law are not misused to hound citizens who do not agree with the government’s policies and law and are critical of it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-rap-on-the-knuckles-for-police-govt-1021630.html
20-08-2021||Second Edit||Taliban: No easy options for India||The Taliban’s capture of power in Kabul is one of the worst setbacks to its foreign policy that India has suffered in recent years. India built its influence in Afghanistan over the past 20 years not only by investing over $3 billion in Afghanistan’s reconstruction but also in building bonds with Afghans. These ties were built not just with a narrow governing elite but with people across the political spectrum and from diverse backgrounds and ethnic groups. Its people-centric engagement with Afghanistan earned it enormous goodwill in the country. Today, that influence and relationship is in peril. India has little in common with the Taliban, its outlook, disregard for diversity, gender equality or human rights. Equally concerning is the Taliban’s long-standing relationship with its patron-in-chief, Pakistan. Taliban’s victory is being widely interpreted as Pakistan’s victory, too, as the latter’s clout in Kabul is poised to increase. Not only will India’s influence in Afghanistan and Central Asia reduce but the threat to India’s national security from a Pakistan-controlled Taliban government and an Afghanistan that will act as a magnet for jihadist and anti-India groups is enormous. The situation in Kashmir can be expected to deteriorate with Pakistan, emboldened by its victory in Afghanistan, once again being able to turn its attention to fomenting trouble in Kashmir. India’s immediate challenge is to bring home safely all its nationals in Afghanistan. It must also throw open its doors to all Afghans, across religions and ethnic groups, who feel threatened by the Taliban. Even if its relations with the Afghan State fray, it must not forget its bonds with the Afghan people. India has no easy options on Afghanistan. Its ties with the Taliban are non-existent and even if India may have reached out to some of its leaders in recent months, these may not be of much use. As India charts its next steps, it must find a way to balance its own security interests in Afghanistan and closer home with advocating for the rights and well-being of the Afghan people. India may not be invited to talks with the Taliban and other stakeholders, but that should not silence its voice. It must use its term in the UNSC to push the Taliban to accept an inclusive government. India cannot shake hands with a regime that is brutal and medieval in its outlook and it cannot ignore the cries of the Afghan people. It has little leverage to reform the Taliban. But it can use multilateral forums and push countries like Iran and Russia that are working with the Taliban to bring some semblance of normalcy and security to the Afghan people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/taliban-no-easy-options-for-india-1021862.html
20-08-2021||South||Covid-19 patient on ECMO support for 72 days recovers: hospital||A 32-year-old Covid-19 patient, who was on Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) support for 72 days, has successfully recovered, a private hospital that treated him has said. Rajesh, the patient who hails from Chennai, was shifted to MGM Healthcare on July 13 from another hospital where he was receiving treatment for Covid-19 and lung-related issues since mid-May.  “He was brought to us with 100 per cent involvement of the lungs and we decided to continue ECMO support to stabilize his health condition. The team then worked on settling his health issues one by one as we first placed a stent for distended gall bladder,” Dr K R Balakrishnan, Chairman - Cardiac Sciences Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant & Mechanical Circulatory Support, MGM Healthcare, said.  The patient was given antibiotics to treat cellulitis on his right foot and he underwent regular bronchoscopy and was given antibiotics to treat his lungs which had a severe infection. Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) is a procedure that oxygenates a patient’s blood outside the body.  “It is an extremely rare occurrence as the patient was on ECMO support for a period of 72 days which makes him one of the longest ECMO Covid-19 survivors in the country,” the hospital said. Dr Suresh Rao, Co-Director, Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant & Mechanical Circulatory Support, said the patient experienced bleeding at the site of stent placement “which our expert team managed to address on time and resolve the issue.”  “We successfully managed to treat all his health issues proactively and the ECMO support was weaned off after 72 days. The patient has responded positively to the treatment and his vitals are currently stable. We salute the resolve of the patient as he and his family didn’t lose hope and fully supported him in the last three months,” he added. The patient is now undergoing active physiotherapy and has been discharged recently from the hospital. His health has shown good signs of recovery and he will soon be able to resume regular activities, the hospital said. In another case, a Chennai man diagnosed with Covid-19 and resultant lung complications spent about 109 days on ECMO and ventilator support and recovered without having to undergo a lung transplant, the city hospital which treated him said on Thursday. Fifty six year-old Mudijja stepped out of the hospital as a healthy man today. “He became a living miracle, as none in the country has ever recovered without a lung transplant after spending over 9 weeks with ECMO support. Further, the treatment and care at the hospital were such that Mr Mudijja did not require a lung transplant, even after 9 weeks of ECMO support,” Rela Hospital, a multi-speciality quaternary care hospital at Chrompet, claimed. After testing positive for Covid-19 in April end, Mudijja developed breathing difficulties before being referred to Rela Hospital. A CT scan prior to his admission at Rela Hospital indicated moderate Covid-19 pneumonia. His oxygen saturation level was at 92 percent in room air, when he was transferred to the hospital. His condition deteriorated and he required 10 litres of oxygen per minute. The heart and lung team led by Dr C Arumugam, senior consultant, heart and lung transplant surgeon, decided to move him into ECMO. Despite the progress being minimal during the initial 4-5 weeks, the hospital continued the medicare, it said. “ECMO, traditionally, has been used as an intermittent arrangement until lung transplantation. However, now this team has truly made it a life-saving procedure,” Dr Mohamed Rela, the hospital chairman said. With apprehensions of third coronavirus wave and the public still to be fully vaccinated, Prof Rela felt that the ECMO machine will be a critical tool on which the healthcare fraternity shall depend upon in this uncertain times for the treatment of other life-threatening illnesses. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-patient-on-ecmo-support-for-72-days-recovers-hospital-1021622.html
20-08-2021||South||When Covid keeps 'Mahabali' away from visiting his 'subjects' during Onam||You may think that the demon king Mahabali, who secured a boon from Lord Vishnu to visit his subjects every year on the annual 'Thiru Onam' day as per lore, is just a mythical character. But, come to Malabar, the north Kerala region, on Onam days and you can see "him" live, visiting each household in the village, where he is welcomed with traditional lamps and vessels filled to the brim with rice. He, in turn, would bless the family members by sprinkling rice on them. The very scene of him walking and running around the green countryside and paddy fields, donning a heavy headgear and holding an "olakkuda' (palm leaf umbrella) in the hand besides ringing a brass bell, is a visual treat during the Onam season in the region. And, he is none other than "Onapottan", the folk representation of Mahabali who is revered as a demigod and symbol of prosperity. However, the people of Malabar have missed the colourful and 'divine' presence of Onapottan for two consecutive Onam seasons including the ongoing one due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. As the annual 'Thiru Onam" day falls tomorrow (Saturday), the traditional artistes, who have got the birth right to deck up as the folk incarnation of the noble demon king, are disheartened as they cannot continue the decades-old practice. According to local belief, the home visit and blessing by the 'Onapottan" on the 'uthradom' and 'Thiru Onam' days of the Malayalam month of Chingam are auspicious. Cutting across age barriers, members of Malaya community, a scheduled caste, are decking up as the folk character and visit local houses to retain their age-old tradition. "It is for the second consecutive year that we are not decking up as Onapottan during an Onam season. My son and brother's son also used to don the grease paint for the character from our family," noted Theyyam-Onapottan artist Babu Thalapp told PTI. Missing an Onam season is a great pang for those who have been traditionally donning the character for years, he said, adding that they have no way other than skipping it as several risk factors are involved. "When the Onapottan travels visiting each house in his rich make-up and colourful costumes, several people especially children will follow him out of amusement. It is not good in the wake of the pandemic," he said. At homes, this "Mahabali" is welcomed by the family members especially elderly persons by lighting lamps and the very practice could not be adhered to with the social distancing norms necessitated in the present circumstance, he said explaining the reasons to skip enacting of Onapottan. Unlike the silk attire, royal jewellery and crown worn by the 'asura' (demon) king in children's story books, this 'Mahabali' in Malabar can see draping a humble red colour cloth under the waist and holding a palm leaf umbrella in his hand. His long, yellow beard spread from the moustache up to the chest, vibrant facial makeup and rich ornaments are unique. The most interesting aspect of this folk character is that the performer would not speak to anyone after decking up as Mahabali. "Pottan" means a dumb person in the local parlance. "Onapottan does not utter any word during his travel or while visiting homes. He will ring the brass bell in his hand, while walking, to make people known about his arrival. When they listen to bell ringing, households will make arrangements to receive him at their homes," Babu, a native of Kannur district, added. After receiving blessings from Onapottan, each family gives him rice or money as 'dakshina' as per their choice. The folk character would usually be accompanied by two other artistes who play the Chenda (drum) and Illathalam (cymbal). Each Onapottan has a designated area to visit and shower blessings on people and one would not encroach into the territory of the other. Manoj Kumar R K, a Kozhikode-based percussion artist, who used to accompany the Onapottan, said they would not use any mode of transport and would walk for several kilometres to cover all the households. He, however, said he is a bit worried that the folk art is now performed in adherence with its tradition and rituals only in interior villages. "In cities and towns, Onapottan has more or less become a showpiece now-a-days. As children can also deck up as the character, many outfits and organisations are using the art form to add colour to their functions. Television channels are interested in them only during the Onam season," he told PTI. P N Nambiar, a senior citizen who retired from government service, said for him, Onam would not be complete without receiving blessings from Onapottan during his childhood days. "We children used to wait for hours expecting the arrival of Onapottan. His big headgear and long yellow beard were our main attraction. I also remember walking behind him with my friends when he moves ringing the bell," Nambiar, hailing from Vadakara, said. Stating that each time he sees the Onapottan, he would go back to his childhood, Nambiar said he could not express his despair in words as the folk character could not turn up for two Onam seasons due to the Covid pandemic. According to mythology, Onam is connected with Asura (demon) King Mahabali, under whose reign everyone lived in happiness and equality. Envious by his popularity, Devas (Gods) sought the help of Lord Vishnu to get him banished into the netherworld. But before going down, Mahabali secured a boon from Lord Vishnu to visit his subjects every year on 'Thiru Onam' day. The demon king's annual visit is celebrated by Keralites, who lay by their front yards with floral carpets, wear new clothes and prepare a sumptuous feast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/when-covid-keeps-mahabali-away-from-visiting-his-subjects-during-onam-1021650.html
20-08-2021||South||Will Kerala Cong survive group pressure from veterans in selection of new office bearers?||As the Congress in Kerala is in the final stages of announcing its new office bearers of the party district units, the curious question doing the rounds is whether the new state leadership will be able to survive group pressure by veteran leaders. Groupism in selection of office bearers and candidates was considered to be the major reason for Congress to become weak in Kerala leading to defeat in the Assembly elections for two consecutive time. Party veterans like Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, who are considered as the leaders of the two prominent groups in the party, were learnt to have expressed their resentment over not being given due involvement in the discussions on selection of the new office bearers. Following the setback in the Assembly elections, the party national leadership made V D Satheesan the leader of opposition replacing Chennithala. Subsequently, Mullappaly Ramachandran was replaced with K Sudhakaran as Kerala PCC president. The first priority of the new leadership was to revamp the party with giving due weightage to merit than group affiliations. The party state leadership was having a 'jumbo' committee of 12 vice presidents, 42 general secretaries and around 100 secretaries, which was mainly to accommodate all loyal to party group leaders. But the new state leadership decided to reduce it to a 51 member committee at the state level and all district committees are being reconstituted. The selection of district committee president is now progressing. Party sources said that though the new leadership had made the screening based on suggestion received from the veteran leaders, the veteran leaders were quite upset as they were not consulted while the state leadership finalised its proposal sent to the party high command. It was also learnt that the veteran leaders conveyed their resentment to the national leadership. The ball is now in the high command's court and it might be going by the advice of AICC general secretary in charge of Kerala Tariq Anwar. The veteran leaders were already unhappy over the induction of the new state president and opposition leader without taking them into confidence. Hence the national leadership may be also taking steps cautiously without hurting the veterans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-kerala-cong-survive-group-pressure-from-veterans-in-selection-of-new-office-bearers-1021809.html
20-08-2021||South||Kerala in Onam fervour amidst concerns over Covid positivity rate||As Kerala celebrates 'Thiruvonam', the main day of the Onam festival, on Saturday, a jubilant mood is prevailing across the state despite the Covid situation remaining scary. The relaxations in Covid lockdown norms just ahead of the festival bringing relief not only to the traders who were badly hit by the the lockdown that extended up to around three months, but for the people also as they are quite relieved from the locked down life. Meanwhile, the anxiety of the health authorities is also going up as the Covid TPR of the state is witnessing upward trend over the last few days. It reached 16.94 which is the highest after May 29. The number of active case reached 1.82 lakhs as on Friday. All commercial streets, markets and shops are witnessing considerable rush even as traders are maintaining that there was only a slight improvement in business. 'Onasadhya' (Onam feast), 'Attappookkalam' (floral carpet) and 'Onakodi' (new dress) are the integral parts of the festivity. The catering units used to make brisk business during Onam season as they used to get large number of orders for 'Onasadhya' at offices and housing colonies. But this time there is demand for home delivery of the packed 'Onasadhya' only. While floral carpets could be spotted at every nook and cranny of the state earlier, this time it is hard to find a floral carpet. Mohammed Siddique, a trader at the popular Chalai market of Thiruvananthapuram city, said that only one-fourth of the usual Onam business was happening this time and hence it would not help in overcoming the deep financial crisis caused to the traders by the three month long lockdown. As the Covid TPR is witnessing an upward trend, there is serious anxiety among the people, especially traders, that the state may be forced to go for another lockdown after the Onam festivity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-in-onam-fervour-amidst-concerns-over-covid-positivity-rate-1021831.html
20-08-2021||South||Commission probing Thoothukudi police firing gets 'last extension'||Tamil Nadu government on Friday extended by six months the tenure of Justice (retired) Aruna Jagadeesan Commission probing the police firing that left 13 persons dead during the anti-Sterlite protests in May 2018 in Thoothukudi.  A Government Order (GO) issued by D Jagannathan, Secretary, Public (Law & Order) Department on August 20 said the tenure of the Commission which was constituted in May 2018 is being extended till February 22, 2022. The Commission’s tenure was last extended by the previous AIADMK government in February this year.  “No furthermore extension beyond these six months would be granted,” the GO issued on Friday said.  Justice Aruna Jagadeesan, who had submitted an interim report after the DMK assumed office on May 7, sought a year-long extension for completing her probe and submitting the report. However, the government decided to extend the tenure of the commission by six months.  “The Commission will complete its inquiry and submit its report (both English and Tamil) to the Government on or before February 22, 2022,” Jagannathan said in the GO. The Commission was constituted to go into the police firing that killed 13 people on May 22, 2018, when thousands of people had gathered at the Thoothukudi district collectorate as the anti-Sterlite protests entered the 100th day.  Chief Minister M K Stalin, taking note of the interim report submitted by the Commission, had on May 21 ordered withdrawal of most cases filed against anti-Sterlite protesters and announced monetary compensation to people picked up by police during the protests. Stalin had also said the government will issue No Objection Certificates (NOC) to those arrested during the 2018 protests to apply for jobs or continue their education. The government also decided to withdraw all cases except those handed over to the CBI and those relating to damages to public property. The police firing is being probed by the Supreme Court. After the firing, the Tamil Nadu government shut the Sterlite Copper smelter owned by Vedanta on charges of pollution. Numerous attempts by Sterlite to get the factory reopened have failed so far.  However, recently, the Supreme Court allowed the company to manufacture oxygen within the closed factory to meet oxygen demands during the Covid-19 second wave for three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/commission-probing-thoothukudi-police-firing-gets-last-extension-1021835.html
20-08-2021||South||Kerala reports 20,224 Covid-19 cases, 99 deaths||Kerala reported 20,224 Covid-19 cases and 99 deaths on Friday, taking the total caseload to 37,86,797 and the toll to 19,345. Thrissur reported the highest number of cases (2,795), followed by Ernakulam 2,707, Kozhikode 2,705, Malappuram 2,611 and Palakkad 1,528. "Among those who were found infected today, 137 reached the state from outside while 19,205 contracted the disease through their contacts. The sources of infection of 785 are yet to be traced. 97 health workers are also among the infected," health minister Veena George said in a release. She said 1,19,385 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number to 3,00,73,530. The Test Positivity Rate stood at 16.94. The minister said 17,142 persons recuperated from the disease, taking the total cured in the state to 35,84,634. Currently, there are 1,82,285 persons under treatment in the state. There are 4,91,871 persons under observation in Kerala, out of which 26,952 are in isolation wards of various hospitals.  There are 414 wards in 74 local self-government bodies of the state where the weekly infection population ration (WIPR) was above eight per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-20224-covid-19-cases-99-deaths-1021845.html
20-08-2021||South||Kerala announces assistance to children orphaned by Covid-19||The Kerala government has decided to give financial assistance to children orphaned after parents of guardians died due to Covid. A fixed deposit of Rs 3 lakh and monthly assistance of Rs 2,000 till the age of 18 would be given to children orphaned by Covid. So far 87 children were identified for the scheme and Rs 3.2 crore allotted, health minister Veena George said in a statement. Children who lost both father and mother or lone guardians would be given assistance under the scheme. But children who lost only either father or mother will not get assistance under the scheme. Meanwhile, the state government's decision to impose charge for post-Covid treatment is inviting criticism. The state health department issued an order the other day fixing a charge starting from Rs 750 per day in wards to Rs 2,000 for ICU with ventilator for those in the above poverty line category for post-Covid treatment. Those developing discomforts requiring hospitalisation with in three weeks of testing negative will be considered as post Covid patients. Rates for private hospitals for post-Covid treatments were also fixed by the government. Covid treatment is being offered free of cost at hospitals. But the increasing number of patients with post-Covid ailments was learnt to have forced the government to fix the rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-announces-assistance-to-children-orphaned-by-covid-19-1021860.html
20-08-2021||South||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh allows ration card e-KYC via volunteers||A large number of people swarming Aadhaar enrollment centres across Andhra Pradesh has raised fears of a fresh spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. For the last few days, PDS ration card holders are thronging the Aadhaar centres at post offices etc places along with their family members including children. According to the central guidelines, e-KYC of all the members listed on the family card has to be done, integrated with their Aadhaar. Alarmed by some reports that failing to do so by this month-end will result in card cancellation, denial of benefits, poor families are queuing up at the Aadhaar centres. In many places, Covid-19 rules like face masks, social distancing are being ignored. Instances of minor stampedes were also reported like in Achanta of West Godavari district on Tuesday. Concerned by the situation and following such demands from the public, the Andhra Pradesh civil supplies department officials are now asking the people to get the e-KYC completed with help of the village, ward volunteers or at the fair price shops. “According to the national food security act and the central guidelines, e-KYC of all the family members mentioned in the rice card is made mandatory for them to avail the household essentials anywhere in the country,” said AP state civil supplies commissioner Kona Sasidhar. “But for this, they need not go only to the Aadhaar centres. They can get the e-KYC done through the biometric devices with their village or ward volunteers. It can also be carried out with the aid of e-PoS machines with the ration shop dealers,” Kona said. KYC offers nationwide portability and each individual of the family can avail their share of PDS rice, other ration separately from anywhere in the country. While e-KYC is not required for children under five years of age, for those between 5 and 15 years of age the deadline is September 30. For other family members, it should be done by August end. “Based on the situation then, the government could take a call on extension. While there are 2102 Aadhaar enrollment centres operating in the state, we have requested the centre to recognize all the village/ward secretariats also as Aadhaar enrollment centres,” Kona said. “The Aadhaar e-KYC is only for authentication of all individual beneficiaries on the rice card. It is not to eliminate cards,” said Kona. Meanwhile, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has on Friday decided to extend the night curfew (11 pm to 6 am) till September 4 as the state continues to register about 1,500 new Covid-19 cases daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-andhra-pradesh-allows-ration-card-e-kyc-via-volunteers-1021878.html
20-08-2021||State||Mysuru women celebrate Varamahalakshmi festival amid Covid-19||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, women celebrated Varamahalakshmi festival in Mysuru on Friday. Temples were decked up with colourful flowers and special pujas were organised to mark the festival which is celebrated on the second Friday of Shravan month. However, the district administration restricted the entry of devotees to Chamundeshwari temple atop Chamundi Hill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-women-celebrate-varamahalakshmi-festival-amid-covid-19-1021680.html
20-08-2021||State||HC issues directions on working of FSLs across state||The High Court has issued interim directions to upgrade the Forensic Science Laboratories (FSL) across the state. The directions include filling up of vacancies, procurement of equipment and fixing the time line from the time of collection of the sample to the submission of the report. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj  passed the orders after hearing the submissions made by the Home department and perusing action plan drawn up by the Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratory.  A suo motu PIL was registered considering the request placed by a single judge Justice Suraj Govindaraj noticing a delay of four years in getting a FSL report in a criminal petition. The bench directed the state government to appoint Scene of Crime Officers (SOCO) at all the police stations in the state within a period of six months. In regard to the three posts of joint director which are all vacant, the court directed that one post ought to be filled up by deputing an IPS officer of a super-time scale from the Police department as a Joint Director of Administration within one month. And, the other two posts (promotional posts) should be filled on an ad-hoc basis within four months. The state government has also been directed to operationalise within six months, District Scientific Aid (DSA) units in every district with staff consisting of one senior scientific officer, two scientific officers and one lab attender with a fully equipped mobile forensic laboratory. The court also said that at least five posts of deputy directors, six posts of assistant directors, 20 posts of senior scientific officers will have to be filled in ad-hoc measures within four months. “Certain new sections like advanced digital forensic, explosives, wildlife forensics and other sections are required to be established and made operational in the State Forensic Science Laboratory as also at all the Regional Forensic Science Laboratories. We direct that the same be done within nine months,” the bench said. The matter was posted to October 8, 2021 to consider the compliance report by the state government. The single judge’s observations on the functioning of the FSLs were part of the order in a criminal petition dated December 22, 2020. It had noted that as on November 30, 2020, a total of 35,738 samples pertaining to 6,994 cases were pending with FSLs. Of these, 6,868 samples were of narcotic cases, 3,968 samples related to DNA and 9,958 pertaining to cases questioning the authenticity of documents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-issues-directions-on-working-of-fsls-across-state-1021887.html
20-08-2021||State||Two electrocuted during Muharram procession||Two persons, including a panja bearer, were electrocuted after the panja came in contact with an overhead live wire, during the Muharram procession at Santekallur of Maski taluk in the early hours of Friday. The panja-bearer Hussainsab Devaramani (50) and Huligemma (18) died on the spot. The incident occurred when the 8-foot panja came in contact with a power line. A pall of gloom descended in the village following the incident. The Maski police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-electrocuted-during-muharram-procession-1021890.html
20-08-2021||State||CM Bommai releases short video on inspirational women||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai recently released a seven-minute video on the contribution of inspirational women and their stories curated by Revathi Raju, Chairperson, FICCI FIO, Bengaluru, along with members. Coinciding with the 75th Independence Day, the short video salutes the women from the region and looks back at their exemplary roles in our history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-bommai-releases-short-video-on-inspirational-women-1021891.html
20-08-2021||State||Karnataka lagging in farm exports: Union minister||Karnataka lags behind in export of agricultural produce and the state needs to step up its game, Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje said on Friday. She urged the industries department and the agriculture department to coordinate with each other and set up a separate agriculture cell in the industries department, to focus on agricultural exports.  Speaking to mediapersons here, Karandlaje said she had spoken to Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani about this. “The industries department usually focuses on equipment. I have asked the minister to focus on agricultural produce, too, and set up a separate cell for export of agricultural produce,” she said. For this purpose, the department can coordinate with the Agricultural & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), the minister said.  While 2023 has been declared as the international year of millet, the government will focus on production and export of millet. “Karnataka grows significant quantity of millet. However, when you look at the numbers, it is Uttarakhand which exports the highest quantity of millet. Manipur exports the highest amount of organic produce. Karnataka must focus on these areas,” Karandlaje urged the government.  Also, in an effort to boost export of coconuts, the Centre has recently lifted a ban on coconut export. “Karnataka can henceforth export products processed from coconut,” she said. While until now the Coconut Development Board was headed by an IAS official, it will henceforth be led by a farmer, she added.  Further, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called for setting up of 10,000 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPO), which will receive government financial aid. These organisations will also boost agricultural processing initiatives. As part of the overall approach to boost the agricultural sector, the government will also focus on reducing dependency on other countries for edible oil and encourage local production, according to the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-lagging-in-farm-exports-union-minister-1021892.html
20-08-2021||State||Celebratory firing shouldn’t happen again: Araga Jnanendra||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Friday decried the recent Yadgir incident where a gunshot was fired in the air to welcome Union Minister Bhagwanth Khuba, but not before justifying the act itself by calling it “tradition.”  On August 18, a bullet was fired in the air at Yaragol, a border village in Gurmatkal taluk of district to welcome Khuba as part of the BJP’s Janashirwad Yatra. The incident drew flak for being unprecedented in Karnataka. “Action has been taken as per law. There’s an FIR, some have been arrested and 3-4 policemen have faced action as per law,” Jnanendra said.  Asked about the incident taking place in the presence of elected representatives, Jnanendra said: “I asked about it. I was told it’s a tradition there. Even in Malnad, where I come from, we used to fire shots in the air during marriages. The intention is important.” The minister added that the incident should not have occurred. “It shouldn’t have happened at this time. I have directed that it shouldn’t recur. If something happens accidentally, there will be loss of life,” he said.  After the incident, the police arrested four BJP workers. Also, three constables were suspended.  Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar targeted Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai for the incident. “We were denied permission to organise our event to mark the birth anniversary of Rajiv Gandhi and D Devaraj Urs at Ambedkar Bhavan. We respect Covid guidelines. But, BJP ministers are touring places with the Janashirwad Yatra. Why is it one law for us and another for the BJP,” he asked.  Shivakumar mentioned the gunshot incident without naming Khuba. “Shots were fired to welcome a minister. No action was taken against officers who were present when this happened. Only constables have been suspended. We must applaud the chief minister’s transparent administration,” he said, adding that the Congress would demonstrate against the police. “If this goes on, there will be anarchy. This is the BJP’s administration.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/celebratory-firing-shouldn-t-happen-again-araga-jnanendra-1021895.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||VTU orders closure of 6 engineering colleges over poor facilities||The Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) Belagavi has come down heavily on engineering colleges with poor facilities and ordered the closure of six institutes. A decision to this effect was taken at the recent Executive Council meeting. The closure order applies from the current academic year and the university has issued a public notice, cautioning parents and students against getting admitted to these colleges from 2021-22 academic year onwards. The six colleges, all private unaided, are: Alpha College of Engineering in Bengaluru and Shaikh College of Engineering in Belagavi, Islamiah Institute of Technology in Bengaluru, Ekalavya Institute of Technology in Chamarajnagar, Sri Vinayaka Institute of Technology in KGF and BTL Institute of Technology and Management in Bengaluru. According to information from the university, one college from Bengaluru and one from Belagavi opted for closure on their own due to financial issues and the rest did not apply for renewal of affiliation. “Lack of infrastructure, difficulty in filling seats, poor quality of teaching were major reasons for closure,” said a senior official. “Even after repeated notices, four of the colleges did not bother to respond,” the official said. The officials said students from the six colleges will be shifted to other colleges. VTU registrar Dr A S Deshpande said, “We are yet to get the exact number of students enrolled at these colleges to be shifted to nearby colleges.” The university in the notice said a notification for re-allotment process will be issued separately. “Aspiring students seeking fresh admission to these colleges are advised to take note. In case any student proceeds with admission to these institutes, the university will not be responsible,” the university added. In the past two years, 12 colleges under VTU have been shut down. During 2018-19 and 2019-20, six engineering colleges were shut down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vtu-orders-closure-of-6-engineering-colleges-over-poor-facilities-1021550.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NATO crew member from Karnataka recalls Afghanistan stint||Deepak Kumar U, a 35-year-old man who worked in the rescue fire fighting crew team of the US and NATO army base in Herat, Afghanistan, shared his experience of horror with the Taliban during his stint in the war-torn country. "I am in touch with locals of Herat city who worked with me. There is a curfew kind of atmosphere in the entire city. People are not coming out of their houses," he told IANS. Only the Kabul airport is operating and all the others are closed "When we were evacuated, there was no mad rush like it is happening in Kabul. Our base was handed over to the local government after evacuation," he says. Deepak Kumar from Puttur in Dakshina Kannada worked at the Herat army base on the Iran border for six years. "We worked with Portuguese and British nationals. Some have joined from Maharashtra and Kerala states also," he says. "If everything went well I was planning to stay in Afghanistan for two more years," he says. However, he returned on June 22 from Afghanistan with his colleagues Mithun Shetty, Shekar, Hyder and others. "The military bases were established in the areas where terrorists were highly active. When I worked at a military base, rockets launched by the Taliban used to fall right inside the premises. The radar was used to identify it and give a signal before it fell. We used to run into the well-built bunkers. Until I was there, no casualty was reported due to rocket firing. "Military personnel never shared any information with us, however, we used to observe their operations with curiosity," he said. "Those who went to fight against the Taliban in fighter jets returned with dead bodies and injured soldiers. They were treated at the base hospitals," he adds. Until the American army was present, the Taliban never wagged its tail. But, the Taliban was ready with modern ammunition to declare war, according to Deepak Kumar. When America decided to withdraw its armed forces, Afghanistan locals who were in touch were scared. They used to say that the Taliban would occupy the whole country in one month after the withdrawal of American forces, this has come true, he explains. When Americans left, they had trained the Afghanistan military. However, the army, about 3 lakh strong, could not defend against the 50-60,000 Taliban army. Afghans predicted this and the nature of Afghan people is really good, he says. There were many Indians in the military system established by America and NATO countries. Most of them have returned after the withdrawal of American forces. All my friends have also returned to the country safely. When the American army was present, the Taliban was pushed to remote villages. The local villagers in touch with the army used to be very scared to go back to their villages. Taliban took their fingerprints before allowing them inside villages. If anyone having links with the army was found, they would kill them. The villagers in touch with the military did not visit their places for years, he said. Deepak Kumar found the job vacancy at an army base in Afghanistan, on the internet and attended the interview on Skype. He then attended a medical exam in New Delhi and reached Kabul. He was given three days off once in five or six months and his travel expenses were taken care of. "Initially I was scared. Since it was a military base where safety is ensured and many of my friends already worked, I chose to work," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nato-crew-member-from-karnataka-recalls-afghanistan-stint-1021663.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bommai announces project to upgrade residential Karnataka schools||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday announced a special programme to upgrade residential schools for SC, ST, OBC and minority children to bring them up to CBSE standards.  Bommai said this at an event to mark the 106th birth anniversary of former chief minister D Devaraj Urs.  Karnataka has some 800 residential schools catering to students from various social groups.  “We have invested a lot in these schools for infrastructure. There’s a need to give them a qualitative upgrade. We need to create opportunities not only for higher education, but also international education. So, we’re coming out with a special programme for this,” Bommai said.  “Karnataka started Adarsha Vidyalayas that are respected by CBSE. We want to create a system [in residential schools] that is of CBSE standards,” he said.  The state government will also start three new residential schools for children belonging to nomadic tribes this year, Bommai said. “There are already four schools and a corporation. Of the four schools, two don’t have their own buildings. For that, we’re giving Rs 6 crore each. We will also take decisions to safeguard the unique nomadic cultures,” he said.  Bommai added that his government would work on three Es for the development of the poor and downtrodden - education, employment and empowerment.  Earlier in the day, Bommai paid tributes to Urs by garlanding his portrait. As is the ritual, a vintage 1968 Mercedes-Benz that Urs used was brought to Vidhana Soudha on the occasion. The car was given to the state government in 1973 by the then PM Indira Gandhi and Urs used it as the CM till 1980. Bommai recalled Urs’ contributions to Karnataka, especially his “revolutionary” land reforms, hydroelectric power projects and irrigation. “I first saw Urs in 1978. He had a towering personality and a wrestler’s guts, which was much needed at the time,” Bommai said.  Bommai said several programmes started by Urs were still running. “Every year, we give away scholarships to students worth Rs 625 crore,” he pointed out.  On the occasion, the state government gave away the D Devaraj Urs awards for 2021-22, 2020-21 and 2019-20. The awardees are tribal rights activist K Bhaskar Das, women’s welfare worker SG Susheelamma and pro bono lawyer Basavaprabhu Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bommai-announces-project-to-upgrade-residential-karnataka-schools-1021715.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Governor to gift cash prize to state’s Olympians||Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot will gift Rs 1 lakh each to four sportspersons from Karnataka who participated in the recent Tokyo Olympics.  Golfer Aditi Ashok, equestrian Fouaad Mirza, swimmer Srihari Nataraj and women’s hockey coach Ankitha Suresh will get Rs 1 lakh each and Gehlot will honour them for their achievements at a function that will be shortly organised at Raj Bhavan, according to a statement from the Governor’s office.  “Representing India in Tokyo Olympics 2020 by these sportspersons and coach from Karnataka is a moment of pride for the people of Karnataka (sic),” Governor’s special secretary R Prabhu Shankar said in the statement.  Last month, the state government distributed Rs 10 lakh to Aditi, Fouaad and Srihari. The government also announced a cash prize to Karnataka’s sportspersons of Rs 5 crore if they win gold medal, Rs 3 crore for silver and Rs 2 crore for bronze. Further, the state government said it would award sportspersons from other states with Rs 15 lakh for gold, Rs 10 lakh for silver and Rs 5 lakh for bronze.  Karnataka’s Youth Empowerment & Sports Minister KC Narayana Gowda said last week the government had come up with a plan to send at least 100 athletes from Karnataka to the Paris Olympics 2024. Each one of them will get financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-governor-to-gift-cash-prize-to-state-s-olympians-1021733.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Gunshot welcome' shouldn’t happen again, says Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra||On August 18, a bullet was fired in the air at Yaragol, a border village in Gurmatkal taluk of the district to welcome Khuba as part of the BJP’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra. The incident drew flak for being unprecedented in Karnataka. “Action has been taken as per law. There’s an FIR, some have been arrested and 3-4 policemen have faced action as per law,” Jnanendra said.  Asked about the incident taking place in the presence of elected representatives, Jnanendra said: “I asked about it. I was told it’s a tradition there. Even in Malnad, where I come from, we used to fire shots in the air during marriages. The intention is important.” The minister added that the incident should not have occurred. “It shouldn’t have happened at this time. I have directed that it shouldn’t recur. If something happens accidentally, there will be loss of life,” he said. After the incident, the police arrested four BJP workers. Also, three constables were suspended. Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar sarcastically applauded Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai over the incident. “We were denied permission to organize an event at Ambedkar Bhavan, but BJP ministers are touring places with the Jan Ashirwad Yatra. Why is it one law for us and another for the BJP?,” he asked. Shivakumar mentioned the gunshot incident without naming Khuba. “Shots were fired to welcome a minister. No action was taken against officers who were present when this happened. Only constables have been suspended. We must applaud the chief minister’s transparent administration,” he said, adding that the Congress would demonstrate against the police. “If this goes on, there will be anarchy. This is the BJP’s administration.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gunshot-welcome-shouldn-t-happen-again-says-karnataka-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-1021790.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Residential schools in Karnataka to be upgraded: CM Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said a special programme will be taken up to give "qualitative upgrade" to SC, ST, OBC and minority children residential schools in the state, to bring them up to CBSE standards. "It is the thinking of our government that in the days to come SC, ST, OBC and Minority residential schools- we have invested a lot in these schools for infrastructure- There’s a need to give them a qualitative upgrade," Bommai said. Speaking at an event to mark the 106th birth anniversary of former chief minister D Devaraj Urs, he said there is a need to create opportunities for students studying there not only for higher education, but also international education and to create job opportunities. "So, we’re coming out with a special programme for this. Whether it is NEET exam or CET, we want to boost their confidence to take up competitive exams. Karnataka started Adarsha Vidyalayas on line with CBSE. We want to create a system in which these residential schools will be of CBSE standards," he added. There are about 800 residential schools catering to students from various social groups in the state. Stating that the state government will also start three new residential schools for children belonging to nomadic tribes this year, the Chief Minister said. There are already four schools and a corporation. "Of the four schools, two don’t have their own buildings. For that, we are giving Rs 6 crore each...We will also take decisions to safeguard the unique nomadic cultures," he said. Further, he said, that his government would work on three 'Es' for the development of the poor and downtrodden, they are - education, employment and empowerment. The Chief Minister gave away the D Devaraj Urs awards instituted by the state government. Remembering Urs and his "revolutionary" land reforms, Bommai said, "he liberated the land and he liberated the sons of the soil." The Chief Minister also recalled his contribution to hydroelectric power and irrigation projects in the state. Noting that several programmes started by Urs were still running. “Every year, we give away scholarships to students worth Rs 625 crore....also residential schools for backward class students are also being run."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/residential-schools-in-karnataka-to-be-upgraded-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1021795.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||1,453 Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 1,453 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Friday, taking the total number of infections to 29,36,077 and the toll to 37,105. The day also saw 1,408 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,77,785. Out of 1,453 new cases reported on Friday, 352 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 381 discharges and one death. The total number of active cases in the state is at 21,161. While the positivity rate stood at 0.83 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.16 per cent. Dakshina Kannada accounted for most number of deaths (6), Mysuru and Uttara Kannada had two each, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 352, Dakshina Kannada 341, Udupi 176, Hassan 101, Kodagu 95, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,34,509. Mysuru came next with 1,75,080 and Tumakuru had 1,18,819. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,10,640, followed by Mysuru 1,71,725 and Tumakuru 1,17,058. Cumulativelym a total of 4,16,82,357 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,73,000 were on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/1453-covid-19-cases-17-deaths-in-karnataka-1021842.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka forms panel to pick 75 players for Paris Olympics 2024||Former India hockey player VR Raghunath, swimming coach Nihar Ameen and ace shuttler Anup Sridhar have been drafted into a high-level committee of the Karnataka government to identify 75 promising athletes from Karnataka for the Paris Olympics 2024. A government order has been issued approving Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai's 'Amrith Sports Adoption' programme, which he announced in his Independence Day speech. Each of the 75 sportspersons selected will receive Rs 5 lakh from the government for training, supplements, sports kit and so on. Sridhar and Raghunath are Arjuna awardees while Ameen is a Dronacharya award winner. They are on an 8-member committee the government has constituted to select 75 sportspersons who have the potential to win medals for India. The committee is headed by Youth Empowerment & Sports Minister KC Narayana Gowda along with senior officials and the head of the Karnataka Olympic Association. The three veterans will also be on the Talent Identification Development Committee (TIDC) that the government will constitute for every sport that is identified under the programme. "Talent identification will be done scientifically. There will be training camps and tournaments to identify sports potential," Gowda said in a statement. "We want India to finish in the top ten at the Paris Olympics 2024. Further, we want sportspersons from Karnataka to be the highest medal winners," Gowda said. Last month, Gowda had said the government planned to train 100 sportspersons from Karnataka for the Paris games. This was revised to 75 in line with Bommai's 'Amrith' scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-forms-panel-to-pick-75-players-for-paris-olympics-2024-1021872.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Walk-to-work: Residential townships to come up in Karnataka's industrial areas||Karnataka will develop residential townships in industrial areas under the ‘walk-to-work’ concept that will cut the time workers spend in traffic to commute, Industries Minister Murugesh Nirani said Friday.  Nirani chaired a meeting on this and directed officials to prepare a blueprint on residential townships in industrial areas. “Residential townships will be constructed on Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) land and other industrial areas so that workers, officials and other staff reside on the premises. This will help them avoid commuting long distances and, in turn, save crucial man-hours, increase productivity and prevent traffic congestion,” Nirani said in a statement.  “Residential townships will be constructed on 10-15% of land reserved in industrial areas with all basic amenities such as schools, shopping malls, clinics, parks and recreation facilities,” Nirani said. According to the minister, the industries department is planning to develop 9,010 acres of land for industrial development in Kolar, Ramanagara, Mandya, Tumakuru, Vijayapura and Haveri districts. “Over 81,864 acres of land in 188 industrial areas have been acquired so far and allotted for industrial units across the state,” Nirani said.  The 2021-22 Budget has promised the creation of new industrial townships that are expected to generate an investment of Rs 10,000 crore and create five lakh jobs. Two townships under the Chief Minister Mega Integrated Industrial Townships will be established in both Bengaluru–Mumbai and Bengaluru-Chennai industrial corridors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/walk-to-work-residential-townships-to-come-up-in-karnatakas-industrial-areas-1021873.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||VP Naidu visits TB dam, bats for river linking project||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday urged the states to join hands for the interlinking of rivers in the country. During his visit to Tungabhadra reservoir, along with his family, on Friday evening Naidu told reporters, “River linking project is the people’s dream. State should come forward in realising it. If the river water in the country is utilised judiciously, farmers will prosper and the country will prosper when agriculture prospers.” “Reservoirs are like Akshaya Patre. We should lay emphasis on water retention. Water storage will replenish water table. I got to know from the officials that this dam has reached full reservoir levels in four consecutive years. I hope the dam continues to reach its maximum in future and benefit the backward areas in Karnataka and Telangana states,” he said. Naidu spent some time at the reservoir and took selfies with his wife M Usha and family members. On Friday evening, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and his family was accorded a warm welcome at the taluk stadium here by Minister Anand Singh, Koppal MP Karadi Sanganna and the Vijayanagara districtofficials.  Naidu will visit Unesco World Heritage site Hampi on Saturday. After visiting monuments, he will stay overnight at Kannada University guesthouse in Hampi. Security in Hosapete and Hampi has been enhanced in the wake of the Vice President’s visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vp-naidu-visits-tb-dam-bats-for-river-linking-project-1021888.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM announces special project to upgrade residential schools||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday announced a special programme to upgrade residential schools for SC, ST, OBC and minority children to bring them up to CBSE standards.  Bommai said this at an event to mark the 106th birth anniversary of former chief minister D Devaraj Urs.  Karnataka has some 800 residential schools catering to students from various social groups.  “We have invested a lot in these schools for infrastructure. There’s a need to give them a qualitative upgrade. We need to create opportunities not only for higher education, but also international education. So, we’re coming out with a special programme for this,” Bommaisaid.  “Karnataka started Adarsha Vidyalayas that are respected by CBSE. We want to create a system (in residential schools) that is of CBSE standards,” he said.  The state government will also start three new residential schools for children belonging to nomadic tribes this year, Bommai said. “There are already four schools and a corporation. Of the four schools, two don’t have their own buildings. For that, we’re giving Rs 6 crore each. We will also take decisions to safeguard the unique nomadic cultures,” he said.  Bommai added that his government would work on three Es for the development of the backward, poor and downtrodden: education, employment and empowerment.  Earlier in the day, Bommai paid tributes to Urs by garlanding his portrait. As is the ritual, a vintage 1968 Mercedes-Benz that Urs used was brought to Vidhana Soudha on the occasion. The car was given to the state government in 1973 by the then PM Indira Gandhi and Urs used it as the CMtill 1980. Bommai recalled Urs’ contributions to Karnataka, especially his “revolutionary” land reforms, hydroelectric power projects and irrigation. “I first saw Urs in 1978. He had a towering personality and a wrestler’s guts, which was much-needed at the time,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-announces-special-project-to-upgrade-residential-schools-1021893.html
20-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka IPS officers salute woman batchmate deployed in Afghanistan||Top Karnataka Police officers, including ADGP, Railway, Bhaskar Rao and Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, are praying for safe return of their IPS batchmate Savita Hande, who is presently in Afghanistan as a senior security officer with the United Nations. "Savita is wedded to the spirit of humanity. Despite a grave danger to her personal security and safety and being a woman, being an Indian woman, she is discharging her duties in hostile territory. She is our batchmate and cadre mate from Karnataka... had she continued here, she would have been an Additional DGP. She is doing great work," Bhaskar Rao told IANS. "I am proud as well as worried for Savita, senior UN security officer in Kabul, amid a handful of brave UN personnel who have chosen to stay in Kabul, defending and ensuring humanitarian support amidst mayhem. We appreciate her courage and commitment to humanity," he added. Hande, who is of the 1990 batch of the IPS, was deployed to Kosovo in 2000 and since then, she was interested in doing United Nations service. She has been posted in Jakarta, East Timor, South Sudan, and New York, and then now she is in Kabul. "This morning, she messaged that she is in Kabul. She is part of the United Nations.. She has done a lot of evacuations today morning and striving to save United Nation's property and maintaining peace in a hostile situation," Bhaskar Rao said. "Now, she is in extremely trying circumstances. She is a symbol of courage and commitment to humanity... not to any country, she is balancing several forces," he underlined. Pant also wished her the best. Hande has served in various capacities in Karnataka before getting deputed on central services in 2000. She was Additional Superintendent of Police in Bidar and Holenarasipur and served as Superintendent of Police in Udupi and Hassan. She has also participated in operations against forest brigand Veerappan. Despite being away from her country and discharging her duties in various tense spots, she is in touch with her buddies in her batch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-ips-officers-salute-woman-batchmate-deployed-in-afghanistan-1021907.html
20-08-2021||West||Over 32,000 vaccinated in Dharavi, Worli in a week||In a major initiative, more than 32,000 people were vaccinated in the once Covid-19 hotspots of Dharavi and Worli in Mumbai thanks to ICICI Lombard, which set a Guinness World Record title. As many as 30,467 people were registered for vaccination in a span of seven days, from August 7-14, and more than 32,000 vaccinations were administered in the slum clusters of Dharavi and Worli. The ICICI Lombard, one of India’s biggest general insurance companies, partnered with Surana Sethia Hospital & Research Centre for the initiative. To accomplish this feat, the healthcare staff worked round the clock for seven days at the vaccination centres. The effort involved a team of over 60 people, including verifiers, nurses, doctors, and paramedical staff. Sanjeev Mantri, Executive Director, ICICI Lombard General Insurance, said, "At ICICI Lombard, it is our continuous endeavour to contribute to the community at large, in line with our focus of being a responsible corporate citizen. We are deeply encouraged to have got the opportunity to vaccinate more than 32,000 deserving individuals, giving them added protection against the virus. It is humbling for us that we broke the Guinness World Record milestone in the process.” Dr Prince Surana, CEO, Surana Sethia Hospital, said, “We had a great experience in conducting this drive with ICICI Lombard. It is a first-of-its-kind initiative in India, where a corporate has come forward in a big way to conduct a vaccination drive under their CSR initiative. The entire drive had about 60 people working from Surana Hospital which include nurses, doctors and paramedical staff, who on an average vaccinated over 3,000 people every day at both the locations along with CoWIN registration.” These large-scale vaccination drives will help develop immunity in the larger densely populated segment across Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-32000-vaccinated-in-dharavi-worli-in-a-week-1021641.html
20-08-2021||West||Pawar criticising Centre over quota issue out of frustration: Rane||Union minister and BJP leader Narayan Rane on Friday hit out at NCP chief Sharad Pawar, saying that he was criticising the Union government over the reservation issue "out of frustration". Rane was speaking to reporters here as a part of his ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’. Pawar had recently criticised the Union government's decision of delegating powers to states to identify a community as backward, saying the Centre has tied up the hands of the states while offering a full meal. He had also asked the Centre to enact a law to remove the Supreme Court-mandated 50 per cent cap on reservations and allow states to exceed the existing quota limit. Responding to a query over Pawar’s statements, Rane said, “He (Pawar) is a mature politician, he should know how to untie hands. He is critical of the Union government out of his own frustration. Some of his colleagues are now likely to go to jail…You all know who." "I have the copies of speeches made by opposition leaders in Parliament when the 120th amendment (restoring the power of states to identify socially and educationally backward classes) was tabled.  He had never objected to it saying it was a wrong bill or union government is misleading people. He did not say anything against the bill on the floor,” he said. Rane said the opposition (at the Centre) needs to study the Constitution as Modi government has given rights to the states. The Maharashtra government needs to come up with the Backward Commission’s report first.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pawar-criticising-centre-over-quota-issue-out-of-frustration-rane-1021668.html
20-08-2021||West||Shivaji’s great escape from Agra being commemorated||Legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s grand and miraculous escape from the Agra Fort 355 years ago is being commemorated in a unique way.   In 1666, Shivaji Maharaj and his son Sambhaji escaped from the Agra Fort -- in one of the most miraculous escapes in India's history -- and left Mughal emperor Aurangzeb baffled. On August 17, this year, a group of 30-odd enthusiasts have set off from Agra Fort and will mark of the end of their journey by road on August 29 at Pune’s Rajgad Fort.The mission has been titled ‘GarudZep Mohim’. It is passing through Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra -- based on the route charted from historical evidences about that journey from various references. The rally touches 54 cities and hundreds of villages. The team is being led by Maruti Abha Gole, the 14th descendent of Sarnobat Narveer Pillaji Gole, the head of Shivaji Maharaj’s infantry. "Shivaji Maharaj was in Aurangazeb’s captivity for 99 days after which he made the escape,” Gole told DH on his way to Indore. “The Agra to Rajgad journey is inspiring and historic and hence the commemoration event,” he said.  “In Rajgad, the team will be accorded a grand welcome,” said Omkar Shinde, a member of GarudZep Mohim, who is a forts and heritage enthusiast, and associated with Western Ghats Running Foundation. “Garud” is the mythological bird while “Zep” is the flight. “The way Shivaji Maharaj escaped from Agra Fort and reached his base Rajgad Fort was like a flawless flight…many finer points on the travel are not yet known,” Shinde told DH from Pune. Setting out for the journey from Agra Fort, the team travelled through Sevla Ghat in UP, Dhaulpur in Rajasthan and is now proceeding through towns in Madhya Pradesh like Gwalior, Mohama, Shivpur, Guna, Pachore, Devas, Indore, Sisordia, Julwania and Sendhwa. Once they reach Maharashtra, they will travel through Shirpur, Dhule, Malegaon, Nashik, Chandwad, Sinnar, Sangamner, Narayangaon, Pune, Donje Kondgaon and Rajgad. The journey has been organised by Sarnobat Pilajirao Gole Pratishtan, Vadgaon Maval Durg Sanvardhan, Shiv Bhumi Bhramanti (Kondhve Dhavade), Narveer Tanaji Malusare Pratishtan, Western Ghats Running Foundation and Shambhuraje Mardani Khel (Kolhapur). The 30-member team is travelling in one truck, seven cars and three two-wheelers. “Members are taking turns to run in stretches with a marshal,” said Shinde, adding that it is 1,200-km journey, which is being completed in 13 days' time. It needs to be mentioned that Gole, the expedition leader and a historian, has climbed/visited 1,100 forts in 14 countries. In August 2017, he had commemorated the Agra Fort-Rajgad Fort journey by running and walking, thus covering 1,253 km. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shivaji-s-great-escape-from-agra-being-commemorated-1021693.html
20-08-2021||West||At least 12 labourers dead as vehicle overturns in Maharashtra's Buldhana||At least 12 persons were killed and few others injured after a truck overturned in the Buldhana district of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra on Friday. The accident took place near the Dusarvid village at Tadegaon Phata on the Sindkhedraja-Mehkar Road. The labourers were headed for the under-construction Samruddhi Corridor project.  A total of 15 labourers were on board the vehicle. According to reports, the vehicle was overspeeding and overturned in a rough patch of the road.  While some of the injured were taken to a state-run hospital in the neighbouring Jalna district, others were admitted to Sindhkhedraja hospital, Buldhana Superintendent of Police Arvind Chavria told PTI. According to him, most of these labourers were from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-least-12-labourers-dead-as-vehicle-overturns-in-maharashtras-buldhana-1021697.html
20-08-2021||West||GMDC will initiate action to resume mining in Goa in three months: Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday assured citizens that the actions towards resumption of iron ore mining in the state will start in the next three months through the state-run Goa Mineral Development Corporation (GMDC). The newly formed GMDC, also known as the Mining Corporation, will initiate auctioning of mining leases and movement of the already auctioned iron ore in the next three months, Sawant said. The chief minister was addressing a gathering in Dharbandora taluka of South Goa, which is a prominent mining belt. The mining activities have been suspended in Goa since 2018 after the Supreme Court quashed 88 mining leases. The state government has left no stone unturned to ensure the resumption of mining, but could not do so as the matter was pending before the Supreme Court, he said. “I am fully aware about the pain you have faced due to the closure of the mining industry. I also live in the mining belt. The state government has been pressing hard to ensure that the mining industry resumes. We have not left any option. But the issue is pending before the Supreme Court,” Sawant said. The state government has formed the Mining Corporation to provide a permanent solution for the industry, he said. “In the next three months, we will start activities towards resumption of mining. It may be auctioning the leases or movement of already auctioned 20 MT iron ore. We want to provide a solution for the mining industry for the next five years,” the chief minister said. Sawant also announced that any of the three educational institutions – IIT, National Institute of Law or Forensic Institute – will be set up at Dharbandora taluka, which will help the development of the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gmdc-will-initiate-action-to-resume-mining-in-goa-in-three-months-sawant-1021716.html
20-08-2021||West||Afghan man deported from Nagpur has joined Taliban, say cops as his gun-wielding snap surfaces||An Afghan national, who was deported to his country from Nagpur in June this year after he was found staying here illegally, has apparently joined the Taliban and his picture holding a rifle has surfaced on social media, a senior police official said on Friday. The Taliban has seized power in Afghanistan as it swept into capital Kabul on Sunday after President Ashraf Ghani fled the country. "The man, Noor Mohammad Ajiz Mohammad, 30, was found staying in Nagpur since the last 10 years illegally. He was living in a rented place in Dighori area of the city. Acting on a tip-off, the police had started keeping a watch on his activities. He was finally nabbed and deported to Afghanistan on June 23," he said. "After his deportation, he seems to have joined the Taliban and his photo holding a gun has emerged on social media," he added. During the probe earlier, police had found that he had come to Nagpur in 2010 on a six-month tourist visa. Later, he had applied to the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) seeking a refugee status for himself, but his application was rejected. His appeal was also turned down by the UNHRC. Since then, he stayed in Nagpur illegally, the official said. Another police official said that Noor Mohammad's original name is Abdul Haque and his brother was working with the Taliban. Last year, Noor had floated a video on social media with a sharp-edged weapon. After he was nabbed, police found that he had "entry and exit wounds" from a gunshot near his left shoulder, he said, adding that when his social media accounts were checked, it was found that he was following some terrorists whose videos of gun firing were available on social media. "He was in the business of selling blankets and was unmarried. Police conducted searches at his rented accommodation, but did not find anything suspicious. His call details are also under the scanner of the police," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/afghan-man-deported-from-nagpur-has-joined-taliban-say-cops-as-his-gun-wielding-snap-surfaces-1021731.html
20-08-2021||West||Pune NGO seeks PM Modi's help to adopt Afghan students||Amid the worsening situation in Afghanistan, Pune-based NGO Sarhad has sought the permission of the Centre to adopt around 1,000 students from the country till the situation improves. Sarhad and the Sri Guru Tegbahadur ji 400th Prakash Purab-2021 committee established to celebrate Guru Teg Bahadur’s martyrdom, who had sacrificed his life for the rehabilitation and safety of Kashmiri pandits. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sarhad founder-President Sanjay Nahar, chief organiser Santsingh Mokha and working-President Surendra Wadhwa, have made a form request. “Sarhad wishes and has the capacity to adopt 1,000 Afghani students and refugees to take care of their education and livelihood till the situation improves back home. We seek Central Government’s assistance in selection of such students and refugees who can be provided with necessary help,” the letter states.  “Since the Afghan issue has become explosive and internationally politically sensitive, without government’s permission and assistance in selection the humanitarian work we want to undertake cannot materialise. In fact, the help from Indian NGO to the distressed Afghani students and refugees can set an example of India’s border humanitarian perspective. Also this work will be a suiting tribute to Sri Guru Teg Bahadur ji’s martyrdom to preserve humanity,” Nahar said. They requested the Centre to permit the task of adoption of the Afghan students and refugees and to appoint a representative for the selection process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-ngo-seeks-pm-modis-help-to-adopt-afghan-students-1021746.html
20-08-2021||West||AAP, BJP's free power, water promises are poll jumlas: Congress||The Congress on Friday slammed the ruling BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party's poll promises of free water and power respectively, dismissing the popular overtures as jumlas and election stunts. Speaking to reporters Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Digambar Kamat said that such freebie promises, especially by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party government were in contradiction in terms of governance because the state's treasury was depleted and the government was actually borrowing money to pay doles to people who have signed up for popular schemes. "The power and water tariff is low in Goa. Such Rs 50 to Rs 60 freebies will not make a difference with the people. These are election stunts, jumlas," Kamat told reporters when asked if Congress also planned to offer freebies ahead of the assembly polls, scheduled to be held in early 2022. Kamat also said that the Goan native had pride and would not fall for such promises ahead of the polls. "I was Power Minister for eight years. No one asked for anything free. I am happy about it. Goans have pride. AAP has no MLA in Goa," Kamat said. While the AAP in Goa has promised 300 electricity units free if the party comes to power in the 2022 polls, the BJP-led coalition government followed the AAP's overture with its own populist scheme offering free water to the tune of 16,000 units from September 1 this year.  Kamat specifically slammed the BJP's offer of free water, claiming the financial condition of the government was precarious. "On the one hand, the government is taking loans by floating bonds. The government has no money to pay contractors. The government is disbursing doles linked to schemes after a delay of three to four months. The disbursement is delayed because they need to have cash in their accounts to make RTGS payments. And then on the other hand, they are talking about giving things for free," Kamat said. The Leader of Opposition also said that power and water rates in Goa were already low, adding that voters in Goa would not fall to such "gimmicks".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aap-bjps-free-power-water-promises-are-poll-jumlas-congress-1021798.html
20-08-2021||West||Have been made a scapegoat, targeted by Maharashtra govt: IPS officer Rashmi Shukla tells HC||Senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla on Friday told the Bombay High Court that the Maharashtra government had made her a scapegoat and was targeting her for submitting a report on alleged corruption in police transfers and postings. Shukla's counsel Mahesh Jethmalani told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar that the then additional chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, who gave permission for phone tapping, was trying to absolve himself by putting all the blame on her (Shukla). The bench was hearing a petition filed by Shukla challenging an FIR registered by the Mumbai police's cyber cell in a case of illegal phone tapping and alleged leaking of sensitive documents related to police transfers and postings. Jethmalani told the court that while the FIR has till date not named any person as accused, Shukla is the only person who is being investigated and has been made a scapegoat. “What is the evidence against Shukla? The state government is angry with Shukla for submitting a report on the phone interception done by her at the direction of her seniors. She (Shukla) was only doing her duty,” Jethmalani argued. “We all know what is troubling the state government. Someone in the opposition party by the name Devendra Fadnavis got hold of these documents and revealed them to the media,” he added. Shukla, who is currently serving as the additional director general of the Central Reserve Police Force's (CRPF) south zone, had headed the state intelligence department when the alleged tapping of phones took place. Jethmalani further told the court that before the phones were intercepted, necessary permissions were taken from Kunte, who was the appropriate authority at the time. “Kunte is now trying to absolve himself by pushing the blame on Shukla. Did he (Kunte) grant repeated permissions without application of mind?” Jethmalani argued. “Shukla is willing to undergo a lie detector test. Is Kunte willing to do so?” he submitted. The bench said it would continue hearing the matter on August 21 and said the assurance given by the police in May that it would not take any coercive action or arrest Shukla shall continue till then. The senior IPS officer in her petition stated that she had exposed the alleged nexus between ministers and politicians and other gross corruption involved in assigning postings to police officers. Instead of applauding and appreciating her work, the "government authorities are involved in framing the petitioner in a false criminal case", the plea alleged. An FIR was registered at the BKC cyber police station in Mumbai against unidentified persons for allegedly tapping phones illegally and leaking certain confidential documents on the complaint filed by the Maharashtra Intelligence Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/have-been-made-a-scapegoat-targeted-by-maharashtra-govt-ips-officer-rashmi-shukla-tells-hc-1021830.html
