21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pacchanady: ‘Legacy waste’ to be cleared through bio-mining||With the Cabinet clearing an allocation of Rs 73.73 crore to clear 9 lakh tonnes of ‘legacy waste’ at a landfill site in Pacchanady, on the outskirts of the city, decks have been cleared for disposing of waste through ‘bio-mining’ and ‘bio-remediation’ method. Anticipating approval from the state government, tenders had been floated for the disposal of waste through bio-mining and bio-remediation methods. “August 30 is the deadline for the tender,” Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Akshay Sridhar told DH. The waste on the landfill site, spread over 42 acres of land, had slid in August 2019 wreaking havoc in the lives of many families residing downhill. The garbage slide had covered 13.5 acres of horticulture and private land apart from revenue land. The MCC had sent a detailed project report to the Directorate of Municipal Administration to clear the garbage through bio-mining method at an estimated cost of Rs 50.78 crore excluding recycling and other processes. Accordingly, Rs 19.16 crore was required for machinery and other initial processes. A sum of Rs 54.57 crore was required for processing the garbage. The MCC is expecting Rs 22.95 crore income from the compost prepared from the waste, plastic recycle and others. The bio-mining technique will be used for clearing garbage dumped since many decades as per the guidelines of legacy waste management submitted by the Central Pollution Control Board. The commissioner said that bio-waste from the landfill site will be converted into compost while plastic, glass and others will be used for recycling. “Following the Cabinet’s approval, the work will be accelerated. It is a four-year project to clear the waste and no work can be taken up during the monsoon in Mangaluru,” he added. To ensure that no further sliding of garbage took place in Pacchanady, the MCC had constructed a seven-meter-high retaining wall. A tank was also constructed to collect wastewater.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pacchanady-legacy-waste-to-be-cleared-through-bio-mining-1021966.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Take steps to curtail anti-national activities in coastal areas’||Members of Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) urged Home Minister Araga Jnanendra to take steps to curtail anti-national and anti-social activities in coastal region, including Dakshina Kannada (DK) district. VHP divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell, who submitted a memorandum to Jnanendra, said that there was a conspiracy to disrupt peace in DK district. Attacks citing trivial issues were carried out on Hindus. Attempts are being made to disrupt communal harmony in the district, he said. Incidents of disrespecting of Veer Savarkar by SDPI and PFI, NIA raid on the house of former MLA late Iddinabba, theft of cattle, illegal transportation of cattle, love jihad, desecrating places of worship and posting derogatory remarks on Hindu Gods have occurred in recent times, he added. Sharan urged the home minister to initiate steps against those who disrupt peace in the district. The memorandum urged the minister to book sedition charges against those who had insulted Veer Savarkar by disrupting independence Day celebrations in Kabaka Gram Panchayat. A law against love jihad should be implemented in Karnataka, which seeks to penalise forcible or fraudulent religious conversion by marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/take-steps-to-curtail-anti-national-activities-in-coastal-areas-1021975.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dalit labourer attacked in Udupi, chemicals thrown on him||A labourer working in an areca plantation was allegedly assaulted by miscreants, who threw chemicals on him, at Kolekodu in Hallihole in Kundapura taluk. The victim is identified as 35-year-old Venkatramana, a dalit, from Shedigundi village near Mudur. He was working in the plantation belonging to one Lakshminarayana Chatra. There were some problems and differences pertaining to a land issue. The dispute led to the accused Greeshma, Shailaja, Vijendra and Suma from Chatra family to attack Venkatramana. The victim was attacked with wooden pots and lethal weapons, while Sushma threw chemicals on the dalit labourer. Following the attack, a complaint was lodged with Shankaranarayana police station. Police have arrested Vijendra Chatra and produced him before the court. The district unit of Dalit Sangharsha Samiti has demanded immediate arrest of the remaining accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dalit-labourer-attacked-in-udupi-chemicals-thrown-on-him-1021976.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||First-ever Graduation Day of FMCOAHS held||The first-ever Graduation Day of Father Muller College of Allied Health Sciences (FMCOAHS), the new constituent college under Father Muller Charitable Institutions (FMCI), and the 11th Graduation ceremony of Father Muller College of Speech and Hearing (FMCOSH) were organised at Father Muller Convention Centre in the city recently. As many as 155 grandaunts received their graduation certificates at the ceremony organised in adherence to Covid-19 regulations. Bengaluru-based Padmashree Group of Institutions Director Prof Rajesh Shenoy said the government was looking into the need of an uniform curriculum and strong forum for Allied Health Subjects. Prof Shenoy, who is also a Syndicate member of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS), urged graduates to remember their Alma mater, constantupdation of knowledge and development of research acumen. Mangalore Bishop and Father Muller Charitable Institutions (FMCI) President Fr (Dr) Peter Paul Saldanha presided over the graduation ceremony. He said the body though of many parts, worked together in unison, sois an institution. He said the pandemic had highlighted the role of allied health workers. During the pandemic, no physician can carry out his work without the parallel help of laboratory reports, and so on. FMCI Director Fr Richard Aloysius Coelho welcomed the gathering. FMCOAHS Dean Dr Antony Sylvan D’souza and FMCOSH Principal Prof Akhilesh P M presented the reports highlighting achievements of their colleges. Only the graduates were allowed to enter the venue. Live streaming of the event had been arranged on different channels and YouTube for the benefit of family and friends. Oath for the College of Allied Health Science graduates was administered by the Dean Dr Antony Sylvan D’Souza and for Physiotherapy graduates by Prof Cherishma D’Silva, serving as Head of Physiotherapy department while Principal Dr Akhilesh P M administered oath for the graduates of Speech and Hearing. Earlier, a ceremonial Thanksgiving Mass was held in St Joseph Chapel in Father Muller campus. Best outgoing students Melisha Roshal D’Souza was declared as Best Outgoing Student from Father Muller College of Allied Health Sciences. The Late John Linu Varghese memorial prize for Best Outgoing Graduate of BPT (bachelor of physiotherapy) was awarded to Rochelle Peter D’Souza. Adline Princita D’Souza was declared as Best Outgoing Student of Father Muller College of Speech and Hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/first-ever-graduation-day-of-fmcoahs-held-1021977.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sa Ra Mahesh continues to slam Rohini Sindhuri||JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh continued to fire salvo at IAS Officer Rohini Sindhuri, who is also former deputy Commissioner of Mysuru.  Mahesh said he had demanded suspension of the officer over alleged misuse of power by constructing swimming pool at DC's offical residence, which is also a heritage structure. Mahesh also said Sindhuri had appointed a private advocate to argue for MUDA and had paid an amount of Rs 24 lakh to the advocate. "I will raise the issue in the Assembly session. I had demanded suspension of the officer but the government transferred her," he said. Mahesh added that BJP ministers and MP supported her in the beginning but they "understood" her and thus, transferred her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sa-ra-mahesh-continues-to-slam-rohini-sindhuri-1022061.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former minister Vinay Kulkarni walks out of prison on bail||Former minister and Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni, who was granted bail by the Supreme Court and Special Court Dealing in Cases against Elected Representatives, was released from Central Prison, Hindalga here with the bail documents reaching the prison on Saturday. He walked out after nine months and his supporters cheered him and burst firecrackers when he put his foot outside the prison door. Kulkarni had been arrested by CBI in connection with the murder case of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat member Yogeshgouda Goudar and had been housed in the Central Prison, Hindalga since November 5, 2020. Kulkarni told reporters outside the prison that he has faith in the judiciary and would come out clean of the accusations made against him. Family members, friends, supporters, seers and political leaders from Congress stood with him during the difficult times and he was indebted to them. "I have come from a farmer's family and went from student movement into politics. People from my constituency have stood by me," he said. "My nine month stay in the prison has brought in many changes in me and it has been learning experience. I have changed a lot and know next steps to be taken," he said. MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar welcomed release of Kulkarni on bail and said she had been missing her brother who had been guiding and instilling confidence in her all times. She said, Kulkarni was not confined to his assembly constituency, but was Congress party state leader and influential leader from Lingayat community. "We hope that he would come out clean in the accusations made against him and will grow politically," she said. Large number of supporters of Kulkarni had assembled in the prison premises since morning despite weekend curfew in effect for preventing spread of Covid-19 and raised cries in his favour. Garland of apples weighing about 50 kg was also brought by them to garland Kulkarni.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-minister-vinay-kulkarni-walks-out-of-prison-on-bail-1022064.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru Police Commissioner promises all support for students from Afghanistan||City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said that the city police will extend all required support for the students from Afghanistan studying in Mangaluru. The police are ready to provide all safety measures required for the students. The students have raised concerns and worries over their families back in Afghanistan, following the Taliban taking over control of the country. The city police are ready to coordinate with the government for any help sought by the Afghanistan students, he said during an interaction with the students and their family members in Mangaluru. “The police are with them in these difficult times,” he added. Stating that there were 58 students studying from Afghanistan in Mangaluru, he said these students were studying in Mangalore University, St Aloysius College and NITK. Of 58 students, 11 had returned to their country and 47 are staying with their family members in Mangaluru. Of 58 students, 22 are pursuing their UG, 13 -PG and 23 research for PhD.   Concerns of students The Afghan students said that the Visa of the students who are in their final year will expire by September and a Visa extension for about six months would be beneficial to them. A few students who had returned to Afghanistan are stuck there. It would be helpful if the government can help them to come back so that they would not be left out in the academic year. The students said the government should facilitate those who want to go back to reunite with their families. It would be beneficial if refugee status is given to those who want to continue their stay here only.  If some liberal consideration is given for students here to work will help them to take care of their livelihood till the situation normalises back in their country. Many students who are selected for educational support by the Government of India may be given an emergency visa from Afghanisthan to come here as the academic year has commenced, to pursue their studies, said the students in a representation submitted to the City Police Commissioner.  An Afghan student expressed gratitude to the city police and said that the government has been giving scholarships to the students to pursue their studies in India for the last 15 years. India has been kind and generous enough to provide educational opportunities for Afghanistan students. In addition, India had been contributing to the development of Afghanistan especially in the field of infrastructure development, roads, dams, and hospitals. India has been actively participating in the reconstruction activities in Afghanistan all these days, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-police-commissioner-promises-all-support-for-students-from-afghanistan-1022066.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||115 grams gold seized at Mangalore International Airport||The officers of Customs seized gold weighing 115 grams net valued at Rs 5,58,900 at Mangalore International Airport from a male passenger hailing from Murudeshwar who arrived from Dubai by Air India Express Flight No IX 384 on Saturday. The gold was concealed inside beads of ladies' hair bands along with other personal effects. The operations were led by Rakesh, Superintendent along with Superintendents Maria Norohna, Vikas, Gopala Krishna Bhomkar, Bikarm Chakravarthy, Ashish Verma, Inspectors Shri Sandeep and Harimohan. The officers of Customs had also recently seized gold weighing 350.330 grams worth Rs 16,85,087 concealed in an armature portion of blender along with other personal effects from a male passenger hailing from Kasargod who arrived from Dubai. Commissioner of Customs Mangaluru Imamuddin Ahmad, expressed his concern regarding the increasing trends in smuggling and directed the officers to intensify the vigilance and surveillance and crack the attempts made by the unscrupulous elements who are indulging in these activities. The investigation into both the cases are in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/115-grams-gold-seized-at-mangalore-international-airport-1022095.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Railways to permit photography at Mysuru Rail Museum||The Railways has decided to permit still photography, with digital or DSLR cameras, and also photoshoot of special events, on the premises of Mysuru Rail Museum. According to a press note from Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, South Western Railway, Mysuru division, there is a persistent demand by the visitors for permission for still photography on the museum premises, with digital cameras, after the reopening of the redeveloped Mysuru Rail Museum in March 2020. “Rail enthusiasts and also general public had said that it would be a wonderful opportunity to capture some beautiful moments spent by them with family, children and friends in one of the oldest Rail Museums of India, which has quite a few heritage artefacts like vintage steam locomotives, wooden inspection coaches and the prized royal saloons,” he said. Manjunath Kanamadi, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Mysuru Division, South Western Railway, said, “After weighing the pros and cons of the issue, the Railway Administration has decided to allow still photography by visitors using DSLR and other professional cameras on the Rail Museum premises, with prior permission, on payment of notified charges at the reception, from August 23”. Besides, professional photoshoots or videography of special events, employing tripods, reflectors and lights will be permitted on Tuesdays (closed holiday for visitors), with prior approval and subject to conditions. Rahul Agarwal, the DRM, urged the visitors to make use of the opportunity in a responsible way, duly adhering to the guidelines so that the sanctity of the museum is preserved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/railways-to-permit-photography-at-mysuru-rail-museum-1022099.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Union Minister A Narayanaswamy visits serving soldier's house to offer condolences, embarrassed||Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment A Narayanaswamy visited the residence of a living soldier, instead of the one who had died, after apparently being mislead by local leaders, and announced a government job and land to his kin. The gaffe happened on Thursday, when the newly appointed Minister in the Modi government was in Gadag district, as part of his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra'. According to BJP sources, Narayanaswamy was taken to the house of Ravikumar Kattimani, who is currently posted in Jammu and Kashmir region, instead of taking him to the house of Basavaraj Hiremath, who died in Pune a year ago. As part of the Minister's itinerary, he was scheduled to visit the dead soldier's family and offer condolences to them. Sources said Narayanaswamy, who was behind schedule when he reached the district's Mulagund along with Member of Parliament Shivakumar Udasi, was taken to Kattimani's residence, much to the surprise of family members. The Minister, who enquired the family members, announced that a government job would be given to one of them and also land, which left them in a state of "shock and confusion". Later, a local BJP worker who knew about the family, made a video call to soldier Kattimani and asked the minister to speak to him directly, they said, adding that after realising the "blunder", Narayanaswamy trying to control the damage praised the soldier's service and felicitated the family members, before he left. After leaving the soldier's residence, the Minister took local BJP leaders to task for embarrassing him, by providing wrong information, party sources added. "My husband is working in Kashmir, it has been two months since we got married. The Minister coming to our house and inquiring about us caused some confusion, but neighbors' said he might be coming out of respect to soldiers serving in border areas....when he started assuring job and land, I felt some what and told him that- my husband is there and I will have to ask him", Kattimani's wife told local media. Noting that someone has given wrong information to the Minister, she said the family was relieved only after speaking to her husband. "....it caused unnecessary tension to us and my husband there." The Minister however did not visit the dead soldier Hiremath. "No one came to our house. He (Minister) is said to have gone to the house of a soldier who is alive....I only want my son back," an emotional Hiremath's mother said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/union-minister-a-narayanaswamy-visits-serving-soldiers-house-to-offer-condolences-embarrassed-1022105.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nalin Kumar Kateel defends gunfire welcome for Bhagwanth Khuba||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Saturday defended the recent gunfire welcome accorded to Union Minister Bhagwanth Khuba at Yaragol village in Yadgir district. He said gunfire by the BJP workers for a function of Jan Ashirwad Yatra is not a crime and such practice was in vogue earlier during the celebrations. There were no bullets in the guns. The practice of opening fire has been in existence in Kodagu during the ceremonies. Similarly, the party workers expressed their love and affection to the union minister with the celebratory gunfire, Kateel told adding that a probe into the Yaragol incident is going on. The Congress party has failed for the past seven years as a real opposition at the national level. It is constantly opposing the BJP on personal matters. The grand-old-party has become bankrupt rationally and it maintained silence over Taliban and Afghanistan issue. It is actuating violence for all decisions being taken by the BJP government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the president charged. As for India's relationship with Afghanistan, the MP said the Centre will not bother about China and Pakistan extending an olive branch to Afghanistan. The BJP government has not allowed terrorism in India for the past seven years and no blast has taken place so for. "When the terror strike occurred, the country replied with the surgical strike," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nalin-kumar-kateel-defends-gunfire-welcome-for-bhagwanth-khuba-1022117.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Muslim leaders being targetted, says Zameer Ahmed Khan||Former Congress minister B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan, who flew to New Delhi on Saturday, has claimed that the Enforcement Directorate raided him as part of a nationwide "conspiracy" to target powerful Muslim leaders. ED raided several locations linked with Khan earlier this month following complaints against his bungalow-like house. “The expectation with which the ED conducted raids on me has fallen flat. There’s an attempt being made to target powerful Muslim leaders in various states by harassing them. It was a part of this conspiracy that I am facing various kinds of [raids]. But, I will not get scared,” Khan said in a Facebook post. Hailing his supporters as his wealth, Khan said he was happy that the ED raid ended up clarifying several doubts. “I was raided because the very fact that I constructed a house was projected as a big crime,” he said. Speaking to reporters in Delhi, Khan said he was in New Delhi for personal work. “I have not been summoned by ED. If that was the case, I’d disclose it myself and show you a copy of the notice. Nobody has called me to come here,” he said. Khan, the Chamrajpet MLA, even met Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar late Friday night. Asked about Khan’s claim that Muslim leaders were being targeted, Shivakumar did not comment. “He has his opinion. There are party matters that we will discuss,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/muslim-leaders-being-targetted-says-zameer-ahmed-khan-1022158.html
21-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||District in-charge ministers will be announced soon: Basavaraj Bommai||, dhns: Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Minister for Environment, Ecology and Tourism Anand Singh is in constant touch with him and there is no disgruntlement among any of the ministers and MLAs. Speaking to media persons at his house in Hubballi on Saturday, he said Anand Singh’s disgruntlement theory is a media creation and the minister had informed him (CM) about the reason for missing the cabinet meeting held in Bengaluru on Friday. Replying to a question on appointing of district in-charge ministers, the chief minister said so far no decision has been taken in this regard. “Obviously, there are a few ministers who want to become district in-charge ministers for a few districts. The party has not discussed this issue. Soon, we will announce it,” he said in response to a question on two ministers (Anand Singh and Sriramulu) openly expressing their desire to be made district in-charge minister of Ballari. Bommai also informed the media persons that he would seek information from the revenue minister regarding the glitches in the Kaverionline portal that is delaying in registration of property and other issues. The chief minister is in Hubballi to attend the wedding of Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi’s nephew.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/district-in-charge-ministers-will-be-announced-soon-basavaraj-bommai-1022182.html
21-08-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru Zoo, Palace to be closed for visitors on weekend||Mysuru Zoo and Mysuru Palace will remain close for visitors for two days in the wake of weekend curfew. Other tourist spots will also be closed over the weekend. It has to be noted that the footfall at the palace and the zoo has been increasing following the relaxation of lockdown imposed due to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-zoo-palace-to-be-closed-for-visitors-on-weekend-1022017.html
21-08-2021||National||In Opposition meet, calls to include smaller parties in anti-BJP front||Several leaders raised the issue of including parties with no representation in Parliament in Opposition deliberations during a virtual meeting called by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Friday. Nineteen Opposition parties attended the meeting, where several leaders like TMC chief Mamata Banerjee raised the issue of including smaller parties in such deliberations, sources said. The idea is to unite all regional forces, however small, into the Opposition fray, the West Bengal chief minister said. The sources indicated that Banerjee pushed for the inclusion of the CPI(ML), which bagged 12 seats in the 2020 Bihar Assembly polls, in such meetings. She also said a core committee should be set up by the Opposition parties to deliberate on such issues before the leaders meet formally. Gandhi agreed to her proposal. Other senior leaders said parties such as the Forward Bloc should be invited to such meetings. They also pointed out that parties that are at odds with the Congress like the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) should also be invited. However, as of now, no final decision has been taken in this regard. The sources said the proposal to bring all anti-BJP parties under the umbrella of a united Opposition gains significance as it comes soon after the show of unity in Parliament. "It is no longer floor coordination, but it has now extended to party coordination. Several leaders proposed that parties with no representation in Parliament should also be included in such meetings. "The sense is that before the Uttar Pradesh election (next year), the Opposition should be a united front," a senior leader said. While the Samajwadi Party (SP) had no representation at the meeting, party chief Akhilesh Yadav gave his nod to a joint statement issued by the Opposition parties. The sources said Yadav called CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury to express his inability to join the meeting, but gave his approval to a draft of the statement prepared by the Left party. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati was invited to the meeting, but there was no response from her, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-opposition-meet-calls-to-include-smaller-parties-in-anti-bjp-front-1021974.html
21-08-2021||National||India should exercise caution in its engagements with Taliban: Former diplomats||India should keep diplomatic channels open for talks with the Taliban, but move very cautiously towards legitimising it, former diplomat Gautam Mukhopadhyay said on Friday. Speaking at a discussion organised by the Press Club of India, he said "a false narrative" is being built to project the Taliban as different from what the world saw in Afghanistan two decades ago. "We must talk to them. That is diplomacy.... We should be very careful in legitimising the Taliban," he said. Mukhopadhyay said the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban will have an "inspirational effect" all across the world. "Basically, it is not possible that what the Taliban has done is going to stay and be contained in Afghanistan. It will have ripple effects, demonstration effects and inspirational effects all across," he said. "All those who think that they made a deal with the Taliban and hence, the al-Qaeda will not attack them or that the Taliban will protect them from the ISIS are making a serious mistake," the former diplomat added. Speaking at the event, another former diplomat Vivek Katju also said India should keep its diplomatic channels open for talks with the Taliban. "We should talk to them, explore opportunities, not because their ideology needs to be accepted. Ideological orientations of the Taliban are completely deplorable, antithetical to all that the Indian State stands for," he said. Katju said India must keep a close watch on the developments in Afghanistan and work out a policy for future engagements with the neighbouring country. "The reality is that almost entire Afghanisan is in captivity of the Taliban. We should have a policy for our neighbour," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-exercise-caution-in-its-engagements-with-taliban-former-diplomats-1021979.html
21-08-2021||National||No deaths due to oxygen shortage in Haryana: Govt tells Assembly||No deaths due to a lack of oxygen have been reported in Haryana during the Covid pandemic, the state government informed the assembly on Friday. In a written reply to a question, Health Minister Anil Vij said the state has reported a total of 9,665 Covid-related deaths till August 20. “No deaths due to a lack of oxygen has been reported in the state,” Vij said in his reply to a question by Congress MLA Aftab Ahmed who sought to know if anyone had died due to oxygen shortage amid the ongoing pandemic. Ahmed asked the government to reveal the district wise deaths which occurred due to coronavirus pandemic from March 24, 2020 to July 31, 2021. He also asked the state government to disclose the district wise deaths due to lack of oxygen during the period. The House was informed that during the period, a maximum of 1,037 Covid-related deaths had been reported from Hisar while 919 fatalities were from Gurgaon. In a reply to another related question during Question Hour, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar informed the Assembly that so far no Covid patient has died due to lack of oxygen in the state. However, Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda claimed the government was hiding the actual number of deaths due to coronavirus and lack of oxygen. “The government should form a high-level committee to find out the exact figure of deaths. The government should tell what lessons it has learnt from the damage done during the first and second waves. If the third wave comes, how many doctors, nursing staff have been recruited to deal with it,” Hooda said. Spelling out steps taken by the government to tackle the surge in demand of medical oxygen, Khattar told the House that adequate arrangements were made for ensuring uninterrupted oxygen supply during the second Covid wave. He informed that initially, Haryana got a quota of 150 MT of oxygen from the Centre, which was later was increased to 285 MT, although the state had demanded 350 MT of oxygen. To ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply to tackle the COVID-19 crisis, adequate arrangements were made through all transport modes including road, air and rail, he said. Stressing that the pandemic is not in anyone's control, Khattar said: “We have done our duty in times of crisis.” He said the opposition has an old habit of criticising everything. Meanwhile, on the first day of the brief monsoon session of Haryana Vidhan Sabha, six bills were tabled in the House. Detailed discussion on them would be held later. During the proceedings, Khattar, who is Leader of the House, moved a resolution to appreciate the performance of all sportspersons who represented the country in Tokyo Olympics and said they have brought laurels with their performance. The chief minister said the House is proud that this time 30 players in the Indian contingent who participated in the Olympics were from Haryana. The House takes special pride in sharing that out of the seven Olympic medals, three were bagged by athletes from Haryana, he said. This House congratulates Neeraj Chopra, gold medallist in javelin throw, silver medallist wrestler Ravi Dahiya and bronze winning wrestler Bajrang Punia, all of whom hail from the state. The chief minister said in the men's hockey team that won a bronze medal after 41 years, two players -- Surender Kumar and Sumit Kumar -- are from Haryana, while in the women's Hockey team, nine players are from Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-deaths-due-to-oxygen-shortage-in-haryana-govt-tells-assembly-1021980.html
21-08-2021||National||Ashwini Vaishnaw dances with tribals and sips tea at roadside stall during Jan Ashriwad Yatra||Railways Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw Friday mingled with the people, danced to the tune of tribal music, sipped tea at a roadside stall and told people that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has a vision to transform life of people in Odisha during his visit to the state on Jan Ashirwad Yatra. The union minister visited tribal Rayagada and Koraput districts of Odisha on the second day of the Yatra, which has been introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to introduce the new central ministers to the general people. He travelled overnight by train to Rayagada from Bhubaneswar and interacted with the passengers to take their feedback on amenities and cleanliness. Vaishnaw, who is on his maiden visit to the state, reviewed the project and planning for the new railway division at Rayagada soon after reaching there. Railway officials updated him about the planning for it. Before the official review, Vaishnaw met well-known social worker Shanti Das at Rayagada and sought her blessings. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked him to meet her personally. “It was a pleasure meeting Padmashree Shanti Das Ji in Rayagada. Her contribution for education of tribal girls and peace in Naxal affected areas is indeed very inspiring,” Vaishanw said in a twitter post. He also visited the famous Majhi Ghariani temple and had a darshan of the Hanuman idol at Semiliguda in Koraput district. The railway minister also garlanded the statues of Sahid Laxman Naik, Maharaja Krushnachandra Gajapati Narayan Dev and Dr B R Ambedkar during his visit to Rayagada and Koraput districts. Folk Dance! Happiness! Memories! At a public reception held in his honour, Vaishnaw said it is Modi''s vision to ensure internet fiber connection, electricity, drinking water at every house. "This dream can be fulfilled if all work in tandem and cooperation". He said that after interacting with the people of Rayagada issues of communication and connectivity have come to his notice. "The problems related to the construction of Rayagada railway division and Gunupur-Therubali railway line will be reviewed and the work will be expedited. Work will be taken up to develop connectivity in the region and installation of mobile phone towers soon,” he told reporters. Vaishanw also spoke to the women and inquired whether they have cooking gas facility and toilets, electricity and drinking water in their houses. “Modiji has been trying to strengthen the weaker section of the society and women in particular. We have Ujjawal Yojana for LPG connection, Soubhagya Yojana for electicity connection, Prime Miniter Awas Yojana for housing besides many others to uplift the marginalized section of the society,” he said. In Koraput, the union minister danced with the tribal people to the tune of the folk music. “Folk Dance! Happiness! Memories! Trying to match the dance steps with local folk dance at Payakut village in Odisha,” Vaishnaw, also the minister for IT, Communication, tweeted. He also participated in a roadshow in Koraput. On the way back, Vaishnaw halted at a roadside stall and had tea with his companion and made a digital payment of Rs 50. He received a rousing welcome from local party workers and people in both the districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashwini-vaishnaw-dances-with-tribals-and-sips-tea-at-roadside-stall-during-jan-ashriwad-yatra-1021981.html
21-08-2021||National||FIR lodged against Munawwar Rana for comparing Valmiki to Taliban||An FIR was Friday registered against poet Munawwar Rana for allegedly inciting religious feeling by comparing Valmiki, who wrote Ramayana, with Taliban, police said. "FIR has been registered against Rana on complaint of one PL Bharti, who alleged that he hurt religious feelings by comparing Valmiki with Talilban," a senior official said here. The FIR was registered at Hazratganj police station under Sections 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth etc.), 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class), 505(1)(B) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public) and the SC/ST atrocities prevention act. Bharti in his complaint alleged that Rana, in his statement, hurt feelings of Dalits by comparing Talian with Valmiki and hurt feelings of Hindus. Rana while talking to a channel had said: “Valmiki became a God after he wrote the Ramayana, before that he was a dacoit. A person's character can change. Similarly, the Taliban, for now, are terrorists but people and characters change." “When you talk about Valmiki, you will have to talk about his past. In your religion, you make anyone god. But he was a writer and he wrote the Ramayana, but we are not in competition here,” Rana had said. An FIR was registered against the poet in November last year at Hazratganj police station on similar charges for allegedly defending the killings in France over a caricature of Prophet Muhammad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-lodged-against-munawwar-rana-for-comparing-valmiki-to-taliban-1021985.html
21-08-2021||National||Pak's strategic interest in Afghanistan is to counter Indian influence, mitigate spillover: US official||Pakistan's strategic security objectives in Afghanistan almost certainly continue to be countering Indian influence and mitigating spillover of the Afghan civil war into Pakistani territory, a US government report has said, citing inputs from the Defence Intelligence Agency. "Pakistan continues to support peace talks, while maintaining ties with the Afghan Taliban," US Department of State Office of the Inspector General noted in its latest quarterly report on Afghanistan. "According to the DIA, Pakistan's strategic security objectives in Afghanistan almost certainly continue to be countering Indian influence and mitigating spillover into the Pakistani territory," the report said. The report for the quarter April 1 to June 30 said the Pakistani government is concerned that a civil war in Afghanistan would have destabilising effects on Pakistan, including an influx of refugees and providing a potential safe haven for anti-Pakistan militants. During the quarter, financial contributions to the Afghan Taliban increased in the Pakistan border regions, according to media reports, citing eyewitness sources. Solicitation efforts traditionally targeted mosques, but Afghan Taliban militants now openly visit the bazaar areas in nearby Pakistani towns, it said. "The militants typically solicit contributions of $50 or more from shopkeepers. Local residents told reporters that solicitation efforts were now commonplace in the towns and cities of Quetta, Kuchlak Bypass, Pashtun Abad, Ishaq Abad, and Farooqia," it said. According to the report, the DIA, citing media reports, said that Iran welcomes the withdrawal of US and coalition forces from Afghanistan but "almost certainly" remains concerned about the resulting instability in Afghanistan. According to the DIA, Iran will continue to pursue influence in any future Afghan government through relations with the Afghan government, the Taliban, and power brokers, but Iran opposes the reestablishment of the Taliban’s Islamic Emirate, it said. As a resurgent Taliban continues to occupy new territory and an overtaxed Afghan National Defence Security Force is increasingly unable to provide security in certain areas, Afghan power brokers have increasingly begun raising private militias, it said, citing media reports. "During the quarter, leaders related to the Northern Alliance spoke openly of a 'second resistance' to the Taliban, and some of the leaders began to mobilise anti-Taliban forces under their respective commands," the report said. The Northern Alliance comprised militias of primarily Tajik, Uzbek and Hazara ethnicity, while the Taliban was largely of Pashtun ethnicity. The period of direct conflict between Northern Alliance and the Taliban included significant violence, often targeting civilians because of their ethnicity. According to the Afghanistan Analysts Network, a resumption of conflict between the Taliban and the elements, which formerly made up the Northern Alliance risks a recurrence of such violence. In April, Ahmed Massoud -- a militia commander and son of the Northern Alliance's most prominent leader Ahmed Shah Massoud killed by al-Qaeda shortly before the attacks of September 11, 2001 -- said in a media interview that his followers were prepared for the "failure of peace". In May, Massoud told reporters that over 100,000 militia leaders, fighters and other stakeholders in northern Afghanistan have pledged support to his anti-Taliban movement. He said public concerns about the stagnant peace process, US withdrawal of troops and apparent Taliban gains against the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces (ANDSF) have led to an increasing number of Afghans to take up arms and organise independently, the report noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/paks-strategic-interest-in-afghanistan-is-to-counter-indian-influence-mitigate-spillover-us-official-1021995.html
21-08-2021||National||DH Toon | Petrol is cheaper in Taliban's Afghanistan?||A video of Madhya Pradesh BJP leader Ramratan Payal who told a journalist to "go to Taliban-ruled Afghanistan" after being questioned over the rising petrol and diesel prices is doing rounds on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-petrol-is-cheaper-in-talibans-afghanistan-1021997.html
21-08-2021||National||India approves Zydus Cadila vaccine for children above 12: All you need to know||Indigenously developed Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D has received approval for Emergency Use Authorisation from the Drug Controller General of India and it will be administered to people 12 years and above. Here's all you need to know about it: 1. ZyCoV-D is India's first vaccine approved for children above the age of 12 and its a three-dose vaccine. It has been developed in partnership with the government's Department of Biotechnology. It can be applied using a needle-free injector. 2. This is the world's first DNA-based vaccine against the coronavirus. The vaccine, when injected, produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from the disease as well as viral clearance. The "plug-and-play" technology on which the plasmid DNA platform is based can be easily adapted to deal with mutations in the virus, such as those already occurring. 3. It is the sixth vaccine to get the emergency use authorisation in the country after Serum Institute of India's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russian vaccine Sputnik V and the vaccines of Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. Of these, Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are available and currently in use. 4. There would be 216 crore vaccines doses available for people in the country between August to December. Of these, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya had said Zydus Cadila will provide five crore doses. Zydus Cadila in a statement said it plans to manufacture 10-12 crore doses of ZyCoV-D annually. 5. The ZyCov-D vaccine has completed phase 1, 2 and 3 of trials. The trial had been conducted on 28,000 individuals, of which 1,000 of them were children in 12-18 years age group. The result of the clinical trial showed 66 per cent efficacy. As per trial data, 67 per cent of the people did not test positive after taking the jab versus those who were not inoculated. Trial data also showed that while two doses prevented severe symptoms, three doses keeps even moderate symptoms away. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-approves-zydus-cadila-vaccine-for-children-above-12-all-you-need-to-know-1022005.html
21-08-2021||National||Three JeM militants killed in encounter in Pulwama||Three militants affiliated with Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit were killed in a pre-dawn encounter with security forces in Tral area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on Saturday. Reports said the gun battle broke out in the wee hours of Saturday after Army and J&K police cordoned off Nagbaeran forest area of Tral following a tip off about the presence of militants there. The search operation turned into an encounter after the militants fired upon the search party of the security forces, who retaliated. In the ensuing firefight, police said, three Jaish militants were killed while three AK rifles were recovered from the encounter site. “#TralEncounterUpdate: 03 unidentified #terrorist affiliated with proscribed #terror outfit JeM killed. #Search going on. Further details shall follow (sic),” J&K police tweeted. On Friday two militants of Hizbul Mujahideen outfit were killed in Khrew area of Pulwama district. Over 100 militants and 21 security forces and J&K police personnel have been killed in Jammu Kashmir since the beginning of this year. The highest number of militants (31) were killed in July, which included several top commanders of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). Among 100 militants killed in J&K this year, only 11 are Pakistanis while the rest are all locals. According to the Army, there are still 200-225 militants active across J&K despite the fact that almost no infiltration has taken place so far this year. Official data reveals that 82 locals joined militancy in the first seven months of 2021, while 88 ultras were killed in the same period in encounters with the security forces. The spate of recruitment suggests that the counter-offensive of security forces is proving to be a zero-sum game, as for every militant killed a new one is immediately being recruited. Last year, there were around 220 active militants in Kashmir and despite the killing of 80 militants this year, the number, as per police records, remains more or less the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-jem-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-pulwama-1022011.html
21-08-2021||National||'Onam associated with positivity': PM Modi greets people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday greeted people on the occasion of Onam. He tweeted, "Best wishes on the special occasion of Onam, a festival associated with positivity, vibrancy, brotherhood and harmony. I pray for everyone's good health and wellbeing." Best wishes on the special occasion of Onam, a festival associated with positivity, vibrancy, brotherhood and harmony. I pray for everyone's good health and wellbeing. Onam is a harvest festival celebrated especially in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/onam-associated-with-positivity-pm-modi-greets-people-1022014.html
21-08-2021||National||India logs 34,457 new Covid-19 cases, 375 deaths||A single-day rise of 34,457 Covid-19 cases pushed India's tally to 3,23,93,286 on Saturday, while the number of active cases declined to 3,61,340, the lowest in 151 days, according to Union health ministry data. The death toll climbed to 4,33,964 with 375 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The 3,61,340 active cases comprise 1.12 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March last year. The national Covid-19 recovery rate stands at 97.54 per cent, the highest since March last year, the ministry said. A reduction of 2,265 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate stands at 2 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 26 days, according to the ministry.  The weekly positivity rate stands at 1.98 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 57 days, the ministry said. As many as 17,21,205 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total number of tests done so far in the country to 50,45,76,158. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,15,97,982, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. So far, 57.61 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India's caseload crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-34457-new-covid-19-cases-375-deaths-1022018.html
21-08-2021||National||Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine for children allays fears amid third wave concerns||Indigenously developed Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D has received approval for Emergency Use Authorisation from the Drug Controller General of India and it will be administered to people 12 years and above. With this, ZyCoV-D has also become the first vaccine to be administered to those in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. This approval assumes importance as there is debate among health experts about a possible third wave of Covid-19 hitting the vulnerable and unvaccinated population, including children. The second wave that hit the country in April and May caused thousands of deaths as medical facilities collapsed and oxygen shortage hit many states. Experts are anticipating a third wave in the winter. Will the third wave affect children disproportionately?  The Indian Academy of Paediatrics also said, "Children are as susceptible as adults and older individuals to develop an infection but not severe disease. It is highly unlikely that the third wave will predominantly or exclusively affect children.” Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur said on Friday that the Centre is fully ready to tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19 and a provision of Rs 23,123 crore has been made for this purpose. He added that special emphasis is being given to strengthening paediatric care amid apprehension that the third wave may affect children more than others. Several states are building facilities with more paediatric beds and oxygen supply, due to concern that children returning to school without being vaccinated will be among the most vulnerable during the third wave. Looking at rising Covid-19 trends in the US where a record number of children are hospitalised due to the Delta variant, states are preparing for the worst.  The Maharashtra government has stockpiled medicines, and built facilities for additional pediatric beds and oxygen provisions in new centres in Mumbai and Aurangabad. Gujarat has set up 15,000 pediatric oxygen beds. Karnataka is reviewing its pediatric beds estimates and Delhi is also increasing its health infrastructure to deal with Covid-19 as the national capital was one of the worst-hit regions in the second wave.  Meanwhile, schools in at least 11 of the 28 states have opened after more than a year of closures, raising worries these could become breeding grounds for transmission of the virus. Vaccines for children in India Apart from Zydus Cadila, Bharat Biotech is conducting trials for children aged between 2 and 18 years and the results for them are expected in September or October. AstraZeneca is also conducting trials in the age group 6-17 but no data is in yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/zydus-cadilas-covid-19-vaccine-for-children-allays-fears-amid-third-wave-concerns-1022031.html
21-08-2021||National||Farmers' protest hits train movement, road traffic in Jalandhar for second day||Farmers seeking hike in sugarcane prices blocked rail tracks and a national highway in Jalandhar on Saturday, impacting movement of trains and vehicular traffic. According to railway officials of Ferozepur division, as many as 50 trains have been cancelled, while 54 have either been diverted or short-terminated. Scores of farmers had on Friday launched an agitation for an indefinite period to press the Punjab government to accept their demands related to pending dues of sugarcane and hike in cane prices. On Saturday, they refused to lift the blockade till their demands were met. Emergency vehicles have, however, been allowed to ply, they added. Protesters have blocked the Jalandhar-Phagwara stretch of the national highway near Dhanowali village of Jalandhar district. The blockade affected traffic to and from Jalandhar, Amritsar and Pathankot, though the administration diverted traffic through some alternative routes. Farmers sitting on the Jalandhar-Chaheru section have blocked the Ludhiana-Amritsar and the Ludhiana-Jammu rail tracks in Jalandhar, affecting several trains, including the Amritsar-New Delhi (02030) and the Amritsar-New Delhi Shane-e-Punjab (04068). They are demanding that the Punjab government raise the state assured price (SAP) of sugarcane and clear payment of arrears to the tune of Rs 200-250 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-hits-train-movement-road-traffic-in-jalandhar-for-second-day-1022041.html
21-08-2021||National||Leaving Afghanistan: An Indian's tale of fear, gloom and disguise plan||When the New Delhi-bound Kam Airlines flight finally took off from Kabul airport hours before the Taliban entered the city on August 15, Subrata, an Indian working in a senior position of an International NGO (INGO) posted in Afghanistan, sent up a silent prayer of thanks. Subrata had been able to board the flight after travelling two hours in his car to travel the 12 km distance between his lodging and the Hamid Karzai International Airport as the road was clogged with vehicles even early in the morning. To top it all, his flight was stopped from taking off for over an hour almost at the edge of the runway, as US Air Force planes were landing to evacuate nationals of that country, sparking fears of imminent Taliban entry into the city. Hours earlier, Subrata, who prefers to go by his first name, spent a tense and sleepless night planning his disguise to make it to the airport without any trouble. "I contemplated travelling to the airport dressed as an Afghan sporting the customary long beard and turban or a deaf and mute person. I was afraid that I might be held by the Taliban in the check posts they might have put up on the road," he told PTI over the phone from Delhi. Subrata even tried out his disguises before discarding each of them and deciding to travel in his normal clothes. There were Indians, Europeans and Africans besides people from Afghanistan in the plane who were leaving the strife-torn picturesque country. Afghan stewards of the plane, however, were sceptical about their return. “I heard a steward whispering in Pashto: God knows how and when we will return to Kabul',” said Subrata. On the night before he took the flight, Subrata realised that guns alone cannot ensure security and information is the strongest defence. "I had no information that night whether the Taliban had already entered the city. Nobody goes out in the night for fear of being attacked and killed. And there were looters. "I left my lodging at dawn to travel the 12 km distance to the airport and reached it at around 6.15 am. The flight was scheduled to depart at 10.45 am,” Subrata, who had been posted in Afghanistan since 2015, said. He had advanced his flight ticket to Delhi, where his family stays, after the security officer of his organisation told him that the Taliban were expected to enter Kabul soon and he should “just leave”. Subrata had been hesitating as he, like many of his counterparts in other INGOs, was sure that Kabul will not fall before Muharram on August 20. It turned out later that his was the second last commercial flight to leave Afghanistan for India. “The situation in Kabul had become tense since August 13 as the Taliban had captured Herat, Kandahar, Kunduz and other provinces one by one by then. I think even the Taliban themselves did not expect that these provinces would fall so fast,” said Subrata, who has been posted in that country since 2015. With the memory of Taliban torture during its rule two decades ago still fresh in their mind, the people of Afghanistan had been living in fear since the US peace deal with the group in Doha in February 2020. The pact had drawn up plans for withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan in exchange for security guarantees from the terrorist outfit. Subrata said that many Afghan people – both men and women - had requested him to help them find refuge in Delhi. “I did not want to return home before August 18 as I had reached Kabul only a week back and had a lot of work left. But the scenario was changing fast. I was told that banks had downed shutters saying they had no money left," he said. Rumours that fresh passports were not being issued anymore fanned the fear among the people manifold. Subrata could not contact the Indian embassy and to add to his fears, he was told that there were blasts at Pul-e-charkhi jail in Kabul, which is the largest prison in Afghanistan, allegedly to liberate jailed members of the Taliban. “I saw the narrow streets of Kabul chock-a-block with cars of internally displaced people who had come with their families to the city from neighbouring areas thinking it would not fall. The parks were occupied by these hapless people who had nowhere else to go,” he said. They had been coming for the past one month but the situation had turned chaotic on August 14 as the roads were completely blocked, he said. Subrata also recounted his conversation with a kiosk owner at the airport from whom he used to buy biscuits and cakes during his frequent travels. “The man looked very sad. He told me: 'Please remember that Afghanistan is a beautiful country but has no luck as far as lasting peace is concerned'," Subrata said. There was an air of desperation, a feeling of helplessness, arising out of the fear of an uncertain future. "People are tired of the constant insecurity and want to leave the country. Their agony is increased manifold by the frequent attacks of armed looters who find them easy prey and do not hesitate to kill if faced with resistance," he said. The losses due to the unprecedented drought and the havoc wreaked by Covid-19 appear to have taken a back seat in the mind of the people of Afghanistan, Subrata said. Most of them wish to relocate to either the US or India as they perceive these countries as peaceful and stable, he said. Asked whether he would like to return to Afghanistan, Subrata said he would, as there is a lot of work left to be done. “The INGOs are into the development work in the country in a big way. They are building roads, bridges, hospitals which the government cannot," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leaving-afghanistan-an-indians-tale-of-fear-gloom-and-disguise-plan-1022062.html
21-08-2021||National||Having SC only in Delhi is an injustice to most people in India: Justice N Kirubakaran||He said that while Delhi and Bombay are power centres in the judiciary, the other states are not adequately represented in the Supreme Court. He added, "The Hon'ble Supreme Court is meant for the entire population and not (only) the people living in and around New Delhi. Keeping the Supreme Court in New Delhi alone is an injustice done to most of the people. It is said the Supreme Court on the administrative side rejected the setting up of regional Benches. I hope that the Hon'ble Supreme Court would reconsider the decision and permit the setting up of regional Benches." He also suggested that if the Supreme Court does not initiate any move regarding this, the Centre must amend the Constitution and create regional Benches so that people in every corner of the country get justice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/having-sc-only-in-delhi-is-an-injustice-to-most-people-in-india-justice-n-kirubakaran-1022063.html
21-08-2021||National||India evacuates around 80 people from crisis-hit Kabul by transport military aircraft of IAF||Around 80 Indian nationals were evacuated on Saturday from Kabul by a transport military aircraft of the Indian Air Force amid a deteriorating security scenario in the Afghan capital, people familiar with the development said. The aircraft landed at Dushanbe in Tajikistan after evacuating the Indians, they said, adding the flight is expected to arrive at the Hindon airbase near Delhi in the evening. India has already evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul, in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF after the Taliban seized control of Kabul on Sunday. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 Indians on Monday. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians on Tuesday. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. The mission to evacuate close to 200 Indians was accomplished with support from the US. Following the evacuation, the MEA said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital. The MEA said the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. It also requested the Indians as well as their employers to urgently share the relevant details with the special Afghanistan cell. As per a rough estimate, the number of Indians stranded in Afghanistan could be around 400 and India has been looking at ways to evacuate them, including by coordinating with the US and other friendly countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-evacuates-around-80-people-from-crisis-hit-kabul-by-transport-military-aircraft-of-iaf-1022067.html
21-08-2021||National||Danve says Rahul Gandhi is of no use to anyone, likens him to stray bull; leaves Cong fuming||Union minister Raosaheb Danve has criticised Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, saying that he was of no use to anyone, and also likened him to a stray bull. The Congress objected to his "indecent and shocking" remarks and demanded his removal from the Union cabinet. Danve made the remarks while speaking at a public rally in Jalna district of Maharashtra as part of the ‘Jan Ashirwad Yatra’ taken out by newly-inducted Minister of State for Finance Dr Bhagwat Karad. Giving his speech in Marathi, Danve said, "Rahul Gandhi is of no use to anybody. He is like a ‘saand’ (bull) dedicated to god. He roams everywhere, but is of no use to anyone. I have been in the Lok Sabha for 20 years and have seen his work." It is a practice in rural Maharashtra and some other parts of the country to dedicate a newly-born male calf to a local deity. That bull is not used for any agriculture or transportation purposes. The Union Minister of State for Railway further said, "Even if such a bull enters a farm and eats the crop, the farmer forgives the animal saying it needs food." "One should look at the great work being done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi...The government is spending money from its coffers as Railways does not generate enough revenue from various sources, including through the sale of tickets," he said. Reacting to his remarks, Congress's state unit chief Nana Patole sought Danve's resignation. "He (Danve) has crossed all the boundaries. His remarks are indecent and shocking. We demand his removal from Union cabinet for using such a foul language against Gandhi," he said. "It makes me wonder how he can be given such an important post in the cabinet despite his track record of using foul language," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/danve-says-rahul-gandhi-is-of-no-use-to-anyone-likens-him-to-stray-bull-leaves-cong-fuming-1022070.html
21-08-2021||National||Modi prioritised defence sector: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Saturday credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for prioritising the defence sector by increasing budgetary allocations for it manifold, giving a fresh impetus to building of border infrastructure and boosting the morale of the armed forces by celebrating Diwali every year along with soldiers on the borders. "Everyone prefers to celebrate Diwali at home. But Modi ji celebrates it invariably with the jawans on some border or the other. He has not just boosted their morale by doing so but also given a message to the entire country that it is because of soldiers deployed along the borders that the rest of us can celebrate Diwali at home," Nadda said. "Modi ji has created a new enthusiasm and trust in the armed forces," Nadda said at an interactive programme with ex-servicemen at Raiwala where he also honoured them. He said budgetary allocation for defence has gone up manifold ever since Modi assumed office at the Centre and there is far greater emphasis today on the building of border roads and rail links in border areas. In 2011-12 the budgetary allocation for defence was Rs 1,45,000 crore which has risen to Rs 4,78,000 crore at present, he said. Measures like these have made it clear that defence is a priority for the prime minister, Nadda said. He said the world's longest highway tunnel of 9.02 km connecting Manali in Himachal Pradesh with Leh at a height of 10,000 feet, whose foundation stone was laid by former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, was implemented under Modi's leadership after hanging fire for 10 years under the UPA. It also connects Manali to Lahaul-Spiti valley throughout the year. Earlier the valley used to be cut off for about six months every year due to heavy snowfall. Nadda also spoke of new tunnel projects being built by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) on road and rail routes, and added 73 border roads and 3,812 km all-weather road being built under Modi's leadership. Speaking at the event, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami thanked the party leadership for giving the son of a retired army man like him the opportunity to serve the state as the "Mukhya Sevak".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-prioritised-defence-sector-j-p-nadda-1022078.html
21-08-2021||National||Lokpal receives 30 complaints against senior central govt officials from Apr-Jul||Anti-corruption ombudsman Lokpal received 30 complaints against senior central government officials between April and July this year, according to the latest official data. Of the total complaints made in this fiscal, 18 were received in July and 12 in April and June. Out of the 30 complaints, 18 were against group A or B officials and 12 against "chairperson/member/officer/employee in any body/board/corporation/authority/company/society/trust/autonomous body" wholly or partially financed by the central government or controlled by it, according to the Lokpal data. The data showed that 11 complaints were closed after preliminary examination, preliminary enquiry was ordered in seven complaints, status report was sought in one complaint and comments were sought in another. The Lokpal has sought additional information from the complainants in three complaints, it stated. A preliminary enquiry report from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is pending in three complaints, the data for 2021-22 (updated at the end of July) showed. On March 23, 2019, President Ram Nath Kovind had administered the oath of office to Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose as the chairperson of the Lokpal, the apex body to inquire into and investigate allegations of corruption against public functionaries, including the prime minister. The Lokpal's eight members -- four judicial and the rest non-judicial -- were administered the oath of office by Justice Ghose on March 27, 2019. At present, the Lokpal has two vacancies for judicial members. As many as 110 complaints were received by the Lokpal during 2020-21, a decline of over 92 per cent from 1,427 plaints received in 2019-20. Of these 110 complaints, four were against MPs, 57 against group A or group B central government officials, 44 against chairpersons, members and employees of different boards/corporations/autonomous bodies wholly or partially financed by the Centre, and five were in the "others" category. Of the 1,427 complaints received in 2019-20, 613 were related to state government officials and four were against Union ministers and MPs, according to the data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lokpal-receives-30-complaints-against-senior-central-govt-officials-from-apr-jul-1022086.html
21-08-2021||National||Vaishnaw seeks report on embezzlement of deposits at Odisha post office||Union Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Saturday said he has sought a report from the postal department in connection with the alleged embezzlement of about Rs 93 lakh deposits at a post office in Odisha's Malkangiri district. He asked the authorities to submit the report within 30 days. “I have spoken to the authorities today. Stern action will be taken against the post office staffers who are allegedly involved in the misappropriation of depositors’ money," Vaishnaw, also the railway minister, told reporters on the sidelines of the BJP's "Jan Ashirwad Yatra" in Koraput district. The alleged fraud occurred at Lachipeta sub-post office between August 2019 and December 2020, an official said. Vaishnaw, who also holds the electronics and information technology portfolio, sought the report from the postal department after a group of depositors whose money was misappropriated made a representation to him. The CBI had registered a case against three people, including a postal department officer. The central agency had also raided the house of the prime accused and seized some incriminating documents. The postal department, which falls under the ministry of communications, came to know about the fraud during the annual inspection of Lachipeta sub-post office on December 31 last year, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaishnaw-seeks-report-on-embezzlement-of-deposits-at-odisha-post-office-1022087.html
21-08-2021||National||Govt must step up outreach in J&K amid Taliban triumph in Afghanistan, says ex-Army chief||The government needs to step up its outreach in Jammu and Kashmir, reassuring the people that India will continue to be a secular democracy as the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan is likely to trigger a renewed offensive by Pakistan-based terror groups in the region, former Army chief General Shankar Roychowdhury said. Gen Roychowdhury, who commanded the 16 corps in Kashmir at the height of the militancy in the early 1990s, said buoyed by the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan, Pakistan "will make a fresh bid on Kashmir". He said that India needs to reach out to former Afghan government forces rallying around Ahmad Massoud, son of late legendary anti-Taliban commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, in Panjshir Valley, besides the factions within the Taliban that are friendlier to India. "We have to step up our outreach to Kashmiris, we also have to re-assure them that India will continue to be a secular democracy," he told PTI in an interview. The 1999 hijack of the Indian Airlines plane to Kandahar by Pakistani terrorists is believed to have been with active cooperation of the earlier Taliban regime. India had to exchange top terrorists, including Jaish-e-Muhammed (JeM) founder Masood Azhar, for the passengers and the crew. "We need to understand that the (Taliban) victory in Afghanistan is being seen (by terror groups) as a Pakistani victory and India's defeat... We have to organise ourselves for a renewed offensive by elements like the JeM," said Gen Roychowdhury, a veteran of the 1965 and 1971 wars, besides several counter-insurgency operations. "We have to be prepared for Pakistani intentions (covert operations), supported by radical elements here," he added. A study by French think-tank Centre d' analyse du terrorisme (Centre for Analysis of Terrorism) published last week warned of the possibility of "more operational coordination between Pakistan-supported groups like the Lashkar e Toiba and JeM, and the Taliban". India steadfastly refused to do business with the Taliban regime of the 1990s, which it saw as a proxy for Pakistan's military. India continued to support the remnants of the Afghan government and later the Northern Alliance, aiding them with training and supplies. Gen Roychowdhury, who at present heads think-tank Research Centre for Eastern and Northeastern Studies, said India's role in Afghanistan should revolve around providing training, relief materials and above all giving refuge to those who seek shelter. "People of Afghanistan remain our friends and we must be willing to give them refuge," he said. He also warned that while Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina are on good terms, opposition forces in Bangladesh, which include "the entire radical set-up", would be re-invigorated by the Taliban take over and they "may not let this chance slip by". There has been a disquiet in India's security community about the possibility of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh drawing upon released Bangladeshi Taliban fighters, increasing their activities in bordering Indian states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-must-step-up-outreach-in-jk-amid-taliban-triumph-in-afghanistan-says-ex-army-chief-1022091.html
21-08-2021||National||J&K BJP chief Ravinder Raina gets terror threat, says terrorists frustrated with party's popularity||Pakistan-based terrorists are frustrated with the BJP's growing popularity and are conspiring to derail the peace process in Jammu and Kashmir, senior party leader Ravinder Raina asserted on Saturday and said "intelligence agencies" have informed that a terror outfit has issued a threat against him. The Jammu and Kashmir BJP president also condemned the killing of party functionaries by terrorists in the Union Territory, saying they want to create fear among the people. The BJP also claimed that 23 of its members have been killed in the last two years in Jammu and Kashmir. In this month, terrorists killed two BJP functionaries -- Javeed Ahmad Dar on August 17 in Kulgam and Ghulam Rasool Dar on August 10 in Anantnag. Dar's wife was also killed in the attack. "I was informed by intelligence agencies about a threat statement of TRF (The Resistance Front) on social media against me… I was asked to stay alert although all necessary measures have been taken to counter the threat," Raina told PTI. TRF is an offshoot of the Pakistan-based terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The BJP leader, however, said he was least bothered by such threats which have become a routine. In April, he had received a call and a video message from a Pakistani mobile number with the caller introducing himself as a LeT commander and threatening him. “This shows the frustration in the ranks of the Pakistan-based terrorists over the growing popularity of the BJP, especially in the Valley. During my recent visit, thousands of people welcomed me in South Kashmir and took part in our rallies which has left the terror groups frustrated,” Raina said. He said the condemnable attacks on innocent BJP members were the outcome of the frustration on the part of the terrorists who want to derail the peace process and create fear among the local population. The BJP is not going to be cowed down by such threats and will continue to work for peace, progress and development of Jammu and Kashmir under the mission of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas', Raina said. He said the BJP is gaining ground across Jammu and Kashmir and is going to form the next government whenever the assembly elections are held. “Anti-national elements are frightened and they will not be spared,” the BJP's J&K chief said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-bjp-chief-ravinder-raina-gets-terror-threat-says-terrorists-frustrated-with-partys-popularity-1022096.html
21-08-2021||National||Children in India, three other South Asian nations at extremely high risk of climate crisis impacts: UNICEF||India is among four South Asian countries where children are most at risk of the impacts of climate change threatening their health, education, and protection, according to a new UNICEF report. 'The Climate Crisis Is a Child Rights Crisis: Introducing the Children's Climate Risk Index' (CCRI) is UNICEF's first focussed on children. It ranks countries based on children's exposure to climate and environmental shocks such as cyclones and heatwaves, as well as their vulnerability to those shocks based on their access to essential services. Pakistan, Bangladesh, Afghanistan and India are among four South Asian countries where children are at extremely high risk of the impacts of the climate crisis, with a ranking of 14th, 15th, 25th and 26th respectively. CCRI has placed India as one of the 33 extremely high-risk countries with flooding and air pollution being the repeated environmental shocks leading to socio-economic adverse consequences for women and children. Approximately 1 billion children live in one of the 33 countries classified as “extremely high-risk”, including the four South Asian countries. It is estimated that more than 600 million Indians will face 'acute water shortages' in the coming years, while at the same time flash flooding is to increase significantly in the majority of India's urban areas once the global temperature increase rises above 2° Celsius. Twenty-one of the world's 30 cities with the most polluted air in 2020 were in India. Dr Yasmin Ali Haque, UNICEF India Representative, said, “Climate change is a child rights crisis. The Children's Climate Change Index data has pointed to the serious deprivations faced by children due to the intensifying effect that climate and environmental shocks have on existing inadequate access to essential services such as water and sanitation, healthcare and education." "Understanding where and how children are uniquely vulnerable to this crisis is crucial to building our resilience and effectively addressing climate change. UNICEF hopes the findings of the report will help prioritize action to protect those most at risk and to ensure that children inherit a livable planet." India's neighbours Nepal is ranked 51st and Sri Lanka 61st. Bhutan is ranked 111th, with children at relatively lower risk. "For the first time, we have clear evidence of the impact of climate change on millions of children in South Asia. Droughts, floods, air pollution and river erosion across the region have left millions of children homeless and hungry, and without any healthcare and water,” said George Laryea-Adjei, UNICEF Regional Director for South Asia. “Together, climate change and the Covid-19 pandemic have created an alarming crisis for South Asian children. The time to act is now - if we invest in water, healthcare and education, we can protect their futures from the impacts of a changing climate and degrading environment,” Laryea-Adjei said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-in-india-three-other-south-asian-nations-at-extremely-high-risk-of-climate-crisis-impacts-unicef-1022106.html
21-08-2021||National||Rescued children send handmade 'rakhis', cards to doctors and nurses as mark of respect||Several rescued children, including those who have been orphaned due to Covid-19, have sent handmade 'rakhis' and greetings cards to doctors and other healthcare workers at a few hospitals as a gesture to honour the 'corona warriors'. On the eve of Raksha Bandhan, doctors at Delhi's Max Hospital in Saket and Max Hospital in Gurgaon were in for a beautiful surprise. Children from SOS Children's Villages of India, a pan-India NGO, at Greenfields, Faridabad, have sent handmade 'rakhis' and greetings cards to doctors, nurses and other staff of Max Smart Super Specialty Hospital in Saket and Max Hospital, Gurgaon, a spokesperson of the hospital group said on Saturday, adding that a similar gesture has been made by children of the NGO for doctors and others at All India Institute Of Medical Science (AIIMS) Bhubaneswar too. Some of these children include the ones rendered orphan due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he said. The gesture by the children is to express their love and appreciation for the healthcare professionals fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, the hospital authorities said. Raksha Bandhan is an age-old tradition of celebrating the sacred relationship between a brother and a sister. The occasion is marked by tying a decorative thread that signifies a 'safety cover' on the wrists of brothers by their sisters, both related by blood or having an emotional bond. A large number of healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses, and other staff, have died in the line of duty in the fight against the pandemic. The 'rakhis' and cards carry words of love and gratitude. The children's gesture has overwhelmed the entire team of Max Healthcare hospitals, the spokesperson said. Arpita Mukherjee, vice president of operation, Max Hospital, Gurgaon said, "Rakhi is an occasion for the celebration of faith and duty. Our healthcare professionals have been at the frontline during the pandemic with untiring efforts to help patients. We thank the children from the NGO for lifting our spirit." Settling over four generations of once parentless or abandoned children of the country, SOS Children's Villages of India has served for over 56 years till now, according to the NGO's website. Sumanta Kar, Secretary General of SOS Children's Villages of India, said, "Our children are well aware of the sacrifices the doctors, nurses, and administrators of hospitals make to save lives during the ongoing pandemic. Therefore, they came up with the idea of sending rakhis and handmade cards to medical professionals." Making 'rakhis' and cards is an art in itself. It has brought out creative juices flowing in our children. The children also had an opportunity to understand the profound meaning of this age-old tradition and appreciate Indian culture, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rescued-children-send-handmade-rakhis-cards-to-doctors-and-nurses-as-mark-of-respect-1022110.html
21-08-2021||National||Reconsider call for strike on August 23, mandatory gold hallmarking big success so far: Govt to GJC||Asserting that the mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery in 50 days of its first phase of implementation has been a "grand success", the government on Saturday urged jewellery body GJC to reconsider its decision to go on strike on August 23. The All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) has called a nationwide 'token strike' on August 23, against the government's arbitrary implementation of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery with HUID (hallmark unique identification number). Mandatory gold hallmarking has come into force from June 16 in a phased manner. The government has identified 256 districts from 28 states and union territories for the phase-1 implementation. Gold hallmarking, a purity certification of the precious metal, was voluntary in nature prior to June 16. "I heard that some associations have given a call for strike. Strike for what? ... The government is listening to every issue raised by stakeholders. The idea of strike is uncalled for," the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) Director General Pramod Kumar Tiwari said in a virtual press conference. In a recent meeting held on August 19 with industry stakeholders, Tiwari said many jewellers' associations had opposed the strike and said they support the new HUID system as it has become a brand name for small and medium jewellers in the country. "If some people (jewellers) have problems, there is no basis for that. Those who are thinking about strike, I want to appeal to them that they will not get a more sensitive and responsive government than the current one," he said. Tiwari asked the jewellery body GJC to reconsider its decision and take back the call for strike. "We will regularly have dialogue with you. HUID is in the interest of the country and consumers. This is a big initiative," he said, adding that the government is always ready to address the concerns of jewellers. Sharing the progress made during the implementation of the first phase of mandatory gold hallmarking, Tiwari said, "It's a grand success. We could not have imagined a better outcome. In 50 days of implementation, more than 1 crore jewellery pieces have been hallmarked. He also ruled out extending the implementation of this new initiative. "The country does not have the stomach for hallmarking more than 10 crore pieces a year. At this rate, we will be able to hallmark all jewellery. There is no question of extension. What is the need for that?" he said. The number of jewellers registered for gold hallmarking has increased to 91,603 now, from 35,000 jewellers when the mandatory hallmarking came into force, he said. When the HUID was implemented, 1.17 crore pieces of jewelleries were received between July 1 and August 20 at assaying centers. Out of which, more than 1 crore pieces were hallmarked with HUID. Even the number of pieces jewellers sent for assaying and hallmarking has increased from 5,135 pieces in the first fortnight of July, to 14,349 pieces in the first fortnight of August, he said. Allaying fears that delay in gold hallmarking will impact jewellers' business during festival and marriage season, the BIS Chief said, "When a new system is implemented, initially one faces problems. And those are resolved gradually." As a result, the number of jewellery items hallmarked increased from 14.28 lakh pieces during July 1-15 to 41.81 lakh pieces during August 1-15 of this year. On August 20, 3.90 lakh pieces were hallmarked in one single day, he said. Tiwari further said the World Gold Council and other similar associations have estimated that the requirement of hallmarking is for only 10-12 crore jewellery pieces in a year even if mandatory hallmarking is implemented across the country. "When we are hallmarking at this pace, we should be able to hallmark more than 1 crore jewellery pieces in a year. We have the capacity and pace to meet the country's requirements," he said. On apprehension of some jewellers about lack of capacity of assaying centres, he said, "One hallmarking centre in a shift of 8 hours can hallmark 500 pieces. There are about 860. About 161 out of 860 assaying centers have got more than 500 jewellery pieces per day. A lot of capacity is underutilised." The concerns raised about capacity and pace of hallmarking are not based on facts, he noted. Tiwari said that the government has addressed every genuine concern of the jewellers. Even small jewellers' demand to hallmark a mix of jewellery items having the same purity has been accepted. "A notification in this regard will be issued soon," he said. Asked if action had been taken against jewellers for violation of mandatory gold hallmarking, the official said that the government had assured the industry that the initial 2-3 months of implementation will focus on handholding and awareness. "It will not go for surveillance till August 30. The BIS has stuck to that decision," he said. However, the action against fake hallmarking centers is going on. In Delhi and South India, action has been taken against 10-12 assaying centers and fake hallmarking centers, he added. Tiwari also made it clear that HUID number uploading on the BIS portal is to be done only at the level of assaying centers at present. The privacy data of consumers will be protected. For second phase implementation, he said a committee's recommendation has been sent to the ministry for approval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reconsider-call-for-strike-on-august-23-mandatory-gold-hallmarking-big-success-so-far-govt-to-gjc-1022113.html
21-08-2021||National||No sympathy for students entering medical college by backdoor: SC||The Supreme Court has said no sympathy can be shown to students who have entered a medical college through the backdoor. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari dismissed a review petition against its July 20, 2020 judgement by Glocal Medical College. The top court had then upheld the Medical Council of India's decision to discharge 67 students of MBBS course as they were found to have secured admission through private counselling despite notification by the Uttar Pradesh government for common counselling. A group of MBBS students sought a review of the order, saying they had cleared the NEET and were admitted to the course by the medical college. They also claimed to have cleared first and second year examinations. The counsel for the MCI as well as the Uttar Pradesh government submitted that the petitioners were admitted by backdoor entry and their admission was the result of collusion with the college. They also said the petitioners were aware private counselling was not permissible in law. Agreeing to their contention, the bench said, "It was not at all permissible for the Glocal Medical College to have conducted private counselling. The admissions which were conducted through the said private counselling cannot be termed as anything else but per se illegal." "Though we have all the sympathies with the students, we will not be in a position to do anything to protect the admissions, which were done in a patently illegal manner," the bench added. The students cannot be said to be ignorant about the notification issued by the Uttar Pradesh government against private counselling, the court further said. The court also expressed surprise at how the results of the students were declared for the first year MBBS examination, how they were admitted in the second year and how they cleared the second year examination, even though MCI had discharged the students on January 27, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-sympathy-for-students-entering-medical-college-by-backdoor-sc-1022116.html
21-08-2021||National||Centre to pay PF share of certain employers, employees till 2022||Clarification: The finance minister made the below remarks while reiterating the announcements made in Atmanirbhar Bharat Package last year, ANI clarified in a tweet. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said that the Central government would pay the PF share of the employer as well as the employee till 2022 for people who lost their jobs but were again called back to work in small scale jobs in the formal sector whose units are registered in EPFO, according to ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-pay-pf-share-of-certain-employers-employees-till-2022-1022126.html
21-08-2021||National||Allotted upper berth again, wheelchair-bound para athlete offers to conduct sensitisation programmes||Wheelchair-bound Indian para-athlete Suvarna Raj, who has represented the country in several international tournaments, has offered to conduct sensitisation programmes after repeatedly going through traumatic experiences while travelling by train. On Wednesday, Raj, who suffers 90 per cent disability due to polio, was allotted a side-upper berth while travelling from New Delhi to Nagpur despite booking her ticket under the disability quota and mentioning all the required details. But the berth was not the only thing that distressed Raj, who has represented India in the women's javelin throw F57 and shot put F56/57 events in the 2018 Asian Games, that day. Her struggle began as soon as she reached the New Delhi Railway Station. "Railways has battery operated e-rickshaws for senior citizens and disabled people. It charges Rs 120 and goes up till the platform. The e-rickshaw driver demanded Rs 500 and also misbehaved with us saying things like 'if you want to sit, then sit, otherwise miss your train'. In the end he charged us Rs 300," Raj told PTI. "Before that the police stopped my taxi, didn't let us go till the main gate. We (people with disability) are allowed to take our vehicle till the ramp but they didn't allow it. "I was not even in my personal car, the taxi would have dropped me and left. Had they allowed that, it would have saved me 10 minutes," she added. It is not the first time the 39-year-old has been allotted an upper berth. It had happened in 2017 as well. While this time a senior citizen exchanged seats with her, Raj wasn't so lucky back then and was forced to sleep on the floor after the railway officials and co-passengers refused to give her a lower berth in exchange for the one allotted to her. Raj had also met the then Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu, who had has ordered an inquiry into the episode. "I have been getting calls from Railways for the past two days. They are giving me illogical explanations. "They told me 'you have book four seats together that's why you were not given a lower berth. If you and your escort book together then you will get lower but if there are more people then you can't.'" "They said we are suspending the policemen and are firing the e-rickshaw driver. I told them there is no point in doing that, the main thing is that they should be made aware. "I told them I will conduct the program for sensitisation. They should fix it, one day for e-rickshaw drivers, one day for porters, one for policemen etc." Raj has been campaigning for the rights of the disabled people for long. She works as an accessibility auditor in the Accessibility India Campaign and has audited over 350 buildings around the country for their accessibility. In 2018, she had spoken out against the poor facilities for the physically challenged during the National Para Athletics Championships in Panchkula, where apparently even the toilets were not accessible. Raj, who is preparing for the Asian Games next year, has again asked to meet with the Railway Minister. "I asked them to fix a meeting next week with the Minister but they said they can fix with some higher level authority. But I will only talk to the minister."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allotted-upper-berth-again-wheelchair-bound-para-athlete-offers-to-conduct-sensitisation-programmes-1022156.html
21-08-2021||National||China stepped back as Modi sent entire Army to borders: J P Nadda||BJP President J P Nadda on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had sent the entire army to the border with China and forced them to step back during the stand-off in eastern Ladakh last year. Addressing a gathering of ex-servicemen in Uttarakhand, where elections are due early next year, Nadda said since the Modi government came to power in 2014, the armed forces have been directed to respond soundly to any misadventure by the enemy at the borders. “Earlier, the practice was 'abhi ruko, sandesh ka intezar karo' (not now, wait for orders). But, Modi had made it clear that anybody resorting to any folly at the border, has to be responded to in full measure,” the BJP president said. “How much we heard about China. But, when the stand-off with China took place, Modi sent the entire Army to the border and they had to step back,” Nadda said. Nadda also mentioned that the state of Uttarakhand has given decorated generals to the Armed Forces, which include the current Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat. The BJP President said Modi's leadership has awakened a special confidence in the armed forces. “People used to talk about the armed forces a lot, but it is Prime Minister Modi who has given the message of standing by the armed forces,” he said. A large section of Uttarakhand's population comprises serving and retired personnel of the armed forces and issues related to security have a special appeal among the electorate. “Everyone prefers to celebrate Diwali at home. But Modi ji celebrates the festival with the jawans at the border. This not only boosts their morale but gives a message to the entire country that it is because of soldiers deployed along the borders that the rest of us can celebrate Diwali at home,” Nadda said. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami loses no opportunity to mention that he hails from a family of ex-servicemen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-stepped-back-as-modi-sent-entire-army-to-borders-j-p-nadda-1022162.html
21-08-2021||National||Govt plans to add 35 more earthquake observatories by end of this year: Jitendra Singh||The government plans to add 35 more earthquake observatories by the end of this year and 100 more by 2026, Union Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Science and Technology and Earth Sciences Jitendra Singh said on Saturday. "...let me add over here that India already had about 115 earthquake observatories and by the end of this year, we plan to open up 35 new observatories and later on, add 100 more to this by the year 2026," he said. Observing that the country had only 115 earthquake observatories since Independence, he said there is going to be a quantum leap in the number of earthquake observatories in the country with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the helm. Stating that the Indian sub-continent is considered as one of the world's most disaster-prone areas in terms of earthquakes, landslides, cyclones, floods and tsunamis, he recalled the major earthquakes of Shillong (1897), Bihar-Nepal (1934), Assam (1950), Bhuj (2001), Kashmir (2005), Sikkim (2011) and Manipur (2016). He was addressing the inaugural ceremony of joint scientific assembly of International Association of Geomagnetism and Aeronomy (IAGA) - International Association of Seismology and Physics of the Earth's Interior (IASPEI). The (virtual) event is hosted by NGRI (National Geophysical Research Institute), Hyderabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-plans-to-add-35-more-earthquake-observatories-by-end-of-this-year-jitendra-singh-1022175.html
21-08-2021||National||No re-think on implementation of mandatory gold hallmarking: BIS||The government on Saturday ruled out any re-think on the implementation of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery amid a strike call by a jewellers association. “It makes no sense to be talking about the postponement or withdrawal of the scheme,” Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) Director General Pramod Kumar Tiwari said here. He termed the gold hallmarking initiative a huge success as more than one crore pieces of jewellery have received the hallmark unique identification number (HUID) since the scheme was implemented in 256 districts from June 16 this year. The All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) has called a nationwide 'token strike' on August 23, against the “arbitrary implementation” of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery with HUID. Seeking to allay the apprehensions of the jewellers, Tiwari said it was not mandatory for jewellers to upload the details of their sales on the BIS website. “It is a complete misinformation that BIS was tracking the business-to-business movement of jewellery and jewellers were required to upload the details of sales on BIS portal. There is no such requirement on behalf of jewellers,” he said. Tiwari rejected the concerns of the jewellers that the hallmarking process was delaying the delivery of jewellery to consumers. “One hallmarking centre can hallmark 500 pieces of jewellery in a single eight-hour shift. There are about 860 assaying and hallmarking centres of which only 161 have got more than 500 jewellery pieces per day. A lot of capacity is underutilised,” he said. Asked if action had been taken against jewellers for violation of mandatory gold hallmarking, Tiwari said the government had assured the industry that the initial 2-3 months of implementation will focus on handholding and awareness. “We will not go for surveillance till August 31,” he said. However, the action against fake hallmarking centers has been taken, Tiwari said, adding raids had been carried out on 10-12 centres in Delhi and South India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-re-think-on-implementation-of-mandatory-gold-hallmarking-bis-1022176.html
21-08-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar speaks to German counterpart Heiko Maas on evacuation challenges in Afghanistan||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday spoke to his German counterpart Heiko Maas on the latest developments in Afghanistan and challenges relating to emergency evacuation from Kabul. "Appreciate the call from Foreign Minister @HeikoMaas of Germany. Discussed the evacuation challenges in Afghanistan and the policy implications of the changes there," Jaishankar tweeted. India has been in touch with the US, the UK and a number of other leading powers on the fast-evolving situation in Afghanistan after Kabul fell to the Taliban on Sunday evening. Several countries including India have been facing difficulties in evacuating people from Kabul in view of chaos around the airport in the Afghan capital following the Taliban takeover. India on Saturday evacuated around 80 Indian nationals from Kabul by a transport military aircraft of the Indian Air Force. The aircraft landed at Dushanbe in Tajikistan after evacuating the Indians from Kabul. By Tuesday, India had evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul, in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on Monday. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-speaks-to-german-counterpart-heiko-maas-on-evacuation-challenges-in-afghanistan-1022177.html
21-08-2021||National||Over 58 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India: Govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has gone past 58 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. More than 43 lakh vaccine doses were administered on Saturday, according to a provisional report compiled at 7 pm. The ministry said 20,88,547 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years received the first dose and 7,36,870 were administered the second dose of the vaccine on Saturday. Cumulatively, 21,60,58,123 people in the said age group have received the first dose and 1,92,54,925 have been administered the second dose of the vaccine since the start of the third phase of the vaccination drive across the states and Union territories. On the 218th day (August 21) of the inoculation drive, a total of 43,92,759 vaccine doses were given -- 27,77,409 beneficiaries received the first dose and 16,15,350 got the second dose -- according to the provisional report. The final report for the day would be compiled by late night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-58-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-govt-1022178.html
21-08-2021||National||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh passes away||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh died on Saturday after protracted illness. Singh, who had been admitted to the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) here since July four, died following sepsis and multiple organ failure, according to the official sources here. Singh, 89, had been critical for the past several days and had developed respiratory complications, following which he was put on oxygen support. Sources said that Singh's family members were present at the hospital.  Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, union home minister Amit Shah and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had visited the hospital on several occasions to inquire about his health. Singh had served as UP chief minister twice-from  June 1991 to December 1992 and September 1997 to November 1999. Babri Masjid was demolished during his first term as the CM of UP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-uttar-pradesh-chief-minister-kalyan-singh-passes-away-1022186.html
21-08-2021||National||Kalyan Singh, the hardcore ‘Hindutva’ face of BJP||Once considered to be a potential candidate for the post of prime minister, Kalyan Singh, one of the key figures behind the Ram Temple movement, is credited with the rise of the BJP in India’s largest and politically most crucial state of Uttar Pradesh. Born on January 5, 1932 at Madhauli village in UP’s Aligarh district, about 400 kilometres from Lucknow, Singh, who served twice as the chief minister of the state, represented Atrauli constituency in the state assembly as Jan Sangh, Janata Party and BJP representative on several occasions. Hailing from the electorally influential ‘Lodha Rajput’ community, which has a large presence in over two dozen assembly seats in several districts of central and west UP, Singh rose to power riding the Ram Temple movement of which he was one of the main crusaders. It was during Singh’s stint as the chief minister of UP that the Babri Masjid had been demolished in Ayodhya by thousands of Karsevaks on December 6, 1992. Singh resigned owing moral responsibility for the demolition. The then Congress government at the centre later dissolved the state assembly but by then Kalyan Singh had already emerged as the new poster boy of ‘Hindutva’. Veteran journalist and Lucknow based media analyst Rakesh Pandey says that Singh was then considered ‘equal’ to Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K.Advani in stature in the BJP. "Such was his popularity after the Babri Masjid demolition that it took him 13 hours to cover a distance of 130 kilometres from Lucknow to Ayodhya, when he visited the temple town after the demolition," Rakesh Pandey recalled. Singh again became the chief minister of UP in September 1997 and remained so till November 1999. In 1998 his government was dismissed by the then UP governor Romesh Bhandari, who thereafter invited Jagadambika Pal, then the leader of a breakaway group of Congress legislators, to form the government. The Allahabad high court, however, quashed the governor’s decision and ordered status quo ante and as a result Singh again became the CM. Singh quit the BJP after his son Rajveer Singh was denied BJP nomination from Etah LS seat. He formed his own outfit Jan Kranti Party and became its patron while his son was its president. He rejoined the BJP later and was appointed the governor of Rajasthan, when BJP was swept to power following 2014 LS polls. He was acquitted in the Babri Masjid demolition case by a special CBI court in Lucknow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kalyan-singh-the-hardcore-hindutva-face-of-bjp-1022193.html
21-08-2021||National Politics||Uddhav Thackeray urges Opposition parties to win people's trust||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has urged the opposition parties to win people's trust and also called upon them to stay united and strong. Talking to reporters, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said, "During the meeting, Thackeray stressed that the parties must win people's trust. As of today, there is no lust for power among the opposition parties, but even when the chair of power is in sight, people should be able to trust the opposition parties with the belief that they will remain strong and united," Raut quoted Thackeray as saying during the meeting. The Sena's Rajya Sabha member said that Sonia Gandhi had personally called up the leaders of all parties and requested them to join the meeting. The meeting was attended by leaders of 19 opposition parties, including NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and four non-Congress chief ministers - TMC's Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), DMK's M K Stalin (Tamil Nadu) and JMM's Hemant Soren (Jharkhand) and Uddhav Thackeray. During the meeting, Gandhi urged the leaders to rise above political compulsions to take on the BJP in the interest of the nation and start planning "systematically" to realise the "ultimate goal" of winning the 2024 Lok Sabha polls to provide a government that believes in the values of the freedom movement and provisions of the Constitution. Raut said that apart from discussion on how to prepare for the next general elections by staying united, several issues like alleged Pegasus snooping, issues concerning farmers, price rise and "attack on democracy" figured at the virtual meeting, he said. When asked about the developments in Afghanistan, Raut said, India faces the threat of Taliban since it has support of Pakistan and China, which are India's enemies. "If there are voices of support for Taliban in India, the government should crush them immediately," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uddhav-thackeray-urges-opposition-parties-to-win-peoples-trust-1022056.html
21-08-2021||National Politics||Sisodia alleges central agencies given list of 15 names by PM Modi to file 'fake' cases against them||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has shared the names of 15 people with Delhi Police, CBI and ED and asked them to "conduct raids and file fake FIRs" against those on the list. During an online briefing, Sisodia claimed that many of the names on the list are from the Aam Aadmi Party. No immediate reaction was available from the BJP or the central government. "We have learnt from reliable sources that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has handed over a list of 15 people to the CBI, the ED and the Delhi Police asking them to conduct raids and file fake FIRs against them (people on the list) in order to ruin them before the next elections," Sisodia alleged. He claimed that Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana has promised to get the job done. "Rakesh Asthana is Modiji's 'brahmastra'. He has promised that come what may, he will get the job done," he said. Sisodia said the AAP does politics of truth and honesty. "You can send the CBI and the ED, we will welcome them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sisodia-alleges-central-agencies-given-list-of-15-names-by-pm-modi-to-file-fake-cases-against-them-1022089.html
21-08-2021||National Politics||Rs 935 cr misappropriated in MGNREGA schemes over last 4 years: Congress||The Congress on Saturday alleged that Rs 935 crore had been misappropriated in MGNREGA schemes over the last four years and said the government must be held accountable for failing to check corruption. The party also demanded that the government restore the four per cent quota for differently-abled persons in police forces. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said a media report, which assessed publicly available information of the Rural Development Ministry, revealed that Rs 935 crore was misappropriated in schemes under the Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) over the last four years. These numbers are the outcome of audits done by social audit units under the Rural Development Department of the Ministry of Rural Development, he told a press conference. Khera said the significant outcome of the social audit unit was that the primary type of misappropriation in most cases was "financial misappropriation" which includes and is not limited to bribery, payments to non-existent persons and to vendors at inflated procurement prices. He said of the "whopping" Rs 935 crore misappropriated, only Rs 12.5 crore, which is 1.34 of the misappropriated amount, stands recovered. The very fact that misappropriations has been happening is a testament to the lack of accountability and due diligence by the Narendra Modi government, the Congress leader alleged. "The Congress party demands that the government of India is held accountable for the misappropriations in the MNREGA scheme and ensures that social audit is undertaken as per the provisions of the MGNREGA," Khera said. "We also demand that the government of India recovers the misappropriated amount at the earliest and ensures that the recovered money is used to compensate the poor and marginalised who have suffered a lot due to Covid-19 mismanagement," he said. The Congress leader claimed that Tamil Nadu had the highest misappropriation of Rs 245 crore between 2017–18 and 2020-21, and in Bihar, Rs 12.34 crore was misappropriated. Jharkhand, then ruled by the BJP, saw misappropriations to the tune of Rs 51.29 crore, while Rajasthan did not see any misappropriation of MGNREGA funds, Khera claimed. He alleged that this reflects on the real intentions of the BJP, whose government allowed misappropriation of Rs 935 crores of tax-payers money meant for the poor and marginalised. Khera also demanded that the Centre withdraw the notification that scrapped the four per cent quota for differently-abled persons in police forces and undo this “inhuman” wrong. With rising crimes against women under this government it is a matter of shame that more than 90 per cent of the reserved posts for women police officers are vacant, he claimed. "We demand filling them on a war footing," Khera said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rs-935-cr-misappropriated-in-mgnrega-schemes-over-last-4-years-congress-1022130.html
21-08-2021||National Politics||Mehbooba Mufti asks Centre to draw lesson from US in Afghanistan||Regional PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti Saturday asked New Delhi to draw lessons from how the Taliban threw out the powerful USA from Afghanistan and asked the Modi government to restore Article 370 and resolve the Kashmir issue through dialogue. “Taliban made the US forces to flee from Afghanistan,” she said while addressing a gathering in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. In a direct reference to New Delhi, the firebrand PDP chief said, “Don’t test our patience and change your ways while you still have a chance. Remember how Vajpayee initiated the peace process. You must restart talks with Kashmiris and return whatever you have looted.” “For the everlasting peace in Kashmir, the government of India must restore special status which they snatched illegally on August 5, 2019 and also resolve the Kashmir issue through dialogue,” Mehbooba added. The former J&K CM also had a word of advice for the Taliban regime in Kabul. “I urge the Taliban not to commit any act that forces the world to go against them. Role of guns is over and the world community is watching how they (Taliban) would behave with the people,” she said. The PDP chief alleged that the BJP was misusing agencies to crush the dissent in Kashmir. “If better sense doesn’t prevail in the BJP camp, India is all set to break into parts on communal and religious lines,” she warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mehbooba-mufti-asks-centre-to-draw-lesson-from-us-in-afghanistan-1022152.html
21-08-2021||National Politics||Mehbooba indulging in 'politics of hatred' after losing ground in J&K: BJP||Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Saturday lashed out at PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, accusing her of indulging in “politics of hatred” after losing ground in the Union Territory. Raina was reacting to an alleged statement of the PDP chief asking the Union government to “learn lessons from the happenings in the neighbourhood” -- apparently referring to the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan -- and hold dialogue with the people of Jammu and Kashmir and restore its special status. The BJP leader, however, said India is a powerful country and capable of destroying terror groups like Taliban, Al-Qaeda, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), and Hizbul Mujahideen to maintain the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. “Mehbooba is under some misconception. India is a powerful country and our Prime Minister is Narendra Modi unlike (US president) Joe Biden who withdrew from Afghanistan. Whether it is the Taliban, Al-Qaeda, LeT, JeM, or Hizbul… anyone who conspires against India will be destroyed,” the BJP leader said. “The PDP president has committed a great sin against the country. The people of Jammu and Kashmir are patriots who love their nation and are keeping the national flag flying high. They are helping the police, Army and paramilitary forces in combating terrorism,” he said. He further claimed that Mufti has lost ground in Jammu and Kashmir and the people have rejected her. “Now, she is remembering the Taliban which has destroyed Afghanistan, killed innocent women and children, and trampling on the rights of people, including journalists and sportspersons,” Raina said. “We will not allow any conspiracy agenda to succeed. She (Mufti) is playing dirty politics, politics of hatred and poisoning the minds of the people,” he alleged. He said the world is witness to how police and other security forces with the help of local people have tackled terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir since 1990. “We wiped out LeT, JeM and other terror groups in relentless operations which are continuing to ensure peace in Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. “We will not accept any anti-national agenda and anyone working against the interests of the country will be dealt with strongly,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mehbooba-indulging-in-politics-of-hatred-after-losing-ground-in-jk-bjp-1022163.html
21-08-2021||National Politics||Congress' Opposition unity 'mantra' indication of a deeper realisation||Unlike in the past when it was shy of making any desperate appeal to Opposition parties to join hands, Congress is now reaching out in a big way to come forward to explore Opposition unity possibilities, not only for 2024 Lok Sabha polls but also for the upcoming UP Assembly polls, where both the regional parties - SP and BSP - have been on tenterhooks. On Friday, when Sonia Gandhi was holding a meeting of leaders from 19 Opposition parties called for the Opposition unity for the "larger political battle" outside Parliament in 2024, she made it clear that there is simply "no alternative to working cohesively together", an admission of the reality that currently no political party, including Congress, is in a position to defeat the giant election machinery BJP on its own. This was for the first time since 2019 Lok Saha polls, which Congress lost for the second consecutive term and won only 57 seats, that Sonia Gandhi in so unequivocal terms told the Opposition parties that behind the Opposition unity attempts, "of course, the ultimate goal is the 2024 Lok Sabha elections". Gandhi kind of unveiled the party's line for next Lok Sabha elections in which it will work systematically with the single-minded objective to give the country (an alternative) government. Taking it further, Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said those who prize freedom above every other right must welcome the pledge of unity made by 19 political parties and supported by the Samajwadi Party. His remarks come a day after leaders of 19 opposition parties announced to organise joint protests across the country from September 20 to 30. Earlier, Rahul Gandhi on August 3 in a meeting of Opposition parties in Parliament, made it clear to them that the single motive to invite them is that "we should unite" and argued that by trying to "silence" the Opposition, the Modi government is trying to silence the voice of almost 60 per cent of the country. More importantly, Rahul admitting that within the foundations of unity, parties can have a few discussions and arguments, emphasised the need to "come up with the principles of the foundations of our unity." The party cannot afford a third time victory of BJP and hence, won't mind even compromising on the leadership issue. Congress appeared fine with Mamata Banerjee's pitch to decide the issue of leadership at a later stage. The Congress' recent Opposition unity pitch points towards a course correction from the 'ekla chalo' pitch of Rahul Gandhi in the past. It was through the alliance route that the Congress had come to power in 2004 defeating Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA. One of the suggestions of the dissenting G-23 of Congress leaders was that the party should hold a Chintan Shivir like it had done in Pachmarhi and Shimla in 1998 and 2003 respectively, when it was in opposition. The pitch of Opposition unity came from Rahul, who was one of the most vocal proponents of the "go alone" policy in Congress. Clearly a realisation is dawning on Congress that the alliance is the only way out and the days of talking about the "pressures of coalition politics" are a pass.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-opposition-unity-mantra-indication-of-a-deeper-realisation-1022169.html
21-08-2021||National Politics||Hindu Army chief Sushil Tiwari arrested for raising communal slogans||Hindu Army chief Sushil Tiwari has been arrested for allegedly raising slogans against a community during a protest near the Jantar Mantar here, police said on Saturday. Tiwari, a native of Lucknow, was questioned on Friday night, following which he was arrested, a senior police officer said. Two video clips had surfaced, and in one of them, Tiwari was seen using foul language and raising slogans against a community, police said. Six people, including advocate and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, have already been arrested in the case. The slogans, police said, were raised during the August 8 protest organised by the Bharat Jodo Andolan held near the Jantar Mantar. The earlier arrests were made after an FIR was registered at the Connaught Place Police Station. It pertained to provocative sloganeering at the programme, they said. Besides Upadhyay, Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma and Vinit Bajpai have been arrested, police said, adding that Tiwari is the sixth to be arrested in the case. Preet Singh is the director of ‘Save India Foundation’ while Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar and Vinod Sharma are associated with different right-wing organisations. The videos showing slogans being raised against a community during the protest was widely circulated on social media, following which the Delhi Police registered a case. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by Bharat Jodo Andolan. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, had said the protest was held under the leadership of Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. “The protest was held against colonial laws and demanding to abolish 222 British laws. We have seen the video, but have no idea who they are. The police should take strict action against those who raised the slogans,” Srivastava had said. Upadhyay has denied his involvement. “I have submitted a complaint to the Delhi Police to examine the video which went viral. If the video is authentic, strict action should be taken against the persons who were involved in it," he had said. “If the video is fake, then a propaganda is being circulated to defame Bharart Jodo Andolan,” Upadhyay had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hindu-army-chief-sushil-tiwari-arrested-for-raising-communal-slogans-1022170.html
21-08-2021||National Politics||BJP leaders make a beeline to exit door in Punjab||Fearing backlash over the farmers' issue, BJP leaders in Punjab are making a beeline to the exit door as assembly elections loom over the horizon. Over the past few days, former MLAs and former ministers have quit the BJP to join rival parties, feeling the heat of the farmers' agitation and the Modi government's cold shoulder to the demand for repeal of the three farm laws. Assembly elections in Punjab are scheduled to be held early next year and farmers' demand for repeal of the three farm laws is expected to be a key issue in the campaign. Former Punjab minister and BJP leader Anil Joshi, who was expelled from the party, joined the Akali Dal, while two-term MLA Sukhpal Singh Nannu too announced his decision to quit the BJP. Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal appointed Joshi as a senior vice president of the party and also declared his candidature for the assembly polls next year. Joshi was expelled from the BJP in July for speaking against the state unit of the party. Besides Joshi, former MLA Sukhjit Kaur, former Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha state chief Mohit Gupta and former deputy mayor of Ludhiana R D Sharma also joined the Akali Dal. Both Joshi and Nannu were critical of the BJP's handling of the farmers' protests against the three farm laws. Farmer leaders from Punjab have stepped up protests against BJP leaders in the state, by preventing them from attending public functions and even stopping them from venturing out of their homes. The Punjab elections are set to be a four-cornered fight with Akali Dal, BJP and Aam Aadmi Party trying to unseat the Congress government led by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-leaders-make-a-beeline-to-exit-door-in-punjab-1022195.html
21-08-2021||National Politics||C T Ravi to challenge Congress leaders to prove corruption allegation against him||BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi on Saturday said he will challenge Congress leaders to prove their allegations that he has accumulated ill-gotten wealth. "I have not earned any wealth in dubious means. I will challenge Congress leaders to prove their allegations. If I have earned ill-gotten wealth I am ready to donate it to the public," Ravi told reporters here. "I have not gone to jail and secured bail in wealth-related cases," Ravi, a former minister, said. He was reacting to Congress leaders' allegation that Ravi made huge wealth as the minister in the BJP government in Karnataka earlier. He also said that it was Congress leader B K Hariprasad, who first started insulting our PM when the name change issue came up. "It was Hariprasad, who insulted Prime Minister Narendra Modi by saying Modi's name should be kept for toilets." "I have not insulted late Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru," he said adding that Congress kept Nehru-Gandhi parivar names for more than 271 schemes and institutions. "Why can't Congress keep other leader's names? Others have not done anything to develop the country?" he questioned. "I am ready to debate comparison between Mahatma Gandhi and Nehru's contributions to the Indian freedom struggle and building new India. Instead of debating this, Congress leaders are busy praising their dynasty," he said. "Congress leaders are behaving as if they have only contributed to the freedom struggle. A large number of non-Congress leaders also contributed to the Indian freedom struggle," Ravi said. Reacting to the Youth Congress leader's threat to protest in front of his house for his comments against Nehru, Ravi said, "I welcome their protest. If they hold protest, my wife will tie them Rakhi and give them sweet."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/c-t-ravi-to-challenge-congress-leaders-to-prove-corruption-allegation-against-him-1022203.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||Heavy rains lash Delhi, traffic snarls due to waterlogging||Record rains lashed the national capital on Saturday morning, causing heavy waterlogging and traffic jams at many places in the city including Minto Bridge, Rajghat, Connaught Place and ITO. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Delhi recorded 139 mm of rainfall, the highest one-day rain for August in at least 13 years. It has issued an 'orange' alert, a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply, for the city. Public Works Department (PWD) officials said the field staff was on the ground to address waterlogging complaints on priority. Due to the waterlogging, the Delhi Traffic Police closed several crucial underpasses and traffic moved at a snail's pace at many stretches. The traffic police took to Twitter to inform commuters about road closures. "Traffic movement on Minto Bridge (both carriageways) has been closed due to waterlogging. Please avoid (the) stretch," the traffic police said in a tweet. Hours later, it informed people that normal traffic movement had been restored at the Minto Bridge underpass. Last month, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that a "world-class drainage system" would be developed across the national capital. He had said drainage systems like the one at Minto Road would be replicated across Delhi and drains and sewers would be desilted regularly. On Saturday, the traffic police said that underpasses at Azad Market in central Delhi and Azadpur in north Delhi had been closed for traffic, while vehicular movement was affected at Moolchand and Pul Prahladpur underpasses in south Delhi due to waterlogging. Other places that witnessed waterlogging are Tilak Bridge underpass, Lajpat Nagar, Jangpura, AIIMS flyover, Connaught Place, ITO, Pusa Road, yards of New Delhi Railway Station and Old Delhi Railway Station, roads around Pragati Maidan, Rohtak Road, Nand Nagri and Loni Chowk. Traffic movement was also disrupted on the Mehrauli-Badarpur road in south Delhi. "Waterlogging at Pul Prahladpur Underpass. Traffic interrupted at MB road diverted on mathura road. Kindly avoid (the) stretch," the traffic police tweeted. Commuters had a harrowing experience travelling from one place to another. People were also seen wading through waterlogged streets in different areas of the national capital. Stretches that witnessed jams include ITO, Dhaula Kuan, Mehram Nagar underpass near the airport, Vikas Marg, Mathura Road, Ring Road, Rohtak Road near Peeragarhi, Connaught Place, Barakhamba Road and Bhairon Marg. "I had to go to the New Delhi Railway Station to drop my relatives there. I could barely reach on time as the Minto Road underpass was closed due to waterlogging and other tributary roads were clogged," said Priya Mishra, a resident of Lajpat Nagar. Another commuter, Kartik Kumar, who works in Connaught Place, said he reached his office late due to traffic jams. "I was stuck in a traffic jam at two-three places, including ITO, due to heavy waterlogging. Delhi gets flooded even when it receives moderate rain. This causes inconvenience to the public," said Kumar, who lives in Noida. Several residential areas and markets in Krishna Nagar, Mayur Vihar-2, Babarpur, Mangolpuri, Kirari, Malviya Nagar, Sangam Vihar, Sadar Bazar were also inundated. The weatherman has forecast generally cloudy skies with moderate rain during the day. The IMD has also issued a 'yellow' alert, indicating severely bad weather, for Sunday for Delhi. A PWD official said the department's field staff was working to resolve waterlogging complaints. "The intensity of rain this morning was high, so a few areas of the city witnessed waterlogging. Our field staff is on the ground and we are closely monitoring the situation. The Minto Road underpass has been cleared," he said. Work to pump out water from Pul Prahladpur and Azadpur underpasses is underway, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rains-lash-delhi-traffic-snarls-due-to-waterlogging-1022012.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||Woman paraded naked in Jharkhand village over affair with married man||A woman was stripped and paraded naked with a garland of shoes around her neck in Jharkhand's Dumka district over her relationship with a married man, police said on Saturday. Six people were arrested in connection with the incident that happened in Ranishwar police station area of the district, they said. The woman, who is also married, had allegedly eloped with the man. On being caught on Wednesday night, she was thrashed by the family of the man's wife, a police officer said. Then she was stripped and paraded naked throughout the village with a garland of shoes around her neck, he said. "Twelve people have been named in the FIR filed on Thursday. So far, six persons, including the man and his wife, have been arrested," the officer said. The woman also alleged that the accused snatched Rs 25,000 from her, he said. The FIR was registered under IPC sections 148 (rioting), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 354b (assault) and 379 (theft), among others, he added. Efforts are on to arrest the remaining six accused, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-paraded-naked-in-jharkhand-village-over-affair-with-married-man-1022020.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi records highest one-day rain for August in at least 13 years, IMD issues orange alert||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday said Delhi recorded 139 mm rainfall, the highest one-day rain for August in at least 13 years, and issued 'orange alert' for the city. Officials said heavy rains lashed parts of the national capital that brought the mercury down and provided relief to Delhiites. The Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for Delhi, recorded 139 mm rainfall, while the Ridge Station registered 149.2 mm rainfall from 8.30 am on Friday to 8.30 am on Saturday, they said. This is the highest one-day rain for the month of the August in at least 13 years, they said. The all-time highest rainfall was 184 mm on August 2, 1961, they added. The minimum temperature was recorded at 23.8 degrees Celsius, three notches below the season's average, they said. The relative humidity was recorded at 100 per cent. The weatherman has forecast generally cloudy sky with moderate rain during the day. The maximum temperature will settle around 30 degrees Celsius. The IMD has issued an 'orange alert' for Saturday and yellow alert for Sunday. The IMD uses four colour codes: Green means all is well; yellow indicates severely bad weather. It also suggests that the weather could change for the worse, causing disruption in day-to-day activities. Orange alert is issued as a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply. Red is when extremely bad weather conditions are certainly going to disrupt travel and power and have significant risk to life. Rains caused waterlogging in many parts of the city, including underneath Minto Bridge, Moolchand underpass and at the ITO. Due to the waterlogging, the Delhi Traffic Police closed several crucial underpasses and took to Twitter to inform commuters. "Traffic movement on Minto Bridge (both carriageways) has been closed due to waterlogging," the traffic police said in a tweet. Police have placed barricades on both sides of the underpass. "Traffic is affected at Moolchand Underpass due to waterlogging. Inconvenience is regretted. Waterlogging at Pul Prahladpur Underpass. Traffic Interrupted at MB road diverted on Mathura road. "Traffic will be heavy due to water logging at Kashmere Gate Metro Station Gate No. 3 and Khyber Pass," it said in a series of tweets. Delhi's air quality was in the 'satisfactory' category on Saturday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed the air quality index (AQI) at 67. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-highest-one-day-rain-for-august-in-at-least-13-years-imd-issues-orange-alert-1022040.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh to groom budding sportspersons for 2024, 2028 Olympics, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||The Madhya Pradesh government will train budding sportspersons for the 2024 and 2028 Olympics, state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said. Under a talent search programme, the government has started looking for sportspersons so that they can be groomed in 18 sports academies in the state for the world's largest sporting event. In a statement, Chouhan said that Indian players, who made a record in the Tokyo Olympics, have opened the doors for future possibilities and their brilliant performance has been inspiring. "Therefore, we have decided to look for new talented players under a campaign and train them in 18 sports academies of Madhya Pradesh. We will churn out not one but many such players, who will bring laurels to the country and the state in the Olympics besides in national and international competitions," he said. So far, around 50,000 youths have registered their names under the talent search programme, he added. Chouhan said the state government has set its eyes on the 2024 Paris Olympics and the 2028 Los Angeles Olympics and Madhya Pradesh's sportspersons will win medals for the country there. He urged the youths interested in sports to register themselves for the talent search campaign of the Madhya Pradesh government. "This will help in nurturing and training budding players in bringing glory to the country. The youths should register themselves and participate in talent search programmes," he said. Recently, Chouhan had offered Vivek Sagar, midfielder in the Olympic bronze medal-winning Indian hockey team, service in MP Police as a DSP. Sagar hails from Itarsi in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-to-groom-budding-sportspersons-for-2024-2028-olympics-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan-1022045.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||40 kg heroin recovered from India-Pakistan border in Amritsar||Around 40 kg of heroin worth Rs 200 crore in the international market was recovered from the India-Pakistan border in Amritsar early Saturday morning, police said. The recovery was made during a joint operation by the Punjab Police and the Border Security Force, they said. Amritsar (Rural) Senior Superintendent of Police Gulneet Singh Khurana told PTI that police had received information that one Nirmal Singh, a resident of Gharinda in Amritsar, would take delivery of heroin from Pakistan's side of the International Border (IB). Based on this, an operation was carried out and 40.810 kg of heroin was recovered from the border, he said. Khurana said Singh is on the run and a case has been registered in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/40-kg-heroin-recovered-from-india-pakistan-border-in-amritsar-1022048.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||Sajad Lone questions Opposition's silence on Article 370 during meeting with Sonia Gandhi||While asking the Opposition parties in the country to make their stance on Article 370 clear, Jammu and Kashmir People’s Conference chief Sajad Lone on Saturday slammed J&K leaders for maintaining silence during a meeting of Opposition leaders. In a grand show of strength, the top leaders of at least 14 Opposition parties held a virtual meet on Friday evening. The meeting had been called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi. “No mention of Article 370 in Opposition parties meet. In wonderment how can J and K leaders justify their presence in the meeting if they could not convince the leaders to talk about 370. BJP anti 370’stance is clear. What is the national opposition stance (sic),” separatist-turned-mainstream leader, Lone questioned in a tweet. No mention of Article 370 in opposition parties meet. In wonderment how can J and K leaders justify their presence in the meeting if they could not convince the leaders to talk about 370. BJP anti 370’stance is clear. What is the national opposition stance. In another Tweet he asked: “And y r leaders from j and k becoming a part of a process which endorses “don’t talk about 370” discourse. Wow so u become a part of a national opposition which abandons 370 and u irk and irritate a ruling party, not known for tolerance and hence put  even statehood at risk. (sic)” Lone, who was a Cabinet minister in the erstwhile PDP-BJP alliance from 2015 to 2018, also said that the silence maintained by the national Opposition parties over Article 370 suggest they won’t work for its restoration. “Article 370 can b restored either in Parliament or by the courts. Courts we have to wait. It is a long process. In Parliament we know BJP won’t restore it. The quietude of Opposition parties suggest they won’t  either. Then who will? (sic)” Lone, who is known for changing loyalties, asked. In another tweet he said: “For heavens sake. Let us at least resolve that if we can’t facilitate we will not impede either. Leaders from j and k should either get the national Opposition endorse demand for 370 so that at the national level there is some hope at a future date or just keep out of it. (sic)”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sajad-lone-questions-oppositions-silence-on-article-370-during-meeting-with-sonia-gandhi-1022051.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||As Covid-19 declines, tourism industry in Kashmir slowly gets back on track||With Covid-19 cases on decline, tourism industry in Kashmir is slowly getting back on track with tourist arrivals seeing an increase of late. With hill stations like Gulmarg, Pahalgam, Sonamarg, Achabal, Kokernag and other places open, the hotels and houseboats around the Dal Lake in Srinagar too are opening. Tourists could be seen taking shikara (boat) rides around the lake and enjoying pleasant weather. To woo tourists back, hotels and houseboats are providing huge discounts with prices slashed by as much as 50%. On an average 30 flights operate at Srinagar International Airport these days with seven to eight thousand people travelling to and fro Kashmir. It may be mentioned that earlier this year, amid worsening Covid-19 situation, flight arrivals had seen a dip. The daily arrivals at the Srinagar Airport in May and June, when Covid cases had peaked, had dropped to as low as 14 to 18 flights. Before the second wave of Covid-19 hit J&K like the rest of the country earlier this year, the tourist arrivals during the winter had seen a sharp rise in Kashmir. As per official figures from November 2020 to March 2021 1.11 lakh tourists visited Kashmir which was threefold from 36,728 during November 2019-March 2020. The hotel bookings also went up in the first four months of this year with the direct flight services from various cities like Ahmedabad and Bengaluru to Srinagar making travel to Kashmir easier. This was largely on account of travelers who could no longer fly to international destinations like Switzerland for a ‘white winter’ experience, in view of the pandemic. The tourism sector is a significant contributor to Jammu and Kashmir’s economy and accounts for around seven per cent of the region’s gross domestic product, according to Union Territory government’s estimates. A member of Travel Agents Association of Kashmir (TAAK), a representative of more than 100 tourism agencies said enquiries from tourists have started to take place for the upcoming festival seasons. “If there is no third wave of Covid, this season could see a record number of tourists visiting Kashmir,” he hoped. All the tourists arriving in the valley are being asked for their vaccination certificates as well as the test results of Covid-19. Tourists have also been asked to make sure that they follow all the Covid protocol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-declines-tourism-industry-in-kashmir-slowly-gets-back-on-track-1022059.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||Highest herbal park inaugurated near Indo-China border in Uttarakhand||India's highest altitude herbal park situated at a height of 11,000 feet was inaugurated on Saturday at Mana village close to the Indo-China border in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, officials said. Mana is the last Indian village in Chamoli bordering China and is adjacent to the famous Himalayan temple of Badrinath. The research wing of Uttarakhand's forest department has developed the park over three acres of land given by Mana Van panchayat, under the central government's CAMPA, or Compensatory Afforestation Fund Act, scheme. The herbal park has around 40 species found in high altitude alpine areas in the Himalayan region, Chief Conservator of Forest (research) Sanjiv Chaturvedi said. Many of these species are endangered and threatened as per the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list as well as the State Biodiversity Board. It includes many important medicinal herbs also, he said. The park is divided into four sections. The first section contains species associated with Badrinath (lord Vishnu), which includes Badri Tulsi, Badri Ber, Badri Tree, and sacred tree of Bhojpatra. Badri Tulsi, which is scientifically named as Origanum Vulgare, is found in this area and forms important part of offering to lord Badrinath. Various researches have established its multiple medicinal benefits. Badri Ber, which is scientifically known as Hippophae Salicifolia, and locally called as Amaesh, is another nutrition-rich fruit and used widely, Chaturvedi said. The second section is dedicated to Ashtavarga species which is a group of eight herbs found in the Himalayan region namely Riddhi (Habenaria Intermedia), Vriddhi (Habenaria Edgeworthii), Jeevak (Malaxis Acuminata), Rishbhak (Malaxis Muscifera), Kakoli (Fritillaria Roylei), Ksheer Kakoli (Lilium Polyphyllum), Maida (Ploygonatum Cirrhifolium), and Maha Maida (Polygonatum Verticillatum), which are the most important ingredients of Chyawanprash, he said. Out of these, four herbs belong to the lily family and four belong to the orchid family, he added. The third section consists of Saussurea species and includes Brahmakamal (Saussurea Obvallata) which also happens to be the state flower of Uttarakhand. Other Saussurea species at the park are Phemkamal (Saussurea Simpsoniana), Nilkamal (Saussurea Graminifolia) and Koot (Saussurea Costus), the official said. The fourth section consists of assorted alpine species including Ateesh, Meethavish, Vankakdi, and Choru, all of which are important medicinal herbs and are in great demand, he said. Besides, trees of Thuner (Taxus Wallichiana), whose bark is used in making cancer drugs, Tansen and Maple trees have also been grown in the park, Chaturvedi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/highest-herbal-park-inaugurated-near-indo-china-border-in-uttarakhand-1022085.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||One Army jawan dies, others suffer injuries while training under 'severe' weather near Pathankot||One Army jawan died and a few others were injured during a supervised training activity at Mamun military station near Pathankot in Punjab on Saturday as the weather conditions were "severe", said the senior officials. The senior Army officials said that the affected jawans have been admitted at the military hospital in Pathankot and are being provided with required medical care. The officials said the weather was hot and humid when the training activity was taking place. The training activity was organised, supervised and monitored in the area under the 9 Corps of the Indian Army, they said. They said due to "severe" weather conditions, there has been one fatal casualty and a few jawans have been admitted to the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-army-jawan-dies-others-suffer-injuries-while-training-under-severe-weather-near-pathankot-1022104.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||Hindu women seek worship rights inside Gyanvapi Mosque premises ||A Varanasi court has admitted an application moved by five Hindu women seeking permission to worship Mata Shringar Gauri (a Hindu goddess) and other gods and goddesses inside the disputed Gyanvapi Mosque complex and has sought responses from the state government and others. The women contended in their application that they were entitled to worship the visible and invisible gods and goddesses inside the old Kashi Vishwanath-Gyanvapi Mosque complex and that their rights were being denied. They also sought the court's direction to the concerned authorities and the Gyanvapi Mosque Management Committee to ensure that the idols of the deities were not damaged. Senior civil judge Ravi Kumar Diwakar, while seeking responses from the state government, Kashi Vishwanath Trust and Gyanvapi Mosque Management Committee and other officials, fixed September ten for further hearing of the matter. The Hindus contend that the Mughal ruler Aurangzeb had demolished the Kashi Vishwanath Temple which had been built over two thousand years back and that the Gyanvapi Mosque was also a part of the Temple. Earlier a court in Varanasi had ordered for an archaeological survey at the Kashi Vishwanath Temple-Gyanvapi Mosque premises. The court has directed the Archaeological Society of India to form a five member team and study the entire premises.  The Muslim side had pleaded that the situation, as it was on August 15, 1947, should be allowed to continue. The premises had been a bone of contention between the two communities for the past several decades but there was renewed clamor to "take back" the Kashi Vishwanath Temple premises by the saffron outfits after the favourable decision of the apex court in the Ram Temple case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindu-women-seek-worship-rights-inside-gyanvapi-mosque-premises-1022107.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||Ex-UP IPS officer aiming to contest assembly poll against Yogi put under 'house arrest'||Ex-Uttar Pradesh IPS officer Amitabh Thakur, who had announced that he would contest against chief minister Yogi Adityanath in the upcoming state assembly polls, due early next year, was on Saturday allegedly put under "house arrest" after he tried to visit Gorakhpur, Adityanath's home town, to hold a public contact program. According to the sources here, Thakur was prevented from leaving for Gorakhpur in the morning and was taken back to his house in Gomti Nagar area. Cops were deployed around his house, sources said. While Thakur claimed that he had been put under "house arrest", the police officials said that he had only been stopped from going to Gorakhpur as there was apprehension of breach of peace and threat to his security. Thakur had said that he would conrest against Adityanath from wherever he filed nomination in protest against his repressive and undemocratic policies. "It doesn't matter how many votes do I get.....I will force Adityanath to follow the model code of conduct in letter and spirit," he had said. The firebrand ex-IPS officer, who had been usually given insignificant postings in view of his plain speaking, had irked the BJP government, when he predicted that gangster Vikas Dubey, who had killed eight cops and was nabbed in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh last year, would be killed in encounter even before it happened. Similarly had again embarrassed the bureaucracy and the government after he demanded action against the district magistrate of Hathras following brutal rape and murder of a woman there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-up-ips-officer-aiming-to-contest-assembly-poll-against-yogi-put-under-house-arrest-1022115.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||Several stranded in Jammu as 40 trains cancelled due to farmers' protest in Punjab||Thousands of passengers are stranded in Jammu and Kashmir as railway authorities have cancelled over 40 trains since Friday due to an ongoing agitation by farmers in neighbouring Punjab, officials said.          Scores of farmers on Friday launched an indefinite agitation in Jalandhar and blocked train movement on the Ludhiana-Amritsar and the Ludhiana-Jammu railway routes to press the Punjab government to accept their demand to increase sugarcane prices and clear issues related to pending dues.                 "A total of 40 trains were cancelled since yesterday (Friday)," an official of the Northern Railways told PTI on Saturday. He said only a few trains left the Jammu railway station on a different route on Friday, while early Saturday morning rains in Delhi forced cancellation of some more trains bound for Jammu. "Twenty trains were cancelled on Saturday. Some trains scheduled later in the day are likely to leave the Jammu station for their destinations," the official said. The cancellation of trains has left thousands of passengers stranded in Jammu and they were seen making desperate attempts to get information from railway authorities. "We had come for the Mata Vaishno Devi pilgrimage and came to know that all the trains have got cancelled due to the farmers' agitation in Punjab," Neha, a young woman from Haryana, said as she looked for buses or taxis to leave with her family. Another passenger from Ballia in Uttar Pradesh said, "The farmers should have given a 10-day ultimatum before launching the agitation so that people could plan their trip accordingly." He said his train was scheduled at 2 pm but its cancellation has left him and his family members stranded. "A traveller usually has a limited budget. How can I feed myself and other family members?" he said requesting the Punjab government to hold talks with the farmers as soon as possible and lift the blockades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/several-stranded-in-jammu-as-40-trains-cancelled-due-to-farmers-protest-in-punjab-1022125.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||J&K govt allots three acres of land to Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board||Jammu and Kashmir administration led by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has sanctioned over three acres of land in favour of Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) in Srinagar for construction of office and Yatri Niwas on lease basis for a period of 40 years. An order issued by J&K Revenue department reads that the land will be granted to the SASN on a nominal ground rent of Rs 10 per kanal (eight kanals = one acre) on an annual basis. “Sanction is hereby accorded to the grant of land measuring 25 kanal situated at village Panthachowk, district Srinagar in favour of the SASB for construction of office and Yatri Niwas on lease basis for a period of 40 years from the date of taking over the possession on payment of nominal ground rent of Rs. 10/- per kanal per annum without charge of any premium subject to the condition that the land shall be used only for the purpose for which it is granted,” the order reads. It also states that the allotment/lease shall be governed under the J&K Land Grants Act 1960 and the rules made there under. Deputy Commissioner, Srinagar shall sign the lease agreement on behalf of the J&K government. On May 26, 2008, J&K government had transferred 99 acres of forest land to the SASB in Sonamarg area of central Ganderbal district to set up temporary shelters and facilities for pilgrims. This caused a controversy, with demonstrations from the Kashmir valley against the land transfer and protests from the Jammu region supporting it. Six people were killed and over 100 injured when police fired into a crowd in Srinagar protesting the transfer of the land. On July 1, 2008 the government accepted the demands of the protesters from the valley by revoking the land transfer decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-allots-three-acres-of-land-to-shri-amarnathji-shrine-board-1022145.html
21-08-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh launches third phase of 'Mission Shakti'||When a woman gets encouragement and opportunity, she does not feel shy, and once she becomes a part of a task, she gives her best, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday during the launch of the third phase of "Mission Shakti" here. "And, this is the speciality of women," she said at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan in Lucknow after the launch of the campaign. Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath were also present on the occasion. The Union minister said the Centre was promoting women-led development and the Uttar Pradesh government is taking all those programmes with the same vigour. UP government's 'Mission Shakti' campaign focuses on ensuring safety and dignity of women and girls. The Union finance minister said, "When I was the defence minister, a small beginning was made to admit girls to UP Sainik School in Lucknow. This opened up the possibility of getting admission to the National Defence Academy and subsequently becoming a directly commissioned officer in the Army, Navy, Air Force or the Coast Guard." Referring to the recent reshuffling of the Union Council of Ministers, Sitharaman said, "More and more women are being inducted as ministers. There are 11 women ministers in the council of ministers." Addressing women self-help groups, the Union minister said, "The central government gives money for storage facilities in villages. I would request all women SHGs to utilise this opportunity so that things produced locally can be stored there." Praising CM Adityanath for his "energy" and "capacity to work", Sitharaman said, "In five years, he would have visited each district of the state at least 10 times. I congratulate him for making women feel safe in the state, for the overall development, and for law and order." "In the coming days, UP will move with such speed that the role of women will be clearly visible. Your future is bright and the coming days are absolutely promising and bright with such a chief minister," she added. The Union minister said UP is the only state where women have been made "bank mitra" and they are posted in every village to render banking services. "This will take the progressive idea ahead," she said. Sitharaman also recalled a campaign initiated for girls' education by Governor Anandiben Patel as a minister in Gujarat. "At that time, it was quite difficult to admit girls to schools," she said. But, a campaign was initiated by her (Anandiben Patel) under which on the day of reopening of the school every year, girls were brought to the school on elephants or camels and with a band accompanying them. People of the entire village will stand up and watch the exciting visuals. This helped in making the mission successful," she said. Referring to the stint of PM Narendra Modi as the CM of Gujarat, Sitharaman said, "He made special efforts for the participation of women in panchayats. In 2014, when Modiji became the PM, he auctioned all his gifts and gave the money for education of girls, she said, adding that the PM's priority is the welfare of women. "Be it the Jan Dhan, Ujjwala scheme, Swamitva scheme or MUDRA loan, the women have got top place in all of these," she said. Addressing the event, Adityanath said "Mission Shakti" will make the state and the country more capable. "No society, state or country can become capable by ignoring half of its population. Today, the 'Mission Shakti' programme was held in all 75 districts of the state, in which 75 women were honoured," he said. Referring to the recent panchayat elections in UP, Adityanath said women have become village pradhans and block pramukhs at many places. He also extended "Rakshabandhan" greetings to all women. Later, Punjab National Bank MD & CEO S S Mallikarjuna Rao handed over a loan sanction letter of Rs 5,100 crore for implementation of the Ganga Expressway project to the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) in the presence of Sitharaman and Adityanath. Sitharaman said, "I am very proud of the chief minister who understands the larger national interests and translates that into the state's own policies and takes it to an execution level till the last mile." Referring to the infrastructure work going on in the state, she said, "That which had to be done in six decades is being attempted to be completed within four-five years. It requires extraordinary commitment and efforts, and that is what the CM is doing. Pleasantly happy that a public sector bank has gone thinking forward." Combined with the Yamuna Expressway, which connects Greater Noida to Agra, the Ganga Expressway would ensure a high-speed road corridor linking Lucknow to Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR), Sitharaman's office said in a tweet. "The amount of Rs 5,100 crore, under the securitisation process, will be repaid to the bank within a period of 15 years from the toll to be received on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway," it said. "During this period of loan repayment, the expressway would continue to be owned and operated by UPEIDA," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-launches-third-phase-of-mission-shakti-1022166.html
21-08-2021||Opinion||Tainted candidates, unlimited funding, and no need to be transparent||Two weeks ago, the Supreme Court imposed penalties, Rs 17 lakh in all, on nine political parties, holding them guilty of contempt. According to the court, two national parties were in total violation of the earlier orders of its Constitution Bench that required them to publicly disclose the reasons for selecting individuals accused of serious crimes as electoral candidates. In the 2020 Bihar Assembly elections, seven other national and regional parties had also not only fielded men wanted in crimes like murder, attempt to murder, rape, rioting, kidnapping, using illegal fire arms and explosives, extortion, theft and cheating but also explained away their choice claiming that those police cases were either “politically motivated” or “not serious in nature”. Perhaps our understanding of “heinous crimes” needs to align now with such “liberal views” of those who seek to represent us as lawmakers. While penalising these political parties, the court agonised over Parliament’s failure to pass a law to disqualify suspects of serious crimes from contesting elections, despite its repeated recommendations, as well those from the central government’s own Law Commission, to do so. Not only legislatures, where political parties often look after their self-interests very energetically, to the detriment of the “larger public interest”, but the executive also defers to their desire to be opaque and unaccountable to the people by instituting deceptive measures couched in the language of transparency. For example, in 2017, the central government announced Electoral Bonds (EBs) as a mode of ensuring unlimited funding for political parties from individuals, desi corporates and desi subsidiaries of foreign companies. Donor identity, however, is guarded closely, as if it were a matter of national security. The challenge to the legality of this manner of making political donations -- unparalleled anywhere else in the world -- is languishing in the Supreme Court since 2018. That is not all, government records of the decision-making process to float Electoral Bonds are also sarkari secrets. My RTI appeal on this issue has been pending since January 2018. In another case, the SBI with its State-guaranteed monopoly over the sale and redemption of these bonds, is resisting public disclosure of those transactions by claiming customer confidentiality. Next, the Income Tax Department has refused to reveal the income tax returns of political parties claiming -- believe it or not -- “personal privacy.” Political parties, it seems, are now entitled to privacy just like individuals, even though the Central Information Commission ruled 13 years ago that these are public documents. This is not how political party finances are treated in other countries. Take the example of the Pacific island of Fiji. Since 2013, a special law is in place to regulate political parties, their finances and activities. It empowers citizens to walk into the head office or the district office of any political party and demand inspection of their records. On the other side of the globe, South Africa, earlier this year, brought into force a law to regulate political party funding. Political donations are not only capped, source-wise, but parties are also required to regularly publish their income and expenditure details through the Electoral Commission. Further, South Africa simultaneously amended its RTI law (locally known as PAIA) to require all political parties to proactively disclose their funding sources to the people. Additionally, any person can demand access to their records by submitting a formal PAIA application to them directly. The public scandal involving the controversial Gupta brothers, who are said to have bribed their way into the upper ranks of the ruling African National Congress, is often cited as a major push factor for these reform measures. Nepal, which we take seriously only when the government of the day leans towards Beijing, has covered political parties squarely under its RTI Act, since 2007. I have chosen only these examples, out of several, because there are many amongst us who are acutely allergic to all ideas foreign, unless they are transformed into top-brand mobile phones, laptops, automobiles, TV sets, air-conditioners, refrigerators or bullet trains that can be brandished as symbols of their status. Some 38% of Fiji’s population is of Indian origin, as is the very accomplished 2.5% of South Africa’s. According to official statistics, more than 80% of Nepal’s population is Hindu. If these countries with large Indian populations can take resolute steps toward making political parties transparent and accountable during and between elections, why can’t we expect and do the same in India from our ‘Vishwaguru’ rulers?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/tainted-candidates-unlimited-funding-and-no-need-to-be-transparent-1022214.html
21-08-2021||Opinion||A text that speaks to humanity||If there is a common creed that is universal and immutable, serves as the light that leads us kindly, and should be imbibed for its timeless wisdom, it is the Tirukkural. In the rich and remarkably diverse literary tapestry of our country, Tamil takes a pride of place, not least because the Dravidian intellectual tradition presents a secular and progressive history. The crown jewel in this live tradition is the Tirukkural of Tiruvalluvar, also known as the Kural. This eclectic text speaks to humanity, and is in three books comprising 1,330 couplets of seven words each, divided into 133 chapters of 10 couplets each. The essence of the Kural is best expressed in three words: Aram (Virtue), Porul (Wealth) and Inbam (Desire). The period in which this immortal work was composed is difficult to determine. Historians agree that it was written between 450-550 CE -- about 1500 years ago -- a time when the popular theistic religions were leading to sharp sectarian antagonisms. Much less is known about its author, Tiruvalluvar, and his life, except perhaps that he was a Jain by persuasion. That he was a scholar par excellence, familiar with the works of Manu, Kautilya and Vatsyayana, is unmistakable. The beauty of the Kural and the wisdom of Tiruvalluvar is in the fact that they are deeply rooted in a secular tradition; and every religious group can claim them as their own. That the great poet had a felicity with dialectics and rhetoric, and was a practical thinker and reformer, are beyond doubt. The first book reflects on an individual’s ethical life, and his relationship with the world around: family, community, society, and the State. It seeks to provide one the basis to journey through life and play a meaningful role in society. The second book dwells on attributes that ennoble humanity -- kinship, justice, compassion -- and constitutes the basis for a common creed for our times. The third book deals with desire, and expounds on the myriad emotions associated with love, some elevating, others less so. It provides valuable insights on how desire can be an essential, even a healthy goal of human life without sacrificing the eternal human quest for self-realisation -- to overcome attachment -- as the end. Despite the passage of time, the Kural holds great significance for our own lives. Consider just two couplets and the immediate relevance becomes clear: ‘Let those that need, partake your meal; guard everything that lives; this is the chief (virtue) and sum of lore, that hoarded wisdom gives.’ (322); ‘By rule, to dialectic art apply your mind; That in the council, fearless, you may make an apt reply.’ (725) The modern reader will find much to reflect on, and more still to act on. Tiruvalluvar’s strictures on the tyranny of caste, the brutalisation of life from alcohol and gambling, the pretentiousness of rituals, and his unequivocal rejection of the superiority of birth, compel us to consider how and why man-made fetters still bind us down and limit the full flowering of humanity in our own times. The Kural is the kind of text that needs wide dissemination to reignite our minds, and to spread the true meaning and import of the ideas of liberty, equality, and fraternity; if only to open the mind’s eye to the ignorance into which we have been thrust by the narrow walls that divide, nay devour, the humanity in us. While we have made great progress in knowledge about the world around us, we have made much less progress in understanding ourselves -- who we are, where we come from, and where we are headed. Why must we read the Kural today? The first book on virtue is doubtless the fundamental text of the Kural and holds that only an ethical person, considered cultured and civilised, is fit to enter public or political life, a lesson that, we as voters, must imbibe, and practice in our democracy. Though an ancient text, the Kural comes alive with wit, humour, and gentle irony; traversing complex, subtle, recondite or scientific ideas. It is a fascinating read because of the similes, metaphors, and innuendos that abound at every turn, drawn as they are from common objects and circumstances. A careful reader will discern the artistry of expression that permeates the Kural: Tiruvalluvar speaks like an oracle, reflecting on virtue in book I; he is the hard-nosed scholar dwelling on the material world in book II; and transforms into the gentle and tender narrator in the soliloquies on desire and love in book III. Not often does one come across a text that is timeless; resonates and comes alive with new meaning with the passage of time. The Kural is one such -- the fountainhead of simple, practical wisdom -- to live life well. Read it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-text-that-speaks-to-humanity-1022215.html
21-08-2021||Opinion||‘World-class’ mindlessness||“Be the change you wish to see in the world” is one of Mahatma Gandhi’s most famous quotes. And, change is certainly afoot at Sabarmati Ashram, where Gandhi lived in Ahmedabad. A re-development plan with a Rs 1,200-crore budget intends to transform the ashram into a “world-class” tourist destination, spread over 54 acres. That’s a shocking amount of money to spend on a place renowned for its austerity. Those who visit Sabarmati Ashram are unfailingly enchanted by its ambience. For some people, it’s akin to going on a pilgrimage. The ashram’s riverside location, folksy cottages and tree-filled prayer grounds, all contribute to its soothing and inspiring aura. Birds and squirrels happily romp in the garden, alongside visitors who are meditating or are engaged in quiet contemplation of the Mahatma’s life. “My life is my message,” Gandhi stated. In its minimalism, the ashram embodies what Gandhi stood for. It is not a place for a merry family outing. It’s a place for introspection. A place where you can feel that nature and simplicity are enough to live a happy life. Public details of the re-development plan are scant. A substantial part of the project budget is allocated towards reclaiming the land around the ashram, which is occupied by descendants of Gandhi’s followers and trust offices. A food court, shops, car park with 200 spaces, VIP quarters, amphitheatre and a new hi-tech museum are to be added. ‘Incongruent’ post-Independence structures are to be demolished, other heritage structures revamped. Even if the original historical buildings, such as Hriday Kunj, Gandhi’s humble abode, remain untouched under the plan, they will be relegated to a corner of the ashram complex and lose significance. What about the residents? The ashram is home to about 200 Dalit families. Gandhi specified that they should stay there as long as they follow his tenets, and that the ashram must be used for their upliftment. However, the re-development plan requires all residents to be relocated. Gandhi said, “The true measure of any society can be found in how it treats its most vulnerable members.” What, then, does uprooting them from the ashram indicate? Sabarmati Ashram is regarded as the most significant of the five ashrams set up by Gandhi in South Africa and India. It’s where he practised his ideals, orchestrated his massive freedom movement from, and united his diverse supporters. Modernising and commercialising the ashram to make it “world-class” completely misses the point. Gandhi is a global icon precisely because he embodies what modern life is not. He promoted living harmoniously, frugally and sustainably. “Seek not greater wealth but simpler pleasure,” he proclaimed. Gandhi also believed that modern civilisation erodes self-control and turns people into egotistical consumers. How ironic then that Rs 1,200 crore is to be spent on ‘re-developing’ his ashram. It seems to ridicule his restraint rather than further his message. As it is, the ashram is an apt representation of Gandhi’s ethos. Its appeal to the world lies in its calmness and modesty, which enables people from all walks of life to connect with Gandhi on a deeper level. Entry is free of cost, and visitors are expected to behave in a decorous manner. What will flashy entertainment and increased footfall do to the sanctity of the ashram? Very few places offer such serenity and meaning. I can’t help thinking of the proposed re-development of Sattal, a pristine birding spot near Nainital in Uttarakhand, either. Construction of a food plaza and fun park for kids will draw crowds of noisy tourists and scare away the birds, thereby destroying what makes the area special. Let’s remind ourselves of Gandhi’s wisdom: “Even if the paradise of material satisfaction...were realised on earth, it would not bring mankind contentment or peace.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/world-class-mindlessness-1022216.html
21-08-2021||Opinion||Digital fraud, paper police||Recently, I was a victim of what in cyber parlance is called ‘identity theft’. A fraudster had cloned my account on Facebook, complete with the profile picture, and had sent friend requests to some of my contacts. Soon, a few of them received requests from this fake account for transfer of money to a particular mobile number as “I need the amount urgently to pay the hospital bills of a friend.” Though I was not defrauded of any cash as Facebook acted almost immediately and deactivated the duplicate account, as a conscientious citizen, I decided to bring the incident to the notice of the police since there is every chance of other gullible people falling prey. And therein lies a story. In cybercrimes, time is of the essence as culprits frequently change numbers and perform the vanishing act before the police can even figure out who they should be after. It was a Friday night, and I immediately tweeted to Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, with a request to track down the phone number mentioned. A few minutes later, I received a reply from the twitter handle of Bengaluru City Police asking me to file a written complaint at the nearest cybercrime police station for them to initiate action. Considering how cyber criminals operate, the police should have taken my tip-off seriously and identified the fraudster immediately, but no, they would not act until I went to the nearest station and filed a written complaint! A journalist friend of mine drew the attention of a very senior IPS officer in the CID, which deals with cybercrime, who too suggested that I should first file a formal complaint and then meet him on Monday -- that is, two days later -- and he would “extend all help”. To be fair, the officer reverted on Monday to ask why I had not turned up. I saw no point as the very purpose of alerting the police was defeated due to the loss of time. Meanwhile, I did try registering a complaint on the cybercrime website of Bengaluru Police, but could not do so due to a glitch. I then followed it up with an e-mail, for which I am yet to receive a reply. It is not that the police department lacks talent, but their lackadaisical attitude and refusal to adapt to changing times will only ensure that cyber criminals have a free run. This is not my first such experience with the police. Some years ago, when my mobile phone was snatched from me on the road, the local inspector did his best to dissuade me from filing an FIR. When I persisted, and then continued to follow up on my complaint, a senior officer offered to replace my phone, which cost about Rs 1 lakh, with a new one. Obviously, I refused, but this business of replacing stolen goods to avoid registering a complaint, in order to keep the crime statistics low, is not new. About two decades ago, one of my teachers in Mysuru found that her car stereo had been stolen along with that from a dozen other cars on the same lane. When the group of victims visited the police station, the inspector took them to a room, pointed to a heap of stereos that had been recovered earlier from other thieves and asked them to choose whatever set they wanted and return home without filing a complaint. To cut a long story short, the Facebook fraudster whom the police failed to apprehend might have conned several others by now, and with all the technology available, neither my stolen phone nor the culprits have been tracked even after over three years. So much for the Bengaluru Police being the guardians of the tech capital of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/digital-fraud-paper-police-1022217.html
21-08-2021||Opinion||Getting priorities right: Fund the rights first||One of the first things that became apparent when the pandemic hit is that our public health infrastructure was totally inadequate to respond. Within a short span, ICU beds filled up and supplies of drugs ran out. The scenes of desperation witnessed at many medical centres around the country were the direct result of low investments in healthcare all these years. To respond and cope in whatever limited way was possible, governments needed to rapidly scale up the public health system. This required large amounts of money. But with the economy tanking, especially under the impact of the pandemic, funds too became scarce with the government. Throughout the last year, both central and state governments have faced a shortfall of tax revenues as the pandemic has dramatically hit economic activity. Moreover, it was not only the health system that had collapsed; many other things were also staggering under the weight of the situation. Schools were shut down, and while private schools tried to cope in different ways, more than 150 million children in government schools were simply told to stay home and wait, putting their education on hold. Millions of people needed livelihood support after their jobs disappeared. Factories and businesses found their finances pushed to their limits. It seemed that all at once, there was a need to make up for decades of neglect, and many things that had not been funded and put in place for so long were now unavoidable but also un-fundable. In this crunch, some things had to be prioritised, and their funding maintained or increased. At the same time, other things needed to be temporarily de-funded or cancelled altogether to make room for urgent needs. Which things would remain, and which things would have to go? Governments don’t like this question, pandemic or not. They would prefer to be able to simply go from one year to the next, with slightly more funding for everything that is already funded more or less retained. They can explain small cuts occasionally to some group that really wants it, and they can tom-tom some new commitments of funds for pet schemes they’ve thought up, but apart from this, public funding runs inexorably on the track it’s already on. But this question should concern the public nonetheless: What should governments be funding? At the end of the day, we’re the potential beneficiaries of the right answers, and the victims of the wrong ones, as the pandemic has glaringly pointed out. Perhaps, if this question were asked more frequently, and the answers discussed and debated, we could be on a very different trajectory of development. In fact, this question should have been answered long ago. The Constitution already provides very good pointers. Throughout its early pages, a number of ‘rights’ of the people were enshrined right at the beginning, and in the decades since 1947, Parliament and the Supreme Court have identified and recognised more rights as well. From a funding perspective, it seems logical that once something has been identified as a right, it must be fully funded. The ‘fully’ is also important, because what we now see is a lot of partial and incomplete funding for things that are declared to be rights. Public education is a stark example of this. The right to education has been recognised. But in most states now, the expenditure per student is nowhere near what it needs to be to provide children a fair education. This is despite the fact that large numbers of children -- sometimes more than half -- are now not in public schools, and are instead getting their education elsewhere, and their families get no financial support from the government for this. The ‘right’ of children to a government-funded education thus exists in theory but is far from met in practice. There are other examples. Right to Information Commissions are understaffed, with poor infrastructure. Local elections are often not held on time. Metropolitan Planning Committees mandated in the Constitution are either not established at all in most states, or not funded when they are. The right to speedy justice is gone, because the courts are under-funded. The protection against hunger is minimal. This list is long, and weighty. At the same time, many other things get funded that are not linked to rights. In every department of every government, it is possible to find projects going on that are unrelated to any right of the people. But even expenditure that is not linked to rights has value, doesn’t it? Yes, of course. But that’s not the question we face. What we have to decide is, which things have more value? And we mustn’t ignore the answer we already have. By enshrining certain things as rights, we are affirming to ourselves that these are the more important things. Having done that, we should have the conviction to follow through on those by funding those rights properly. We’ve been making false starts in the Olympics of development. We tell ourselves that we are going to build the next Singapore or London or whatever else, when we’re still struggling to build the next Bengaluru and Kolkata. As a result, we are off the blocks and running, we think, towards these impossible goals. Quite quickly, however, we find the whistle blowing against us, disqualifying us from the race altogether. The pandemic will pass, and the fiscal crunch it has put governments in will also lift. But we must not forget what it has revealed. In our democratic republic, we have given ourselves rights. These are not like other choices, they are special because they are the chosen anchors for many of our aspirations. But for that to have meaning, our public expenditure must recognise and fund them. A broad spectrum of social progress, economic growth and resilience will all then become possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/getting-priorities-right-fund-the-rights-first-1022218.html
21-08-2021||South||Fourth low-key Onam in a row for Keralites this year||It began with the massive floods in 2018 and another one the following year, and then the two years of pandemic, Keralites have not had the Onam revelry for the fourth successive year. Onam is the traditional harvest festival of Keralites and is celebrated by 3.30 crore people. Given the situation, all the routine festivities have to be kept in abeyance this year too and will become a closed-door affair, which, by now, Kerala has now come to terms with. Even though the Onam festival is a 10-day affair, the three key days start Friday and end with Avittam on Sunday, but Thiru Onam on Saturday is the most important day. Congress Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor recalls his days at the United Nations and said he was amazed that be it Namibia, Vienna or Geneva, he was always lucky to have celebrated Onam in several countries. "We, Malayalees are there all over and I have been extremely fortunate to have had the traditional Onam lunch in numerous countries, but today given the pandemic days that we are all passing through the buzzword now is each and everyone has to get vaccinated and all efforts should be for that," said Tharoor. Be it Covid or floods, the indefatigable attitude of a Keralite during the three days of Onam is the savouring of the 26-course vegetarian lunch eaten on a plantain leaf. "Gone are the days of the yesteryears when the entire family comes together with the single agenda of preparing the Onam lunch and then eating it with one, two or three different 'payasams'. Now the easiest way is to relax and wait for the ordered Onam lunch to arrive from either hotels or caterers. Times have changed," said popular Malayalam film comedian and character actor Jagdeesh. With Onam in the Malayalam calendar listed a few days after the commencement of 'Chingam', it is the womenfolk who make the best of it, as even amidst Covid restrictions in place, women in good numbers are out in the streets dressed in the traditional sarees. This month is also considered to be the perfect time for weddings, especially among the Hindus. "Compared to the previous years of floods and Covid, this time things appear to be good as we have had a stream of orders from brides. We were apprehensive whether this Onam will also go the way it went the previous year, things are, however, looking good at this point in time. Time is a luxury as we have very little left to meet our orders," Reshmi Padma, who runs her popular Devanidhi Boutique, a one stop shop for the brides, here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fourth-low-key-onam-in-a-row-for-keralites-this-year-1022004.html
21-08-2021||South||Covid-19 robs Onam sheen but Keralites still celebrate festival with gaiety||Amidst continuing concerns of increased Covid-19 cases and high Test Positivity Rate (TPR), Keralites on Saturday celebrated a low-key Thiru Onam, avoiding the usual mass festivities, but without losing the traditional gaiety and pomp. It is for the second consecutive year that the pandemic has taken the sheen out of the biggest festival of the southern state and forced the people to celebrate it indoors. In fact, Onam was affected since 2018 when the state witnessed the flood of the century in August that year. The state had witnessed similar natural disasters including landslide during the Onam season in 2019 also. Though high voltage festivities were missing, houses were as usual decorated with beautiful "pookkalam", the floral carpets and sumptuous 'sadhya' was prepared by homemakers on the Thiruvonam day today to mark the homecoming of righteous king Mahabali. The practice of elders gifting 'onakkodi' (new dress) to other family members, preparation of tongue-tickling banana chips and putting up Oonjal (high swings) in the courtyards also continued without any fail, especially in villages. However, majority of people avoided mass family gatherings and visits to the houses of friends and relatives considering the health department directives. The display of traditional art forms and games, which was a colourful part of the Onam festivities, were missing this year also. Though major hotels have prepared Onam feast with an array of traditional delicacies promising home delivery, the number of takers were generally less, industry sources said. The Atham festival, which heralds the start of the 10-day Onam festivities, was also held in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic. An array of dignitaries including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanaka Gandhi, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal wished people of the state happy Onam. "Best wishes on the special occasion of Onam, a festival associated with positivity, vibrancy, brotherhood and harmony. I pray for everyone's good health and wellbeing," Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-robs-onam-sheen-but-keralites-still-celebrate-festival-with-gaiety-1022044.html
21-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown by another two weeks||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday extended the Coronavirus lockdown by another two weeks to September 6 and allowed the opening of theatres from August 23 and educational institutions from September 1. With the Covid-19 related lockdown, which was extended with restrictions drawing to a close at 6 pm on August 23, Chief Minister M K Stalin chaired a high-level meeting with senior officials today and announced extending the lockdown further by another two weeks till 6 pm on September 6 with additional relaxations. He announced that schools will reopen for classes 9 to 12 students from September 1 with 50 per cent capacity on a rotation basis. A decision on re-opening the school for classes 1 to 8 will be decided after September 15, a release from the government said. Polytechnics and colleges have been allowed to re-open from September 1.    Detailed Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) will be released by the secretaries of the two departments concerned and all teaching and non-teaching staff should have been vaccinated, it said. The release further said that Anganwadis will be opened to provide mid-day meals from September 1. Crèches will be permitted and the staff should be vaccinated. While permitting the opening of beaches, zoos, parks and boathouses for the public, the government said cinema halls could be opened from August 23 with 50 per cent occupancy. Swimming pools can be opened for the purpose of training. Public transport service will be allowed to Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka following the guidelines. All shops will be allowed to function till 10 pm – a one-hour extension - from Monday. IT and ITES firms can function with cent per cent strength by following the SOPs. The CM announced these decisions after reviewing the pandemic situation with secretaries and medical experts and appealed to the people to judiciously use the relaxations. "The members of the public should utilise the relaxations being extended by the government in a responsible manner. I appeal to the people to utilise the relaxations properly as the decisions have been made taking into consideration people’s livelihood, besides students’ education and future,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-by-another-two-weeks-1022179.html
21-08-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh varsity guesthouse turned into honeymoon cottage||A newly-wed couple converted the guesthouse of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh into a honeymoon cottage, inviting widespread condemnation and criticism. Stung by it, the university management on Saturday constituted an internal committee headed by its Rector to probe into the alleged misuse of the guesthouse. The state government also sought a report on the incident. The guesthouse was booked by University Women Empowerment Cell director A Swarna Kumari, who herself was an alumnus. "One of our staffers booked the guesthouse for use by another professor’s student. But the purpose for which it was used was wrong and we have launched an inquiry into it,” JNTU-K Registrar R Srinivasa Rao told PTI over phone. He said action would be initiated against the guilty after the committee submits its report in a few days. Students unions raised a protest at JNTU-K after it came to light that the guesthouse was used for honeymoon by a couple. The guesthouse was supposed to accommodate only visiting professors and research scholars and not outsiders. They demanded action against the guilty as it damaged the sanctity of an educational institution. It is learnt that some university staff members helped in decorating the guesthouse for the occasion and also arranged videography. The couple reportedly shared the video with friends and it also went public. University officials said all this would be probed and suitable action taken based on the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-varsity-guesthouse-turned-into-honeymoon-cottage-1022180.html
21-08-2021||State||Karnataka plans reform to end land conversion woes||A year after the ownership of agricultural land was liberalised, the state government is gearing up for another major reform: simplifying land conversion, a process notorious for delays and allegations of corruption.  Revenue Minister R Ashoka, who took part in the Prajavani phone-in programme, said the government is considering doing away with the existing process in the wake of complaints. While Ashoka did not elaborate, the government is likely to amend the Karnataka Land Revenue Act.  Conversion refers to allowing agricultural lands to be used for non-agricultural purposes — residential, industrial, commercial and so on. This requires a conversion order to be issued, usually by a deputy commissioner.  The minister also said the server issues bedevilling property registration at sub-registrar offices will be fixed soon. In 2019, Karnataka claimed it was the first state to take the conversion process online. This affidavit-based system promised a hassle-free service for agricultural landowners to get their land converted for non-agricultural use.  Under the online system, applicants had to submit the latest record of rights, tenancy and crops (RTC), a copy of the mutation record, a 11E sketch (only if there are multiple landowners) and an affidavit on a Rs 200 stamp paper. Otherwise, the process required over a dozen documents to be submitted.  However, officials are said to be skirting the online system to keep the process manual. Last year, the state government amended the Karnataka Land Reforms Act by repealing Sections 79 (A), (B) and (C), making way for non-agriculturists to purchase agricultural land.  “When we did this, there was much resistance. But, because of the amendment, the government has mopped up over Rs 400 crore in stamp duty,” Ashoka said, adding that the scrapping of the sections curbed corruption. The 2021-22 Budget proposed amending the Karnataka Land Revenue Act “with an aim to simplify the land conversion process based on the approval of the master plan or as per the approval of the planning authority”.  During the phone-in programme, Ashoka assured citizens that the server problem hampering property registration in sub-registrar offices will be fixed soon. “There are server problems in the entire state. In some places, there’s little battery back-up. We’re giving Rs 12 crore to fix this. Also, we’re developing a new software, which will make everything alright. It will be in place within six months,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-plans-reform-to-end-land-conversion-woes-1021969.html
21-08-2021||State||Mental healthcare in Karnataka gets a shot in the arm||Mental healthcare in Karnataka got a shot in the arm with the state Cabinet approving the State Mental Healthcare Rules on Thursday. Mental health establishments now require a licence to operate from the Karnataka StateMental Health Authority (KSMHA) and will have to conform to minimum standards, and also maintain a doctor-patients ratio. All mental health professionals also need to register with KSMHA now. A website will also be created to inform people of authentic healthcare facilities that offer care. Head of the Department of Psychiatry in Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, Dr Chandrashekhar H, who is the medical advisor of KSMHA told DH, "By way of registration over the next six months, we will be recognising those establishments that are good and professionally sound to provide care. As a next step, whoever doesn't have licences will be closed down for being unauthorised. We have already announced once in newspapers one month ago, another announcement will be given next month."  So far only 45 establishments have registered with KSMHA, 44 private and one government (Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences). As many as 150 professionals (psychiatrists, nurses, social workers, clinical psychologists) have also registered.  Unauthorised professionals will be stopped from providing treatment. Under the Act, only psychologists with an MPhil can be allowed to register with KSMHA. Law enforcement authorities like the police, members of the judiciary, doctors, and social welfare department personnel will be given training on implementation of the Mental Healthcare Act, he added. Headed by a district judge, five Mental Health Review Boards will be set up, one each in Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Mysuru, Dharwad, and Kalaburagi, which will be tasked with protection of human rights of patients admitted to mental health establishments. "We'll have a pool of officers, for example, 25 for Bengaluru. Three-member teams each will be sent to many institutions parallely and inspection will be done. The mandate is for inspections to be done once in three years. We will go through all admissions, treatments given, all patient records, building records, KPME registration, fire department NOC, number of toilets, number of discharges etc. The audit will be standardised and difficult for anyone to fake records," Chandrashekhar added. A committee under the chairmanship of NIMHANS Director Dr Prathima Murthy will also be constituted for drafting of guidelines for KSMHA. "Now the regulations will have to be made. This should enable greater access to treatment and ensure better standards of care. However, we must also develop and strengthen networks of care," Murthy told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mental-healthcare-in-karnataka-gets-a-shot-in-the-arm-1022083.html
21-08-2021||State||Govt has taken 'extreme care' regarding reopening schools: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||With schools in Karnataka reopening from August 23, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the government has taken "extreme care" to ensure classroom learning for students while protecting them from the Covid pandemic. "Preparations have been made for reopening schools. Necessary directions have been given to government and private schools regarding how to bring students, taking consent from parents or guardians, seating arrangements, alternate days shift wise classes, sanitisation, among other things," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he said he will be personally visiting schools in Bengaluru and surrounding areas along with Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh on Monday when they reopen. "We have taken extreme care to ensure classroom learning for students while protecting them from Covid-19. We are taking necessary steps in this direction," he added. The Karnataka government earlier this month had decided to reopen schools for students from class 9 to 12 (II PUC) across the state from August 23 in alternate batches. However, choosing to remain cautious, it subsequently decided not to reopen schools in districts where the Covid-19 positivity rate is over 2 per cent. The decision on resuming primary schools has been deferred till the last week of August to factor in the possible third wave of Covid and the way the infection is likely to spread. The Chief Minister appealed to parents to get vaccinated, to pay attention to the health of their children and instill confidence in them. Asked whether children can attend classes without any fear, he said, "Absolutely, our intention behind reopening schools is that children should slowly start coming to schools, for about one-and-half year they have not been to schools, we want them to gradually start attending," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-has-taken-extreme-care-regarding-reopening-schools-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1022108.html
21-08-2021||State||Infosys helping police in resolving cybercrimes: Home Minister Araga Jnanendra||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra stated that Infosys company is helping police in resolving cybercrime cases. Police have been directed to take all steps to prevent rowdy activities, real estate mafia in Bengaluru.  Speaking to media persons on Saturday, he said he has directed police to gather details of Afghan nationals in Karnataka and police officer Umesh Kumar has been appointed for the purpose. Though police stations had been upgraded in various parts of the state, the department is facing a dearth of staff. He promised that the issue would be addressed. The department has many challenges including terrorism and illegal immigrants in Karnataka. He exuded confidence that all these issues would be resolved without fail.  On the arrest of people by the National Investigation Agency on charges of possible links with terrorists in various parts of the state, he said, NIA is all set to put a logical end to the issue. Even local police must join hands with NIA in this regard. On district in-charge minister K S Eshwarappa's hit comments, he said Eshwarappa is a senior leader and he was not present at the spot when such comments were made in Shivamogga. He suggested media persons seek an explanation from Eshwarappa.  On dissidence among ministers over portfolios, he said it is quite common in any government. "In fact, it is less in the BJP-led government in Karnataka. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is capable of handling such issues."  On denial of cabinet rank status by former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, the home minister said Yediyurappa became a role model by doing so and he had worked hard to bring BJP to power in the state.  He said the issues related to sand mining, stone quarries in the district had been discussed in the meeting chaired by district in-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa. It has been decided to resolve the issues related to stone quarries coming under the purview of the revenue department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/infosys-helping-police-in-resolving-cybercrimes-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-1022120.html
21-08-2021||State||1,350 Covid-19 cases, 18 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 1,350 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths on Saturday, taking the total number of infections to 29,37,427 and the toll to 37,123. The day also saw 1,648 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,79,433. With 320 new cases, Dakshina Kannada outnumbered the state capital Bengaluru Urban that reported 260 infections on Saturday. The total number of active cases in the state is now 20,845. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.85 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.33 per cent. Out of 18 deaths reported on Saturday, four were from Dakshina Kannada, Hassan, Kolar and Shivamogga accounted for two each, followed by others.    Dakshina Kannada district topped in the number of cases (320), Bengaluru Urban came next with 260, Udupi had 177, Mysuru 102 and Hassan 101, while the rest were scattered in other districts. Bengaluru Urban district headed the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,34,769, followed by Mysuru 1,75,182 and Tumakuru 1,18,887. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,11,014, followed by Mysuru 17,18,34 and Tumakuru 1,17,072. Cumulatively a total of 4,18,39,866 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,57,509 were on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/1350-covid-19-cases-18-deaths-in-karnataka-1022150.html
21-08-2021||State||Malnutrition remains a worry as Karnataka govt schemes miss target||The state government recently held a nutrition intervention programme for children with Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) in Ballari. Children underwent a residential treatment for a fortnight at the nutritional rehabilitation centre (NRC).  “Some children marginally gained 300-400 gm during the camp,” says Uma, an anganwadi worker from Ballari who took part in the programme. At the end, doctors asked parents to continue the diet at home, while anganwadi workers were asked to regularly monitor the progress.  A month later, very few are following the prescribed diet, Uma says. “Parents were asked to feed sufficient vegetables and fruits. Majority are labourers struggling to find wages amid the pandemic. Not surprisingly, they have discontinued the nutrition plan,” she says. Malnutrition continues to be a cause for worry in Karnataka, especially with anganwadis remaining closed due to Covid-19. Before the pandemic, anganwadis would provide hot meals for children and pregnant women. Now, the government supplies grains, pulses, milk powder, etc to beneficiaries, a poor alternative to cooked meals. The government supplies ration through the integrated child development scheme, Mathrupoorna Yojane and Ksheera Bhagya. Taking note of the crisis, the High Court had, earlier this year, reactivated a panel led by retired judge A N Venugopala Gowda, to oversee the government’s efforts to address malnutrition.  According to the national family health survey (NFHS-5)-2019, as much as 32.9% of children under five years of age in Karnataka are underweight for their age, 35.4% are stunted, 19.5% are wasted, while 8.4% are severely wasted.  Albeit government intervention, the situation on the ground continues to be grim, according to Anil D’Souza, executive director, Centre for Non-formal and Continuing Education, a Raichur-based NGO. “In Manvi taluk alone, there are 78 SAM children, an increase from 63 a month ago,” he says, calling for immediate intervention. Anganwadi workers and experts flag four broad concerns with the government’s approach: The ration isn’t reaching the beneficiaries, the quantity is inadequate, the government fails to take the socio-economic context into consideration and the funding remains insufficient.  The government is currently providing grains and pulses calculated gram-wise and per day. “This quantity is inadequate and needs to be increased. Forget supplementing the nutrition we give, pregnant women tell us that the ration we give them is consumed by the whole family,” points out Eramma, joint secretary of anganwadi workers’ association.  Also, several government interventions are falling flat as they don’t consider the living conditions of families. The government has recently distributed seeds of drumsticks and gooseberry plants to anganwadis and beneficiary families, to push consumption of local produce. “Parents who rush out for daily wages every morning cannot nurture the plants for long,” Eramma adds.  Anganwadi workers have also been up in arms against the government over lack of funding for egg procurement, forcing the workers to pay for it out of their pockets. As a result, children are not getting the prescribed number of eggs per month, further crippling the nutrition programme.  Public health expert Sylvia Karpagam says reopening anganwadis at the earliest is imperative to tackle malnutrition. “The meals in anganwadis also need improvement. At present, it is heavily cereal-based (mostly rice). The meal has to include appropriate portion of pulses and other nutrients,” she says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/malnutrition-remains-a-worry-as-karnataka-govt-schemes-miss-target-1022168.html
21-08-2021||State||Krishna award: Karnataka, Maharashtra to jointly move SC for final notification, says Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that the state, along with Maharashtra, would jointly fight in the Supreme Court for the notification of the Krishna water disputes tribunal’s award, for the state’s share of 173 tmcftwater. Bommai, who offered bhagina to Krishna river at Almatti reservoir, said, “There is a dispute between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana over sharing of Krishna water. So, both the states have opposed the Centre’s notification on Tribunal award. Both (Telugu states) have approached the Supreme Court for the reallocation of Krishna river water following the bifurcation of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh.” The top court, however, had earlier said that dispute over sharing Krishna water was an internal matter between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, said the chief minister. Bommai added, “The state government is committed to implement the third phase of Upper Krishna project using the water allocated by the Tribunal and it is pressing the Centre to issue notification for the same. We have moved the apex court seeking its direction to the Centre,” he explained. “I had talks with Maharashtra Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar on the legal battle to get out share of Krishna water. They have responded positively,” Bommaisaid. The chief minister said, “Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol and I will talk to our legal team in Delhi next week. Legal teams of Karnataka and Maharashtra will soon meet and chalk out future course of action on the issue.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/krishna-award-karnataka-maharashtra-to-jointly-move-sc-for-final-notification-says-bommai-1022191.html
21-08-2021||State||Karnataka govt to allot 4 lakh houses under Basava scheme: V Somanna||Housing Minister V Somanna asked legislators to identify only deserving persons for the allotment of houses under Basava housing scheme without discriminating people on the basis of caste as the state government would sanction 4 lakh houses this year. Presiding over a meeting convened to review the progress of housing schemes, here on Saturday, he said each gram panchayat would get 50 houses under the scheme. But it is the duty of gram panchayat officials and taluk panchayat executive officers to select deserving persons for the scheme. They must finalise the list of beneficiaries after discussing it with respective legislator. Somanna said the government would approve the proposal seeking purchase of 70 acres of land for houseless people in Davangere North assembly constituency. But price would be fixed as per guidelines of the government. On issuance of title deeds, he said as many as 11,546 families are residing in 68 declared slums across the district including six urban local bodies. Of them, sites would be allotted to 9,000 families on 170 acres of land this year. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai would issue title deeds to them soon. On construction of houses, he said 1,303 houses are being constructed in the district. Around 50,000 houses would be allotted to families residing in declared slums in the state. The government has released grant of Rs 500 crore for the purpose. The department has decided to allot houses even for people belonging to nomadic tribes. The minister directed slum development board executive engineer Kabini Gowda to visit each assembly constituency in the district and submit a report on facilities required for families in slums and oppressed classes after discussing it with the respective legislator without fail. He said as part of 75 years of Independence celebrations, the government has decided to upgrade 750 gram panchayats in the district by providing housing, water, electricity, road and other facilities under Amrut scheme. Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi said, around 173 acres of land had been identified for the construction of houses for houseless people in the district. Besides, a proposal has been submitted to the government seeking release of grant for development of residential plots on 277 acres of land in the district. MP G M Siddeshwar directed taluk panchayat executive officers to identify deserving persons for the allotment of houses. He has received complaints that the officials demand bribe for the allotment of houses. He warned that criminal case would be booked against such officials. MLAs S V Ramachandrappa, Madal Virupakshappa, N Linganna, S Ramappa, M P Renukacharya and SA Ravindranath, City Corporation Commissioner Vishwanath Mudajji and officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-allot-4-lakh-houses-under-basava-scheme-v-somanna-1022200.html
21-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will hold talks with Centre to set up NIA branch in Mangaluru||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said that he will hold talks with Central government to set up a regional office of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Mangaluru. "MLAs from coastal belt had demanded that Mangaluru should have a NIA branch, following coastal district's terror links. The government is considering the demand for setting up of a unit of NIA in Mangaluru positively. We have considered the recent raids conducted by the NIA in Ullal and Bhatkal in connection with Kerala ISIS module. The police have taken many measures to prevent terror activities in the region. The police have also been asked to remain alert," he told media persons on Friday. "Terror links to the coastal region is not new. Even in the past issues related to the terror links had cropped up," he recollected and maintained that police will keep vigil. To a query on number of Kannadigas stranded in Afghanisthan, the minister said there was no exact statistics. The government has appointed senior IPS Officer Umesh Kumar, Additional Director General of Police-CID, as a nodal officer to coordinate with Union government on bringing back residents of Karnataka stranded in Afghanistan. The officer will be coordinating with Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on bringing back the residents. The Centre has taken all steps to bring back the stranded Indians. People can contact nodal officer, the Minister said. On people firing in the air at Yaragol, a border village in Gurmatkal taluk of Yadgir district, to welcome Union Minister of State for Renewable Energy, Chemicals and Fertilizers Bhagawanth Khuba, the Minister said, "FIR was registered. It is actually a custom to fire in the air during celebration in Malnad area. Even when a baby is born, shots are fired in the air. Such practices are followed even in Kodagu and other districts in Malnad. But it is wrong to display such acts in public. Such incidents of firing in the air might prove fatal sometimes." On SDPI disrupting Independence Day celebrations in Kabaka, the Minister said that police had taken legal action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-hold-talks-with-centre-to-set-up-nia-branch-in-mangaluru-1021968.html
21-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt is prepared for reopening of schools, says CM||With schools set to reopen on Monday, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the government had taken “extreme care” to ensure children learn while staying protected from Covid-19.  Classes 9-12, including pre-university, will resume August 23 in alternate batches.    “We have prepared for the school reopening. We have issued appropriate instructions to private and govt schools on how children should be brought, consent of parents/guardians, seating arrangements, having classes in shifts on alternate days and sanitisation. I will visit a couple of schools along with primary and secondary education minister BC Nagesh in Bengaluru and other places,” Bommai told reporters.  “We want kids to slowly start coming back to school. They have not attended school for one-and-a-half years now. We want school attendance to pick up in a phased manner,” Bommai said. “We have taken extreme care to ensure classroom learning while protecting them from Covid-19.” Bommai urged parents to get vaccinated and instill confidence among kids. “Once kids come back home from school, parents should monitor them,” he said.  On Saturday, Bommai visited the Almatti dam in the Vijayapura district to offer bagina at the Krishna river. “I will meet elected representatives and officials from Bagalkot and Vijayapura to discuss Covid-19 and floods. Then, I will go to Belagavi and hold a meeting in the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha where I will take decisions and redress grievances on the spot,” he said. Bommai will return to Bengaluru on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-is-prepared-for-reopening-of-schools-says-cm-1022072.html
21-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sulking Anand Singh stays away from CM event||Minister Anand Singh, who has been sulking over the allocation of 'low key' portfolio, on Saturday failed to turn up at Jindal airport to receive Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai. Bommai made a brief stopover at Jindal airport en route to Almatti reservoir Ballari MLA Somashekar Reddy and several leaders from the district, however, met Bommai and discussed about development of the region at airport. But Anand Singh, who'd skipped the Cabinet meeting on Thursday, did not show up at the airport, giving rise to speculations. Singh had also stayed away from the Janashirwad Yatra, attended by Union minister Bhagwanth Khuba, in Ballari on Thursday. Whenever a chief minister visits a district, as per the protocol, the district minister has to receive him/her. But Anand Singh failed to turn up at the airport, dropping a hint that all's not well within the ruling party. Singh had on Friday received Vice President Venkaiah Naidu when the latter arrived in Hosapate for a two-day Hampi and TB dam visit. Anand Singh is unhappy with the state leadership for not being given the portfolio/s he wanted. Repeated efforts by Bommai and former CM B S Yediyurappa have failed to pacify the sulking Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sulking-anand-singh-stays-away-from-cm-event-1022189.html
21-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Naidu wants Hampi to be part of history curriculum||The complete history of Vijayanagara Empire and Hampi should be part of the curriculum, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu said on Saturday. Naidu, who along with his wife M Usha and family members visited the Hampi ruins and monuments, told reporters, “We need to protect and preserve our cultural heritage for future generations. The Vijayanagara Empire holds a special place for his patronage to art and architecture. Historians should accord special attention to the contributions and achievements of Vijayanagara emperor Srikrishnadevaraya. “I urge the students to visit Hampi at least once and learn about the history of Vijayanagara Empire. I am sure a trip to Hampi will make you proud of our ancestors/lineage,” Naidu said. “Srikrishnadevaraya was a benevolent king. He cared for his subjects. He promoted education, art, literature, music and dance. The rich architecture of the monuments and temples in Hampi has left me spellbound. I haven’t seen anything like it before,” the Vice President said. He urged the locals to join hands with Archaeological Survey of India in protecting and preserving the monuments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/naidu-wants-hampi-to-be-part-of-history-curriculum-1022190.html
21-08-2021||West||Magnitude 4.1 earthquake hits Gujarat's Kutch||An earthquake of 4.1 magnitude was recorded in Gujarat's Kutch district on Saturday with its epicentre located near Dholavira, the Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) said. No damage to property or casualty was reported due to the moderate-intensity earthquake, officials of the district administration said. "A 4.1-magnitude earthquake was recorded at 12.08 pm on Saturday with its epicentre 23 km East-Southeast (ESE) of Dholavira in Kutch. It was recorded at a depth of 6.1 km," the Gandhinagar-based institute said. On August 4, an earthquake of 4.0 magnitude was recorded in the district. Kutch district is located in a "very high risk seismic zone," as per the state disaster management authority. The region had experienced a devastating earthquake in 2001.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/magnitude-41-earthquake-hits-gujarats-kutch-1022046.html
21-08-2021||West||Three service chiefs visit NDA||On a rare occasion, the three service chiefs- Admiral Karambir Singh, Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria, and General Manoj Mukund Naravane — who are coursemates the National Defence Academy (NDA) visited their alma mater at Khadakwasla in Pune over Friday and Saturday. The visit assumes significance in wake of the Supreme Court interim order allowing women to appear for the NDA entrance exam. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria, Admiral Singh and General Naravane are coursemates of the 56th NDA course. Earlier, it was only in 1991 that all three service chiefs were coursemates from the first NDA, erstwhile Joint Services Wing course. Admiral  Singh, PVSM, AVSM, ADC took over as  Chief of the Naval Staff on 31 May 2019. Air Chief Marshal  Bhadauria, PVSM, AVSM, VM, ADC took over as Chief of the Air Staff on 30 September 2019. General Naravane, PVSM, AVSM, SM, VSM, ADC took over as Chief of the Army Staff on 31 December 2019. Speaking on behalf of the three chiefs on this historical occasion, Admiral Singh dwelled upon the emerging trends of modern warfare. He also exhorted the cadets to imbibe the basic tenets of modern military leadership.The chiefs reviewed the ongoing training of cadets and the available training and administrative infrastructure of NDA. During their visit, the chiefs paid homage at the ‘Hut of Remembrance’, which commemorates the sacrifice of ex-NDA officers of Armed Forces who laid down their lives in the line of duty. The service chiefs also visited their parent squadrons ‘Hunter’ (Naval Chief) and  ‘Lima’ (Army & Air Chiefs), and interacted with the cadets of the respective squadrons. Interaction with the faculty and staff of NDA was also organised towards the end of their visit. “Their visit to the Academy has provided unmatched inspiration and sense of pride to all the cadets and would further catalyze them to strive for excellence in their military careers and reinforce the spirit of camaraderie and Jointmanship amongst the three services,” a defence spokesperson said. The idea of establishing this Joint Training Academy for training officers of three services was conceived by a committee headed by the then Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army, Field Marshal Sir Claude Auchinleck in 1945 and Academy commenced functioning in its interim location at Dehradun as Joint Service Wing in January 1949.  The foundation stone of the Academy at Khadakwasla was laid on October 6, 1949, and inaugurated on January 16, 1955. In its glorious history of over seven decades, the Academy has produced the first Chief of the Defence Staff, 13 Chiefs of Army Staff, 11 Chiefs of Navy Staff and 09 Chiefs of the Air Staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/three-service-chiefs-visit-nda-1022157.html
