22-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Schools, PU colleges will not open in Udupi from Monday||Udupi district, despite low positivity rate, has decided not to allow re-opening of schools from August 23, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha said. “The reopening of schools will have to wait because the district’s Covid-19 positivity percentage is 2.5%. If the rate falls below 2%, then schools may be opened on a later date,” he said. As on Friday, 5,97,467 people had received the first dose of vaccine and 2,20,319 had received two doses in Udupi district. According to sources, a majority of the district’s teaching staff had received at least their first jab. PU Colleges in Udupi district also will remain closed. According to a communiqué, the DDPU’s office has warned of initiating disciplinary action against PU Colleges that conduct offline classes for students from Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/schools-pu-colleges-will-not-open-in-udupi-from-monday-1022228.html
22-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Customs officials seize 115 gram gold at Mangaluru airport||The Customs officers seized gold, weighing 115 gram and worth Rs 5,58,900, at the Mangalore International Airport (MIA) from a male passenger who arrived from Dubai by the Air India Express Flight No IX 384 on Saturday. The gold was concealed inside the beads of hair bands and other personal effects and the passenger hailed from Murdeshwar. The operation was led by Rakesh, Superintendent, along with Superintendents Maria Norohna, Vikas, Gopala Krishna Bhomkar, Bikarm Chakravarthy, Ashish Verma,inspectors Sandeep and Harimohan. The Customs officers had recently seized gold weighing 350.330 grams worthRs 16,85,087 concealed in an armature portion of a blender, along with other personal effects from a male passenger hailing from Kasargod, who arrived from Dubai.  Commissioner of Customs, Mangaluru Imamuddin Ahmad, expressed his concern regarding the increasing trends in smuggling and directed the officers to intensify the vigilance and surveillance and crack the attempts made by unscrupulous elements indulging in such activities. Investigation into both the cases are in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/customs-officials-seize-115-gram-gold-at-mangaluru-airport-1022229.html
22-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rise in Covid cases a cause for worry in Dakshina Kannada district||Though Covid-19 cases are under control in the various districts in Karnataka, the number of cases continue to rise in Dakshina Kannada district. The cases in the district crossed more than 300, despite strict measures taken by the district administration. The authorities have made RT-PCR negative certificate mandatory for those arriving from Kasargod and Maharashtra. The tests are conducted at the railway stations. Only those with negative certificates are allowed to enter the district. The students from Kerala who had entered the district with negative certificate were found to be infected with Covid-19. Following which, the district administration had decided to check the authenticity of negative certificate. A total of 228 students from Kerala who arrived with negative certificate had tested positive after arriving in the district. “Students enter the district by showing negative certificate at the border. Such students should remain in quarantine for seven days in the district. However, after seven days, the students are tested positive in the district,” said an officer from the Health department. Meanwhile, about 75 per cent of the infected in the district have preferred home isolation. This has become a headache to the Health department to monitor the infected. There are 36 Covid Care Centres in the district with more than 2,700 beds. The district has more than 3,200 active cases. However, about 75 per cent of the infected are undergoing treatment while being in home isolation. “It is difficult to monitor those in home isolation. The Health staff visit their houses and enquire about their health. The primary and secondary contacts of the infected are traced and their health condition is also being monitored. Steps have been taken to ensure that the infection does not spread from the Covid Care Centres, as well,” said DHO Dr Kishore Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rise-in-covid-cases-a-cause-for-worry-in-dakshina-kannada-district-1022244.html
22-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Controversy over women ‘travelling’ with youth from different faith amicably settled||Controversy erupted after a youth, belonging to different faith, was found seated adjacent to two women, travelling in a bus to Bengaluru. With the intervention of police, the issue was solved amicably. On receiving information that two women were travelling with a youth belonging to different faith, members of the Hindu Jagarana Vedike followed the bus and intercepted it at Aanegundi. When the youth tried to alight from the bus at Paichar, the Vedike members contacted the police. The women informed the police that they did not know the youth and the issue was sorted out. "Neither the youth nor the women filed any complaint and the issue was sorted out," Circle Inspector Naveenchandra Jogi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/controversy-over-women-travelling-with-youth-from-different-faith-amicably-settled-1022331.html
22-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gundlupet taluk's Belachawadi lake breaches, inundates agricultural land||Hundreds of acres of agricultural land was inundated as the Belachawadikere breached near Begur in Gundlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Sunday. Belachawadi lake has an area of around 65 acres. The lake has been filled under Gandhi Gram Yojana for the last three years. After it is filled, the water from the lake flows into Kammarahalli lake. It is suspected that the lake has breached due to the force of the water. Gram Panchayat member Mahadevaswamy and the villagers alleged that though the leakage was brought to the notice of the officials of the Minor Irrigation Department, no preventive steps were taken. The lake has now breached and entered agricultural land, destroying crops. Officials have rushed to the spot and taken necessary measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gundlupet-taluks-belachawadi-lake-breaches-inundates-agricultural-land-1022397.html
22-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada tops in daily Covid cases in Karnataka||With 286 new Covid-19 cases, Dakshina Kannada district outnumbered the Bengaluru Urban yet again on Sunday. Bengaluru Urban has recorded 267 cases followed by Udupi 132 cases. On Saturday too, DK had registered 320 fresh cases while Bengaluru Urban had recorded 260 cases. Out of 286 cases, 63 positive cases were reported across 10 urban primary health centres in Mangaluru City Corporation limits. The district also registered four deaths, thus taking total deaths to 1,530. The day also saw 418 discharges, thus taking total discharges to 1,03,385. The district has registered a total of 1,07,957 cases so far. The district has been reporting more than a 3% positivity rate for the last few weeks. A total of 8268 samples were tested on Sunday. Meanwhile, officials continue to impose fines on those failing to wear masks and maintain social distance in public places. The officials have booked a total of 85,385 violation cases and collected a fine of Rs 1,03,92,420 so far. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-tops-in-daily-covid-cases-in-karnataka-1022434.html
22-08-2021||Mysuru||BJP MLC accuses party MP of lying, taking credit for Mysuru-Bengaluru expressway||BJP MLC A H Vishwanath slammed his own party MP Pratap Simha for allegedly taking credits for the Mysuru-Bengaluru expressway and said that the project was sanctioned by the then UPA government. The MP has been making false claims and taking credits for the projects sanctioned a decade ago, Vishwanath alleged. "Mysuru-Bengaluru expressway, Bengaluru-Madikeri Highway, Madikeri-Mangaluru Highway works are the contributions of UPA government," Vishwanath said at a press conference in Mysuru. The projects were approved when Siddaramaiah was the chief minister of Karnataka and Dr H C Mahadevappa was the PWD minister of the state and the credits must go to UPA, he said. Vishwanath asked the MP to bring new projects rather than taking credits for old projects. "The project was sanctioned before you became MP. R Dhruvanarayan, Ramya and I were the MPs when the project was sanctioned," he said. Vishwanath added that even the Undavadi Drinking water project was not brought by Pratap Simha and accused him of lying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/bjp-mlc-accuses-party-mp-of-lying-taking-credit-for-mysuru-bengaluru-expressway-1022340.html
22-08-2021||National||Coming generations will be grateful to Singh for contributions to India's cultural regeneration: PM||Expressing deep pain at the death of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that coming generations will remain forever grateful to him for his contributions towards India's "cultural regeneration". Modi said he was saddened beyond words at his demise. Singh was firmly rooted in Indian values and took pride in its centuries-old traditions, he said and lauded him as a "statesman, veteran administrator, grassroots level leader and great human". He leaves behind an indelible contribution towards the development of Uttar Pradesh, the prime minister said. Modi spoke to Singh's son Rajveer Singh, a Lok Sabha MP of the BJP, to convey his condolences. "Kalyan Singh Ji gave voice to crores of people belonging to the marginalised sections of society. He made numerous efforts towards the empowerment of farmers, youngsters and women," he said. Singh (89), who had been ailing for some time, breathed his last on Saturday night, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow said. Singh was closely associated with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. The Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished when he was the state's chief minister in 1992. The Supreme Court had in 2019 handed over the disputed site to Hindu bodies, paving the way for the beginning of the construction of Ram temple there. A backward caste leader, Singh was instrumental in the rise of the BJP to power in Uttar Pradesh in 1990s.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coming-generations-will-be-grateful-to-singh-for-contributions-to-indias-cultural-regeneration-pm-1022227.html
22-08-2021||National||Kalyan Singh was nationalist, deeply committed to serving people: VP Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday condoled the death of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, describing him as a nationalist and an exemplary leader. An ailing Singh died on Saturday in Lucknow. He was 89. "Pained by the demise of former Chief Minister of UP, Shri Kalyan Singh... He was a nationalist and an exemplary leader who was deeply committed to serving people. My thoughts are with his bereaved family and followers," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted, quoting Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kalyan-singh-was-nationalist-deeply-committed-to-serving-people-vp-naidu-1022232.html
22-08-2021||National||Lost elder brother, companion: Rajnath Singh on Kalyan Singh's demise||Condoling the demise of senior BJP leader Kalyan Singh, Union minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said he was a very popular chief minister of Uttar Pradesh who left an indelible mark on politics. Describing Kalyan Singh as a stalwart of Indian politics, the defence minister said with his demise, he has lost his elder brother and a companion. "Kalyan Singh's death is a great loss for Indian politics and a very sad moment for me," he said in a series of tweets. श्री कल्याण सिंह जी के निधन से मैंने अपना बड़ा भाई और साथी खोया है। उनके निधन से आई रिक्तता की भरपाई लगभग असम्भव है। ईश्वर उनके शोक संतप्त परिवार को दुःख की इस कठिन घड़ी में धैर्य और संबल प्रदान करे। ओम शान्ति! Rajnath Singh, who had succeeded Kalyan Singh as the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, said the latter was associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and played an important role in the Ram temple movement. Kalyan Singh, who was ailing for some time, breathed his last at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on Saturday night. He was 89. Kalyan Singh was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister when the Babri mosque was demolished by a mob in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. He later also served as the governor of Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lost-elder-brother-companion-rajnath-singh-on-kalyan-singhs-demise-1022240.html
22-08-2021||National||HM Amit Shah condoles death of former UP CM Kalyan Singh||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday mourned the death of former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Singh and said his life was dedicated to the country, the religion and the people. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah said it was rare to find a great personality like Singh -- a staunch nationalist who lived in the hearts of the people. The home minister said Singh, as the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, had delivered good governance with his devotion and political skills and ran a public welfare government free from fear and crime which was an excellent role model for the governments to come for its unprecedented reforms in the field of education. "I bow down to such a great and ideal life dedicated to the nation, religion and people. The country and the entire BJP family is mourning his death," he said. Shah said Singh, through his diligence, while holding various constitutional posts, made his unique contribution to the progress of the country by connecting the farmers, poor and deprived sections with the mainstream of development. "With the death of Kalyan Singh ji, the country has lost a true patriot, honest and devout politician today. Babuji was such a huge tree, under whose shadow the organisation of BJP flourished and expanded. As a true worshiper of cultural nationalism, he served the country and the people throughout his life," he said. The home minister said the country and the generations to come will always be indebted to Singh for his immense contribution. "May God give him a place at his feet," he said. Singh (89), who had been ailing for some time, breathed his last on Saturday night at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow. Singh was closely associated with the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. The Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished when he was the state's chief minister in 1992.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hm-amit-shah-condoles-death-of-former-up-cm-kalyan-singh-1022248.html
22-08-2021||National||Kalyan Singh had 'magical connect' with masses: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday condoled the death of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and senior BJP leader Kalyan Singh saying he had a "magical connect" with the masses. Singh (89), breathed his last at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow. "Kalyan Singh ji had a magical connect with masses. As chief minister of UP, he determinedly pursued clean politics and purged governance of criminals and corruption," the president said in a message on Twitter. "He dignified the offices he held. His demise leaves a vacuum in public life. My heartfelt condolences," Kovind said. A backward caste leader, Singh was instrumental in the BJP's rise to power in Uttar Pradesh in the 1990s and was the chief minister of the state when the Babri mosque was demolished in Ayodhya in 1992.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kalyan-singh-had-magical-connect-with-masses-president-kovind-1022253.html
22-08-2021||National||Kalyan Singh's demise irreparable loss for society, BJP: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the demise of BJP veteran Kalyan Singh on Saturday and said it was an "irreparable loss" for the society and the saffron party. Singh, who was ailing for some time, died at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) here on Saturday night. He was 89. Singh was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister when the Babri mosque was demolished by a mob of "karsevaks" in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Speaking to reporters at SGPGI, Adityanath said, "Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and former governor of Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh Kalyan Singhji is no more. He was ailing for the past two months and was undergoing treatment. At around 9.15 pm, he breathed his last. All of us feel sad. As the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and a mass leader, he showed transparency and firmness in administration. "The values for which he stood for are still a benchmark. He was a prominent leader of the Ram temple movement and did not hesitate to quit office, so that a grand temple for Lord Ram may be built in Ayodhya. After the disputed structure fell on December 6, 1992, he tendered resignation taking moral responsibility." He described Singh's demise as an "irreparable loss" for the society and the BJP. An emotional Adityanath announced a three-day mourning in Uttar Pradesh and a public holiday on Monday when the former chief minister's last rites will be performed on the banks of the Ganga in Narora. Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh informed that all party programmes will remain suspended for three days. Singh was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the SGPGI in a critical condition on July 4. He died due to sepsis and multi-organ failure, the hospital said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kalyan-singhs-demise-irreparable-loss-for-society-bjp-adityanath-1022254.html
22-08-2021||National||Evacuation from Afghanistan: Around 300 Indians likely to be brought back by August 22||Around 300 Indian nationals are expected to be brought back home from Afghanistan on Sunday as part of India's evacuation mission in view of the deteriorating security situation in Afghan capital Kabul, people familiar with the development said. Eighty-seven Indians were on Saturday taken to Tajikistan capital Dushanbe from Kabul on board a military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force and the group is being brought back to Delhi in a special Air India flight from the central Asian city early on Sunday. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted that two Nepalese citizens are also coming to India on board the Air India flight. "Bringing Indians home from Afghanistan! AI 1956 carrying 87 Indians departs from Tajikistan for New Delhi. Two Nepalese nationals also evacuated. Assisted and supported by our Embassy @IndEmbDushanbe. More evacuation flights to follow," Bagchi tweeted at around 1:20 am. He said the passengers were earlier evacuated from Kabul by an IAF aircraft. Separately, the Indian embassy in Qatar said 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days, are being sent to India. "1st batch of 135 Indians who were evacuated 4m Kabul to Doha over past days being repatriated tonight to India," the embassy said in a post-midnight tweet. It said embassy officials provided consular and logistics assistance to ensure the safe return of the Indians. "We thank Qatar authorities n all concerned for making this possible," it added. It is learnt that the Indians evacuated to Doha from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies that were operating in Afghanistan. The Indians were flown in to Doha by US and NATO aircraft. The people cited above said on condition of anonymity that close 100 Indians are likely to be brought back to India from Kabul in an Indian Air Force heavy-lift aircraft by Sunday. The total number of Indians to be evacuated on Sunday is around 300, they said. India has already evacuated 200 people including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF after the Taliban seized control of Kabul on Sunday. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on Monday. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. The mission to evacuate close to 200 Indians was accomplished with support from the US. Following the evacuation, the MEA said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital. The MEA said the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. It also requested the Indians as well as their employers to urgently share the relevant details with the special Afghanistan cell. As per a rough estimate earlier, the number of Indians stranded in Afghanistan could be around 400 and India has been looking at ways to evacuate them including by coordinating with the US and other friendly countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evacuation-from-afghanistan-around-300-indians-likely-to-be-brought-back-by-august-22-1022258.html
22-08-2021||National||CJI Ramana: A determined, courageous reformer||Within months of becoming the Chief Justice of India, Justice N V Ramana looks firmly in the saddle, in the backdrop of judicial and administrative decisions taken by him. He led from the front to end the 21-month impasse in the Supreme Court Collegium. Taking the helm from Justice S A Bobde, Justice Ramana created a record of sorts by sending nine names for appointment in the top court. If those names are approved by the government, it would end the deadlock in the Collegium in view of reported insistence by Justice R F Nariman to include the name of Justice Akil Kureshi, Chief Justice of Tripura High Court in the list of elevation of judges. Though eyebrows were raised over the absence of Justice Kureshi’s name, no formal protest has been launched so far. Justice Kureshi was in the news as the Gujarat High Court judge for remanding current Home Minister Amit Shah to the CBI custody in 2010 in the fake encounter case. In a strategic move, legal experts feel, Justice Ramana waited for Justice Nariman to retire on August 12 before convening the Collegium meeting to avoid the prolonging of the stalemate on appointments. The non-controversial list of judges is likely to get the Centre’s nod.  After taking the charge as the CJI, Justice Ramana agreed to a long-pending demand of the Supreme Court Bar Association to ensure the nomination of lawyers practising in the SC for appointment as High Court judges, by allowing the Bar body to form a search committee. He assured the Association of convincing the Chief Justices of the High Courts to include the SC lawyers for consideration for appointment as judges. The CJI has taken several remarkable decisions. Presiding over a bench, he decided to examine a bunch of petitions for an independent probe into controversy surrounding the alleged use of Pegasus spyware to snoop on activists, journalists, politicians and members of the judiciary—a case that is likely to put the Centre on the dock. Justice Ramana, who has been hearing a case for speeding up the trial against former and sitting MPs and MLAs, ordered that no case against them can be withdrawn without a nod from the High Court. In his Independence Day speech, the CJI, without reading from written text, showed his concern over the lack of debate in Parliament on the passage of laws. A day later, when a case came up before a bench led by him, Justice Ramana put the Union government on the mat for passing Tribunal Reforms Act without any debate in Parliament and with provisions already struck down by the top court. For all these reasons, former Supreme Court judge, Justice V Gopala Gowda is all praise for him. “So far, the tenure of Justice Ramana as the CJI has been excellent. His decisions have been very courageous. He is reviving the lost glory, dignity, majesty and independence of the Supreme Court. It is not only my view but feelings of cross-sections of society. This is the impression he has created over four months,” Justice Gowda said. Justice Ramana’s speeches and observations are very relevant. He has dealt with cases listed before him in a “befitting way” and he should go on like this, the former judge added. SCBA president Vikas Singh echoed similar sentiments. “So far his term has been encouraging. He is trying to put the Institution back on track and I hope he succeeds”. Asked about the Collegium recommendations, he said, “I definitely have my reservations but for that I can’t blame Justice Ramana alone asthere are four other judges who have also agreed on the names. Really speaking, I can’t say it is his recommendations”. Activists, however, feel the CJI has to speed up the listing of cases related to the validity of farms laws, the Citizenship Amendment Act, and Article 370, to restore the real faith of the people in the top court. Justice Ramana, who had a brief stint as a journalist, revived the public relation office of the top court by ensuring the availability of text of speeches, a practice, hitherto, rarely observed among judges. He ensured seamless access of courts to scribes by ordering the creation of a Mobile App for watching the proceedings conducted in virtual mode since March 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-ramana-a-determined-courageous-reformer-1022289.html
22-08-2021||National||India sees 30,948 single-day Covid cases, 403 fatalities||India logged 30,948 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases declined to 3,53,398 comprising 1.09 per cent of the total infections, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The total tally of Covid-19 cases has increased to  3,24,24,234. The death toll has climbed to 4,34,367 with 403 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,53,398, the lowest in 152 days, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.57 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A reduction of 7,942 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of  24 hours. As many as 15,85,681 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 50,62,56,239. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.95 per cent.  It has been less than three per cent for the last 27 days.  The weekly positivity rate was recorded at two per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 58 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,16,36,469, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. Cumulatively, 58.14 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide  vaccination drive till Sunday morning. The 403 new fatalities include 145 from Maharashtra and 83 from Kerala. A total of 4,34,367 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,35,817 from Maharashtra, 37,123 from Karnataka, 34,686 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,792  from Uttar Pradesh, 19,428 from Kerala and 18,356 from  West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-30948-single-day-covid-cases-403-fatalities-1022296.html
22-08-2021||National||Evacuation from Afghanistan: India brings back close to 400 people in three flights||India on Sunday brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals and two Afghan lawmakers, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul in the backdrop of the deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban. A total of 168 people including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown from Kabul to the Hindon airbase near Delhi in a C-17 heavy-lift military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF). Another group of 87 Indians and two Nepalese nationals were brought back in a special Air India flight from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated to the Tajikistan capital in an IAF aircraft, officials said. Separately, a group of 135 Indians, who were evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days by the US and NATO aircraft, were flown back from Doha to Delhi on a special flight, they said. India carried out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US, Qatar, Tajikistan and several other friendly countries. The group of 168 people, who were evacuated from Kabul, included Afghan lawmakers Anarkali Honaryar and Narender Singh Khalsa and their families, people familiar with the evacuation mission said. "Evacuation continues! IAF special repatriation flight with 168 passengers on board, including 107 Indian nationals, is on its way to Delhi from Kabul," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi tweeted hours before the plane landed at Hindon. It is learnt that the Indians evacuated to Doha from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies that were operating in Afghanistan. "Bringing Indians home from Afghanistan! AI 1956 carrying 87 Indians departs from Tajikistan for New Delhi. Two Nepalese nationals also evacuated.Assisted and supported by our Embassy @IndEmbDushanbe. More evacuation flights to follow," Bagchi tweeted at around 1:20 am. India evacuated 200 people including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in Kabul in two C-17 heavy-lift transport aircraft of the IAF after the Taliban seized control of Kabul. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on Monday last. The second C-17 aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on Tuesday. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. Following the evacuation, the MEA said the focus now would be to ensure the safe return of all Indian nationals from the Afghan capital. The MEA said the immediate priority for the government is to obtain accurate information about all Indian nationals currently staying in Afghanistan. It also requested the Indians as well as their employers to urgently share the relevant details with the special Afghanistan cell. According to a rough estimate last week, the number of Indians stranded in Afghanistan could be around 400 and India has been looking at ways to evacuate them including by coordinating with the US and other friendly countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evacuation-from-afghanistan-india-brings-back-close-to-400-people-in-three-flights-1022299.html
22-08-2021||National||Tagore's message of communal harmony with a Rakhi||Rakhi, or Raksha Bandhan, symbolises love and unity between a girl and her brother, as she ties an amulet on her wrist. But 114 years ago, Rabindranath Tagore used the sacred thread of Rakhi to conjoin two lands divided by the then Imperial British administration, a stroke that carried with it the burden of political strategy.   The Bengal Presidency, as the region was known, comprised of Bengal with modern-day Bihar, parts of Chhattisgarh, Orissa, and Assam and was the largest province with a population of 78.5 million. Bengal was the furnace of India's independence movement and its huge geographical area made life difficult for the British administration, which is why they brought in the infamous policy of divide and rule. Initially, they planned to divide just based on language, but then Lord Curzon, the Viceroy of India, decided to create a new region for the Muslim population.   The orders were passed in August 1905 and came into effect on October 16. It resulted in a great uproar in the Bengali society, with a visible Hindu-Muslim rift. Muslim leaders, who initially thought the partition disadvantageous, gave their assent after the Muslim majority province of Eastern Bengal and Assam were created. The Hindu protest against the partition was seen as interference in a Muslim province. While the Hindu Bengali leaders feared that they would be reduced to a minority in Muslim-dominated regions, Muslim Bengali leaders saw that as an opportunity to have their separate land and create an independent identity.  When the British government trying to divide Bengal and the Hindu-Muslim unity, Rabindranath Tagore appeared as the beacon of peace. Always a visionary, the bard decided to use the occasion of Raksha Bandhan which coincided with the partition as a weapon against the prevalent loathing in a society.  In the month of Shravan, the 'Kobiguru' (as he is affectionately called in Bengali) gave a clarion call to the two communities, Hindus and Muslims, to tie Rakhi on each other’s hand. The act sent out a message of unity and brotherhood laced with defiance against the British order.  Tagore was by then was already a prominent figure in the Bengali society (he would win the Nobel Prize in 1913), and hundreds from both communities responded to his call. The streets of Kolkata, Dhaka, Barishal, Chittagong, Rangpur, Sylhet were thronged with enthusiastic people tying rakhi on each other's hands. Though the move failed to deter the British administration, it shed new light on Raksha Bandhan.  Fresh protests arose that refused to die down, resulting in the unification of Bengal when King George announced in December 1911 that eastern Bengal would be assimilated into the Bengal Presidency. Bengali-dominated districts were once again unified and Assam, Bihar, and Orissa were separated..||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tagores-message-of-communal-harmony-with-a-rakhi-1022300.html
22-08-2021||National||Taliban attacked ITBP contingent, soldier tells family on return from Afghanistan||The Taliban have attacked Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel, a part of Indian Army contingent in Afghanistan while they were leaving the country. The soldier who has returned from the war torn country has shared his horrific experience with his family members. Shaila K. Neelagar, aunt of Ravi Neelagar, a soldier attached to Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) who returned safely to India from Afghanistan five days ago, has shared some of the information given by Ravi to them on Taliban's attack on Indian soldiers. "Ravi told us that, when 200 of them were being evacuated from Afghanistan, their contingent was attacked by Taliban terrorists. When soldiers were boarding the flight, the Taliban tried to prevent them. They even snatched their luggage," she said. Ravi was very sad that he lost all his belongings but family comforted him by saying his safe return is everything that matters to them. "He is in quarantine and will come back home after 20 days for holidays," she said. Ravi was discharging duties in Afghanistan for 2 years. Meanwhile, the family of Tanveen, a resident of Sandur in Bellary, staying in Afghanistan with Afghan husband Syed Jalal has been rescued successfully and they are returning safely from Afghanistan. Abdul Sattar, father of Tanveen said that the Indian embassy has confirmed their return. Tanveen met Syed Jalal while studying engineering and got married in 2018. They are reaching New Delhi on Saturday or Sunday. Teressa Crasta, a nun from Mangaluru has sent a voice message to her colleagues that she is safely returning from Afghanistan. Teressa had gone to Afghanistan through an Italian NGO and she was in charge of an institute for mentally challenged children. She has told colleagues in the Sister of Charity Institute that an Italian NGO has made arrangements for her departure from Afghanistan. As of now her journey to India has been postponed as there is chaos at Kabul airport and entry is restricted. She has also said in the audio that she has already registered with the Indian Embassy and they are arranging for her safe return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-attacked-itbp-contingent-soldier-tells-family-on-return-from-afghanistan-1022306.html
22-08-2021||National||Kalyan Singh was symbol of faith for people: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh was a valuable personality and a capable leader who became a “symbol of faith” for the common people. Modi was speaking to reporters after paying his last respects to the veteran BJP leader at his residence here. Singh died at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on Saturday night. He was 89. "The country has lost a valuable personality and a capable leader. To fulfill the void left by him, we should do maximum hard work for his ideals, his promises and leave no effort in achieving his dreams," Modi said. The prime minister said Singh lived his life for the public welfare. "This is a moment of grief for all of us. His (Kalyan Singh) parents had named him Kalyan Singh. He lived his life in such a way that he fulfilled the name given by his parents. He lived his entire life for the public welfare. He made 'jan kalyan' as the mantra of his life, and dedicated his life for the BJP, Bharatiya Jan Sangh family, for an ideology and for the bright future of the country," Modi said. He hailed Singh as a "committed decision maker” who had become “a name of faith ('vishvaas') across the country”. “For the most part of his life, he made efforts for public welfare. Whatever responsibility he had got, be it as an MLA, any post in the government, or as a governor, he had been a centre of inspiration for everyone. He became a symbol of faith for the common public," Modi added. "I pray at the feet of Bhagvaan Prabhu Shriram to give Kalyan Singh ji a space at his feet. May Prabhu Ram give strength to his family in the hour of sadness to bear the loss. May Prabhu Ram give consolation to people in the country who believe in his values, ideals, culture and traditions," the prime minister said. Modi, after reaching the residence of Singh here, paid tributes to him and placed a wreath at his body. He was accompanied by BJP chief J P Nadda, UP Governor Anandiben Patel, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also paid tributes to the former UP chief minister. Speaking to reporters here, Rajnath Singh said, "We used to tell him (Kalyan) that we are 'bhootpoorv' (former) chief minister, you are 'abhootpoorv' (unprecedented) chief minister, on which he used to laugh. I have seen him as an elder brother." BSP chief Mayawati also paid homage to the departed leader. At around 12.30 pm, Singh’s body was taken to UP Vidhan Bhavan. From there, it will be taken to the office of the state BJP, party leaders said. Singh, who also served as the Rajasthan governor, was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the SGPGI in a critical condition on July 4. He died due to sepsis and multi-organ failure, the hospital said. Uttar Pradesh has announced three-day mourning and a holiday on Monday, when the former chief minister's last rites will be performed. Singh was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister when the Babri mosque was demolished by a mob of "karsevaks" in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Along with BJP veterans L K Advani and M M Joshi, he was among the 32 people acquitted in the demolition case in September last year. A Lodhi leader, Singh was instrumental in the rise of the BJP to power in Uttar Pradesh in the 1990s. He is survived by his wife Ramvati Devi, son Rajveer Singh, who is the Lok Sabha MP from Etah, and grandson Sandeep Singh, who is the minister of state for finance, technical education and medical education in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kalyan-singh-was-symbol-of-faith-for-people-pm-modi-1022316.html
22-08-2021||National||Raksha Bandhan: The story of Rani Karnawati and Emperor Humayun||The festival of Raksha Bandhan is widely celebrated across the country which is dedicated to the bond of brothers and sisters. The meaning of Raksha and Bandhan is safety and bond. On this day, the sister ties Rakhi-- a colourful thread, to her brother praying for his long life and in return the brother promises to protect her. There are many historical stories on Raksha Bandhan like Lord Krishna and Draupadi’s story and Yama and the Yamuna’s story. But the story of Rani Karnavati and Emperor Humayun, one of the popular legends around rakhi is noteworthy. During the medieval period, the Rajputs were fighting against the Muslim invasion and Karnavati was Mewar's regent during the minority of her son after her husband Rana Sanga’s death. At that time, Mewar was attacked by Bahadur Shah of Gujarat for the second time. Karnavati then sought help from Humayun and sent him a rakhi. Even though Humayun was in the middle of another war, he returned to Mewar because he was touched by the gesture of Karnavati. However, Humayun and his troops couldn’t reach on time. He couldn’t reach Mewar on time and the Rajput army was defeated at Chittoor. Following that the queen performed Jauhar (set herself on fire) to protect her honour. But Shah and his troops had to leave Chittoor as Humayun reached there shortly. Mewar was restored to Karnavati's son, Vikramjit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raksha-bandhan-the-story-of-rani-karnawati-and-emperor-humayun-1022321.html
22-08-2021||National||PM Modi greets people on Raksha Bandhan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday greeted people on the occasion of Raksha Bandhan.  The festival, also called Rakhi, celebrates the brother-sister bond.  सभी देशवासियों को रक्षाबंधन के पावन पर्व पर ढेरों शुभकामनाएं। Modi also tweeted his wishes on the occasion of Sanskrit Diwas. He posted the tweet in Sanskrit, an ancient Indian language. एषा भाषा प्राचीना चेदपि आधुनिकी,यस्यां गहनं तत्त्वज्ञानम् अस्ति तरुणं काव्यम् अपि अस्ति,या सरलतया अभ्यासयोग्या परं श्रेष्ठदर्शनयुक्ता च,तां संस्कृतभाषाम् अधिकाधिकं जनाः पठेयुः।सर्वेभ्यः संस्कृतदिवसस्य शुभाशयाः।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-people-on-raksha-bandhan-1022322.html
22-08-2021||National||VP Naidu greets people on World Sanskrit Day||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday quoted Swami Vivekananda to greet people on World Sanskrit Day, saying the very sound of Sanskrit is musical. Sanskrit, an ancient and classical language of India, is the source of many other languages, he noted.  "On this day, let us resolve to popularise and revive this beautiful language," Naidu was quoted as saying by the Vice President Secretariat in a tweet. The very sound of the Sanskrit is musical- Swami Vivekananda||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-greets-people-on-world-sanskrit-day-1022326.html
22-08-2021||National||Covid-19 strategy group predicts 23% hospitalisations in event of future surge||A group responsible for preparing the country's Covid-19 strategy told the government last month that in the event of a future surge in cases, for every 100 cases, 23 will be hospitalised. In September last year, the group had projected that 20 patients (out of every 100 positive cases) with “severe/ moderately severe” symptoms would need to be hospitalised.    The Empowered Group 1 made its calculations on the basis of an estimated four to five lakh cases a day and accordingly recommended that two lakh ICU beds be on standby by September, of which 1.2 lakh are ICU beds with ventilators. It also called for setting up of 7 lakh non-ICU hospital beds (of which 5 lakh are oxygen-enabled), and 10 lakh Covid isolation care beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-strategy-group-predicts-23-hospitalisations-in-event-of-future-surge-1022330.html
22-08-2021||National||Khattar, Amarinder condole demise of Kalyan Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar condoled the demise of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh. Expressing sadness at his death, Singh said he was a leader of the masses and served on many prestigious positions. "Saddened to know about the demise of former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Shri Kalyan Singh Ji. He was a leader of the masses and served on many prestigious positions. My heartfelt condolences to his family. RIP!" the Punjab chief minister said in a tweet. In a tweet, Khattar also expressed grief over Singh's demise. Haryana's Deputy Chief Minister and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala and former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda have also expressed grief over the demise of the former Rajasthan governor. Kalyan Singh, who was ailing for some time, died at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on Saturday night. He was 89.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/khattar-amarinder-condole-demise-of-kalyan-singh-1022333.html
22-08-2021||National||Covid-19 booster shots unlikely this year in India: AIIMS chief Randeep Guleria||While the United States decided to provide Covid-19 booster shots to most of its citizens, All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria said that India does not have enough data as of now on the need for a third Covid-19 vaccine dose or a booster shot. Adding that it will take some more months for further research, the AIIMS chief said, "Information is still emerging... it will take some more months. Possibly by the beginning of next year, we will have data on what will be the type of booster shots and who needs it." After data indicates that the administered vaccines have reached a "waning point", Guleria said, India can decide on booster shot. "Globally, we are seeing that people who have been vaccinated continue to have protection from severe diseases and they are not seeing a huge surge in people getting admitted to hospitals... in India too," Dr Guleria said. Britain had been planning for a Covid-19 vaccine booster programme, which is expected to begin in early September, pending final advice from officials. Meanwhile, the United States and Israel have approved third booster shots against Covid-19 in an effort to fight a surge in the Delta Variant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-booster-shots-unlikely-this-year-in-india-aiims-chief-randeep-guleria-1022334.html
22-08-2021||National||Indian fishing boats damaged in stone-pelting by Sri Lankan Navy: Official||Around 60 Indian fishing boats from here were damaged in stone pelting, allegedly by the Sri Lankan navy, a Fisheries department official said on Sunday. The Lankan naval personnel also damaged fishing nets in 25 boats, while they were involved in fishing near Katchatheevu late last night, he said. Quoting fishermen, the official said the naval personnel came in about five vessels and pelted stones on the Indian boats, causing damage to about 60 of them. However, no fisherman was injured in the incident. Fishermen's association representative S Emerit said about 556 boats had put out to sea on Saturday night and alleged that some of them were targeted by the Sri Lankan navy. Expressing concern over such 'recurring' incidents, he sought the intervention of the Central and state governments to work out a solution to the issue and ensure their livelihood. A complaint has been filed with senior Fisheries officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-fishing-boats-damaged-in-stone-pelting-by-sri-lankan-navy-official-1022337.html
22-08-2021||National||FinMin summons Infosys CEO Salil Parekh to explain non-resolution of I-T portal glitches||The finance ministry has summoned Infosys managing director and chief executive Salil Parekh on Monday to explain why an income tax portal backed by the company continues to show glitches even after two and half months of its launch. Infosys was given the contract to develop the website in January 2019. Parekh has been called to appear before the Ministry of Finance on August 23, Monday, to explain to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman “as to why even after 2.5 months since The launch of new e-filing portal, glitches in the portal have not been resolved," Income Tax Department said in a tweet on Sunday.  “In fact, since August 21, 2021 the portal itself is not available," the tax department added. The new income tax e-filing portal was launched on June 7, to smoothen tax filing and expedite refund process. However, taxpayers continued to face problems in accessing and using the portal since the day of it launch. The finance ministry has on various occasions called the Infosys officials to sort out the problem. Earlier this week, Sitharaman had said that glitches were expected to be resolved in two-three weeks. “The glitches on the new Income are expected to be fixed entirely in the next two-three weeks. I have been reminding Infosys constantly and Nandan Nilekani is giving me assurances that they will sort it out," she said. On its part Infosys said the portal was under emergency maintenance and that it regretted the inconvenience caused to its users. It, however, did not give any timeline on when the services will be resumed. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finmin-summons-infosys-ceo-salil-parekh-to-explain-non-resolution-of-i-t-portal-glitches-1022345.html
22-08-2021||National||Sitharaman to launch National Monetisation Pipeline today||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday will launch the National Monetisation pipeline (NMP), which will list out the government's infrastructure assets to be sold over the next four years, according to the finance ministry. "The NMP comprises a four-year pipeline of the central government's brownfield infrastructure assets. Besides providing visibility to investors, NMP will also serve as a medium-term roadmap for the asset monetisation initiative of the government," the finance ministry said in a statement on Sunday. Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey had earlier this month said that the government is finalising Rs 6 lakh crore worth infrastructure assets, including national highways and power grid pipelines, which would be monetised. "A national monetisation plan of about Rs 6 trillion is in the offing which will have a range of assets from pipelines to power grid pipelines to national highways, ToT (toll-operate-transfer) and so on," Pandey had said. The Union Budget 2021-22, laid a lot of emphasis on asset monetisation as a means to raise innovative and alternative financing for infrastructure. In her Budget speech, Sitharaman had said that monetising operating public infrastructure assets was a very important financing option for new infrastructure construction. "A National Monetisation Pipeline of potential brownfield infrastructure assets will be launched. An asset monetisation dashboard will also be created for tracking the progress and to provide visibility to investors," she had said. The government views asset monetisation as a strategy for the augmentation and maintenance of infrastructure, and not just a funding mechanism. The NMP book will be released in the presence of NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, and Secretaries of relevant ministries whose assets constitute the monetisation pipeline. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitharaman-to-launch-national-monetisation-pipeline-today-1022348.html
22-08-2021||National||Afghan resistance ready for conflict but prefers negotiations||Former Afghan government forces forming a resistance movement in a fortified valley are preparing for "long-term conflict", but are also seeking to negotiate with the Taliban, their spokesman told AFP in an interview. Since the Taliban took control of the country following a lightning charge into the capital Kabul, thousands of people have made their way to Panjshir to both join the fight and find a safe haven to continue their lives, Ali Maisam Nazary said. There, Ahmad Massoud, the son of legendary Mujahideen commander Ahmad Shah Massoud who was assassinated by Al-Qaeda two days before the September 11, 2001 attacks, has assembled a fighting force of around 9,000 people, Nazary added. Pictures taken by AFP during training exercises show dozens of recruits performing fitness routines, and a handful of armoured humvees driving across the valley northeast of Kabul. The National Resistance Front's main goal is to avoid further bloodshed in Afghanistan and press for a new system of government. But Nazary said the group is also prepared for conflict, and if the Taliban do not negotiate they will face resistance across the country. "The conditions for a peace deal with the Taliban is decentralisation -- a system that ensures social justice, equality, rights, and freedom for all," said Nazary, the NRF's head of foreign relations, adding if the Taliban do not agree there will be "long-term conflict". Talks between local leaders from Afghanistan's north and authorities in Pakistan were taking place until just days ago, he added. While the Taliban control the vast majority of Afghanistan, Nazary optimistically highlighted reports that local militias in some districts have already begun resisting their hardline rule and have formed links with Massoud's NRF. "Massoud did not give the order for these things to happen but they are all associated with us," Nazary said. "The Taliban are overstretched. They cannot be everywhere at the same time. Their resources are limited. They do not have support amongst the majority." He said, however, that Masood had different views to Amrullah Saleh, latterly the country's vice president who is also holed out in the valley and last week vowed to lead an uprising. "Mr Saleh is in Panjshir. He opted to stay in the country and not flee," Nazary said, noting Saleh's strong anti-Pakistan stance was at odds with Massoud who wanted good relations with Afghanistan's Taliban-supporting neighbour. "Mr Saleh is anti-Taliban and anti-Pakistani. That does not mean he is a part of this movement. He is in Panjshir and he is respected." The aim right now is to defend Panjshir and its people, Nazary said. "If there is any aggression because our fight is only for defence; if anyone attacks us we will defend ourselves." Alongside Massoud's fighting force, Panjshir now hosts more than 1,000 displaced people from across Afghanistan who have poured into the valley looking for sanctuary, Nazary said. "We are seeing Panjshir become a safe zone for all those groups who feel threatened in other provinces." He added the province has seen an influx of intellectuals, women's and human rights activists, and politicians "who feel threatened by the Taliban". Massoud appealed for weapons from the United States in an op-ed published in the Washington Post on Thursday. Nazary told AFP that they also require humanitarian assistance to feed and take care of the newly arrived. Massoud is determined to stand by the people of the valley and take up his father's mantle, Nazary added, stressing Afghanistan needs a federated system of government to close its endless cycle of war. "War is just a byproduct of conflict in Afghanistan. What has caused the conflict is that Afghanistan is a country made up of ethnic minorities ... (and) in a multi-ethnic country you cannot have one ethnic group dominate politics and others having a presence in the margins." Nazary says Massoud's resistance, and others across Afghanistan, are vital in making this change happen. "Panjshir has always been a beacon of hope."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-resistance-ready-for-conflict-but-prefers-negotiations-1022356.html
22-08-2021||National||Air quality commission asks NCR states to adopt ISRO's protocol for farm fire estimation||Ahead of the harvesting season, the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) has asked Delhi and neighbouring states to ensure the adoption and application of a standard protocol developed by ISRO for the estimation of crop residue burning fire events using satellite data. The commission, mandated to devise and execute plans to prevent and control air pollution in the national capital region and adjoining areas, has also asked Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan to develop a time-bound comprehensive action plan, in consultation with stakeholder agencies responsible for monitoring and reporting of agriculture residue burning events, based on the protocol. The commission had stressed the need to develop and implement a standardised methodology across NCR and adjoining areas for the monitoring of fire events at meetings with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) at a meeting held in December last year. The protocol has been prepared in consultation with stakeholder agencies like State Remote Sensing Centers and Indian Agricultural Research Institute, it said. "Now, therefore, in view of the compelling need to monitor and control air pollution from stubble burning, the commission…hereby directs government of NCT of Delhi to ensure adoption and application of the standard protocol for estimation of crop residue burning fire events using satellite data," the directions read. The commission said the protocol should be adopted uniformly across the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Delhi, and not restricted to Punjab and Haryana alone. The panel on air quality has also asked these states to submit a compliance report on the adoption of the protocol by August 30. The northern states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15. Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left behind after harvesting and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR. Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between the harvesting of paddy and sowing of wheat. The high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw is a major reason why farmers choose to burn it. State governments are providing 50 to 80 per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw, installing paddy straw-based power plants and running a massive awareness campaign against stubble burning. But these measures are yet to make any significant impact on the ground. According to a recent study by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), a Delhi-based not-for-profit policy research institution, a relatively longer stubble-burning period and unfavourable meteorological conditions were primarily responsible for Delhi's worsening air quality in winters last year. The analysis showed the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi's PM2.5 levels exceeded 30 per cent for seven days (between October 10 and November 25) in 2020 as against three days in 2019.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-quality-commission-asks-ncr-states-to-adopt-isros-protocol-for-farm-fire-estimation-1022357.html
22-08-2021||National||Advani remembers Kalyan Singh as stalwart of Indian politics, grassroots leader||Paying rich tributes to former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, veteran BJP leader L K Advani said on Sunday that his commitment, drive and sincerity towards resolving the Ayodhya issue was a great source of strength for his party and others who eagerly waited to see the realisation of their dream of a grand Ram temple.  Expressing sadness at his death, Advani said Singh was a stalwart of Indian politics and a grassroots leader. He endeared himself to the masses by working tirelessly for the upliftment of the weaker sections and contributed greatly to the overall progress of the state, the longest serving president of the BJP said.  "I cherish my many special memories with him during the Ram Janmabhoomi Movement. His commitment, drive and sincerity towards resolving the Ayodhya issue was a great source of strength not only for my party, the BJP, but for scores of Indians who were eagerly waiting to see the realisation of their dream of a grand temple of Lord Ram at Ram Janambhoomi," he said.  He said Singh's demise has left a huge void, and his selfless persona will continue to inspire many generations of Indians.  As the most powerful BJP leader along with Atal Bihari Vajpayee in that era, Advani was considered instrumental in the saffron party installing Singh, a backward caste leader, as its first chief minister in Uttar Pradesh.  Singh, who was ailing for some time, died at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on Saturday night. He was 89.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/advani-remembers-kalyan-singh-as-stalwart-of-indian-politics-grassroots-leader-1022373.html
22-08-2021||National||SC questions TADA court on delay in framing of charges in 1993 serial blasts case||The Supreme Court has sought a report from Ajmer's TADA court as to why charges could not be framed for about 10 years against a Lucknow resident arrested in a case linked to serial blasts in Rajdhani and other trains on the first anniversary of Babri mosque demolition in 1993. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah took a grim view of the situation as petitioner Hameer Ui Uddin alias Hamid alias Hamiduddin contended that the speedy trial is a fundamental right implicit in the guarantee of life and personal liberty enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution. Advocates Shoeb Alam and Farrukh Rasheed, appearing for the petitioner, sought bail for their client saying he has remained confined in jail since March 18, 2010 and the trial had not yet commenced in the case. They challenged the validity of the Special Court's order of March 27, 2019, refusing him the relief. Taking their plea into consideration, the bench said, "The Special Judge, Designated Court, Ajmer, Rajasthan is directed to submit a report to this court, within a period of two weeks on the status of TADA Special Case. The report shall clarify why charges have not been framed." To facilitate the submission of the report expeditiously, the bench requested the Supreme Court's Registrar (Judicial) to communicate a copy of the order to the Special Judge, Designated Court, Ajmer, Rajasthan directly as well as through the Registrar (Judicial) of the High Court of Rajasthan. During the hearing, the Rajasthan government, for its part, submitted that after preliminary investigation, the case was transferred to the CBI on January 4, 1994.  The CBI, which registered the FIR under the provisions of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, the Explosives Act and the IPC, filed a charge sheet against the petitioner on August 25, 1994. The petitioner-accused, however, remained absconding for 15 years before his arrest by the Special Task Force of Uttar Pradesh police in Lucknow in 2010. According to the prosecution, on the intervening night of December 5-6, 1993, serial bomb blasts took place in Rajdhani Express, Flying Queen Express, and AP Express, causing the death of two passengers and injuries to 22 others. Five separate cases, registered by GRP Kota, Valsad, Kanpur, Allahabad, Malkajgiri, were clubbed together after the CBI took over the probe, on the ground that bomb blasts in those prestigious trains were the outcome of a single conspiracy. The CBI claimed the petitioner-accused carried the bomb devices and explosives to Kanpur on December 5, 1993 along with co-accused M Jamal Alvi and Irfan Ahmed and stayed in a hotel with fictitious names of Ram Kumar and Ramesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-questions-tada-court-on-delay-in-framing-of-charges-in-1993-serial-blasts-case-1022375.html
22-08-2021||National||Evacuees from Kabul thank Indian govt, PM as they land at Hindon||A sense of relief and gratitude was palpable among the evacuees from Afghanistan as they landed at Ghaziabad's Hindon airbase on Sunday morning, after days of uncertainty following Kabul's fall to the Taliban. A total of 168 people, including 107 Indians and 23 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were flown from Kabul to the Hindon airbase in a C-17 heavy-lift military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF). The group included Afghan lawmakers Anarkali Honaryar and Narender Singh Khalsa and their families, people familiar with the evacuation mission said. Terming India his "second home", Khalsa narrated his horror story which unfolded as their vehicle was separated from a convoy of those being taken to the Kabul airport for rescue. "They (Taliban) separated us from others while going to Kabul airport yesterday (Saturday) as were are Afghan nationals. We fled from there because small children were with us," he told reporters at Hindon. The lawmaker, a resident of Kabul, expressed hopes that he will manage to go back to his country after it rebuilds itself. "India is our second home. We have been living there since generations. We pray to God that Afghanistan is rebuilt, and we can go back there to tend to our gurdwaras and temples and serve the people," Khalsa added. Explaining the ground situation in Afghanistan and its new rulers, Khalsa said, "The Taliban is not one group. There are 10-12 sections. It is hard to find who is a talib and who is not." Honaryar, a member of the Upper House of Afghan Parliament, in a video message, said "I thank the government of India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Ministry of External Affairs and the Indian Air Force for lifting us from Kabul and saving my life." All the evacuees arriving at Hindon and the IGI airport in the national capital underwent RP-PCR tests, officials said. Alladad Qureshi, an Afghan national whose wife hails from Kashmir, expressed a sense of relief as he interacted with media persons at Hindon. "I have two daughters. We thank the government of India, Modiji, MEA and air force for saving us," he said. Manik Mandal, a young jeweller who had gone to Afghanistan six months ago in search of livelihood, smiled as he said, "We faced a lot of problems in Kabul, but our government saved us." India on Sunday brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul against the backdrop of a deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban. Another group of 87 Indians and two Nepalese nationals were brought back in a special Air India flight from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated to the Tajikistan capital in an IAF aircraft, the officials said. Separately, 135 Indians evacuated from Kabul to Doha in the last few days by US and NATO aircraft were flown back to Delhi on a special flight, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evacuees-from-kabul-thank-indian-govt-pm-as-they-land-at-hindon-1022383.html
22-08-2021||National||721 children in child care institutions contracted Covid-19 since outbreak: RTI||Over 720 children in child care institutions in 11 states and Union Territories have contracted Covid-19 till now and no fatalities have been reported, according to data from the country's apex child rights body. The data, which was shared by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights in response to an RTI query from PTI, also stated that 686 children living in child care institutions (CCIs) have been infected with Covid-19 so far this year. Last year, Uttar Pradesh was the only state out of the 11 states and Union Territories (UTs) to report coronavirus cases among children in CCIs. It had reported 35 cases, according to the data. This year, no coronavirus case has been reported yet from such institutions in Uttar Pradesh, it stated. According to the commission's data, no death due to the coronavirus infection has been reported among children residing in CCIs from these 11 states and UTs. Out of 721 children in such institutions, who contracted the infection, the highest number was reported from Haryana (288) followed by Tamil Nadu (149) and Bihar (131), according to the data. It stated that the number of Covid-19 cases among children in CCIs in Mizoram was 46, Karnataka 37, Delhi 19, Telangana seven, Gujarat six, Chandigarh three. No case was reported from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, stated the data of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights for 11 states and UTs. There are 857 CCIs in these states and UTs and 33,695 beneficiaries reside in them, according to government data. In June, the Women and Child Development Ministry had asked states to make suitable arrangements for isolation facilities within CCIs to take care of children suffering from Covid-19 and prepare a roaster of child psychologists or counsellors to visit the facilities and interact with them. To ensure institutional support through CCIs, the ministry had also asked states and UTs to organise special inspection drives in collaboration with district magistrates, for assessment of quality care at all CCIs for ascertaining the wellbeing of children. CCIs were also directed to ensure proper facilities such as clean and hygienic living conditions, basic amenities, quality food and safety for all children from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/721-children-in-child-care-institutions-contracted-covid-19-since-outbreak-rti-1022391.html
22-08-2021||National||Afghanistan going through difficult time, international support will end miseries: Afghan envoy to India||Asserting that the "suffering" of Afghanistan is man-made, the war-torn nation's Ambassador to India Farid Mamundzay on Sunday said his country is going through a difficult time, and only good leadership, compassionate attitude and international support to the Afghan people would bring an end to "miseries". Mamundzay also appreciated the words of sympathy and support messages from all "Indian friends" and the diplomatic missions in New Delhi over the suffering of Afghans in the past few weeks. His remarks come days after the Taliban swept across Afghanistan, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including capital Kabul, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces. "I appreciate the kind words of sympathy and support messages from all Indian friends and the diplomatic missions in New Delhi over the suffering of Afghans in the past few weeks, particularly the last seven to eight days," Mamundzay said on Twitter. "The avoidable suffering of Afghanistan is man-made and at a scale beyond all civilised contemplation," he said.  Afghanistan is going through a difficult time, and only good leadership, compassionate attitude and international support to the Afghan people "would somewhat bring an end to these miseries", the envoy said. India on Sunday brought back nearly 400 people, including 329 of its nationals and two Afghan lawmakers, in three different flights as part of its efforts to evacuate its citizens from Kabul in the backdrop of the deteriorating situation in the city after its takeover by the Taliban. Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani fled the country as his US-backed government fell with the Taliban gaining control. In his first comments after he left Afghanistan, Ghani in a Facebook post on August 15 had said he was faced with a "hard choice" between the "armed Taliban" who wanted to enter the Presidential Palace or "leaving the dear country that I dedicated my life to protecting the past 20 years".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghanistan-going-through-difficult-time-international-support-will-end-miseries-afghan-envoy-to-india-1022409.html
22-08-2021||National||Supreme Court imposes Rs 20,000 cost on a man for delayed filing of plea||The Supreme Court has imposed Rs 20,000 cost on a man from Haryana who approached the top court after 827 days delay against a Punjab and Haryana High Court order in a matter related to interest on compensation for acquisition of land. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy deprecated the casual manner of filing an appeal in the case. The court noted the application filed by appellants, Brijesh Singh and others for condonation of delay showed that all that has been stated therein was that "some" delay took place in the matter, without giving sufficient explanation for it. It said the petitioners initially did not challenge the award of the Land Acquisition Collector and subsequently, with an enormous delay of 1591 days, they filed the appeal before the High Court because there were other co-sharers who were benefitting. "The High Court was kind enough to condone the delay but subject to the condition that the petitioners would not be entitled to interest on the enhanced compensation for the period of delay. The present petition has been filed after a delay of 827 days against that order saying that the petitioners should also be entitled to the interest on the compensation for the period of delay," the bench pointed out. It is a moot point whether at all after such a delay the petitioners ought to have been granted benefit by the High Court. Despite the indulgence shown, the petitioners have not been satisfied with it and casually seeks to walk into this court to claim interest on the compensation, the bench added. The bench dismissed the plea against the High Court's order of August 21, 2017, saying, "We thus consider it appropriate to burden the petitioners with costs for wastage of judicial time".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-imposes-rs-20000-cost-on-a-man-for-delayed-filing-of-plea-1022410.html
22-08-2021||National||Turban makers of Bengal town feel heat of Afghanistan turmoil||With Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan dealing a severe blow to trade, a handful of turban-makers in West Bengal’s Bankura district who had been supplying colourful silk headgears to Kabuliwallahs for over 40 years are now staring at an uncertain future. Since the Afghanistan crisis began, over 150 turban-makers in Sonamukhi town known for its exquisite silk weaves, are incurring huge losses as a Surat-based agency exporting headgears has stopped sending consignments, spokesman of local weavers organisation Shyamapada Dutta told PTI Sunday. "Due to the prevailing economic downturn, and the lockdowns, business had already received a blow with less than half of the turban-makers pulling on. The tumultuous situation in Afghanistan has dealt the final nail on the coffin in the past one week or so,” Dutta said. Sonamukhi town in the state’s western part, some 3,000 km from Kabul, had become a turban hub over four decades back when some Pakhtoons, locally known as Kabuliwallahs, used to visit Krishnabazar area to peddle spices, dry fruits, and for money lending purposes. As their rapport grew with local weavers, who were manufacturing items like sarees, the Pakhtoons placed orders for turbans and took the initiative in taking their products to Kolkata and from there to Surat, an old-timer of the place recalled. It became a flourishing business and around 150 weavers engaged themselves in the turban trade and the business continued for generations. Asked about the impact, Dutta, himself a turban maker, said with a headgear costing between Rs 350 and Rs 3,500, the craftsmen are suffering considerable losses. A turban-maker usually made around 20-50 turbans a month, another weaver said. Businessman Nimai Pal, who used to take the product from weavers and send them to Kolkata, said though it was difficult to hazard a guess, approximately a loss of Rs 1 crore has been incurred. "Though business had been down for quite some time due to factors like recession, lockdown, prolonged uncertainty in Afghanistan, trade was limping. The visit of Pakhtoons had also dwindled over the years. But now it has altogether stopped. The craftsmen will now be compelled to take up weaving other items," he added. A district official said if the weavers and traders approach the government documenting the losses and their previous income, the issue of financial support will be sympathetically considered. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/turban-makers-of-bengal-town-feel-heat-of-afghanistan-turmoil-1022419.html
22-08-2021||National||Thermal power plants permitted to use high ash content coal based on technical study: Govt informs NGT||Defending the government decision to allow thermal power plants to use coal with higher ash content than earlier, the Centre has informed the National Green Tribunal that it was based on technical study and in light of representations from the stakeholder ministries. The Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Coal in their joint reply to the NGT said that it has issued a notification in this regard. "If higher ash content in the coal is not permitted, washing of coal will be required to reduce the ash content and, in that process, apart from pollution in transportation more water will be wasted," the NGT was informed. The government also said that emission norms and instructions for the utilisation of fly ash have been notified which are applicable to the Thermal Power Plants (TPP). The power plants have to take prior Environment Clearance (EC) and comply for control of environmental impact, the government said. Since the matter related to this is still pending in the Supreme Court, the counsel for both the ministries submitted that overlapping issues are pending consideration before the Supreme Court and parallel proceedings before the tribunal may not be appropriate. The government made this submission after a plea by NGO 'Say Earth' against the May 21, 2020 notification issued by the Ministry of Environment under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, permitting the use of coal with ash content higher than permitted earlier, saying it is causing damage to the environment. Under the new notification, thermal power plants will be able to use coal irrespective of ash content and will be liable for proper disposal of coal ash and meet emission standards set by the apex pollution monitoring body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thermal-power-plants-permitted-to-use-high-ash-content-coal-based-on-technical-study-govt-informs-ngt-1022435.html
22-08-2021||National||Malabar naval exercise involving Quad nations to start on August 26||The next edition of the Malabar naval exercise involving the Quad countries is set to commence from August 26-29 off the coast of Guam for which two Indian warships INS Shivalik and INS Kadmatt reached the island in the western Pacific. With participation from the US Navy, Japanese Maritime Self Defence Force and Royal Australian Navy, the high-tempo exercises would involve intense wargaming by destroyers', frigates, corvettes, submarines, helicopters and long-range maritime patrol aircraft of the participating navies. “Complex surface, sub-surface and air operations including live weapon firing drills, anti-surface, anti-air and anti-submarine warfare drills, joint manoeuvres and tactical exercises will be conducted during the exercise,” said an Indian Navy spokesperson. The Malabar series of exercises began in 1992 as a bilateral drill between the Indian and US Navy but grew in its stature over the years involving Japanese and Australian navies to turn into a strategic convergence of the countries aligning against China. The latest entrant was Royal Australian Navy who joined last year completing the Quad. To be conducted at sea, the exercise will provide an opportunity for common minded navies to enhance interoperability, gain from best practices and develop a common understanding of procedures for maritime security operations. As part of the Exercise, Vice Admiral AB Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command will have operational discussions with Rear Admiral Leonard "Butch" Dollaga, Commander, CTF-74 -- a part of the 7th Fleet -- focussing on developing an action plan and coordinated operations in the maritime domain. Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Fleet, Rear Admiral Tarun Sobti would embark on board INS Shivalik during the conduct of sea phase. The participating Indian ships are the latest indigenously designed and built, multi-role guided missile stealth frigate and anti-submarine corvette respectively. They are part of the Indian Navy's Eastern Fleet based at Visakhapatnam. The two ships are equipped with a versatile array of weapons and sensors and can carry multi-role helicopters. INS Shivalik is commanded by Captain Kapil Mehta whilst INS Kadmatt is commanded by Commander RK Maharana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/malabar-naval-exercise-involving-quad-nations-to-start-on-august-26-1022453.html
22-08-2021||National||Pro-Pakistan slogans: 10 held; NSA invoked against 4 in Ujjain||Police on Sunday invoked the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against four persons out of ten arrested so far for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans during a Muharram event in Ujjain of Madhya Pradesh, a senior police officer said. The development comes a day after some right-wing organisations and religious leaders clad in saffron staged demonstrations, torched effigies of Pakistan, and demanded tough action by the police against those people who had raised pro-Pakistan slogans in the Geeta Colony area on the night of August 19. Ujjain superintendent of police Satyendra Shukla confirmed to PTI that the NSA has been invoked on four persons who among others had allegedly shouted the slogans. He refused to give names of the accused. The district collector invoked the NSA on four accused on the recommendation of the police, police sources said. Shukla said police have arrested ten people for sloganeering so far. Reacting to the incident on Friday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had said his government would not tolerate a "Taliban-like" mindset. When asked if the sloganeering was a reaction to the district administration's decision to ban all public processions because of the coronavirus pandemic, Ujjain police had denied any such link. Police had booked over a dozen people under sections 124 (a) (sedition) and 153 (provocation which can cause riot) of the Indian Penal Code. "We have identified 16 persons who raised the slogans. Efforts are on to identify others," Shukla said. CM Chouhan had also said the government has taken a tough stand vis-a-vis the Ujjain incident. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pro-pakistan-slogans-10-held-nsa-invoked-against-4-in-ujjain-1022457.html
22-08-2021||National||Indian naval ship carrying 100 tonne liquid medical oxygen reaches Sri Lanka amid rapid rise in Covid cases||Indian naval ship Shakti carrying 100 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen reached Sri Lanka on Sunday to help the island nation combat the Covid-19 pandemic. The country’s ports minister Rohitha Abeygunawardena was at the port here to receive the cargo and hailed India’s assistance to curb the coronavirus pandemic. The deployment of the Indian naval vessel for the delivery of oxygen was in response to a personal request for assistance by Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa for an urgent supply of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO), the Indian High Commission here said. “Camaraderie and coordination between Navies and various other stakeholders in India and Sri Lanka were on display as Sri Lankan Naval Vessel Shakthi with 40 tonnes of LMO on board also commenced its journey from Chennai to Colombo around the same time as INS Shakti. “It was a rare instance wherein two Shakti vessels commenced their journey from two different ports in India to the same destination almost at the same time for a common purpose,” it said. India’s assistance to Sri Lanka during the pandemic has been varied and need-based in nature. Close to 26 tonnes of essential medical supplies were gifted in April-May 2020. Currency swap of $400 million was provided in July 2020. The first consignment of vaccines, which was donated by India in January 2021, enabled Sri Lanka to roll out their vaccination programme ahead of the schedule, the Indian High Commission said. Sri Lanka is currently experiencing a rapid rise in infections. The death toll exceeded 7,000 with nearly 200 fatalities, the health authorities said on Sunday. There has been a 30 per cent increase in the demand of oxygen to handle the rapid rise in the number of fresh patients, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-naval-ship-carrying-100-tonne-liquid-medical-oxygen-reaches-sri-lanka-amid-rapid-rise-in-covid-cases-1022463.html
22-08-2021||National||VP Naidu misses his 'sister' Sushma Swaraj on 'Raksha Bandhan'||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday said he misses his "sister" Sushma Swaraj, especially on Raksha Bandhan. Naidu was responding to a tweet by late Sushma Swaraj's daughter Bansuri in which she had shared pictures of the former Union minister tying rakhi to Naidu and applying customary 'tika' on his forehead. "Some bonds are so sweet and strong that they cannot be punctuated even by time! A very #HappyRakshaBandhan to everyone," she wrote. Responding to the greetings, Naidu said he couldn't agree more.    "... some bonds transcend time... Dearly miss my sister Sushma Ji, especially today," he tweeted. Swaraj passed away on August 6, 2019.  Earlier in the day, the vice president celebrated Raksha Bandhan with school children in Bengaluru. He urged people to uphold the dignity of women and ensure a safe environment for them at all times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-misses-his-sister-sushma-swaraj-on-raksha-bandhan-1022467.html
22-08-2021||National||Income tax portal live after emergency maintenance, says Infosys||After about two days of the income tax portal being unavailable, Infosys late on Sunday said emergency maintenance on the website has concluded and it is now live. Developed by Infosys, the new income tax e-filing portal 'www.incometax.gov.in' has had a bumpy start from the day of its launch on June 7 as it continued to face tech glitches with users complaining that certain functionalities were either unavailable or working slow. A tweet by Income Tax department said the portal has not been available since Saturday. Infosys India Business, which is the Twitter handle of Infosys India Business unit, in a tweet on Sunday evening said: "The emergency maintenance of the @IncomeTaxIndia portal has concluded and the portal is live. We regret any inconvenience caused to taxpayers." Earlier in the day, it had tweeted that the portal was under "emergency maintenance". The Finance Ministry has "summoned" Infosys MD and CEO Salil Parekh on Monday to explain to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman the reasons for continued glitches even after over two months of launch. As users complained of various glitches after a fortnight of launch, Sitharaman had on June 22 called a meeting with key officials of Infosys to review the issues on the portal. The minister had then asked Infosys to address all issues without further loss of time, improve their services, and redress grievances on priority as it was impacting taxpayers adversely. At that time, Infosys CEO Salil Parekh, and COO Pravin Rao, along with other company officials, had taken note of the issues highlighted by the stakeholders. They had also acknowledged the technical issues in the functioning of the portal and shared the status of the resolution with respect to the issues highlighted by the stakeholders, as per an official statement issued after the meeting. In 2019, Infosys was awarded a contract to develop the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and expedite refunds. Till June 2021, the government has paid Rs 164.5 crore to Infosys for developing the portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-tax-portal-live-after-emergency-maintenance-says-infosys-1022480.html
22-08-2021||National||Sikh Afghan lawmaker Narender Khalsa among evacuees||Narender Singh Khalsa won a seat in Wolesi Jirga or the lower House of Parliament in Afghanistan in January 2019 – just six months after his father Awtar Singh Khalsa and 10 other Afghan Sikhs had been killed in a terror attack. His win in parliamentary elections was hailed as one of the many small steps democracy took in Afghanistan over the past 20 years. But as the Taliban’s imminent return to power suddenly put in peril all the gains Afghanistan made in its struggle against the lethal cocktail of fanaticism, extremism and terrorism, Narender Singh and his family joined over 167 others to board a military aircraft at the chaotic and overcrowded Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul and flew out to India. Another group of 146 evacuees were flown to Doha from Kabul and they are likely to be flown to New Delhi by Monday morning. “Everything is finished in Afghanistan,” said Narender, as he broke down, after landing at the Indian Air Force (IAF) base at Hindon near Delhi early on Sunday. “We are back to square one now.” Also in tears was Anarkali Kour Honaryar. “It’s not easy to leave one’s own country,” said the member of the Meshrano Jirga or the upper House of the National Assembly of Afghanistan. Anarkali has been a passionate participant in democracy’s struggle over the past two decades to regain the lost ground in Afghanistan. She was a member of the Loya Jirga or the grand assembly that appointed the interim government led by Hamid Karzai after the Taliban was ousted from power in 2001. She was also a member of the committee that drafted the new constitution of Afghanistan. She had scripted history when she entered the Meshrano Jirga as the first non-Muslim member of Afghan Parliament in 2011. She saw the Taliban’s atrocities on women when it ruled Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001. That was why she was not convinced when the leaders of the militant organization promised to pursue a different policy and respect the rights of women when they would return to power. “There is no guarantee at all,” said the dentist-turned-human-rights-activist, who, along with her ailing mother, father and siblings, left Kabul onboard the Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft early on Sunday. “The situation is now too bad in Afghanistan.” The IAF aircraft evacuated several Afghan Sikh and Hindu families, along with 107 Indians. The youngest of the evacuees was an infant girl, Iknoor Singh. The Taliban militants had detained some of the evacuees when they had reached close to the airport in Kabul on Saturday. They had been released later though. “I still cannot believe I could finally arrive in India,” said Anarkali, as she thanked the Government of India and the IAF for evacuating her and her family. “I have seen (such evacuations) in Hollywood and Bollywood films, but never thought it could really happen.” Another Air India aircraft on Sunday brought to New Delhi 87 evacuees, who were earlier flown to Dushanbe by an IAF aircraft from Kabul. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sikh-afghan-lawmaker-narender-khalsa-among-evacuees-1022485.html
22-08-2021||National||UP Muslims recall ‘Hindutva icon’ Kalyan Singh with fondness||Kalyan Singh might have been a Hindutva icon, under whose watch the Babri Masjid was demolished, but some Muslims in and around his native village in Aligarh district remember the veteran BJP leader for his other qualities. The two-time Uttar Pradesh chief minister died in Lucknow on Saturday evening following a prolonged illness. He is to be cremated at Rajghat in Narora near here on Monday with full state honour. “Babuji enjoyed deep love and respect from Muslims too here,” said Haider Ali Asad, referring to Singh as ‘Babuji’ as what the veteran leader was known. Asad, who belongs to a prominent family of Pindrawal near neighbouring Atrauli, also recalled an incident involving Singh’s prompt help and assurance to Muslims near his village during the simmering communal tension in 1991 over the Ayodhya dispute. “Babu Ji had just become the chief minister and was on a visit to his village. As he was entering Madhuli village, he noticed some fear-stricken Muslim families migrating from the village,” said Asad, a former AMU Students Union leader. “He immediately called those families and assured them of complete safety and security in their village, urging them not to leave their village,” said Asad, also a long-time associate of Singh and a key activist of his short-lived political outfit formed in 2000. “The then chief minister also called the local police officials immediately and warned them that they would be personally held accountable if any harm was done to the Muslim families,” he added. He also cautioned the families not to move out of their village till the tension ended, he said, adding it was not an isolated incident. "There are several Muslim families who stay in the neighbourhood of Singh’s bungalow in the Civil Lines area in Aligarh,” Asad said. "Babu Ji always made it a point to have cordial relations with all these families,” he added. Similar sentiments were expressed by Javed Sayed, a prominent Aligarh-based businessman and grandson of the erstwhile Nawab of Charri. "In 1991, a prime property belonging to our family in Bulandshshar was being illegally confiscated by some local officials. When I and my father met Babu Ji over the issue, he immediately ordered a probe and assured us that no injustice would be done,” said Sayed. “I can never forget how promptly the justice was meted out to us,” he said. Singh who was elected to the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly nine times since 1967, is credited with pitchforking the saffron party in the crucial state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-muslims-recall-hindutva-icon-kalyan-singh-with-fondness-1022494.html
22-08-2021||National Politics||Assam MP lists 'failures' of Himanta govt's 100 days||Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora has slammed the Himanta Biswa Sarma-led Assam government for the alleged slow pace of vaccination in the state and "jeopardising" age-old social harmony by bringing in a cattle preservation law. Making an analysis of the 100 days performance of the BJP-led government in Assam, Bora also alleged that the inter-state border disputes have escalated during the new dispensation and it has gone back on the promise of waiving off the micro finance loan of women. The Congress leader said in a statement that Sarma's government has made tall claims about success in various fields but "practically there is nothing to show as achievements". Out of Assam's 3.35 crore population, just 20 lakh were fully vaccinated till now while 1.28 crore people got just single dose and 1.07 crore people of the age of above 18 years did not get even a single dose of vaccine, which is very alarming, he said. Bora claimed that there were 35 encounters between police and drugs peddlers in the first 100 days of the BJP government in the state, which is a serious threat to human rights and against a Supreme Court ruling. Even the chief minister has provoked the police to shoot the accused, he claimed. The former president of Assam Pradesh Congress Committee said the Cattle Preservation Bill 2021 will "jeopardise" the long-lasting peace and tranquility between the Hindu, Muslim and Christians in Assam. "Under this Act selling of beef is banned within 5 km radius of any religious place. But Assam is such a state where almost all villages or areas, Hindus, Muslims and Christians have been living together since time immemorial. As such there will be not a single place where there will not be Hindu or Muslim within the 5 km radius of a temple or a 'satra' (Vaishnavite monastery), 'namghar' (a kind of Assamese temple)," he said. Bora also termed as "gross failure" of the Sarma’s government in protecting Assam's interest with regards to border disputes with the neighbouring states as six Assam Police personnel were killed and over 50 others injured by Mizoram Police in a border clash last month. Repeated tension along the Assam-Mizoram, Assam-Nagaland and Assam-Meghalaya borders and lack of progress in the talks over boundary disputes cannot be termed as success, as claimed by the Assam chief minister, he said. The Congress leader also said the BJP-led government has not yet fulfilled a party promise during the election campaign that the micro finance loan of the women borrowers will be waived off within one month of forming the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assam-mp-lists-failures-of-himanta-govts-100-days-1022338.html
22-08-2021||National Politics||Kalyan Singh, the man who showed BJP the 'Hindutva' way||Former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh passed away on Saturday after a protracted illness. Once considered to be a potential candidate for the post of prime minister, Kalyan Singh, one of the key figures behind the Ram Temple movement, is credited with the rise of the BJP in India’s largest and politically most crucial state of Uttar Pradesh. It was Kalyan Singh, who blended Mandal with Kamandal, caste identity politics with Hindutva, into a potent political mix that resulted in BJP's expansion in the UP. When BJP came back to power in UP in 2017, they used the same formula of mixing the Mandal with Kamandal and is looking to use the same strategy in the upcoming assembly polls. The defining moment in Kalyan Singh’s life was the fall of Babri Masjid on December 6, 1992. Just hours after mobs of kar sevaks demolished it, Singh quit as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh owning moral responsibility. Not that he had any regrets over his “failure” to save the mosque which he had assured the Supreme Court would be protected. "Such was his popularity after the Babri Masjid demolition that it took him 13 hours to cover a distance of 130 kilometres from Lucknow to Ayodhya when he visited the temple town after the demolition," Rakesh Pandey recalled. Much before the rise of Narendra Modi in the national political space, it was Singh who was considered the “Hindu-Hriday Samrat” in the party ranks. “Maybe it was destined that the structure would be demolished with me as chief minister,” Singh told a newspaper ahead of the 2020 “bhoomi pujan” for the Ram temple, now being built at the once disputed site in Ayodhya after a historic Supreme Court verdict. “Had there been no demolition, probably the courts too would have ordered status quo,” he said then. And his last wish, he said, was to live till the temple comes up. He was acquitted in the Babri Masjid demolition case by a special CBI court in Lucknow. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kalyan-singh-the-man-who-showed-bjp-the-hindutva-way-1022352.html
22-08-2021||National Politics||BJP won't be allowed to hijack the word 'Hindu': Harish Rawat||Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Harish Rawat has said he would not let the BJP hijack the word "Hindu". "The BJP has emptied Hinduism of its vital elements and reduced it to Hindutva. We are Hindus in our values. We believe in Sanatan Dharma. We won't let it hijack the word Hindu," Rawat told reporters on Saturday. "Being Hindus, we believe in Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam (entire earth is one family), Sarva Dharma Sambhav (equality of religions) but the BJP believes in Sarva Dharma Jhagda Bhav (quarrelling with all religions) " the AICC general secretary and the party's campaign committee head for Uttarakhand said. Rawat announced that the party will launch a Parivartan Yatra next month to acquaint people of the state with the "failures" of the BJP governments both in the state and the Centre. The Parivartan Yatra is aimed at convincing people why a change of government is necessary in the state to strengthen it economically and keep "Uttarakhandiyat" -- the all-encompassing nature of its cultural identity alive, he said. Accusing the state government of undoing all reforms introduced in education and health sectors during his tenure, Rawat said all of them will be revived if Congress is voted back to power. "We will keep the flag of Uttarakhandiyat flying high and create a welfare state which takes care of the common people, the poor and the deprived sections of society," Rawat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-wont-be-allowed-to-hijack-the-word-hindu-harish-rawat-1022363.html
22-08-2021||National Politics||Can facilitate entry of Eknath Shinde in BJP: Narayan Rane creates flutter in Shiv Sena camp||Union Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises Minister Narayan Rane has created a flutter in Shiv Sena by saying he could facilitate the entry of senior leader Eknath Shinde in BJP if the latter wants. Shinde is a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and is the Urban Development Minister in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Besides, he is also the Guardian Minister of Thane and Gadchiroli districts.  Shinde commands tremendous respect among the party rank and files and in cases of crisis, often the first phone call goes to him. “Eknath Shinde is fed up with the Shiv Sena as he has to ask the Matoshree before signing any file,” Rane said.  Matoshree is the private bungalow of the Thackeray family located in Bandra.  “If he (Eknath Shinde) approaches me, I will surely induct him into the BJP…. Shinde is fed up there and has no work. He faces trouble there,” said Rane as the BJP’s Jan Aashirwad Yatra passed through the twin districts of Palghar and Thane, where Shinde wields influence.  Shinde’s equations cut across party lines - and in October-November, 2019, he played a crucial role in forming the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government that prevented BJP from coming to power again.  Meanwhile, Shinde, who was in Gadchiroli, said that Rane’s statements and allegations were baseless. “I have complete freedom to make decisions,” he said, pointing out that he has taken many decisions vis-a-vis the Developing Control and Promotion Regulations and building of HinduHruday Samrat Balasaheb Thackeray Samruddhi Corridor.  “Rane himself was Chief Minister (in the erstwhile Shiv Sena-BJP government) and he knows that important decisions are to be taken in consultation with Chief Minister….as Union Minister, if he wants to take a political decision, Rane will have to consult Prime Minister (Narendra Modi),” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/can-facilitate-entry-of-eknath-shinde-in-bjp-narayan-rane-creates-flutter-in-shiv-sena-camp-1022389.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||Ex-soldier shoots himself dead in Jammu||A retired soldier allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself at his residence here Saturday, police said. Kuldeep Singh Chib (48) reportedly fired from his licensed double-barrel gun at Hari Singh Gharat village in Kana chak sector in the outskirts of Jammu Saturday evening, official said. Chib died on the spot and later his body was sent for postmortem. The motive behind the extreme step was not known immediately, the official said, adding police have started the investigation process and further detail is awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-soldier-shoots-himself-dead-in-jammu-1022256.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||Cyber criminals hack hospital server, issue birth/death certificates||Cyber criminals have struck again in Lucknow. This time, they have hacked into the computer network of Balrampur Hospital and fraudulently generated dozens of fake birth and death certificates over the past month and issued it to different people. The hospital administration, on Saturday, lodged an FIR against unidentified hackers under the IT Act, 2008 at Wazirganj police station. Interestingly, the hospital does not have a gynaecology and obstetrics wing and, hence, not a single birth took place here. However, the hospital authorities so far have found that at least 41 birth certificates have been issued. Officers believe that it could be just a tip of the iceberg and are conducting an audit to find out if more fake certificates related to birth or death and any other medical documents were also generated through the hospital system. Police suspect that this could be a part of an all-India racket which has been hacking into hospital portals across the country and generating fake death and birth certificates online and selling them to people. Dr M.P. Singh, officer in charge of issuing certificates, said the hospital is connected to the centralised network of portals run by the Civil Registration System (CRS) which works under the chief registrar (birth and death), New Delhi, and keeps the population record of the country. Dr Singh said, "We have a separate user ID and password. In the past one month, we experienced snags while accessing the system for issuing death certificates. It denied us access every now and then. When we lodged a complaint with the chief registrar office, it told us that there might be some 'suspicious activities' being carried out by using the hospital's user ID and password." "On August 16, when the portal denied us access again, we contacted computer experts at the health directorate and got a probe done which revealed that the system has been hacked," he added. Later, an internal audit found that as many as 41 fake birth certificates had been generated through the hospital's user ID in the span of a month despite the fact that the hospital does not take delivery cases. Chief Medical Officer Dr Manoj Agrawal said, "We have asked other hospitals to report if they are also facing similar problems." At present, nine district government hospitals and three government-aided medical educational institutions in the city are connected to the CRS portal and allowed to issue birth or death certificates. Meanwhile, assistant commissioner of police, Chowk, I.P. Singh said, "A case has been registered and a probe is underway to trace the trail of hacking."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cyber-criminals-hack-hospital-server-issue-birth/death-certificates-1022312.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||Bridge, standing crops damaged in flash floods in Ladakh||A bridge and standing crops were damaged on Sunday in flash floods in several villages in Ladakh, where authorities sounded an alert after an outburst of an artificial lake resulted in blockage of the Zanskar river, officials said. Chief Executive Officer, District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), Sonam Chosjor said there was an outburst of an artificial lake near Rumbak village on Saturday, resulting in blockage of Zanskar river and thereby creating an artificial lake in the area. The officials said the artificial lake triggered flash floods early Sunday morning, damaging the Rumbak bridge and standing crops spread over a large area in the village and adjoining areas. However, there was no report of any casualty, the officials said, adding rescue teams are on the spot. The DDMA had issued an alert Sunday evening asking senior officers including chief engineer NHPC Nemo Basgo Project, sub-divisional magistrates of Liker and Khaltsi and Ladakh disaster response force to stay alert and prepared for flooding in the Indus river. The population living downstream Nemoo was also asked to prepare for flooding in the river, the officials said. They said the road approaching Rumbak, Zingchen, Yurutse and Rumchung has been cut off from the main road. Senior officers are monitoring the situation that is well under control, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bridge-standing-crops-damaged-in-flash-floods-in-ladakh-1022325.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||My father was born for Ram: Kalyan Singh's son||With a lump in his throat, Rajveer Singh, son of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, said his father was born for "Jai Shri Ram", a slogan which was heard outside the veteran BJP leader's home on Sunday as people gathered there to pay their last respects. Singh, who was ailing for some time, died at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on Saturday night. He was 89. To a question that every party worker who came out from the residence chanted 'Jai Shri Ram', Rajveer Singh, who is also the Lok Sabha MP from Etah, said, "His birth was for this (Jai Shri Ram) only. He was committed to Ram Mandir, and he has gone to Ram himself. He would be seeing the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. He has gone to Ram Lalla." The "Jai Shri Ram" slogan had also once galvanised the BJP in the politically crucial state in the 1990s. Rajveer Singh also said that his family will dedicate itself to the Ram temple. Uttar Pradesh has announced three-day mourning and a holiday on Monday when the former chief minister's last rites will be performed. Kalyan Singh was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister when the Babri mosque was demolished by a mob of "karsevaks" in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Along with BJP veterans L K Advani and M M Joshi, he was among the 32 people acquitted in the demolition case in September last year. A Lodhi leader, Singh was instrumental in the rise of the BJP to power in Uttar Pradesh in the 1990s. He is survived by his wife Ramvati Devi, son Rajveer Singh, who is the Lok Sabha MP from Etah, and grandson Sandeep Singh, who is the minister of state for finance, technical education and medical education in Uttar Pradesh.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/my-father-was-born-for-ram-kalyan-singhs-son-1022342.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||Both factions of Hurriyat Conference likely to be banned under UAPA||A ban under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act may be imposed on both factions of the secessionist conglomerate Hurriyat Conference which has been spearheading the separatist movement in Jammu and Kashmir for over two decades, officials said. They said a recent probe into the granting of MBBS seats to Kashmiri students by institutions in Pakistan indicates that the money collected from aspirants by some organisations which were part of the Hurriyat Conference conglomerate was being used for funding terror organisations in the union territory. The officials said both the factions of the Hurriyat are likely to be banned under Section 3(1) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, or the UAPA, under which "if the Central Government is of opinion that any association is, or has become, an unlawful association, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare such association to be unlawful." They said the proposal was mooted in accordance with the Centre's policy of zero tolerance against terrorism. The Hurriyat Conference came into existence in 1993 with 26 groups, including some pro-Pakistan and banned outfits such as the Jamaat-e-Islami, JKLF and the Dukhtaran-e-Millat. It also included the People's Conference and the Awami Action Committee headed by Mirwaiz Umer Farooq. The separatist conglomerate broke into two factions in 2005 with the moderate group being led by the Mirwaiz and the hard-line headed by Syed Ali Shah Geelani. So far, the Centre has banned the Jamaat-e-Islami and the JKLF under the UAPA. The ban was imposed in 2019. The officials said a probe into funding of terror groups indicated alleged involvement of secessionist and separatist leaders, including the members and cadres of the Hurriyat Conference who have been acting in connivance with active militants of proscribed terrorist organisations Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Dukhtaran-e-Millat (DeM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The cadres raised funds in the country and from abroad through various illegal channels, including hawala, for funding separatist and terrorist activities in Jammu and Kashmir, they said. The funds collected were used for causing disruption in the Kashmir Valley by way of pelting stones on security forces, systematically burning schools, damaging public property and waging war against India as part of a criminal conspiracy, they claimed. Supporting the case for banning the two factions of the Hurriyat Conference under the UAPA, the officials cited several cases related to terror funding, including the one being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in which several of the conglomerate's cadres were arrested and jailed. Many of the second-rung cadres of both the factions are in jail since 2017, they said. Among those in jail are Altaf Ahmed Shah, the son-in-law of Geelani; businessman Zahoor Ahmed Watali; Geelani's close aide Ayaz Akbar, who is also the spokesperson of the hardline separatist organisation Tehreek-e-Hurriyat; Peer Saifullah; Shahid-ul-Islam, spokesperson of the moderate Hurriyat Conference; Mehrajuddin Kalwal; Nayeem Khan; and Farooq Ahmed Dar alias 'Bitta Karate'. Later, JKLF chief Yaseen Malik, DeM head Asiya Andrabi and pro-Pakistan separatist Masarat Alam were also named in a supplementary charge sheet in a case of terror financing. Another case which is likely to be cited for banning the two Hurriyat Conference factions is the one against PDP youth leader Waheed-ur-Rahman Parra, who is alleged to have paid Rs 5 crore to the son-in-law of Geelani for keeping Kashmir in turmoil after the death of Hizbul Mujahideen terror commander Burhan Wani in 2016, the officials said. The NIA has alleged that after the death of Wani, who was killed in an encounter with the Army in July 2016, Parra got in touch with Altaf Ahmad Shah, alias Altaf Fantoosh, and asked him to ensure that the Valley was kept on the boil with widespread unrest and stone pelting. Also, the Counter Intelligence (Kashmir), a branch of CID department of Jammu and Kashmir Police, registered a case in July last year following information that several unscrupulous persons, including some Hurriyat leaders, were hand in glove with some educational consultancies and are selling Pakistan-based MBBS seats and admission in other professional courses in various colleges and universities. At least four persons, including Mohammad Akbar Bhat alias Zaffar Bhat, self-styled chairman of Salvation Movement which is part of moderate Hurriyat Conference, were arrested in this case. It is alleged that the constituents of Hurriyat Conference were "selling" MBBS seats in Pakistan to Kashmiri students and using the money collected, at least partly, to support and fund terrorism. During the probe, it had surfaced that individual Hurriyat leaders had their quota of seats which were sold to people desiring to obtain MBBS and other professional degrees in one way or the other, the officials said. The officials said evidence showed that the money was "put into channels that ended up in supporting programmes and projects pertaining to terrorism and separatism like payment for organising stone pelting." Citing investigation, the officials said that average cost of an MBBS seat in Pakistan was anything between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 12 lakh. In some cases, the fee was brought down on the intervention of Hurriyat leaders. Depending upon the political heft of the Hurriyat leader who intervened, concessions were extended to aspiring students, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/both-factions-of-hurriyat-conference-likely-to-be-banned-under-uapa-1022364.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||'Curses' and a legend stop these UP villages from celebrating 'Raksha Bandhan'||On a day when the entire country is celebrating 'Raksha Bandhan', there are some villages in the state where the festival is considered taboo for various reasons. In Satha Chaurasi, a cluster of about 60 villages in Hapur district, people have not celebrated Raksha Bandhan in the traditional manner for almost four and a half centuries. Women in this village do not tie 'rakhi' on their brothers' wrist but tie it on wooden sticks instead. Majority of the residents here claim to be the 17th generation of Maharana Pratap, the Hindu Rajput king known for his valour. "In 1576 during the battle of Haldighati, all men were on the battlefield and could not be present for 'Raksha Bandhan'. The women decided to tie 'rakhis' to wooden sticks as a symbol and that tradition has continued till date," said Raghuvir Singh, a local resident. The local people call this 'Chhadi Puja' and a local fair is also organised on the occasion. In another village Surana in Meerut, women do not celebrate 'Raksha Bandhan' because of a 'curse'. "In the late 12th century, on the day of the festival, Muhammad Ghori had attacked the village and killed every resident, except a woman and her two sons who were not present there. Later, when the residents tried to celebrate the festival, a village boy got crippled. The incident was seen as a curse, and ever since, the festival has not been celebrated here," said Umesh Tyagi, a local teacher. Sukesh Yadav, another resident of the village, said, "A woman of Chabbaiya gotra was saved as on that day she was not present in the village. Later, her sons Lakhan and Choonda returned and resettled the village. They were accompanied by 100 Ranas. Even today the population of the village comprises 50 per cent Chabbaiya Yadavas. The name of the village was also rechristened as Sohrana (100 Ranas) that was later twisted to become Surana village." In Bainipur Chak village of Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh, 'Raksha Bandhan' is not celebrated for a different reason. The people here believe that if their sisters demand property as a gift, they will have to part with it. The village has not celebrated Raksha Bandhan for almost 300 years now because of this fear. The local people explain the reason behind this belief. There was a local zamindar who did not have any daughters. His sons started getting 'rakhi' tied from girls of other castes and one year, one of the girls demanded his 'zamindari'. The family left the village after handing over the zamindari of the village to the girl who belonged to another caste and honouring the sanctity of the festival. Since then, the people of Bakia gotra do not celebrate Rakhi. Meanwhile, some villages in Gunnaur in Sambhal also do not celebrate the festival. "About two decades ago, a sister had tied a rakhi to her brother and the brother died a few hours later. The tradition was stopped for a few years but when it was restarted, there was an accident on Raksha Bandhan and several men died. After this, the local people felt that the festival was cursed and did not celebrate it," said Rampher Pandey, a local resident. Similar incidents have been reported from Bhikhampur Jagat Purwa village in Gonda district and people have stopped celebrating Raksha Bandhan. "Whenever we have celebrated this festival, something untoward has happened so we have stopped celebrating Raksha Bandhan," said a local teacher Surya Kumar Mishra. Villagers believe that if a child is born on Raksha Bandhan day, the 'curse' will be lifted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/curses-and-a-legend-stop-these-up-villages-from-celebrating-raksha-bandhan-1022392.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||Haryana extends Covid-19 lockdown till September 6; earlier relaxations to continue||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the Covid lockdown by a fortnight while allowing various relaxations permitted earlier to continue. The relaxations include the opening of restaurants, bars, malls, clubhouses and shops. “The Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana is extended for another fortnight, that is from August 23 (5 am onwards) to September 6 (till 5 am) in the state of Haryana along with guidelines to be implemented during this period issued vide earlier orders,” an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said on Sunday. The order was issued in the exercise of powers under various provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. As per other relaxations allowed earlier, conduct of entrance and recruitment examination by different universities, institutes or government departments and recruitment agencies will continue to be permissible. All Covid-related guidelines including those related to social distancing, sanitization and seating capacity, however, will have to be followed, the order said. Universities and colleges will be allowed to reopen for students for doubt classes, practical classes in laboratories, practical examinations and offline exams with strict adherence to the Covid-related norms, earlier orders provided. Vice-chancellors of universities in the state are advised to plan the reopening of universities from the next academic session and share the programme of the same with the concerned department of the state government. Immediate action may be initiated/ensured by the university administration to fully vaccinate all hostel students, day scholars, faculty and other staff including the outsourced ones, the order said. There will be a continuous focus on the five-fold strategy for the effective management of Covid-19, that is test-trace-track-vaccination and adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour, earlier orders said. The state government has termed the lockdown "Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana (Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana)" and it was imposed on May 3, 2021, and subsequently the same was extended from time to time on a weekly basis. However, from August 9, it has been extended by a fortnight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-september-6-earlier-relaxations-to-continue-1022394.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||J&K: Schoolgirls, women celebrate Raksha Bandhan with soldiers at Indo-Pak border, LoC||Soldiers and paramilitary personnel posted far away from home along the Line of Control and International Border in the Jammu region celebrated Raksha Bandhan on Sunday as school girls and women tied them rakhis to mark the festival of brother-sister bond. Events were held at several security installations and camps to celebrate the day, with a number of videos of locals tying rakhi to army, paramilitary and police personnel going viral on social media. 'Bharat Raksha Parv' was organised at the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) group headquarters in Jammu, a spokesperson of the paramilitary force said. "Rakhis were tied on the wrists of officers and jawans, and tilak was applied to their forehead by visitors, who also prayed for their long life," the spokesperson said. Girls of the National Cadet Corps' group at the Government Degree College in Bhaderwah in Doda district tied rakhis to soldiers at an army camp. In a video, a girl, who tied a rakhi to a Border Security Force (BSF) personnel at a camp along the India-Pakistan border in Samba district, was heard saying, "Today, we are celebrating the festival depicting brother-sister bond with our jawans, who are miles away from their families guarding the borders of the country." "The purpose of our visit was to make sure that jawans do not feel that their sisters are not with them on this important day," the girl said. A woman said she was happy to see the smile on the faces of the BSF personnel. "We are thankful to our sisters who joined us in the celebrations and made us feel at home despite being away from our families," a BSF officer said. In another video, Muslim girls were seen tying rakhis to army jawans near the Line of Control in Mendhar in Poonch district. Residents of Adarsh Colony in Udhampur district set an example of communal harmony with Hindus and Muslims celebrating the festival together. A number of Hindu women tied rakhis to their Muslim neighbours, while a Muslim woman also knotted the thread to a Hindu, according to reports. The festival was celebrated with fervour across the Jammu region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-schoolgirls-women-celebrate-raksha-bandhan-with-soldiers-at-indo-pak-border-loc-1022401.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM warns Sidhu's advisers against assertions that do 'more damage to India's interests'||Taking strong exception to recent statements of two of Navjot Sidhu's advisers on issues like Kashmir and Pakistan, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday warned against such "atrocious and ill-conceived comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country". He urged Sidhu to rein in his advisers "before they end up doing more damage to India's interests" and asked the advisers "not speak on matters of which they clearly had little or no knowledge, and had no understanding of the implications of their comments". Reacting to reported remarks of Sidhu's advisers Pyare Lal Garg questioning Amarinder Singh's criticism of Pakistan, as well as the earlier controversial statement of Malwinder Singh Mali on Kashmir, he expressed shock at their "extraordinary statements", which he said, were "totally misplaced and antagonistic" to the stated position of India and the Congress on Pakistan and Kashmir." "Kashmir was and is an inalienable part of India," asserted the Chief Minister, adding that with his proclamation to the contrary, Mali had effectively and inexplicably toed Islamabad's line. "This is totally anti-national," he said, also slamming Mali for failing to withdraw his statement despite the widespread condemnation it had evoked not only from other parties but also from within the Congress. Ridiculing Garg's statement that his criticism of Pakistan was not in the interest of Punjab, the Chief Minister said Sidhu's adviser was clearly disconnected from the ground reality. "The fact, which every Punjabi and in fact every Indian knows, is that Pakistan's threat to us is real. Every day they are pushing weapons and drugs into Punjab via drones in a brazen attempt to destabilise our state, and our nation. Punjabi soldiers are dying at the borders at the hands of Pak-backed forces," pointed out the Chief Minister, dubbing Garg's remarks as "irrational and unjustified". "Garg may have forgotten the thousands of Punjabi lives lost in the fire of Pak-backed terrorism of the 1980s and 1990s, but I have not. Nor have the people of Punjab. And we will continue to do everything in our power to fight off Pakistan's dangerous games," asserted Amarinder Singh, urging Garg not to undermine the sacrifices of Punjabis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-warns-sidhus-advisers-against-assertions-that-do-more-damage-to-indias-interests-1022436.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||'Very big' fan of Narendra Modi to walk 815 km from Srinagar with hopes of meeting PM||Fahim Nazir Shah is walking to Delhi from Srinagar, hoping that his around 815-km journey will get the attention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and he will get an opportunity to meet him. "I am a very big fan of Prime Minister Modi," the 28-year-old, who works as a part-time electrician in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar, said as he reached Udhampur on Sunday after walking over 200 km. Taking short breaks on his journey, which started two days ago, Shah, a resident of the Shalimar area in Srinagar, believes that at the end of this arduous journey his dream of meeting the prime minister will be fulfilled. "I am on my way to Delhi by foot to meet him (Modi) and I hope to attract the attention of the prime minister. To meet the prime minister is my cherished dream," he said, adding that his previous attempts to meet the PM did not fructify. Shah said that he has been following the prime minister on social media over the past four years, and his speech and actions have "touched my heart". "At one time, when he was delivering an address at a rally, he stopped suddenly on hearing the 'azaan' (Muslim call for prayer) leaving the public astonished … that gesture of our prime minister touched my heart and I became his ardent fan," he said. Shah said that over the past two and a half years, he has made several attempts to meet Prime Minister Modi in Delhi. "During the PM's last visit to Kashmir, security personnel did not allow me to meet him," he said. "This time I am sure I will get a chance to meet the prime minister," Shah said. Asked about the change in Jammu and Kashmir after its special status was abrogated and made into a Union Territory from a state in 2019, he said the change is visible as Prime Minister Modi has his focus on Jammu and Kashmir. "There is a change in the situation, the development activities are taking place at a good pace and the Union Territory is marching forward," he said. Shah said he would like to discuss the problems of the educated and unemployed youths with the Modi and developing the industrial sector in the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/very-big-fan-of-narendra-modi-to-walk-815-km-from-srinagar-with-hopes-of-meeting-pm-1022455.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij admitted to Chandigarh's PGIMER as his oxygen levels drop||Haryana's Home and Health Minister Anil Vij was on Sunday admitted to the PGIMER here as his oxygen levels dropped. The 68-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had earlier on health grounds expressed inability to attend the state Assembly's monsoon session, which began here on Friday. Vij was admitted to the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here on Sunday evening. Hospital sources said Vij is under the supervision of doctors led by a pulmonary and respiratory medicine specialist. "They are conducting tests to ascertain why oxygen levels are dropping," Vij told PTI over the phone. "PGIMER Director Jagat Ram was also here a short while ago. All doctors of this premier institute are taking good care of me," said Vij. Vij had last week gone to Rohtak to attend the cremation of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's younger brother. He suspects that high altitude during the chopper ride could be the cause behind the drop in his oxygen levels. "My oxygen saturation level has been fluctuating since then," said Vij. When asked if doctors earlier cautioned him regarding high altitude as he had contracted Covid, Vij said he would have taken care had he known about it. However, Vij added, "Don't worry, I will come out of this hospital fully recovered." Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar also visited the PGIMER to enquire about his health. Earlier in the day, Haryana BJP president O P Dhankar met Vij at the minister’s Ambala residence and enquired about his well-being. Vij had last year contracted Covid and was hospitalised for nearly a month. On November 20, 2020, Vij had offered to be the first volunteer in the phase 3 trials for Covid vaccine Covaxin. He was administered the dose at the Civil Hospital in Ambala Cantonment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-admitted-to-chandigarhs-pgimer-as-his-oxygen-levels-drop-1022465.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||Dalit woman raped in Uttar Pradesh village||An 18-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by a man in a village here, police said on Sunday. SHO of Tilhar Police Station Sanjay Kumar said the incident occurred when the young woman was taking her cattle for grazing. According to police, the accused is a middle-aged man and hails from the same village as the victim. The woman narrated her ordeal to her family members after returning home following which the police registered a case on Sunday and she was sent for a medical examination, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-woman-raped-in-uttar-pradesh-village-1022468.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||BJP seeks Mehbooba's apology for 'unruly' Taliban remarks||The BJP on Sunday sought an apology from PDP president Mehbooba Mufti for her reference to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan to call upon the government to restore Jammu and Kashmir's special status, and demanded an investigation to ascertain whether she has any links with the outfit. Lashing out at Mehbooba, the BJP's Jammu and Kashmir unit general secretary and former MLC Vibodh Gupta said the union territory will not become hostage to their “politics of deceit and hypocrisy”. "The people have outright rejected the politics of polarisation and have time and again reposed their faith in the vision of PM Narendra Modi,” he said. Gupta condemned Mehbooba's "unruly statement" and said she has disrespected the youth of Jammu and Kashmir by "drawing a comparison between the Taliban — a terrorist organisation — and our youth". He sought an apology from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former chief minister. "From supporting the Taliban to her pro-Pakistan stand and anti-national remarks, Mehbooba has repeatedly tried to disturb the peace of J-K. Her links with Taliban or ISI should be investigated...," he said. Addressing her party workers on Saturday, Mehbooba had asked the Centre to take a lesson out of Afghanistan where the Taliban seized power and made the US flee, and urged the government to hold dialogue in Jammu and Kashmir and return its special status which was revoked in 2019. Referring to the Taliban seizing power in Afghanistan, the former chief minister warned the Centre “to not test us" and asked the government to “mend its ways, understand the situation, and see what is happening in your neighbourhood." BJP leader Gupta also appealed to his party workers to join the prime minister's call for building a "new and strong India". "Under his visionary leadership, a new and strong India is taking shape and let's vow to become a part of this change," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-seeks-mehboobas-apology-for-unruly-taliban-remarks-1022469.html
22-08-2021||North and Central||J&K admin announces resumption of 'Block Diwas' with ceiling of 25 people||Retaining most of the Covid-containment measures, including the night curfew, the Jammu and Kashmir State Executive Committee (SEC) announced the resumption of the "Block Diwas" across the Union Territory on Sunday with a ceiling of 25 people. It also said it would consider a phased reopening of the educational institutions that have achieved 100 per cent vaccination of the staff and students. In an order issued after a detailed review of the Covid-19 situation with a focus on the total number of weekly new cases (per 10 lakh people), the positivity rate, bed occupancy, the case fatality rate and the vaccination coverage of the targeted population, Chief Secretary A K Mehta said there is a need to continue with the existing Covid-containment measures in all the districts in view of an uneven trend in the number of daily cases. Mehta, who is the chairman of the SEC, said it was also decided to resume the "Block Diwas" in all districts, subject to the ceiling of 25 people with due compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour. The "Block Diwas" is a part of the ambitious "Jan Abhiyan" programme of the Jammu and Kashmir administration during which the district development commissioners concerned and other officers listen to public issues, grievances and demands. The "Block Diwas" is observed to take an appraisal of local issues from the public for an accurate assessment and redressal of the same, thereby providing governance at the grassroots level. "Necessary modifications in the conduct of the event may accordingly be made by all District Magistrates," the order said. It said there would be no weekend curfew anywhere but the night curfew shall continue to remain in force in all districts from 8 pm to 7 am. "All school and higher educational institutions, including coaching centres, shall continue to remain closed for onsite/in-person teaching till further orders," the order said. However, it added that the educational institutions are permitted to seek personal attendance of the vaccinated staff for administrative purposes. "Government shall consider phased re-opening of institutions where 100 per cent vaccination of staff and students has been achieved," the order said. It said the maximum number of people permitted to attend any indoor or outdoor gathering would continue to be restricted to 25. "All District Magistrates and Superintendents of Police shall ensure strict compliance to it," the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-admin-announces-resumption-of-block-diwas-with-ceiling-of-25-people-1022493.html
22-08-2021||South||Cannot enforce Covid-19 guidelines at gunpoint: Experts on rising infection rate in Kerala||Relaxations in movement during the festival season coupled with people not following Covid guidelines are behind Kerala's rising TPR and the state accounting for more than half of the country's virus caseload, medical experts said on Sunday and added that people cannot be made to follow the norms at gunpoint, rather they need to modify their behaviour on their own. As the festival season has not yet ended, the effect of the relaxations and non-Covid appropriate behaviour by people who ventured out for celebrations and shopping would be seen in the test positivity rate (TPR) which, according to the experts like Dr Amar Fettle and Dr Kannan, is expected to rise further from Saturday's 17.73 per cent. From 14.03 per cent on August 16, the TPR has risen steadily to 17.73 on Saturday, August 21. On Saturday, the number of fresh cases in Kerala were 17,106, almost half of the national total of 34,457 which was reported by the Union Health Ministry on August 21 morning. On being asked whether such a scenario was due to the easing of restrictions, the experts said that relaxations were necessary as people were cooped indoors for more than a year, since March last year, and also because of the financial crisis being faced by those without a steady income. Since Kerala had a large population that was not yet infected by Covid-19, the infection rate was bound to increase, that was also a reason for the increase in TPR, they said. On top of that, the Delta strain of the virus, which is active in the state, was much more virulent than the earlier version which was prevalent during the first wave, and as a result a considerable amount of time would be required to bring the TPR down. While the state works to bring the numbers down, sufficient medical infrastructure and personnel are in place to handle the rising caseload, and the capacity can be ramped if required, Dr Fettle, the state nodal officer for Covid-19, said. He said that presently only 40 per cent to 60 per cent of the Covid beds were occupied and not all of the infected persons would require hospitalisation as many among them may have been vaccinated with one or two doses and therefore, the effect of the virus may not be severe on them. He said time has gone when the government could enforce the guidelines by force, now people have to do that themselves. Kerala Health Minister Veena George, on August 19, had said that TPR was high in the state due to more tests being conducted and had asked everyone to be vigilant during Onam as Covid cases were on the rise. "While lives and livelihood are important, self preservation was also important," she had said. "You cannot hold a gun to people's head and make them follow the guidelines. They need to modify their behaviour on their own," Dr Fettle said and added that "instead of government orders, an emotional cry to the people is needed to follow the norms". A similar view was expressed by Dr Kannan, who said that when police officers point out violations of Covid norms in shops during the festive season, the reaction they get from the shop owners or the public is that they are ready to face the legal consequences. This, he said, was due to the fact that people, especially merchants and small businessmen, have been starving due to loss of revenue due to the lockdown and subsequent restricted opening of businesses. Financial crisis faced by those without a steady income as well as being cooped up indoors for such a long time has changed people's outlook towards the virus and they are less scared of it now, he said. Fettle, on the other hand, said that while it was right that businesses cannot be kept shut forever and people cannot be asked to remain indoors indefinitely, but when venturing out individuals need to modify their behaviour and follow the Covid-19 norms. He said that people, when venturing out, should consider the risk being taken by health workers, who are working day-in and day-out without breaks, holidays or even Onam to care for those affected by Covid-19, and also remember the number of people who lost their lives or those who lost loved ones or breadwinners to the virus. "The public, those who escaped the virus, need to dedicate their carefulness, modify their behaviour by taking into account the health workers who are working tirelessly without holidays and the people who lost their lives or those who lost loved ones or breadwinners in the family to Covid-19," Fettle said. Kerala reported 17,106 Covid-19 cases and 83 deaths on Saturday, taking the total affected in the state to 38,03,903 and the toll to 19,428, according to a state government release. The release had also said that till Saturday, 96,481 samples were tested taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 3,01,70,011 and the TPR stood at 17.73 per cent. Meanwhile, 20,846 people recuperated from the disease on Saturday, taking the total cured in the state to 36,05,480. Currently, there are 1,78,462 people under treatment in the state, the release had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cannot-enforce-covid-19-guidelines-at-gunpoint-experts-on-rising-infection-rate-in-kerala-1022405.html
22-08-2021||South||DMK announces nominee for Rajya Sabha byelection||Tamil Nadu’s ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Sunday announced M M Abdulla, an office-bearer of the NRI wing, as its candidate for the by-election to a Rajya Sabha seat to be held on September 13. Abdulla, joint secretary of the DMK’s NRI wing constituted in 2020, hails from Pudukkottai district in the Cauvery Delta region. With the DMK and its allies commanding a two-thirds majority in the 234-member Tamil Nadu Assembly, Abdulla is likely to be elected unopposed. “M M Abdulla will contest the September 13 Rajya Sabha election as DMK nominee,” party president and Chief Minister M K Stalin said in a statement on Sunday. The by-election was necessitated after AIADMK member A Mohammedjan died in March 2021 during the campaign for assembly elections. Once elected, Abdulla will remain as a member of the Upper House till 2025. With Abdulla’s nomination, Stalin has fulfilled the long-time demand that a Muslim be sent to Parliament from DMK’s quota. Already, Stalin has two ministers from his community in the Tamil Nadu cabinet. With the almost certain election of Abdulla, DMK’s strength in the Rajya Sabha will go up to 8. The party can hope to increase its tally to 10 with by-elections to two seats likely to be held anytime soon – the seats fell vacant after AIADMK MPs R Vaithilingam and K P Munusamy – resigned their posts after they were elected to the Tamil Nadu Assembly. With the by-elections for the two seats likely to be held separately as the tenure of the MPs is different, the DMK has bright chances of bagging both seats. There is also a talk that the DMK might give one seat to its ally Congress with Stalin giving an oral assurance in this regard to Congress President Sonia Gandhi during the seat-sharing talks for assembly polls. Out of the 18 seats, seven are currently held by DMK and six by AIADMK, while PMK, Tamil Maanila Congress, and MDMK hold one seat each. Elections for one seat will be held on September 13, while two remain vacant. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-announces-nominee-for-rajya-sabha-byelection-1022408.html
22-08-2021||South||TN to launch round-the-clock Covid-19 vaccination centres, jabs at the doorstep for elders in Chennai||Amid fears of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, Tamil Nadu is fast-tracking its vaccination drive by launching round-the-clock vaccination centres across the state from Monday, while the civic body in the capital Chennai is administering jabs to those above the age of 80 at their homes.  The first of the 24/7 vaccination centres have come up at the Directorate of Medical Services (DMS) campus here where anyone with an identity card can walk in and get a jab after a mandatory basic health check by the health workers. Similar centres will start functioning at five more major government hospitals in Chennai – RGGGH, Omandurar, Stanley, Royapettah, and Kilpauk – from Monday.  Health Minister Ma Subramanian said all government medical colleges in the state will have 24/7 vaccination centres from Monday. Districts that do not have a medical college will get their round-the-clock vaccination centres at district hospitals. “All round-the-clock vaccination centres will start functioning from Monday. This move is aimed at ensuring that people who travel and work till late in the night get vaccinated. District health officials have been asked to deploy enough staff to administer jabs to people who can walk in anytime,” Subramanian said.  He said the names and mobile numbers of the health staff who will man the 24/7 centres will be displayed prominently at the hospitals. The move, according to the health department, will result in an increase in the number of people getting vaccinated in the state. As of August 21, Tamil Nadu has administered 26.1 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines of which 19.36 lakh are from the private sector. The state needs another 9 crore doses to vaccinate the remaining of the eligible population. Subramanian also came up with a novel idea of asking corporates to use their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds to buy vaccines from private hospitals and administer them to people free of cost.    The Greater Chennai Corporation, which received laurels for getting different abled vaccinated at their homes, on Sunday launched an initiative to administer vaccines to people above 80 years of age in their homes. Municipal Administration Minister K N Nehru and GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi flagged off 15 vehicles that are to be used by health workers to vaccinate the elderly at their homes.  Officials said the GCC has so far administered 35.68 lakh doses in the city. Of these, 25.14 lakh persons received their first dose, while 10.54 lakh persons received both doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-to-launch-round-the-clock-covid-19-vaccination-centres-jabs-at-the-doorstep-for-elders-in-chennai-1022417.html
22-08-2021||South||BJP fulfils ‘car gift’ promise made to district presidents||Four district presidents of Tamil Nadu BJP hit a jackpot on Sunday when they drove home luxurious SUVs for helping the party open its account in the Tamil Nadu Assembly after two decades. BJP won one each assembly seat in Coimbatore, Erode, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari districts in the April 6 assembly elections. Presidents of the above-mentioned district units were handed over Innova Crysta SUV by Union Minister of State L Murugan and Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai. The cars were presented to them in line with an announcement by Murugan in 2020 that an Innova vehicle will be given to district presidents who ensure that the party wins a seat in their jurisdiction. The party had announced the incentive then to “rejuvenate” the cadre and help the BJP win seats in the assembly election. Vanathi Srinivasan, Nainar Nagendran, M R Gandhi, and C Saraswathi are the four MLAs who represent BJP in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. The party won 4 out of the 20 seats it contested. Maharajan (Tirunelveli), Dharmaraj (Kanyakumari), Sivasubramanian (Erode), and Nandakumar (Coimbatore) got the car keys on Sunday. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-fulfils-car-gift-promise-made-to-district-presidents-1022425.html
22-08-2021||South||Kerala voters urge Sierra Leone govt to send back Congress MLA||A row erupted in Kerala over left-front MLA P V Anvar being absent from his constituency over the last couple of months and not attending the Assembly session as he is engaged in gold mining business in the African country Sierra Leone. As a mark of protest, critics from his constituency Nilambur in Malappuram district posted on the Facebook page of State House Sierra Leone requesting that their MLA be sent back to Kerala. Meanwhile, Congress leaders have sought action against the MLA for allegedly running away from his responsibilities.  While the MLA could not be reached, his office said he went to Sierra Leone about two months back and was likely to return in another one month time. They also said that five staff have been appointed in the constituency to take care of the needs and to ensure development activities were progressing without any hindrance. Though people would not be able to contact the MLA directly, he used to contact people if necessary. As many as 88 questions of the MLA were also raised in the just-concluded session of the Assembly, his office said. While Congress MP K Muraleedharan alleged that the MLA was committing serious violation by keeping away from the Assembly and constituency, Assembly speaker M B Rajesh told DH that it needs to be verified whether he applied for any leave or not. The speaker, however, added that MLAs generally need to take formal leave only if they are absent from the house for more than 60 days at a stretch. Anvar told a TV channel that he went to Sierra Leone with the permission of the left-front leadership. He had allegedly commented in a vulgar manner to some reports regarding his 'missing from the constituency'. A known businessman, Anvar was caught up in a similar row during the election also when he was in Sierra Leone even after his candidature was announced. He had made job offers to thousands of Malayalis in the mining sector in the West African country. Earlier, the two-time MLA had courted controversy over illegal constructions of a water theme park in an ecologically fragile region in Kozhikode district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-voters-urge-sierra-leone-govt-to-send-back-congress-mla-1022437.html
22-08-2021||South||13-year-old boy dies while erecting DMK flag in Tamil Nadu||A 13-year-old boy who was helping DMK cadres to erect party flags to welcome a senior minister in the Villupuram district has died due to electrocution. Though the incident took place on Friday, no arrests have been made so far. Dinesh, a 9th standard student, was helping in erecting the flags when a live wire fell on him. He was electrocuted. The flags were being erected to welcome Higher Education Minister K Ponmudy for a marriage function in Rahim Layout in Villupuram town. Police said the organisers had no permission to erect the banners or flags. The incident comes two years after a 23-year-old software engineer died after a banner erected to welcome AIADMK leaders fell on her, triggering massive outrage. The DMK has been advising its cadres not to erect banners or flags for party events and visits by ministers, but it is not being followed at the ground level. Tamil Nadu has a culture of erecting banners and flags for events participated by politicians. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/13-year-old-boy-dies-while-erecting-dmk-flag-in-tamil-nadu-1022444.html
22-08-2021||South||States which failed to implement birth control measures got more seats in Parliament: Madras HC||The Madras High Court has come down heavily on the way the political representation of southern states, especially Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, was reduced in Lok Sabha since 1967 on the basis of their population after both the states “successfully implemented” birth control measures.  On the contrary, northern states that “failed” in controlling population were “benefited” with more political representation in the Parliament, the court noted, adding that the number of Lok Sabha seats should be frozen at the existing numbers, or it should be enhanced to original level – 41 seats in Tamil Nadu as it was in 1962. From 41, TN’s number came down to 39 in 1967.  The politically significant judgement was delivered by a bench of Justices N Kirubakaran, who retired on August 20, and B Pugalendhi in an order passed on August 17 on a petition seeking to de-reserve Tenkasi Lok Sabha seat in Tamil Nadu.  The petition contended that Tenkasi has been a reserved seat for 56 years and it should be made into a general constituency. In the order, the Bench also impleaded political parties like DMK, AIADMK, Congress and BJP, and sought their response on the issue in four weeks.  “Population control cannot be a factor to decide the number of political representatives of the states in the Parliament. Those states which failed to implement the birth control programmes were benefited with more political representatives in the Parliament,” the Bench said, terming as “very unfair” and “unreasonable” reduction of TN’s Lok Sabha seats from 41 to 39. Justice Kirubakaran, who passed the order, recalled that the A B Vajpayee government losing its majority on the floor of the Lok Sabha by one vote in 1999, driving home their point that every seat counts. The order assumes significance as it comes amid speculation that the delimitation exercise could witness an increase in the number of Lok Sabha seats from the existing 543 largely benefitting the northern states.  Justices Kirubakaran and Pugalendhi also posed eight questions in their detailed order like why not the Union Government pay Rs 5,600 crore as compensation to Tamil Nadu which lost 28 representatives in the past from 1962 onwards in 14 elections. The Bench also sought to know why not the Union Government come forward with a proposal that those states which effectively control the population would be given an equal number of seats in Rajya Sabha in lieu of a reduction in the number of Lok Sabha seats. Though in democracy one person one vote is the basis, the states which could not control population like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh would have more representation in Parliament, whereas the southern states, which controlled population would get lesser number of constituencies, thereby lowering their political power, the bench said.  The distribution of parliamentary constituencies would be based on the future census to be conducted in 2031 which would be a risky and dangerous one, as hitherto it was avoided from 1971 onwards, the bench noted. “In any event, it is appropriate to the Central Government, maintaining the same number of MPs allotted to each state and in case there is an enhancement of seat in respect of thickly populated states, in the same proportion, the number of seats for the states which have controlled population should also be increased, otherwise the bargaining power of the states which controlled the population will be weakened,” the Bench observed. “Why not Article 81 of the Constitution be amended to maintain the same number of parliamentary constituencies irrespective of change in the population of respective States?” the Bench asked.  If the notional value of the contribution of the MP to the state as well as Parliament could not be compensated, the state which loses representation in Lok Sabha should be compensated with an increase in representation in Rajya Sabha. “In that way only, the Union Government could do justice to the States, which successfully implemented the birth control programmes as per the policy of the Central Government,” the Bench noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/states-which-failed-to-implement-birth-control-measures-got-more-seats-in-parliament-madras-hc-1022446.html
22-08-2021||South||Higher TPR triggers speculations of further Covid-19 lockdown in Kerala||The escalating Covid-19 TPR in Kerala after the easing of the lockdown restrictions over the last couple of weeks has triggered concerns that the state may go for another round of total shutdown. With social distancing norms visibly being thrown to the winds during the Onam festival, the chances of a further surge of fresh Covid-19 cases in the coming days is highly anticipated by experts. After the TPR of 17.87 per cent on May 28, the Covid-19 TPR of Kerala went above the 17 per cent mark for the first time on Saturday with 17.73 per cent. From August 10 Covid-19 daily TPR and seven day average of Kerala were hovering around 15 per cent mark. On Sunday the TPR was 16.41 per cent. The covid-19 lockdown was relaxed considerably in the state from August 5. Sources said that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is likely to hold a review meeting on the present scenario and restrictions might be imposed again.  A lockdown was imposed in Kerala from the first week of May. Though relaxations were given subsequently in a phased manner, restrictions on participation at events like marriages were continuing and dining at hotels and restaurants were not allowed. Traders and daily wage earners were badly hit by the prolonging lockdown and hence there was pressure on the government to lift the restrictions. But over the last few days, the commercial streets and tourist spots of Kerala were witnessing huge crowds owing to the Onam festivity. This has triggered serious concerns of further Covid-19 surge in the state in the coming weeks. The state has enhanced the Covid-19 vaccination as a counter-strategy. So far 53 per cent of the state's population have got at least one dose of vaccine. Several experts have suggested that instead of imposing lockdown and reducing the working hours of shops, a strategy of keeping shops open for more hours should be tried to avoid crowding at shops. The state government's measures like weekend lockdown had also invited widespread criticism as it led to huge crowding at shops on weekdays.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/higher-tpr-triggers-speculations-of-further-covid-19-lockdown-in-kerala-1022448.html
22-08-2021||State||Covid-19 message at the beginning of phone calls ineffective: Study||The government’s automated Covid-19 message, which kicks in at the start of every phone call, is not the best way to increase public awareness about the disease or even reduce citizens' anxiety, a study has found. This is especially true with low income groups such as migrant workers who lack stable access to the internet and authoritative sources of information.  A randomised study conducted among a sample group of 914 garment workers from 23 factories in Karnataka between June and August 2020 highlighted the automated recording’s ineffectiveness in generating awareness about the highly contagious disease. The aim of the researchers from the University of Michigan and Good Business Lab (GBL), a not-for-profit research organisation, was to determine how to combat Covid-19 misinformation among migrant workers. The average age of the sample group was 24 and about 57 per cent were women. A third of the sample group was educated beyond the 10th grade and three-fourths had smartphones. Researchers were stunned to discover that a third of participants were unaware that cough was a symptom of the disease, half did not know fever was a symptom and more than half did not know that asymptomatics could spread the disease. Only 8 per cent were certain that Covid-19 had remedies, 26 per cent said they would recommend symptomatic individuals to take antibiotics while 13 per cent said they would recommend drinking cow’s urine. A third felt that consuming turmeric regularly protects from Covid-19 infections and 21 per cent said that people of certain religions were more likely to spread the disease. “While our sample group was garment factory workers, the sample group is emblematic of low income groups in general. What we found was rampant misinformation which was not being addressed by pre-recorded messaging or text messages,” explained Dr Achyuta Adhvaryu of the University of Michigan and co-author of the study. Pro-active calls needed For the study, medically-approved information about Covid-19 was shared with three groups of participants through three different media: SMS, recorded voice message, and live phone calls.  “We found that phone calls were more effective in increasing Covid-19 knowledge in participants without smartphones and were responsible for reducing general anxiety by 28 per cent,” Dr Adhvaryu said, adding that the key takeaway was that a human voice delivering a message is more effective than spamming through recordings. He said that widespread community outreach through live phone calls to convey Covid-19 information is the answer to beating back misinformation. The study was published in the Journal of Development Economics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-message-at-the-beginning-of-phone-calls-ineffective-study-1022234.html
22-08-2021||State||Seven Karnataka residents return from Afghanistan||Seven people have safely returned to Karnataka from Afghanistan, after the Taliban takeover of that country, authorities said on Sunday. According to officials, of the seven people who returned, five are from Mangaluru and one each from Ballari and Bengaluru. Two people are still stranded in Kabul airport, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/seven-karnataka-residents-return-from-afghanistan-1022451.html
22-08-2021||State||Forest department begins selection of Dasara jumbos||With Dasara fast approaching, the Forest department has commenced the process of selecting elephants, which play a major role in Vijayadashami procession (jamboo savari), the last leg of the famed ‘Naada Habba.’ Dasara commences on October 7 and concludes on October 15 thisyear. The Forest department authorities have identified 14 elephants, 11 male and three female for the Dasara procession. The officials, led by Deputy Conservator of Forests (DCF), Wildlife, Mysuru Division, V Karikalan visited four elephant camps — Mathigodu, Dodda Harave, Anekadu and Dubare — and checked the the elephants. They are waiting for the fitness report of the jumbos from the veterinarians. “We will hold a meeting with the officers and send a list of elephants to chief wildlife warden for his approval,” saidKarikalan. The Forest officials checked Abhimanyu, which is likely to carry golden howdah, and Gopi, Vikrama, Vijaya and Cauvery - which participated in previous Dasara. Other elephants include, Gopalakrishna, Vikram, Dhananjay, Prashanth, Harsha, Lakshman, Chaitra. The officer said that they have sought details on the fitness of the elephants, whether they suffered from any major health issues in the recent past and about the injuries. The DCF said that mahouts and kaavadis - the caretakers of the elephants - will be vaccinated for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/forest-department-begins-selection-of-dasara-jumbos-1022472.html
22-08-2021||State||Karnataka mulls holding TET once in six months||The Education department is contemplating holding teachers' eligibility test (TET) once in six months, minister B C Nagesh said on Sunday. More candidates can take exams if TET is held on a designated date once in six months, the Primary and Secondary Education minister told reporters here. Replying to a query on teacher transfers, the minister said, "The state government has already issued a notification on teacher transfers. Counselling for the transfers will begin on September 5. Over 35,000 teachers have applied for the transfers. The department has taken necessary measures to conduct the transfers in a transparent manner," Nagesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mulls-holding-tet-once-in-six-months-1022474.html
22-08-2021||State||D K Shivakumar backs Vinay Kulkarni||KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Sunday expressed solidarity with former minister Vinay Kulkarni and said he would be an active part of the party’s organization work.  The former legislator recently came out of prison to a rousing, crowded welcome.  “100%, we will involve him completely. He’s a senior party leader and a former minister,” Shivakumar said of Kulkarni.  He attacked the BJP government for booking cases against Kulkarni for violating Covid-19 protocols. “Why weren’t cases filed against union ministers and other (BJP) leaders? Are they following Covid-19 guidelines properly? The government is acting as per its whims and fancies,” he said.  Responding to BJP national general secretary C T Ravi’s claim on the BJP’s role in the freedom struggle, Shivakumar sarcastically said: “It is Ravi who got independence to our country.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/d-k-shivakumar-backs-vinay-kulkarni-1022476.html
22-08-2021||State||JD(S) to launch agitation for Mekedatu, Mahadayi||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda on Sunday announced that the JD(S) would take out padayatras on the Krishna, Mekedatu and Mahadayi river disputes even as he sought to answer critics who do not see a future for the regional party. “As a regional party, our intention is to safeguard our state’s interests,” Gowda, the JD(S) national president, told a news conference.  “Our party has decided to take out a padayatra from the Almatti dam, whose height is to be raised to 524 m. For Mekedatu and Mahadayi, we will have similar programmes,” Gowda said. “These are inter-state waters, but the fate of our state is such that we’re stuck in the middle,” he said.  The veteran said the agitation will be held after the upcoming session of the legislature scheduled September 13-24. “Symbolically, we will start on a day,” Gowda said. “The Congress and the BJP have a problem, which is that those ruling in Delhi can’t take up such protests,” he said.  Gowda also brought up criticism that his party was fading away. “It is being said that the JD(S) doesn’t matter and that the party won’t have an identity in 2023. We will struggle, fight and save our identity to come to power. And, as a senior leader, I will join the party’s fight. It’ll be difficult for me to take up a padayatra, but I will do other things,” he said.  The party supremo was non-committal when asked whether the JD(S) would join the ongoing effort to bring the Opposition parties together to take on PM Modi. “There are only two national parties - Congress and BJP. The regional parties are confined to their respective states. M K Stalin, for instance, can’t be an all-India leader. H D Kumaraswamy, a two-time CM, is an established leader here. K Chandrashekhar Rao is in Telangana,” he said.  Noting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s recent demonstration by cycling to Parliament, Gowda said: “There’s much distance for him to travel.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jds-to-launch-agitation-for-mekedatu-mahadayi-1022477.html
22-08-2021||State||Covid under-reporting rampant in big cities, less so in Bengaluru||Out of the six major metropolitan cities in India, only Mumbai and Bengaluru have not under-reported Covid-19 deaths for the month of July, a data analysis shows. According to Jeevan Raksha, a data analysis project which has been analyzing Covid-19 statistics since the start of the outbreak last year, there were 957 deaths to the novel coronavirus, tabulated in six major cities of the country in July: Ahmedabad, Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai and Bengaluru. “However, by considering health insurance claims, we can see that there has been severe under-reporting in several cities, excluding Bengaluru and Mumbai,” explained Sanjeev Mysore, convenor of the project. He added, however, that this analysis does not exclude the possibility of underreporting of cases and fatalities in the previous months of the pandemic. 2L excess cases As per analysis from the project, there have been between 1.8 lakh and 2 lakh excess cases and between 2,200 and 2,500 excess deaths in these cities in July. “As per data from the General Insurance Council of India, insurance coverage permeates to roughly between 8 and 20 per cent of the urban population of these cities. For our analysis, we have assumed that 15 per cent of the urban populations of these cities have insurance coverage. But when we look at the actual insurance claims being made, we start seeing some strange things,” Mysore said. In Delhi for example, which reported 2,077 cases in July and 76 deaths, some 9,192 insurance claims were made for treatment, while 149 insurance claims for deaths were made. “This constitutes a 443 per cent increase over claims for cases and 196 per cent over deaths. Delhi has underreported 60,000 Covid cases and about 1,000 deaths. Ahmedabad is no better: 33,000 cases and 500 deaths,” Mysore said. The analysis also shows that Chennai has underreported 30,000 cases and 300 deaths. In Kolkata, underreporting of cases is relatively low, the report states, but adds that “almost all people who have died due to Covid in Kolkata had health insurance cover, which is impossible. Therefore, the estimated under-reporting of Covid deaths is about 300.” When it comes to Mumbai, Jeevan Raksha states that one-fourth of health insurance policy holders in India are in Maharashtra. “Therefore, there is a high degree of correlation between total Covid cases and deaths and insurance claim ratio. Thus, under-reporting in Mumbai is relatively bare minimal.”  In Bengaluru Urban, July’s insurance claims for cases was at 36 per cent. This means that out of the 13,780 cases recorded in the city, 4,991 people (or 36 per cent) claimed insurance. Death insurance claims stood at 15 per cent. “This validates that there are limited traces of under-reporting of Covid deaths in Bengaluru Urban,” Mysore said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-under-reporting-rampant-in-big-cities-less-so-in-bengaluru-1022478.html
22-08-2021||State||Water in Amarja river catchment affected by microbial pathogens: Study||Several regions in the catchment area of Amarja river are highly affected by microbial pathogens which could affect public health, according to a study. Syed Shams Ahmad Rizvi from the Geology Department of the Central University of Karnataka conducted a study on the quality of Amarja water for his thesis, which revealed the presence of bacterium groups such as total coliform and Escherichia coli, pseudomonas aeruginosa and sulphite-reducing bacteria. These pathogens are responsible for food poisoning, intestinal infection, dysentery and other dangerousdiseases. Tests were conducted to ascertain whether the water is potable. The drinking suitability of groundwater around the catchment was not good except in a few places. The pH was close to the permissible limit and higher at some places. Higher concentrations of total dissolved solids (TDS), Calcium, Magnesium, Bicarbonate, Chloride, Nitrate and hardness were recorded except in a fewcases. “Of the 32 samples collected from several villages of the river catchment area, half of the samples are unfit for drinking. Fluoride content at three locations was found to be much higher than the permissible limit. Several cases of diseases caused by fluoride were noticed during the field work,” explainedRizvi. The irrigational suitability of groundwater was within the limit for irrigation except in a few locations. There is a higher chance of an increase in fluoride contamination level in the study area as it is a semi-arid region with a low precipitation zone. Rizvi, in his study, advised water authority agencies to focus on immediate measures to reduce the sources of fluoride content. Community awareness programmes can help for capacity building to minimise the effect on human beings, he said. Amarja river joins Bhima River at Ganagapura village in Kalaburagi district. Apart from irrigation purposes, Amarja river water is being utilised for drinking purposes in several villages in Aland taluk where a dam has been constructed across the river near Sangolgi village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/water-in-amarja-river-catchment-affected-by-microbial-pathogens-study-1022481.html
22-08-2021||State||5 from Dakshina Kannada stranded in Afghanistan reach India||With the government evacuating Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan, five persons from Dakshina Kannada have returned to India and are likely to reach Mangaluru on Monday. The returnees are Dinesh Rai from Bajpe, Jagadish Poojary from Moodbidri, Desmond Davis D’Souza from Kinnigoli, Prasad Anand from Ullal and Shravan Anchan from Bejai. Three Indians who are at Kabul airport are Fr Robert Clive from NR Pura in Chikkamagaluru, Fr Jerona Sequeira from Mangaluru and Sr Theresa Crasta from Mangaluru. However, Sr Theresa has expressed her desire to travel to Italy by informing Ministry of External Affairs office in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/5-from-dakshina-kannada-stranded-in-afghanistan-reach-india-1022482.html
22-08-2021||State||Prove charges of ill-gotten wealth, Ravi tells Congress||BJP national general secretary C T Ravi has said that he will challenge Congress leaders to prove their allegations that he has accumulated ill-gotten money. “I have not earned anything by dubious means. I will challenge Congress leaders to prove their allegation. If I have earned ill-gotten wealth, I am ready to donate it to the public,” Ravi told reporters here recently. “I have not gone to jail and secured bail in assets-related cases,” the former minister said. Ravi was reacting to allegations by Congress leaders that he had made a lot  of money when he was a minister earlier in the BJP government in the state. He said it was Congress leader B K Hariprasad who first started insulting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that toilets should be named after him. “I have not insulted late prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru,” he said, adding that Congress governments had named 271 schemes and institutions after members of the Nehru-Gandhi family.  “Why can’t these be named after other leaders? Have not others done anything to develop the country?” Ravi said. Congress leaders were behaving as if only they had contributed to the freedom struggle. A large number of non-Congress leaders also contributed to India’s freedom struggle, he said.  Reacting to Youth Congress leaders threatening to protest in front of his house for his comments against Nehru, Ravi said, “I welcome their protest. If they hold protest, my wife will tie rakhis to them and give them sweets.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/prove-charges-of-ill-gotten-wealth-ravi-tells-congress-1022484.html
22-08-2021||State||Karnataka sees steady decline in new Covid infections||The Covid-19 outbreak in Karnataka saw a further decline in the number of new cases over the last one week. However, the rate of decline of Karnataka’s active cases has slowed substantially in recent weeks, data shows. On Sunday, the state discharged 1,456 patients. This, coupled with the new case numbers, leaves the state’s active caseload at 20,556. This number constitutes only a modest decline in the caseload compared to previous days and weeks.  In the course of June, for example, the active caseload declined by 74.3 per cent. In July, the rate of decline was 63.5 per cent. So far, in the 22 days of August, the rate of decline has been a modest 14.8 per cent. At the same time, some districts in the state have seen a tangible decline in the number of new cases, such as Bengaluru Urban, whose daily new case discoveries have dwindled despite municipal authorities conducting between 58,000 to 62,000 tests daily. Statewide, an average of about 1.50 lakh tests are being carried out daily. New Cases In the past seven days, the state witnessed 9,152 new cases. On Sunday, 1,189 new cases were recorded, out of which 267 (or 22 per cent) were in Bengaluru Urban. Dakshina Kannada district continues to outnumber Bengaluru in daily cases. On Sunday, it recorded 286 new cases. It is followed by Udupi district which recorded 132 new cases and Mysuru district saw 79 cases. The state also revealed information on 22 additional Covid-19 deaths. Just three of the new fatalities had happened on Sunday. Nine had transpired on Saturday and two on Friday. One ‘brought dead’ Dharwad fatality had happened on June 17.  All of the new fatalities disclosed on Sunday were senior citizens, ranging in age from 64 to 84. Thirteen were men. Ten did not have any recorded comorbidities.  Child cases drop According to the State Covid war room, 410 pre-teen Covid cases were recorded in the last week and 977 teen cases (10-19). These numbers are substantially lower than the child cases found just one week before: 521 pre-teens and 1,235 teens. Vaccination scenario The state dispensed an average of 3.28 lakh doses in the past seven days. This has raised Karnataka’s first dose coverage to 56.81 per cent and its second dose coverage to 17.34 per cent. These percentages were calculated as per the state’s official projected population figures for those aged 18 and above (4,97,93,996).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sees-steady-decline-in-new-covid-infections-1022486.html
22-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Never seen any incident like this in my 30 years as Parliamentarian: Deve Gowda on Rajya Sabha chaos||Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda on Sunday rued the unruly scenes in the Rajya Sabha and wastage of the recently concluded Parliament session without any debates on issues affecting people, saying he had not seen anything like it in his 30 years as a parliamentarian. After the conclusion of the monsoon session on August 11, he met the opposition leaders and asked them what they had achieved as none of the issues affecting the people was discussed, Gowda said. "I was not allowed to speak during the monsoon session due to the ruckus by members of the ruling and opposition parties. No business took place and the session was wasted," the JD(S) leader told reporters at the party office here. On the unruly behaviour of parliamentarians in the Rajya Sabha, he said, "I am disgusted with the behaviour of the ruling party, as well as the members of the opposition... People danced on the table in the well the house. In my 30 years as a parliamentarian, I have never witnessed any incident like this." Such behaviour was not good for society because it showed the degeneration of democratic values and was an insult to the great people who fought for the freedom of the country, he said. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu had suspended four TMC MPs on August 4 for the rest of the day for creating a ruckus over the Pegasus spying issue. Gowda said his party would launch a state-wide campaign after the conclusion of the legislature session on September 24, to resolve the water disputes in the state, including that pertaining to the Krishna and Mahadayi rivers and the Mekedatu balancing reservoir project across the river Cauvery. He said Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had spoken to NCP chief Sharad Pawar and other BJP leaders in a bid to find a solution to the Krishna and Mahadayi water sharing dispute between the state and Maharashtra. Regarding the Mekedatu issue, he said some leaders from Tamil Nadu he had spoken to had advocated a reservoir on the Cauvery river at Hogenakkal on the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border, and not Mekedatu in Ramanagara district. "A reservoir at Hogenakkal would mean encompassing a large catchment area whereas in Mekedatu, the catchment area is small," Gowda said. The former PM said only a regional outfit like JD(S) could find a solution to these two river water disputes and not any national party. He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi needed to 'walk the extra mile' to hone his political skills and wondered what he had achieved by taking out a bicycle rally recently to protest the hikes in fuel prices. To a question on his recent meeting with Bommai, Gowda said he assured him support on various issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/never-seen-any-incident-like-this-in-my-30-years-as-parliamentarian-deve-gowda-on-rajya-sabha-chaos-1022402.html
22-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,189 new Covid-19 cases, 22 deaths||Karnataka registered 1,189 fresh Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths taking the total infections and fatalities due to the disease to 29.38 lakh and 37,145 respectively, the health department said on Sunday. There were 20,556 active cases in the state while the recovery of 1,456 patients took the total recoveries to 28,80,889. Dakshina Kannada district, which borders Kerala, remained the top Covid-19 hotspot with 286 infections and four fatalities, which was the highest among all the districts on Sunday. Bengaluru Urban district was the second major Covid hotspot with 267 cases and two deaths. The Karnataka capital has so far reported 12,35,036 infections and 15,959 deaths. There were 7,762 active cases. Other districts too reported Covid-19 cases including 132 Udupi, 79 in Mysuru, 75 in Hassan, 55 in Kodagu and 50 in Chikkamagaluru. According to the media bulletin, there were deaths in 14 districts including Bengaluru, Dakshina Kannada, Tumakuru, Udupi, Mandya and Dharwad. Kalaburagi district recorded zero infections and zero fatalities. There were zero fatalities in 17 districts in Karnataka.    The department said in its bulletin that 1,25,158 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Sunday including 92,842 RT-PCR tests and other methods. With this, Karnataka has so far performed 4.19 crore Covid-19 tests in the state, the department said. There were 1,50,127 inoculations done on Sunday taking the total vaccination to 3.69 crore. The positivity rate today was 0.94 per cent while the case fatality rate was 1.85 per cent, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1189-new-covid-19-cases-22-deaths-1022432.html
22-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||17 high-end cars seized in Karnataka||A Rolls Royce car, reportedly belonging to a Bollywood star, was seized along with 16 other high-end vehicles on Sunday for plying without valid documents, officials in the transport department said. These cars were parked near the UB City in Bengaluru without any valid documents, they said. The Rolls Royce registered in Maharashtra was among the 17 cars seized, they said. Transport Commissioner N Shiva Kumar said the vehicles were seized because there were no documents available. "We don't know who it belongs to. There are no documents available with them (drivers). That's why the vehicles were seized," Kumar told PTI. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/17-high-end-cars-seized-in-karnataka-1022466.html
22-08-2021||West||Documentary being made on novelist, wanderer Gonida||In a major initiative, a documentary on novelist and wanderer Gopal Neelkanth Dandekar is being made to pay tributes to the legendary man and inspire generations to head towards mountains, forts and nature.  Dandekar was famously known in Maharashtra as Gonida (July 8, 1916 – June 1, 1998) and is a revered figure in Maharashtra’s literary world.  The Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh (AMGM), the apex mountaineering body of Maharashtra, has taken the initiative. “Gonida has always been a source of inspiration and a revolutionary person who exemplified the art of fort exploration,” AMGM president Umesh Zirpe, a veteran mountaineer, trainer and mentor, said.  The management committee involves Zirpe, AMGM working president Hrishikesh Yadav, renowned actor and director Mrunal Kulkarni, who is Gonida's grand-daughter, Vijay Joshi, Ravi Paranjape and Abhijit Belhekar. Dr Veena Deo has agreed to guide this working committee and shall be working as a counsellor for the project.  Nilesh Deshpande will be the chief invitee of the project.  AMGM plans to produce this documentary within the next 5-6 months time period. “Gonida had been a pioneering novelist who wandered every ghat, every trail and every fort of Sahyadri with utmost adulation to none other than Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. It would not be wrong to say that he spent most of his life exploring the forts of Sahyadri,” said Zirpe. “Some of his favourite forts he visited several times. Raigad, Rajgad, Torna, were some of his special ones. He not only visited the forts, but he truly loved to be nested in their laps,” he said.  His exploration led to some of the classic documentations on forts such as Durgabhramangatha, Gurgadarsham Shivteerth Raigad and others. These reads led thousands of fort lovers to the foothills of Sahyadri.  According to Zirpe, Gonida’s exploration and documentation reveals an art of understanding the forts and their histories. From the archaeological remains of fort structures, he uncovered the historical facets of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and his kingdom. Past three generations of Maharashtra have been following him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/documentary-being-made-on-novelist-wanderer-gonida-1022341.html
22-08-2021||West||College student held for sodomising 9-year-old boy in Mumbai||Police have arrested a 19-year-old college student for allegedly sodomising a minor boy residing in his neighbourhood in suburban Goregaon, an official said on Sunday. The incident took place on Friday afternoon when the nine-year-old boy was playing outside his house, he said. The accused, who knew the boy, asked him to come inside his shanty where he allegedly sodomised the minor, the official said. The victim later informed about the incident to his mother who took him to a nearby hospital and then complained at Bangur Nagar police station. The police arrested the accused within two hours and booked him under relevant Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections, including 377 (unnatural offences), and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/college-student-held-for-sodomising-9-year-old-boy-in-mumbai-1022370.html
