23-08-2021||First Edit||Verdict upholds personal liberty||The Supreme Court order dispensing with the need to arrest every accused routinely, especially when he is cooperating with the investigation, is a landmark judgement going a long way in upholding the personal liberty of an individual guaranteed under the Constitution. “Merely because an arrest can be made because it is lawful, does not mandate that arrest must be made,” the court observed. Though the relevant law has been read down by several high courts, the lower judiciary often continues to insist on the arrest of an accused as a pre-requisite to taking cognizance of the charge sheet under Section 370 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). In the instant case, the appellant, who had joined the investigation in an FIR registered against him and others seven years ago, was sought to be arrested at the time of filing the charge sheet. The court, while granting bail to the accused, rightly deprecated the trial court’s view that unless a person is taken into custody, the charge sheet will not be taken on record, and has at the same time observed that Section 370 does not impose an obligation on the investigating officer to arrest each and every accused. The order is significant because it lays down in no uncertain terms that the accused merely needs to be present before the court concerned at the time of filing of the charge sheet and that his presence need not be secured by taking him into police or judicial custody, especially if he has cooperated with the investigations throughout. Leaving nothing to ambiguity, the apex court has clarified that the occasion to arrest an accused would arise when custodial investigation becomes necessary or it is a heinous crime or where there is a possibility of the witness being influenced. Thus, the investigating officer would be under no compulsion from the trial court to arrest an accused unless he has reasons to believe that the suspect will abscond or disobey summons. The Supreme Court has held on numerous occasions that bail, not jail, is the dominant principle of law, but it is often observed in the breach, with the underprivileged usually languishing in prison for years. Though the top court had laid down guidelines for arrests way back in 1994, they continue to be ignored both by the police and trial courts. There are several such higher court orders aimed at upholding the liberty of citizens which have not percolated down to the implementation level. Thus, it is imperative that state governments regularly hold refresher courses for the lower judiciary, the police and prosecutors so that they are abreast of the latest case laws, especially those concerning individual rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/verdict-upholds-personal-liberty-1022589.html
23-08-2021||In Perspective||The menu for digital diet||During the one-and-a-half-year-long pandemic, digital addiction has crept into most people’s lives. Confined indoors, screens are suddenly the means to keep their connections with others alive and lift their spirits. Be it work, socialisation, education, entertainment, news consumption, shopping, attending weddings, or gathering for protests, everything has become virtual. As days started to revolve around screens — whether it is out of disconnection, sheer boredom or necessity — whining about anxiety also started, especially for spending unintended time online. According to a World Advertising Research Center report, the daily global online content consumption — through smartphones, televisions, computers, tablets, and social media — more than doubled in 2020. Another study by Lancaster University in November 2020 states that “worrying about tech use is more likely to cause anxiety and depression than using the tech itself “. Today, the present situation compels people to think about how to make this tech enslavement a healthier practice. The new wellness mantra includes digital detox, digital minimalism, cyber diet, dopamine fasting, etc. And such tech diets are replacing awful habits with some awesome ones — mentally, physically, and digitally. The first step towards alleviating screen anxiety and fostering self-awareness about tech usage is to draw a firm line between screen time that is nourishing and screen time which is harmful. Psychology journals explain that too much screen time can take a toll on people’s mental health, besides leading to sleep deprivation. Gadgets might be the first thing some people reach for in the morning or the last thing they see at night. This is where some simple solutions can come in handy. For instance, why don’t people use an alarm clock instead of mobile phones? Even the phone’s proximity could tempt them to wake up, and the blue light from screens can trick people’s brains into thinking it is daytime, which can psychologically stimulate them to stay awake. In such cases, it makes sense for people to consciously shelve their gadgets outside the bedroom. Even though users may shut down one screen, the tendency to keep others open remains. To avoid such screen-jumping, unplugging devices and taking breaks from screens altogether is highly recommended. Replacing screens with a brisk walk, yoga, meditation, a workout, reading a book, cooking, gardening while leaving our gadgets behind could also amount to a form of relaxation. Research suggests that constant digital distraction prevents people from the ability to recharge and reset their lives. For instance, Facebook and Twitter created their timelines so that one could scroll endlessly through updates, maximising the amount of time that users  spend on their sites. Furthermore, fake news, clickbait contents and ‘infodemics’ too are all anxiety-inducing social media. Users need to resist such hooks designed to keep them  glued to their screens and accord specific time slots every day to do it guilt-free and by strict adherence to it. Turning off app notifications that are not essential can be helpful. Still, if the temptation runs high, users should even consider breaking the cycle by deleting the social media apps from their phones. Extreme addicts carry gadgets to their bathrooms, use them while dining or even when driving. Studies recommend the need to create “no gadget zones” and calendar events for just about everything, including browsing the web and taking breaks. In the US, the first weekend in March is celebrated as the National Day of Unplugging to raise awareness about tech addictions. Tech Shabbat (giving up devices from Friday evening to Saturday evening) is yet another trend among those who feel their lives are swarmed by digital cacophony. Pushing further, “dopamine fasting”, which involves depriving oneself of any stimulation — internet, television, mobile phones, or even conversations with friends — is a much-needed breather to “reset” and recalibrate the brain. People need to plan such seasonal mini-breaks to fix appointments with themselves and discover their ‘me’ time. Clearly, all screen time is not bad. Today, children learn through online classes, and many adults continue their office work online. But while online, it is vital to filter out engaging and meaningful content instead of binging on whatever comes in. There are some useful, cost-free apps like Flipd, Shut, Mute, or Moment, which can help one stick to digital detox and assist in mindful digital consumption. But if addictions go entirely out of hand or lead to academic, social, and/or occupational impairment, reach out to the SHUT (Services for Healthy Use of Technology) clinic. Eventually, just as this pandemic helped people decode who and what matters, this exercise should also help them to encode what digitally matters.  (The writer is an Assistant Professor with Christ  Deemed to be University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-menu-for-digital-diet-1022591.html
23-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada: Shortage of vaccines hinders Gram Panchayat’s plan for total vaccination||Gram Panchayat had planned to vaccinate all people, above 18 years, coming under its jurisdiction by August 15. However, the GP’s plan could not be implemented owing to shortage of supply of vaccines. In fact, the Gram Panchayat had found its place in MyGov of Union government for best practices it adopted to fight Covid-19. The Covid Task Force has vowed to vaccinate all the beneficiaries in Balepuni and Kairangala villages of the gram panchayat. The Gram Panchayat shares its border with Kerala as well and the risk of spread of Covid-19 is high. Jana Shikshana Trust, the nodal NGO identified by the state government to remove suspicions and increase public trust in Covid vaccine by creating awareness on the vaccination through IEC (information, education and communication) activities, has been carrying out awareness in the Gram Panchayat . The Gram Panchayat has 8,595 beneficiaries, who are above 18 years. Of them, 5,289 have availed the vaccines so far, of whom, about 1,000 have been administered with both doses of vaccines.  p>The remaining 3,106 beneficiaries are yet to be administered with even a single dose of vaccine.   However, the PHC in the gram panchayat receives only 150 to 200 doses of vaccines once in a week, which is not sufficient to cover the eligible beneficiaries. In fact, Jana Shikshana Trust Director Sheena Shetty had also written to Zilla Panchayat CEO to supply enough quantity of vaccines, so that the entire eligible population in the Gram Panchayat could be fully vaccinated against the covid. The PHC in the GP in the past had received 800 vaccines at a time. After that, the supply has been affected, said sources. Owing to the awareness, people have voluntarily received the vaccines in the Gram Panchayat jurisdiction. When there was hesitancy, the Masjid committees too created awareness and organised two vaccination camps in the gram panchayat limits. If all are vaccinated, then it will motivate other Gram Panchayats to take up similar initiatives, Sheena Shetty told DH. The Trust with the help of local organisations had created awareness by visiting houses and also through series of wall writings on the need for vaccination and to adhere to Covid- appropriate behaviour. Vaccination in Dakshina Kannada The target in Dakshina Kannada district is to vaccinate 18 lakh beneficiaries. According to the bulletin of Department of Health and Family Welfare, 13,97,439 doses of vaccines have been administered in the district as on August 21. Of which, 10,59,317 have received the first dose and 3,38,122 have received the second jab. Among the healthcare workers, 49,986 have received the first jab and 40,045 received the second jab. A total of 13,840 frontline workers have received the first dose of vaccine and 10,002 have received both doses. In the age group of 18 to 44 years, 4,80,032 have received the first dose and 50,642 have received both doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-shortage-of-vaccines-hinders-gram-panchayat-s-plan-for-total-vaccination-1022529.html
23-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere cop dies after his gun misfires||A 28-year old police constable attached to the District Armed Reserve Police force died following an accidental misfire of his weapon while cleaning it, here on Monday. According to police, the deceased has been identified as R Chetan, a native of Malahal village, Channagiri taluk, Davangere district. The incident took place while he was cleaning a 9MM pistol in an armory after completing firing exercises at Hunaseghatta camp. He was taken to City Central Hospital on Akka Mahadevi Road in the city where he was declared brought dead. He had joined the police force in 2012. He is survived by his wife and son. Davangere Superintendent of Police C B Rishyanth and Eastern Range IGP S Ravi M visited the hospital and promised compensation to the family. Barricades had been set up on the road to prevent the movement of vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-cop-dies-after-his-gun-misfires-1022645.html
23-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Case filed against 4 over pollution of Nethravathi river||The Uppinangady police have registered criminal cases against four persons based on the Tahsildar’s report that they were letting wastewater into River Nethravathi resulting in polluting of river water. Puttur Tahsildar Ramesh Babu had complained that wastewater was discharged into the river and soak pits were constructed illegally on government land by the accused. The cases have been registered against Neerala Bar and Restaurant owner Naveena Rai, Gauri Venkatesh Lodge owner Prakash Bhat, Shekar of Hotel Lakshmi Nivas and one Sadananda, a resident of Andethadka. The police have booked cases under various sections of the IPC and the Karnataka Land Revenue Act. Fearing the spread of disease and pollution in River Nethravathi, the residents of Uppinangady had alleged that apartments, hotels, and lodges were releasing wastewater directly into the river at Uppinangady and Nekkiladi. Taking up the issue, environment officials and Karnataka State Pollution Control Board officials had served notice to Gram Panchayat PDO, owners of apartments, hotels, commercial establishments on May 5, 2021, and directed them not to release wastewater into the river. All the owners in their reply promised not to release wastewater into the river. When the revenue inspector and other officials conducted a reality check, they realised that wastewater was being released into the river by the hotel and bar owners. Further, they noticed soak pits being dug illegally on the government land. Accordingly, Puttur tahsildar submitted a complaint to the police to book criminal cases against the offenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/case-filed-against-4-over-pollution-of-nethravathi-river-1022655.html
23-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four arrested in land grab case in Mysuru||||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-arrested-in-land-grab-case-in-mysuru-1022665.html
23-08-2021||Main Article||PM’s praise of Yogi: UP safest state for women?||Political leaders and parties rarely consult their conscience or notions of common morality in their electoral fever. They don’t wink an eye in trotting out fiction for facts, cynically confirming that campaigns have ceased to be means of political education, and instead, degenerated into mere scapegoating of sections of society and denigrating opposition parties. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah did precisely this while kicking off UP Assembly election campaign recently. Earlier this year in West Bengal, election campaign was trivialised by top BJP leaders with personalised, undignified references to TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee with no holds barred comments. It appeared as if winning West Bengal was an issue of life and death. In UP, Modi paid exaggerated, if undeserved, compliments to Yogi, of all the things, on law and order, and Covid management. “Today there is rule of law in UP. Parents used to live in fear and uncertainty about the safety of their daughters. This has changed since 2017”. This testimony by Modi was barely a few months after the terrible Hathras gangrape in September 2020. The Unnao rape was perpetrated in 2017; the victim was raped, thrashed, stabbed and finally burnt alive. Her testimony that BJP MLA Sengar had raped her, was accepted by the Court although all evidence was sought to be destroyed. The MLA was sentenced to life imprisonment. Modi’s glowing tribute was that everything was hunky-dory in UP after 2017. But in 2018, the UP government had conceded that “law and order situation is now not good”. It went on to claim, without revealing any statistics, in 2020: “it has improved appreciably”. Contrary to declarations made by Modi and Shah, the state had the dubious distinction of topping the list in crimes against women. Every sixth case of crime against women in India happens in UP; The NCRB (National Crime Records Bureau) reports that – in comparison to 2018, crimes against women have increased significantly in UP (12 women raped daily in UP) and in India as well. It also reveals: “there is no such state in India where women and girls are safe”. However, as on June 15, 2021, Mumbai has been ranked one of the safest cities for working women, followed by Bengaluru, Pune, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and a few other cities. Not a single city of UP figures in the list. In absolute numbers of violent crimes in India, UP reported the highest incidents of 65,155 out of 4,28,134 cases, accounting for 15.2% of all violent crimes. Six cases of crime against women are reported every hour in the state. Between 2016 and 2019, the National Human Rights Commission registered over 2,000 cases of hate crimes involving minorities, including incidents of lynching (of which UP accounted for 870 cases as reported in February 2020). The semi-feudal caste hierarchy in the state has also resulted in ‘maximum atrocities against Dalits’. Holy Book Conscientious digital platforms, committed NGOs and courageous individuals have asserted their constitutional freedom to criticise the repression by the government, its suppression of crime statistics and the absence of rule of law. A group of 83 eminent former civil servants – including diplomats – has spoken out as many as eight times from middle of 2017 to end of 2018 on the “rapid erosion of Constitutional values…and a deliberate attempt to display majoritarian muscle and send the message to the Muslim community … to accept their subordinate status”. They were also critical of the Prime Minister: “Our Prime Minister who is so voluble in his election campaigns and who never tires of telling us how the Constitution of India is the only Holy Book he worships, maintains stony silence even as he sees a chief minister, handpicked by him, treats that same Constitution with sheer contempt.” Propaganda plays on existing beliefs of voters. Perhaps, that’s why the top leaders indulged in extravagant distortion of the ugly law and order at the ground level in UP as well as Yogi government’s mishandling of the pandemic. Such distortion was clearly meant to address the existing beliefs of the people and seek to re-shape them if they were unfavourable to the government. By spouting select figures in wily campaigns through powerful rhetoric, he touches the emotions of the people. Modi had rightly sensed that the people of the state were tired of the violence, extra-judicial killings and a sense of insecurity-- all unleashed by a partisan government and that the people were looking for a change. Yogi Adityanath had himself said that the police had been directed ‘to shoot to kill’ the goondas. In December 2019, UP police had proudly announced that they had killed 103 ‘criminals’ and injured some 2,000 in encounters or extra-judicial killings. Police, it appears, had a free hand in labelling people as ‘criminals’. The UP government had put up posters of people who, allegedly, “participated in violence during anti-CAA protests” until it was ordered by the High Court to take them down. Finally, coming to ‘Covid management’, a significant statement by senior officers of the Ministry of Health on July 11, 2021 (three days prior to the PM’s compliments to Adityanath) declared UP as “a state of concern”. “Despite Centre’s advisory, big crowds continue to congregate in districts...People due for the second dose are not coming forward”, the officer said. UP government had claimed that it had satisfactorily handled the second wave of Covid. It claimed that 12 districts had reported zero cases and 52 districts had reported cases in single digits. But the Civil Registration System had a different story to tell. In 24 districts, 1.97 lakh deaths took place between July 2020 and March 2021--number of deaths 43 times higher than the official figures. Perhaps, that is why the then Union Labour Minister Santosh Gangawar and some BJP MLAs were provoked to publicly contradict the government’s figures and point their fingers at the bodies floating in the Ganga. (The writer is a Congress leader and former Chairman, Karnataka Legislative Council)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/pm-s-praise-of-yogi-up-safest-state-for-women-1022592.html
23-08-2021||National||Parliament representation back in news after HC order||The Madras High Court’s plain speaking on the issue of political representation in Parliament has once again brought to the fore a vexed issue which successive governments have shied away from tackling. On the other hand, northern states that “failed” in controlling population were “benefited” with more political representation in Parliament, the court noted. The HC added that the number of LS seats should be frozen at the existing numbers, or it should be enhanced to the original level — 41 seats in Tamil Nadu as it was in 1962 (From 41, TN’s number came down to 39 in 1967).  “Population control cannot be a factor to decide the number of political representatives of the states in Parliament. Those states which failed to implement the birth control programmes were benefited with more political representatives,” the bench said. The order assumes significance as it comes amid speculation that the delimitation exercise could witness an increase in the number of seats in northern states. Reacting to the news, Congress leader Karti P Chidambaram said the idea was “unacceptable”. “Reduction of parliamentary seats for Tamil Nadu and increasing seats for other states based on population increase is totally unacceptable,” he said. The issue is a political hot potato and has eluded solution. Constitution’s Article 81 stipulates each state will get seats in proportion to its population, while Article 82 provisions the reallocation of Lok Sabha seats for states as per their updated population figure after every census. Former prime minister late Indira Gandhi had brought in a constitutional amendment in 1976 to freeze reallocation of seats till 2001 to ensure that states, which effectively took population control measures, do not face pruning of their representation for doing the right thing. The NDA government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee brought in the 84th amendment to the Constitution delaying the reallocation after 2026. If the reallocation is done as per the 2011 census figures, the status of representation of many states in Lok Sabha will drastically change giving North Indian states an edge. UP, which currently has 80 seats, could see its numbers go up to 88 on the basis of the 2011 census. Bihar could see its numbers in the Lok Sabha rise from 40 to 46 by2031. Other states which will benefit include Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Gujarat, Delhi and Chhattisgarh. Odisha and West Bengal could actually lose three and two seats respectively while Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand may lose one each. Karnataka could lose one, with its number coming down to 27 from the current 28. While both sides have their own arguments, southern states are asking why they should bear the brunt for doing the right thing on population control. The argument on the other side is democracy is after all about people more than geography, and so why shouldn’t there be more representatives for states with bigger populations. In 2020, former President late Pranab Mukherjee had made a strong pitch for increasing the strength of the Lok Sabha from existing 543 to 1,000 to accommodate the need for representation of enhanced population in states.  And in July this year, Congress MP Manish Tewari claimed he had reliable information that the BJP is planning to increase the strength of the Lok Sabha to 1,000 before the 2024 general elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-representation-back-in-news-after-hc-order-1022526.html
23-08-2021||National||DH Toon | Kejriwal to inaugurate Delhi's 1st smog tower||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate the capital's first smog tower at Cannaught Place on August 23, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai had informed last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-kejriwal-to-inaugurate-delhis-1st-smog-tower-1022552.html
23-08-2021||National||Precisely why citizenship law was necessary: Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Afghanistan crisis||Reacting to the developments in Afghanistan and the ongoing repatriation efforts, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said that the Afghanistan crisis is "precisely why" the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act was necessary. India is carrying out evacuations from the chaotic Kabul airport, with emphasis on Hindu and Sikh minorities. The CAA prompted weeks-long protests in the national capital when it was passed in 2019, in which nearly 100 died. The law provides citizenship to persecuted non-Muslim minorities from neighbouring Muslim majority countries who came to India before 2015. It was passed in 2019 and came into force in January 10, 2020. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had directed officials while reviewing the Afghanistan crisis to extend all possible help to “Afghan brothers and sisters” looking forward to assistance from India, particularly the Sikh and Hindu minorities who are seeking refuge. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/precisely-why-citizenship-law-was-necessary-union-minister-hardeep-singh-puri-on-afghanistan-crisis-1022580.html
23-08-2021||National||With 25,072 infections, India's single-day Covid-19 cases lowest in 160 days||India saw a single-day rise of 25,072 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 160 days, while active cases declined to 3,33,924, comprising 1.03 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The  tally of Covid-19 cases has increased to 3,24,49,306. while the death toll has climbed to 4,34,756 with 389 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases have declined to 3,33,924, the lowest in 155 days, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has increased to 97.63 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A reduction of 19,474 cases has been recorded in the total number of active Covid-19 cases in a span of 24 hours.  Also, 12,95,160 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 50,75,51,399. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 28 days. Weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.91 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 59 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,16,80,626, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 58.25 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Monday morning. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-25072-infections-indias-single-day-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-160-days-1022584.html
23-08-2021||National||UP: Last rites of Kalyan Singh to be performed with full state honours on Monday||The last rites of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh will be performed on Monday at Rajghat in Narora of Bulandshahr district with full state honours, officials here said. The mortal remains of the BJP leader, which were kept at Ahilya Bai Holkar stadium here, will be taken to his native village Madholi at 9.30 am, and from there they will be taken to Rajghat, they said. Singh died at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on Saturday night. He was 89. On Sunday night, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, while paying homage, described Singh as "a true son of Bharat Mata". He said that the veteran BJP leader would be considered among those leaders of his generation who had deeply impacted Indian politics of his era. Paying homage to Singh at the stadium, where thousands queued up to pay their last respects, Adityanath said "such was Singh's love for Lord Ram that he did not care about the lure of office when he had to choose between the two". The former Rajasthan governor's mortal remains arrived by air ambulance at the Dhani Pur air strip on Sunday evening and Adityanath, state BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh and Etah MP Rajveer Singh, who is son of Singh, were also present there. On Sunday Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, BJP chief JP Nadda and other leaders paid tributes to Singh in Lucknow. Singh, who also served as the Rajasthan governor, was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of the SGPGI in a critical condition on July 4. He died due to sepsis and multi-organ failure, the hospital said. Singh was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister when the Babri mosque was demolished by a mob of "karsevaks" in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. Along with BJP veterans L K Advani and M M Joshi, he was among the 32 people acquitted in the demolition case in September last year. A Lodhi leader, he was instrumental in the rise of the BJP to power in Uttar Pradesh in the 1990s. He is survived by his wife Ramvati Devi, son Rajveer Singh, who is the Lok Sabha MP from Etah, and grandson Sandeep Singh, who is the minister of state for finance, technical education and medical education in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-last-rites-of-kalyan-singh-to-be-performed-with-full-state-honours-on-monday-1022586.html
23-08-2021||National||Covid-19 third wave may peak in October, hit children: Report||An expert panel under the National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), has warned that the third wave of Covid-19 may peak in October. The committee has noted that “paediatric facilities — doctors, staff, equipment like ventilators, ambulances, etc. are nowhere close to what may be required in case a large number of children become infected”. Experts have expressed concern about 82 per cent shortage of paediatricians in primary health centres and 63 per cent vacancies in community health centres (the data cited from a parliamentary standing committee). “The situation is already dire, and might worsen due to lack of adherence to Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB), insufficient medical facilities and lagging vaccination,” the report said. Calling for prioritising vaccination among children with co-morbidities and a special focus on those with disabilities, the experts said that even with “strict interventions”, the peak of the third wave is expected to arrive by late October.   Experts, in the report, highlighted the vulnerability of children as they haven’t been vaccinated. However, most experts said they are not prone to severe infections, even though they can pass the virus to others. The report pointed out how during the second wave, about 60 to 70 per cent of children hospitalised due to Covid had comorbidities and their low immunity was the primary cause behind many developing MIS-C (Multi-system Inflammatory Syndrome), a “rare but serious condition” developed post-Covid recovery. Earlier estimates have suggested that the third wave may prove to be less severe than the second. The committee has recommended “a holistic home care model, immediate increase in paediatric medical capacities and prioritising mental health issues among children”. They have also called for “a scientific approach coupled with focused public spending” to deal with pandemic management. “There is a huge gap between urban and rural India in terms of awareness, digitisation and medical facilities. It seems like the pandemic outbreak has only exacerbated social inequities and highlighted shortcomings of our society,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-third-wave-may-peak-in-october-hit-children-report-1022600.html
23-08-2021||National||PM Modi's photo on vaccine certificate causes woes to Indians travelling abroad: Report||Amid the second wave, India started vaccinating its adult population from ages 18-45 years. Once vaccinated, a certificate is issued to the citizens and this verifies that they have received either one or both of the doses and is linked with the person's Adhaar number and the date of having received the dose along with the name of the vaccine. While all of this makes it an official document to be used in the future for travel and other purposes, there is one detail in there that has not only left people in India but also immigration officers around the world puzzled. It is the photo of Prime Minister Modi. In one such instance, Deepti Tamhane, who was relocating to London from India, was suspected of fraud by immigration officers at the Frankfurt airport. Her family and she had received the vaccine prior to travelling and received their certificates.  Tamhane was travelling to London in July after much of the second wave had settled, but India was still not out of the Red List. So she took the route from India to Frankfurt after which she would fly to Belgrade and then to London. At the Frankfurt airport, she reached the customer service desk of the airline and presented her documents, of which the most important was the vaccine certificate.  When verifying the vaccine certificate photo with the photo on her passport, the customer service representative got furious at Tamahane and accused her of fraud, and presenting the wrong documents. However, Tamhane explained to her that the photo was of India's Prime Minister and the matter was dismissed with a laugh.  Tamhane shared this experience on her Facebook, and the post went viral and many others spoke up about similar experiences.  A Reddit user named Jhujhar Singh's friend, Nishan faced a similar problem. Nishan was heading to Serbia, to quarantine himself before travelling further. Airport authorities in Serbia stopped him for "wrong" photograph on his vaccine certificate. After explaining the situation, they all had a good laugh and moved on with their lives, reports Vice News. Dheeraj (name changed), works for a tech company in central Europe. He got vaccinated in India. However, upon his return, he showed his own certificate to a colleague and he told Vice that, "he couldn’t believe that it carried our prime minister’s picture. He called over a dozen other colleagues to have a look and they all had a good laugh. But I guess most Indians wouldn’t find anything wrong with this, given how our hoardings carry photographs of our politicians all the time.” India is probably the only country where the head of state is using the vaccination drive as an opportunity to promote the party and leader in power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-photo-on-vaccine-certificate-causes-woes-to-indians-travelling-abroad-report-1022601.html
23-08-2021||National||Afghan crisis: India brings back 146 of its evacuated nationals from Doha||India on Monday brought back 146 of its nationals in four different flights from Qatar's capital Doha, days after they were evacuated from Afghanistan by NATO and American aircraft in view of the deteriorating security situation in the war-torn country. People familiar with the development said the Indians were flown back to Delhi as part of India's mission to evacuate its citizens and Afghan partners from Kabul following its takeover by the Taliban over a week back, they said. It was the second batch of Indians to be brought back from Doha after their evacuation from Kabul. A total of 135 Indians were flown back to Delhi from Doha in a special flight on Sunday. Out of the second batch of Indians who returned home from Doha, 104 people were brought back in a Vistara flight, 30 by a Qatar Airways flight and 11 of them returned by an Indigo flight. One person returned by an Air India flight, they said. India on Sunday brought back 392 people including two Afghan lawmakers in three different flights under the evacuation mission amid a continued scramble by various countries to rescue their citizens from Kabul. The total number of people evacuees included the first batch of 135 Indians who were flown back from Doha. It is learnt that the Indians evacuated to Doha from Kabul were employees of a number of foreign companies that were operating in Afghanistan and they were flown out of Kabul by NATO and American aircraft. The Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. Within two days of the Taliban's capture of Kabul, India evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in the Afghan capital. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy, on August 16. The second aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on August 17. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-crisis-india-brings-back-146-of-its-evacuated-nationals-from-doha-1022607.html
23-08-2021||National||Central Railways' protection force rescued 477 kids in 7 months||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has rescued 477 children and reunited them with their parents during a seven-month period, January-July, 2021, on the Central Railways (CR) network. This includes 310 boys and 167 girls who were rescued from the railway platforms of stations over Central Railways and reunited with their parents with the help of NGOs like Childline. Most of those rescued had come to the railway station without informing their families, due to a fight, family issues or in search of better and more glamourous lives. They were found loitering on the platforms, railway stations and sometimes in trains also by trained RPF personnel. CR general manager Anil Kumar Lahoti said the Railways play its role of social responsibility by connecting with the runaway children, understanding their problems and counselling them to go with their family. “The RPF and frontline staff who play an important role by identifying such cases with their innate sense and taking immediate action as a counsellor, have done a commendable job,” he said. The division-wise breakup of children rescued from January to July 2021 over CR are: Mumbai Division 166 children (104 boys and 62 girls), Bhusawal Division 70 children (39 boys and 31 girls), Nagpur Division 40 children (22 boys and 18 girls), Pune Division 171 children (130 boys and 41 girls), Solapur Division 30 children (15 boys and 15 girls). In July 2021 alone, 73 children (47 boys and 26 girls) were rescued and reunited with their parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/central-railways-protection-force-rescued-477-kids-in-7-months-1022613.html
23-08-2021||National||BSF personnel open fire at flying object in J&K's Arnia||Border Security Force personnel opened fire at a flying object that was spotted along the International Border in Arnia sector of Jammu district on Monday, an official said. "At about 0530 hours, a blinking red and yellow light in the sky was observed by our forward troops in Arnia sector near the IB", the official said.  Troops opened fire at the flying object following which it went towards Pakistan side, the official said.  The area is being searched with the help of police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-personnel-open-fire-at-flying-object-in-jks-arnia-1022614.html
23-08-2021||National||Infosys CEO Salil Parekh at Finance Ministry to meet FM Sitharaman over I-T portal glitches||Infosys CEO and Managing Director Salil Parekh has reached the Finance Ministry to meet Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman over glitches at the newly-launched income tax portal.  The ministry had summoned Parekh on Monday to explain why an income tax portal backed by the company continues to show glitches even after two and half months of its launch. Infosys was given the contract to develop the website in January 2019. After about two days of the income tax portal being unavailable, Infosys late on Sunday said emergency maintenance on the website has concluded and it is now live. Developed by Infosys, the new income tax e-filing portal 'www.incometax.gov.in' has had a bumpy start from the day of its launch on June 7 as it continued to face tech glitches with users complaining that certain functionalities were either unavailable or working slow. A tweet by Income Tax department said the portal has not been available since Saturday. Infosys India Business, which is the Twitter handle of Infosys India Business unit, in a tweet on Sunday evening said: "The emergency maintenance of the @IncomeTaxIndia portal has concluded and the portal is live. We regret any inconvenience caused to taxpayers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/infosys-ceo-salil-parekh-at-finance-ministry-to-meet-fm-sitharaman-over-i-t-portal-glitches-1022619.html
23-08-2021||National||Bombay HC stays police probe against Sony Pictures on allegation of criminal defamation in 'Scam 1992' web series||The Bombay High Court on Monday, through an interim order, stayed an ongoing probe by Pune police against Sony Pictures in a case of alleged criminal defamation and copyright infringement in its 'Scam 1992' web series. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar took note of the submission made by the Sony Pictures' counsel, senior advocate Shirish Gupte, that while as per law the investigation in a case of criminal defamation must be conducted by an officer of deputy superintendent-level, in the present case, an inspector was investigating the alleged offences. Gupte further said there existed previous Supreme Court judgements, as per which a case of criminal defamation under section 500 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was not a cognisable offence and police need not register an FIR immediately after the receipt of a complaint. Yet, the Pune police had registered an FIR and were investigating the case in breach of provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Sony Pictures Network India, that owns the SonyLIV app, approached the HC earlier this month, seeking to quash the FIR registered against it by the Pune police on a complaint by Karad Urban Co-operative Bank (KUCB) for offences of criminal defamation and trademark infringement. As per the plea, the complaint had been filed by KUCB against unidentified persons, alleging that in one of the episodes of the series 'Scam 1992,' a logo similar to that of the complainant bank was displayed in the background and this caused serious damage to the bank's reputation. In its plea, Sony Pictures said a disclaimer against all liabilities towards the aired content was published at the beginning of every episode of the series. It also said the FIR was baseless and absurd. On Monday, following advocate Gupte's submissions, the state government's counsel, Jayesh Yagnik, told the HC that the state had been made aware of the error in the ongoing investigation. "We have told the officers concerned to correct the mistake. A deputy superintendent-level officer will begin the probe afresh," Yagnik said. "At this stage it is not necessary to elaborate. It is sufficient to say that the investigation cannot go on further. Ad-interim relief in terms of stay on the investigation till next hearing," the HC said. The court adjourned the matter for further hearing on September 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-stays-police-probe-against-sony-pictures-on-allegation-of-criminal-defamation-in-scam-1992-web-series-1022632.html
23-08-2021||National||Slamming Sidhu's advisers, Manish Tewari urges Congress to introspect over Kashmir remarks||Congress leader Manish Tewari on Monday urged the party to introspect on whether those who do not consider Jammu and Kashmir as a part of India and have pro-Pakistan leanings should be part of the Punjab Congress. He said such people mock all those who have shed blood for India. "I urge Harish Rawat, AICC Gen Secy in-charge Punjab to seriously introspect that those who do not consider J&K to be a part of India and others who have ostensibly Pro-Pakistan leanings should be a part of Punjab Congress," he said on Twitter. His remarks came a day after Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh took strong exception to the recent remarks of two advisers of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on sensitive national issues like Kashmir and Pakistan. He termed the remarks by Sidhu's advisers Malvinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg as atrocious and ill-conceived comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the State and the country. The Punjab CM also asked Sidhu to "rein in" his advisers, who he said, should stick to giving advice to the PPCC president and not speak on matters "of which they clearly had little or no knowledge and had no understanding of the implications of their comments". Singh was reacting to the reported remarks of Garg, questioning his criticism of Pakistan, as well as an earlier statement made by Mali on Kashmir. Both of them were recently appointed by Sidhu as his advisors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/slamming-sidhus-advisers-manish-tewari-urges-congress-to-introspect-over-kashmir-remarks-1022636.html
23-08-2021||National||No instant solution on whether to reopen schools amid pandemic: Amartya Sen||Speaking in an online discussion organised by Pratichi on Sunday, Sen said that children are suffering a lot as schools are closed but also concerns over their health cannot be ignored if campuses reopen. "In America, there is an ongoing debate between two groups on the same issue. In India, there are different opinions. But, what may be applicable in the east of Birbhum may not work in the west of Bankura. There cannot be a readymade reply, an instant reply at hand, the situation is not so," Sen said. On the evaluation model in the present scenario, the economist said acquiring and sharing knowledge is more important. "Even if we put emphasis on the evaluation we must remember it is the last thing. Acquiring and sharing knowledge comes first. There are reasons to believe that the issue should be seen from different sides and perspectives," he said. "When we learn something for the first time, when we first comprehend the matter....is that linked with evaluation? We have to see. Evaluation will be certainly of use, but how much and in what way? We have to see if there is a link between evaluation and real education," Sen pointed out. Asked about the threats to the environment, he said that either the world is aware of the problems and knows the solution but not proceeding in the right path or there need to be threadbare discussions to find the directions to solve the crisis. "Environment is an integral part of every work, every step taken by us," he reasoned. Sen, who is currently a Thomas W Lamont University Professor, and Professor of Economics and Philosophy at Harvard University, also stressed on tapping alternative energy resources such as solar and nuclear to protect the environment. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-instant-solution-on-whether-to-reopen-schools-amid-pandemic-amartya-sen-1022643.html
23-08-2021||National||Centre to brief leaders of parties on Afghanistan developments ||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar will on Thursday brief the leaders of all political parties on the situation in Afghanistan. “In view of developments in Afghanistan, PM @narendramodi has instructed that the MEA (Ministry of External Affairs) brief Floor Leaders of political parties,” Jaishankar posted on Twitter. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi later said that the briefing would take place at the Parliament House Annex on Thursday. India continued to evacuate its citizens as well as Afghan Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan, where the Taliban militants entered the national capital on August 15, after occupying a large number of provincial capitals in a swift blitz across the country taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies. A group of Afghan Sikhs carrying the holy scripture Guru Granth Sahib from a Gurdwara in Afghanistan were flown out of the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul on Monday. They are likely to arrive in New Delhi soon. An Air India aircraft on Sunday brought to New Delhi 87 evacuees, who were earlier flown to Dushanbe by an Indian Air Force aircraft from Kabul. Another Air India Aircraft brought home 146 evacuees, who had earlier flown from Kabul to Doha by a military aircraft. An Indian Air Force aircraft on Sunday brought to Hindon Air Base 107 Indians and some Afghan Hindus and Sikhs, including two members of the National Assembly of Afghanistan. Though New Delhi evacuated its envoy Rudrendra Tandon and other diplomats from Kabul on August 17, it has not formally announced the closure of the Embassy of India in the capital of Afghanistan, as it would have meant severance of diplomatic relations between the two nations – a decision Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has not yet taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-brief-leaders-of-parties-on-afghanistan-developments-1022647.html
23-08-2021||National||Indian Army grants time scale Colonel rank to women officers||The Ministry of Defence on Monday said that a selection board of the Indian Army has cleared the way for the promotion of five women officers to Colonel (Time Scale) rank after the completion of 26 years of reckonable service. The five women officers selected for Colonel (Time Scale) rank are Lt Col Sangeeta Sardana from the Corps of Signals, Lt Col Sonia Anand and Lt Col Navneet Duggal from the Corps of EME and Lt Col Reenu Khanna and Lt Col Ritcha Sagar from the Corps of Engineers. This is the first time that women officers serving with the Corps of Signals, Corps of Electronic and Mechanical Engineers (EME) and the Corps of Engineers have been approved to the rank of Colonel. Previously, promotion to the rank of Colonel was only applicable for women officers in the Army Medical Corps (AMC), Judge Advocate General (JAG) and the Army Education Corps (AEC). The widening of promotion avenues to more branches of the Indian Army is a sign of increasing career opportunities for women officers. Combined with the decision to grant permanent commission to women officers from a majority of branches of the Indian Army, this step defines the Indian Army’s approach towards a gender-neutral Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-grants-time-scale-colonel-rank-to-women-officers-1022654.html
23-08-2021||National||UP: Shah pays tributes to Kalyan Singh, says his death is big loss for BJP||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday paid tributes to former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh here, calling the death of the BJP stalwart a "big loss" for the party. Singh died at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow on Saturday night. He was 89. "With the death of Kalyan Singhji, the BJP has lost a stalwart. It is a big loss for the party. The void created by Kalyan Singh's death is difficult to fill for a long time," Shah told reporters. He also paid tributes to Singh at PWD guest house in Atrauli town, where his native village Madholi is situated. "With his death, deprived, down-trodden and backwards have lost their well-wisher. He was big leader of the 'Ram Janmabhoomi andolan'. For this, he did not hesitate in leaving the government. I spoke to him when the 'Shilanyas' was done and 'Babuji' said that his life's target was achieved with it," Shah said. The former Rajasthan governor always worked for the development of the state and devoted his life for the poor and wanted Uttar Pradesh to become the best state in the country, he said. "His life will encourage party workers as how he reached the top position despite coming from a poor family," the Union minister said. Despite the fact that Singh was not in active politics since long, people, especially the youth, gathered here to pay their last respects, which shows his impact on them, he said. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and other senior leaders were present on the occasion. The last rites of Singh will be performed later during the day at Rajghat in Narora of Bulandshahr district with full state honours, officials here said. Earlier, the mortal remains of the BJP leader, which were kept at Ahilya Bai Holkar stadium here, were taken to his Atrauli, where his native village Madholi is situated and from there body will be taken to Rajghat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-shah-pays-tributes-to-kalyan-singh-says-his-death-is-big-loss-for-bjp-1022658.html
23-08-2021||National||Mizoram will not take legal action against Assam cops after filing theft case||Mizoram police will not initiate legal proceedings against their Assam counterparts in a case of alleged theft of construction material, a senior official said on Monday, a day after the things were handed back. Kolasib district Superintendent of Police Vanlalfaka Ralte said the construction material meant for a bridge was handed over to the Mizoram police in Bairabi on Sunday around 6 pm. “Although the case cannot be withdrawn now, there will be no further legal proceedings or investigation against the accused,” he told PTI. In a fresh escalation of tensions between the two neighbouring states, the Mizoram government had accused Assam officials of stealing construction material from a bridge construction site in its territory and filed a case of theft after the Friday incident. Kolasib deputy commissioner H Lalthlangliana had claimed on Sunday that Assam police personnel entered Zophai near Bairabi town and stole construction material. when work was underway to construct a bridge to connect the main road with the paddy field belonging to Mizoram's first chief minister Ch. Chhunga, he said. Mizoram’s Zophai shares border with Assam’s Kachurthal in Hailakandi district. Lalthlangliana had also written to his Hailakandi counterpart on Saturday, urging him to take necessary action. In his letter, Lalthlangliana said the incident or bridge construction should not be linked to the boundary dispute between the two states as the work was undertaken just to connect an existing road within Mizoram's territory to the paddy field of the former chief minister. Assam police had rejected the allegation of theft and claimed that Mizoram officials entered Assam and started constructing a bridge. "The allegation of any theft by a disciplined force like Assam police is absolutely concocted, baseless, malafide and devoid of fact, and is an attempt by the Mizoram administration to divert the attention from main issue which is illegal construction by Mizoram authorities on Assam's soil,” Hailakandi SP Gaurav Upadhyay had said on Sunday. The officer in-charge (OC) of Ramnathpur police station, under which falls Kachurthar, and his patrolling team had immediately reached the site on Friday and stopped the construction work, calling it a "trespass" by Mizoram. Mizoram’s three districts- Aizawl, Mamit and Kolasib share about 164.6 km interstate border with Assam’s Cachar, Hailakandi and Karimganj. The situation along the border has been tense since June 29 when both states accused each other of encroachment. Tension snowballed into a full-blown armed conflict on July 26 when police personnel of the two states, backed by local residents, opened fire and clashed, leaving at least seven people from Assam dead. The deceased included six Assam police personnel. During a meeting on August 5 in Aizawl, representatives of the two state governments had agreed to maintain peace and amicably resolve the border dispute through dialogue. However, simmering tension still prevails in the area following incidents of bombing of a school building and firing on civilians after the July 26 clash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mizoram-will-not-take-legal-action-against-assam-cops-after-filing-theft-case-1022667.html
23-08-2021||National||SC to consider listing of pleas for hearing on conferring senior designation to lawyers||The Supreme Court Monday agreed to consider the listing of petitions questioning some High Courts' decision to confer senior designation to advocates by using "arbitrary and discriminatory" secret voting as a norm. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana took into consideration submissions by senior advocate Indira Jaising, who sought urgent listing of her miscellaneous application. She alleged that some High Courts continued to use a secret voting process to confer senior designation. Acting on her PIL, the top court had in 2017 issued a slew of guidelines for designating lawyers as seniors. "There are some problems about senior designation in various courts…..I want to take this up,” the CJI said. The bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, cited the demise of senior advocate Soli Sorabjee, who was one of the members on the apex court’s panel for taking initial decisions on applications of lawyers for grant of senior designation, and added that a new appointment has to be made. "You know one of our seniors Soli has passed away. We have to find a replacement,” the bench told her. The court said it would consider the matter after some time while indicating some development might take place in one or two weeks. Jaising said that the 2017 judgment required to be worked out and the issue has been hanging fire for very long. Jaising submitted that designation of lawyers should be on the basis of marks given by the designated committee and the voting should be resorted to only when it is unavoidable. She said that some of the high courts use the voting method as a norm and not an exception.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-listing-of-pleas-for-hearing-on-conferring-senior-designation-to-lawyers-1022669.html
23-08-2021||National||Over 57 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to states, UTs so far: Centre||More than 57.05 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to state and UTs so far, the Union Health ministry said on Monday. Another 13,34,620 doses are in the pipeline, the ministry said.  Over 3.44 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered, it said.  The ministry said the Union Government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-57-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-provided-to-states-uts-so-far-centre-1022671.html
23-08-2021||National||Amid report of ban, Hurriyat removes signboard from Srinagar office||Amid reports that the Center may ban both factions of Hurriyat Conference, Tehreek-e-Hurriyat led by hardline separatist leader Syed Ali Geelani removed its signboard at the group's head office in uptown Hyderpora in Srinagar. The move comes after news that the Hurriyat may get banned on the lines of Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) and JKLF, for serious offences of selling MBBS seats in Pakistan to Kashmiri students and using the money to fund terror activities. The ban on the Hurriyat would be under Section 3 (1) of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Under this section of the Act, if the Central government is of the opinion that any association is, or has, become an unlawful association, it may be notified as unlawful. Eyewitnesses said that the official signboard was removed from the Tehreek-e-Hurriyat office on Sunday evening. Geelani's residence is in the same complex. However, a senior official said they themselves removed the boards fearing action. “A proposal has been mooted as per the Centre's policy of zero tolerance for terrorism,” he said. Reacting to media reports of the ban, a moderate faction of the Hurriyat led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq rejected the allegations of separatist conglomerate being involved in terror funding. “It (Hurriyat selling MBBS seats) is completely unfounded, and can be verified by those students or parents whom we have recommended, many among them being from among economically weak sections,” a statement of the moderate Hurriyat said. He said the Mirwaiz has all along been giving recommendation letters to students for their benefit who come to him asking for it, for colleges and universities in Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Turkey and elsewhere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-report-of-ban-hurriyat-removes-signboard-from-srinagar-office-1022678.html
23-08-2021||National||Western Railway's originating revenue crosses Rs 5K-cr mark||In a major achievement amid the pandemic, the originating revenue of Mumbai-headquartered Western Railway (WR) has crossed the Rs 5,000-crore mark on August 21 despite low passenger and freight traffic due to the pandemic.  Between April 1 and August 21, WR registered a revenue of Rs 5,033 crore, a growth of 53 per cent in comparison to the same period last year, according to WR general manager Alok Kansal.  Passenger, parcel and ticket segments achieved a more than 100 per cent increase in revenue.  The originating number of passengers stood at 143 million which increased manifold against the previous year's tally of 9.93 million. It is also noteworthy to mention that WR's non-fare revenue of Rs 4.16 crore is the highest amongst all zones. WR chief spokesperson Sumit Thakur informed that almost 80 per cent of the total revenue has been attained from freight traffic, which brought in Rs 4,030 crore due to a paradigm shift in policies and aggressive marketing efforts.  Between April 1 and August 21, WR transported commodities weighing more than 1 lakh tonnes through its 285 parcel special trains, which included agricultural produce, medicines, medical equipment, fish, milk, generating approximately Rs. 37.47 crore.  Seventy-two milk special trains were run by WR, with a load of more than 50,000 tonnes and 100 per cent utilisation of the wagons. Similarly, 85 Covid-19 special parcel trains with a load of approx. 14,900 tonnes were also run to transport essential commodities. In addition to this, 53 indented rakes carrying about 25,000 tonnes were also run with 100 per cent utilisation.  To help farmers find new markets for their produce and also for its economical and fast transportation, 75 Kisan Rails with a load of more than 18,600 tonnes have also been run during this period from various divisions. Thakur also stated that a total 14,944 rakes of goods trains have been run by WR and carried 32.56 million tonnes of essential commodities as compared to 25.86 million tonnes in the corresponding period last year.  As many as 31,151 freight trains were interchanged with other zonal railways, of which 15,595 trains were handed over and 15,556 trains were taken over at different interchange points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/western-railways-originating-revenue-crosses-rs-5k-cr-mark-1022682.html
23-08-2021||National||Plea filed in Supreme Court to declare virtual hearings a fundamental right||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court by a lawyers' body for declaring virtual mode of hearing as a fundamental right for advocates and litigants. Petitioner All India Jurists Association, a body of more than 5,000 lawyers, asked the top court to quash August 16 notification issued by registrar general, Uttarakhand High Court stating that the court will resume physical hearing and no request for virtual hearing will be entertained. The plea emphasised that access to virtual courts as a fundamental right cannot be denied to any lawyer or a litigant by any court of law. Apart from Uttarakhand, the plea also cited instances of Bombay, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala High Courts compelling lawyers to appear physically. "Access to virtual courts and conducting cases through video conferencing by resorting to usage of information, communication and technology is a fundamental right available to every lawyer under Article 19(1)(a) and (g) of the Constitution. Being a fundamental right it cannot be defeated or dispensed with on procedural grounds of lack of technology or infrastructure or inconvenience of the courts in handling them," it said. The plea claimed the High Court’s order is a death knell for the idea of virtual courts. The order goes against against accessible, and affordable justice being propagated by the e-committee of the top court. It asked the top court to pass an interim order so that no lawyer in ordinary circumstances should be denied access to virtual courts or any category/class of proceedings before the High Courts. Besides challenging the decision of the Uttarakhand High Court, the plea also sought a direction to restrain all High Courts from denying access to lawyers through virtual mode of hearing on the ground of availability of physical hearing. The plea urged the top court to issue direction declaring that the right to access to virtual courts through video conferencing for attending and participating in the conduct of any case proceeding is facet of fundamental right guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution. On April 6, the top court by a detailed order directed the hearing in all courts should be conducted through virtual mode in view of ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-supreme-court-to-declare-virtual-hearings-a-fundamental-right-1022684.html
23-08-2021||National||363 MPs, MLAs have criminal charges framed against them in courts: ADR report||Over 350 MPs and MLAs out of nearly 2,500 lawmakers from 2019 to 2021 have criminal charges framed against them in courts with the BJP (83) topping the list. Of this, 24 MPs and 111 MLAs have cases pending in courts with charges being framed at least ten years ago, a new study has said. Altogether, 363 lawmakers — 67 MPs and 296 MLAs — have charges framed against them, the analysis by private election watchdog Association for Democratic Reforms ((ADR) showed after analysing election affidavits of 2,495 lawmakers — 542 Lok Sabha MPs and 1,953 MLAs. The average number of years that criminal cases against MPs have been pending is seven years while that of MLAs is six years. The analysis has brought out interesting facts — there are at least nine MLAs or MPs whose cases were registered more than 25 years ago. Among these is the case of Ram Narayan Mandal, a BJP MLA in Bihar who has the longest case at 31 years. While the case was filed in 1989, the court framed charges only in October 2010 relating to unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapons, assault and conspiracy.  Manoranjan Byapari, a Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA in West Bengal has a 30-year-old case of 1991, in which the court framed charges only in December 2019. Mithilesh Kumar Thakur of JMM and Soumya Ranjana Patnaik have 29-year-old cases pending against them. According to the ADR report, Congress follows BJP with 47 MLAs and MPs against whom charges have been framed. TMC has 25 such lawmakers while BJD, YSR Congress and CPI-M have 22 each. DMK (20), RJD (14) and AAP and Shiv Sena (12 each) also have lawmakers with charges framed in double digits. Among the elections, 2019 Lok Sabha polls have the highest number of lawmakers at 67, followed by Bihar Assembly Election 2020 with 54 MLAs and Kerala Assembly Election 2021 with 42 MLAs who have declared criminal cases where the charges have been framed. If one takes the data of MPs state-wise, Uttar Pradesh had 14 MPs with charges framed against them followed by Bihar (9), Tamil Nadu (8), Kerala (7) and Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra (4 each). The data on MLAs showed that Bihar had the highest number of 54 MLAs who have charges framed against them followed by Kerala (42), Maharashtra (41) and Odisha (30). Among the ministers against whom charges have been framed, four are union ministers while 35 are ministers in state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/363-mps-mlas-have-criminal-charges-framed-against-them-in-courts-adr-report-1022689.html
23-08-2021||National||Bhima-Koregaon case: NIA says JNU, TISS students were recruited for 'terror'||Maoists organisations were recruiting students from New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University and Mumbai’s Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has claimed in the draft charges presented to the court in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case. “The accused recruited students from various universities, including the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Tata Institute of Social Science for commission of terrorist activity,” according to the draft charges submitted to Special Judge DE Kothalikar, who presides over the NIA court in Mumbai. The Elgar Parishad case relates to the congregation in Shaniwarwada in Pune city during which inflammatory speeches made on December 31, 2017, which, the investigative agencies claimed, triggered violence and caste-clashes on January 1, 2018, near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located in Shirur tehsil in Pune. An altercation between two groups near the memorial when at a commemorative event  – organized by Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyan -to mark the bicentenary of the Anglo-Maratha war at Bhima Koregaon in which the Mahar caste soldiers of Bombay Native Infantry of East India Company defeated the Peshwas. One youth was killed in the incident. Several vehicles and public property were damaged. This was followed by two days of agitation. When the incident took place, the erstwhile BJP-Shiv Sena saffron alliance government was in power - and then Chief Minister and Home Minister Devendra Fadnavis ordered a probe by the Pune police, which formed an SIT. However, after the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi comprising Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress came to power, the Centre asked the NIA to take over the case amid opposition by the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhima-koregaon-case-nia-says-jnu-tiss-students-were-recruited-for-terror-1022694.html
23-08-2021||National||Nationwide strike against gold hallmarking rules evokes strong response: GJC||Barring big corporates, most jewellery shops remained shut on Monday in response to a nationwide strike call given by 350-odd jewellery associations to protest the new gold hallmarking rules of the Centre, All India Gem Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) said. The jewellery bodies are against the government's Hallmarking Unique ID (HUID) system which they said has nothing to do with the purity of gold but is just a tracking mechanism. Speaking with PTI, All India Gem Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) Director Dinesh Jain said, "There has been a very strong response to a nationwide strike against the HUID system. Shops are closed for a day." Big corporates in the jewellery sector never participate in such strikes. Mostly individual and family-run jewellery shops in all four zones are shut for a day, he said. However, in Tamil Nadu and Kerala, shops were shut till 12.30 pm due to the Onam festival, he said. Jain also said that the protesting jewellers will make a representation to district collectors against the gold hallmarking rules. Mandatory gold hallmarking, a purity certification of the precious metal, has come into force from June 16 in a phased manner. The government has identified 256 districts from 28 states and union territories for the phase-1 implementation. Last week, Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) Director General Pramod Kumar Tiwari had urged jewellers' bodies to call off the strike, saying gold hallmarking implementation has so far been a "grand success." BIS is implementing gold hallmarking system in the country. According to protesting jewellers' bodies, the earlier process of gold hallmarking was better than the new HUID system which is against the principle of 'ease of doing business'. Jewellers' bodies' fear that the government may use the data being uploaded in the name of the new HUID system to crackdown on jewellers for any mismatch in stock that's been hallmarked and sold. "There is a practical problem in implementing the HUID system. Suppose a wholesaler has a hallmarked gold jewellery stock of 50 kg. A retailer comes to him and buys 1 kg of jewellery. It takes a few minutes to give the stock but billing with HUID on each piece of jewellery takes hours," Jain explained. This problem is there at every stage from wholesaler, distributor, retailer to jeweller, he said and argued that the BIS has a mandate to ensure purity of gold to consumers and it should stick to that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nationwide-strike-against-gold-hallmarking-rules-evokes-strong-response-gjc-1022698.html
23-08-2021||National||SC dismisses plea by Congress MLA Srinivasmurthy against bail to 'architects' of Bengaluru violence||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea by Congress MLA of Pulikeshinagar Constituency R Akhanda Srinivasmurthy, against bail to accused in the conspiracy behind the riots in East Bengaluru in August, last. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy rejected separate petitions by Srinivasmurthy against relief to Yasir Mohammed Hamid, and his brother, former Corporator Abdul Raqueeb Zakir, and former Mayor of Bengaluru Sampath Raj. After hearing counsel from both sides, the court said it could not reappreciate evidence in bail matters. The violence on August 12, 2020, claimed the lives of four people and left several injured. The case related to offences under the IPC, as well as the Karnataka Prevention of Destruction and Loss of Property Act, 1981, and the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Around 3,000 to 4,000 people went on a rampage in August last year, setting ablaze the houses of Congress MLA Srinivasmurthy and his sister over an alleged inflammatory social media post by his nephew. The mob also torched Devara Jeevanahalli (DJ Halli) and Kadugondanahalli (KG Halli) police stations, 57 police vehicles, and about 181 private vehicles, over suspicion that the nephew was present there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-by-congress-mla-srinivasmurthy-against-bail-to-architects-of-bengaluru-violence-1022706.html
23-08-2021||National||NHRC issues notices to Centre, Assam, Mizoram on border clash||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued notices to the Centre, Assam and Mizoram over the deadly border clash between the two Northeastern states in July, stating that "grave violation of human rights" took place. Acting on a complaint by one Md Injamul Haque of Assam, the NHRC on Sunday issued notices to the Union home secretary and the chief secretaries of Assam and Mizoram, and asked them to file their reports within four weeks. "The Commission has considered the matter. Facts of the case are disturbing. The allegations made in the complaint are serious in nature involving deaths and injuries to the public servants. "The case therefore involves grave violation of Human Rights of the deceased and injured. Such types of cases are viewed very seriously by the Commission. In these circumstances, let a Notice be sent," as per the details of the proceedings. Accordingly, notices were issued and the matter will be put up before the full commission after four weeks. At least six Assam Police personnel and one civilian were killed and more than 50 people injured as the festering border dispute between the two Northeastern states erupted into a bloody conflict on July 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-issues-notices-to-centre-assam-mizoram-on-border-clash-1022707.html
23-08-2021||National||PM Modi congratulates Indian athletes, wrestlers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Indian players for their performance in the World Athletics Under-20 Championships in Nairobi and in the junior world wrestling competition. "Picking speed and success! Congratulations to our athletes for bringing home 2 Silver medals and a Bronze medal at @WAU20Nairobi21. Athletics is gaining popularity across India and this is a great sign for the times to come. Best wishes to our hardworking athletes," Modi tweeted. In another tweet, he said, "More power to the talented wrestlers! At the Junior World Wrestling Championships 2021, our Men's and Women's contingent comes back with a total of 11 medals including 4 Silvers. Kudos to the team for the success and best wishes for their future endeavours." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-congratulates-indian-athletes-wrestlers-1022709.html
23-08-2021||National||Elgar Parishad case: NIA draft charges claim accused wanted to wage war against nation||The NIA in its draft charges submitted before a special court here in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case has claimed the accused persons wanted to establish their own government and "wage a war against the nation". The National Investigation Agency (NIA) submitted the draft earlier this month and a copy of it was made available on Monday. The draft lays down 17 charges against 15 accused, including human rights and civil liberties activists, and they have been sought to be charged under various sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The NIA has alleged that the accused persons were active members of the banned terror outfit CPI (Maoist). The arrested accused in the case include activists Sudha Bharadwaj, Vernon Gonsalves, Varavara Rao, Hany Babu, Anand Teltumbde, Shoma Sen, Gautam Navlakha and others. As per the draft charges, the main objective of the accused persons was to establish a "Jantana Sarkar (people's government) through revolution and armed struggle to seize power from the State". The draft also claimed that the accused attempted to "wage war against the Governments of India and Maharashtra". Framing of charges is the first step before trial commences in the case where the prosecution describes the charges against the accused along with the evidence to be relied upon. After the framing of charges, the court will ask the accused whether they plead guilty or not in the case. The draft further claimed the accused had been playing provocative songs, enacting short plays and skits in Pune during the Elgar Parishad meeting and distributing Naxal literature. "That the criminal conspiracy was an intention to bring about secession of a part of territory of India and incite individuals to bring about such a secession," it said. It further alleged that the accused had an intent to strike terror in the minds of people by using explosive substances. "That accused recruited students from various universities including the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Tata Institute of Social Science for commission of terrorist activity," it claimed. The accused have been charged under Indian Penal Code Sections 120-B (conspiracy), 115 (abetment of offence), 121, 121-A (waging war against state), 124-A (sedition), 153-A (arms in procession), 505(1)(B) (statements promoting mischief) and 34 (common intention). They have also been charged under UAPA Sections 13, 16, 17, 18, 18A, 18B, 20 (punishment for terrorist activities), 38, 39 and 40 (punishment for being part of terrorist organisation). The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The prosecution claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elgar-parishad-case-nia-draft-charges-claim-accused-wanted-to-wage-war-against-nation-1022724.html
23-08-2021||National||India shouldn't get militarily involved in Afghanistan: Ex-IAF chief Arup Raha||India should not get militarily involved in Afghanistan, former IAF chief Arup Raha said on Monday, warning that China and Pakistan will burn their fingers by cosying up to the Taliban. The former Indian Air Force (IAF) air chief marshal said that the Taliban policy of China and Pakistan will backfire on them as a result of their "dishonest purposes" for getting involved in Afghanistan. "I don't think India should put the boots on the ground there and get into trouble. Military involvement in Afghanistan is dangerous, and India should not be a part of any such future move of the Americans or NATO forces," Raha told PTI in an interview. Reminding the adage about Afghanistan that it is the "Graveyard of Empires", the former IAF chief said that the United States of America (USA) had lost more than 2,000 troops in the country between 2001 and 2021. Raha, who led the IAF from January 1, 2014, to December 31, 2016, said that with the USA having vacated strategically important Afghanistan, which shares borders with several central Asian nations, countries like China, Pakistan and even Russia feel that they will "have a nice time" in the region. "There is no possibility of that happening as the Taliban is not going to listen to any of them. China is trying to appease them by offering them money in the name of development," Raha, a former chairman of the Chiefs of Staff Committee of the three wings of the Indian Armed Forces, asserted. He said that the Chinese are wary of the possibility of the Taliban getting involved in Xinjiang province and infiltrate its Jihadi culture there, where the communist country has allegedly "mistreated the Uyghur Muslims and suppressed and oppressed them". "Within two to five years, China will feel the heat of Jihadi movement in Xinjiang, which shares its borders with Afghanistan. China will face huge trouble; they already have problems in Tibet, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. They will have their hands full. In two to five years, there will be utter chaos as far as the Taliban is concerned," he said. Dismissing the Taliban leadership's claims that they have changed and are a softer version of their previous self, Raha said they are "barbaric and will do what they have been taught to". Soon after the blitzkrieg takeover of Kabul by the Taliban following the exit of US forces, China was among the first countries to say that it stands ready to develop good neighbourly, friendly and cooperative relations with Afghanistan. A Taliban delegation, led by the chief of its Political Commission Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, which visited China last month during its talks with the Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, had promised not to permit the Uyghur Muslim militant group from Xinjiang, the East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), to operate from Afghanistan. Within hours of Kabul's fall on August 15, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said the Afghan people had "broken the shackles of slavery". Raha said that with organisations like the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan being active in the country, the establishment in Islamabad is likely to face a challenge if the Taliban consolidates in Afghanistan. He said that the Afghan people have good strength and weaponry but are not ready to fight back against the Taliban. "I don't think outsiders should get involved too much, let the Afghans fight for their freedom and decide what they want to do and how they want to live," he said. Questioning why the western world should decide their way of life, Raha said it is not right and claimed that the West got involved in Afghanistan for their own interest, including business, industry, and the powerful arms lobby in the USA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-shouldnt-get-militarily-involved-in-afghanistan-ex-iaf-chief-arup-raha-1022735.html
23-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Against a more virulent Delta, is booster our best shot?||With the ebbing of cases and easing of restrictions, questions on the intensity of the third wave persist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-against-a-more-virulent-delta-is-booster-our-best-shot-1022748.html
23-08-2021||National||Can a woman be forced to name father of child born out of wedlock? asks Gujarat HC||The Gujarat High Court has sought to know whether a woman is under any obligation to disclose the name of the father of her child that she conceived out of wedlock. Justice Paresh Upadhyay also asked whether one should look for criminal angle into the case of a woman who does not want to disclose the identify of the father of the child she has given birth to without marriage even when she has not complained of rape. The court made the observations on August 19 while hearing an appeal by a convict against a lower court order sentencing him to ten years of rigorous imprisonment for raping a minor under section 376 of the IPC and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). The victim, a resident of Junagadh, had given birth to two children of the convict with whom she lived without marriage, and neither she nor their father had disowned them or denied their paternity. The victim had said she left her family on her own will and started living with the convict after which she gave birth to two children, first of whom was born when she was 16. “She is a poor rural daughter. If some lady conceives a child and she is not married, and if she goes to hospital, whether the doctor would ask that you have conceived from whom? I don't want to reply. Is it required? Whether a lady is under obligation to disclose to the hospital whose child this is?” the court asked. "If one goes to Ahmedabad, Delhi or some other metro to give birth to a child, would the doctor ask the name of her father? If she says, 'Sorry to say, I don't know.' If she says that, I don't want to give that name. She is not complaining that she has been raped. Shall we be able to read criminality?” Upadhyay observed while hearing the appeal. The judge wondered which legal provisions would be violated in such cases. “The pure question of law would be, if some lady conceives, and it is her call that 'I want to have a child but I don't want to marry'. Then which provisions would be violated if she takes this call?” the court asked. “Without marriage, if somebody gives birth, with whom she is staying does not make a difference,” the court further said, adding such an action is called 'modern' in urban and large metros, while in rural areas, several sections may be slapped for those opting for this. The judge noted there are several tribal communities where marriage is not a condition to give birth to a child. He said there is no illegality in giving birth to a child before 18. The appellant was awarded rigorous imprisonment for 10 years by a court in Junagadh, which the HC had suspended during a previous hearing pendency outcome of the appeal. The court had observed that the victim told the lower court that she had on her own walked out of home and started living with the appellant and with that relation gave birth to two children - the first baby was born on June 29, 2019, and the second on January 22, 2021. She turned 18 on March 24, 2020. She was scheduled to marry the convict on March 25, but the marriage could not take place due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Her father lodged a police complaint when she gave birth to her second child. Based on the complaint, the police had registered a case under under IPC section 376 (rape) and provisions of POCSO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-a-woman-be-forced-to-name-father-of-child-born-out-of-wedlock-asks-gujarat-hc-1022750.html
23-08-2021||National||10-year-old Indian boy Madhav Kamath finishes second in Scrabble World Youth Cup||10-year-old Madhav Gopal Kamath, a native of Mangaluru, made India proud by securing second place in the 2021 Scrabble World Youth Cup. The event, usually held in different parts of the world, was held online this time due to the pandemic. Madhav’s second-place finish in the main Under-18 event is the best performance by an Indian scrabble player in the history of the World Youth Cup. The prize comprises a trophy and cash award, a press release stated. Equally impressive was 12-year-old Suyash Manchali from Bengaluru — studying in the seventh standard of MESKKPS, Vidyaranyapura — who finished eighth and was named the best Under-14 player. This was the first time that India had two players ranked among the world's top ten players. The Indian team also received the ‘Spirit of Scrabble’ award for being the team that played best in the true spirit of the game. Madhav narrowly lost out on the top spot to defending champion, 15-year-old Syed Imaad Ali of Pakistan. Madhav and Imaad both had nine wins from 13 games, but Imaad won the title due to a better spread (difference between his scores and opponent’s scores). The annual global event was organised by World English-Language Scrabble Players Association (WESPA) and was hosted this year by Pakistan Scrabble Association. India's participation in the tournament was coordinated by the Scrabble Association of India. Madhav, studying in sixth standard at New Delhi-based Sanskriti School, is the second son of Sudhir Kamath and Malavika P. His father Sudhir Kamath is the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Co-founder of 9stacks. Madhav started playing scrabble when he was six. He had previously won the Under-8, Under-10, and Under-12 works titles held in Malaysia in 2017, Dubai in 2018 and Kaula Lampur in 2019 respectively. This year, apart from finishing runner up (2nd rank) in the main Under-18 event, Madhav had won the Under-12 event too. He has participated and won prizes in adult tournaments as well, including top five finishes in two national-level tournaments for adults.  The 2021 Scrabble World Youth Cup tournament featured the top 72 Scrabble players aged under 18 from 14 countries, including India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Malaysia, Canada, Australia, Nigeria, UK and the USA. Each of the players first played 36 games in a hard-fought preliminary round held over two weekends from August 7 to 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-year-old-indian-boy-madhav-kamath-finishes-second-in-scrabble-world-youth-cup-1022755.html
23-08-2021||National||Nirmala Sitharaman meets Infosys CEO over snags in income tax portal||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday raised concerns over the continuing glitches in the nation's new electronic tax filing portal with the chief executive of Infosys Ltd, which had developed the website. Sitharaman met Salil Parekh, CEO of Infosys, at her office here and sought to know the reasons for not resolving the snags in the portal even after two-and-a-half-months since its launch, official sources said. Parekh and his team are believed to have given a road map for fixing the problems. On Sunday, the Income Tax Department in a Twitter post said Parekh has been summoned by the minister to explain the problems. The portal, which went live on June 7, was not accessible on August 21 and 22 till late evening. It came back after what the tech major described was an "emergency maintenance". This is the second time that Sitharaman has met the Infosys team over the issue. She had on June 22 met Parekh and COO Pravin Rao. Infosys was awarded the contract in 2019 to develop the new portal. The project was aimed at developing the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and also expedite refunds. The new income tax e-filing portal 'www.incometax.gov.in', however, faced tech glitches from day one with users complaining that certain functionalities were either unavailable or working slow. Consequently, the I-T department had to allow the manual filing of remittance forms and also extend due dates for electronic filing of forms related to intimation by pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. "Ministry of Finance has summoned Sh Salil Parekh, MD &CEO @Infosys on 23/08/2021 to explain to hon'ble FM as to why even after 2.5 months since the launch of new e-filing portal, glitches in the portal have not been resolved. In fact, since 21/08/2021 the portal itself is not available," the I-T department had tweeted on Sunday. Infosys India Business Unit in a late evening tweet on Sunday said, "The emergency maintenance of the @IncomeTaxIndia portal has concluded and the portal is live. We regret any inconvenience caused to taxpayers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirmala-sitharaman-meets-infosys-ceo-over-snags-in-income-tax-portal-1022756.html
23-08-2021||National||SC asks Centre to find solution on blockade of roads due to farmers' protest||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre to find a solution to the blockade of roads caused here in the National Capital Region in view of ongoing farmers' protest against the three agriculture laws. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said the protestors have a right to protest at a designated space but can't block the outflow and inflow of traffic. Taking up a plea by a woman- resident of Noida against the road blockade, the bench said, "Solution lies in the hands of Union of India and State governments." "You have to find a solution, they might have the right to a place to agitate, but the roads cannot be blocked like this," the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta who was appearing for the Centre. Petitioner Monicca Agarwaal sought a direction to the Centre and others to ensure that the road between Noida to Delhi was kept clear so that the passage was allowed. The farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders since November, last. The top court had on January 12 stayed implementation of three contentious farm laws. On Monday, the court fixed the plea for consideration on September 20 to enable the Centre to find out solutions to the problem. "You now have enough time. Please work out something," the bench told Mehta. In its affidavit, the Uttar Pradesh government said that it was making all efforts to make farmers understand that their act of blocking roads was causing grave inconvenience to travellers. Earlier, the court had asked the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments to file their responses to the plea. The court had earlier said that public roads should not be blocked in protests and there should be a free flow of traffic. The court had made it clear that it is not concerned about the larger issue that are the farm laws which can be decided judicially, politically or administratively but limited to clearing of roads blocked by farmers. The petitioner claimed that her travel to Delhi was taking two hours instead of the normal 20 minutes. In her plea, the woman said she stayed in Noida and her work base was also in Noida but since she was in a marketing job she has to travel to Delhi frequently. She also claimed that she was a single parent and also had some medical issues. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-find-solution-on-blockade-of-roads-due-to-farmers-protest-1022758.html
23-08-2021||National||Allahabad, Uttarakhand HCs passing orders in quashing of FIR cases 'without application of mind': SC||The Supreme Court on Monday expressed its displeasure, saying the Allahabad and Uttarakhand High Courts continued to pass orders for no coercive action or protection from arrest for accused in heinous offences, despite its earlier judgement suggesting use of such inherent power sparingly. “We have seen two High Courts of Allahabad and Uttarakhand are passing these orders without application of mind even after our judgement in M/s Neeharika, Infrastructure versus State of Maharashtra in petitions for quashing of cases,” a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The court's remarks came while hearing a petition against an order of Uttarakhand High Court passed on a plea for quashing of the FIR in a murder case. “This is a serious matter. The FIR was registered under section 302 of IPC. Just see the anxiety of the High Court, it directs that the person should surrender by August 10 and the bail be decided on the same day and if the bail application is rejected, then the Session Court should hear the bail plea the same day,” the bench said. “This is a shocking order”, it said, adding that the high court recorded in its order that prayer of quashing of FIR is not pressed and other prayers before it are “innocuous” and therefore the accused should surrender before August 10 and a bail application, if presented, shall be considered and decided the same day. The top court said it will examine the issue and issued notice to the Uttarakhand government on the plea challenging the High Court order. On April 13, the same bench had passed a slew of directions in Neeharika, Infrastructure versus Maharashtra case and said that police has the statutory right and duty under the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure to investigate into a cognisable offence and courts would not thwart any investigation into the cognisable offences. It had said that the power of quashing should be exercised sparingly with circumspection, in rare cases; only where no cognisable offence or offence of any kind is disclosed in the FIR that the Court will not permit an investigation to go on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allahabad-uttarakhand-hcs-passing-orders-in-quashing-of-fir-cases-without-application-of-mind-sc-1022767.html
23-08-2021||National||TMC will attend all-party meet on Afghanistan crisis: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said that representatives of the ruling TMC in the state would be attending the all-party meeting called by the Centre to discuss the Afghanistan crisis. The Centre has called for an all-party meeting on August 26 to discuss the situation in Afghanistan, following the Taliban takeover. "We will definitely be attending Thursday’s all-party meeting on Afghanistan, called by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA)," the TMC supremo told reporters at the state secretariat. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, following the withdrawal of the US forces from the country. The central government's briefing is expected to focus on India’s evacuation mission from Afghanistan as well as the government’s assessment of the developing situation in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-will-attend-all-party-meet-on-afghanistan-crisis-mamata-banerjee-1022772.html
23-08-2021||National||Covid vaccine trial participants to be issued digital certificates through Co-WIN||People who participated in Covid-19 vaccine trials will be issued digital certificates through the Co-WIN portal, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. In a statement, the ministry said it received several requests from trial participants for issuing certificates through Co-WIN. "In a welcome initiative, digital #Covid-19 vaccination certificates will now be issued to the clinical trial participants of Covishield & Covaxin through Co-WIN. The nation thanks them for their incredible commitment & contribution to Covid-19 vaccine research & treatment," Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted. "The participants can download their individual certificates through Co-WIN Portal, Aarogya Setu, Digilocker or the UMANG Application," he said. The participants can download their individual certificates through Co-WIN Portal, Aarogya Setu, Digilocker or the UMANG Application. (2/2) The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in partnership with the Serum Institute of India (SII) had conducted phase II/III bridging studies of Covishield from August 2020. Phase III efficacy clinical trials for Covaxin were conducted by Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) from November 2020. The ministry said it was decided that vaccination certificates may be issued to such participants who were administered the vaccines during these trials after the trials were unblinded. The ICMR was designated as the nodal agency for the collection of vaccination data for such participants by the ministry. "The ICMR had provided the data for 11,349 such persons to the MoHFW. Digital vaccination certificates have now been issued through Co-WIN to such persons who participated in these studies/trials of Covishield and Covaxin," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccine-trial-participants-to-be-issued-digital-certificates-through-co-win-1022783.html
23-08-2021||National||India can become world's second-largest cloud talent hub: Nasscom||India has the potential to become the world's second-largest cloud talent hub with the combined effort of government bodies, education and skilling organisations and technology providers, IT industry body Nasscom said on Monday. Nasscom, in association with Draup, said in a report that India currently ranks third globally with an installed talent pool of 608,000 (FY2021) cloud professionals. "By 2025, India would have an estimated 1.4-1.5 million cloud professionals (baseline growth). However, with an estimated demand for over 2 million professionals by 2025, India could reach 1.7-1.8 million cloud talent pool with a fairly aggressive skilling roadmap," the report titled Cloud Skills: Powering India's Digital DNA said. Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) and Accenture were strategic partners for the research effort. India's cloud market is estimated to reach $5.6 billion by 2022, a 26 per cent year-on-year growth. With rapid digital acceleration and everything becoming on-demand and need-based, migration to cloud-based services will provide a significant competitive advantage for SMEs and enterprises in the new normal. This is further expected to grow exponentially with accelerated cloud adoption across sectors. Infrastructural agility, flexibility, and resilience on cloud with significantly lower costs, especially post the pandemic, have been the key growth drivers for such a shift, the report said. The Indian SaaS (software as a service) startup ecosystem is another driver of cloud demand, it added. SaaS companies in India employ over 40,000 professionals across job domains, more than any other tech startup segment, Nasscom said. With a baseline growth of 24 per cent CAGR, India's cloud talent pool is expected to grow 2.4X to nearly 1.5 milllion by 2025. However, there is an urgent need to scale talent further -- talent with the right skillsets -- that will help meet this demand, it said. The report estimates that with a more aggressive talent building roadmap (30 per cent-plus growth rate), India can increase its cloud talent pool to between 1.7 to 1.8 million and in the process, become world's second largest cloud talent hub. "Cloud adoption has witnessed an accelerated adoption during the pandemic as enterprises focused on building hybrid work models, collaboration infrastructure and business continuity. "Cloud has moved from being a relative back-end to a front-end (business-facing) technology, enabling on-demand access to resources," Nasscom President Debjani Ghosh said. For India to carve itself a unique identity as a global hub for cloud solutions, a concentrated public-private partnership and large-scale skilling is the key, she added. Nasscom has set up its FutureSkills PRIME initiative in partnership with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) to upskill talent in emerging technologies and cloud skills are a key area of focus on this platform, she said. The report said the demand for cloud solutions is growing exponentially, both in India and worldwide, leading to a higher demand for cloud talent as well. India saw about 380,000 job openings for cloud roles in 2020, a 40 per cent growth over 2019. The demand for cloud skills far outweighs the current supply and needs focus across stakeholders on upskilling, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-can-become-worlds-second-largest-cloud-talent-hub-nasscom-1022784.html
23-08-2021||National||Action will be taken against govt doctors who do not prescribe generic medicines: Official||Stern action will be taken against doctors in government hospitals in Uttarakhand if they prescribe branded medicines to patients coming to hospitals instead of generic drugs, Director General Health Tripti Bahuguna said on Monday. She asked all chief medical officers to ensure that doctors in hospitals under their jurisdiction prescribe only generic medicines to the patients. Bahuguna also asked them to take stern action against doctors who do not do this. Jana Aushadhi Kendras, selling generic medicines that are far cheaper than branded drugs, have been opened across the country to give economically weaker sections access to quality treatment.  The government keeps issuing orders from time to time asking doctors to prescribe generic medicines but it has been found they continue to prescribe branded medicines violating the orders, the DG health said in her letter to the CMOs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/action-will-be-taken-against-govt-doctors-who-do-not-prescribe-generic-medicines-official-1022786.html
23-08-2021||National||FM Sitharaman sets September 15 as deadline for Infosys to resolve I-T portal glitches||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday conveyed to Infosys CEO Salil Parekh in no uncertain terms the government's "deep disappointment and concern" over the continuing glitches in the new income tax filing portal and set September 15 as the deadline for the software major to resolve all snags. As glitches continued to mar the functioning of the portal even after over two months of its launch, Sitharaman summoned Infosys MD & CEO Parekh at her office here to know the reasons for not resolving the snags in the portal. A statement issued by the Income Tax Department said that during the meeting the finance minister emphasised that there is a need for putting in more resources and efforts on the part of Infosys so that the much-delayed delivery of agreed services is ensured. "Hon'ble Finance Minister demanded that the issues faced by taxpayers on current functionalities of the portal should be resolved by the team by 15th September 2021 so that taxpayers and professionals can work seamlessly on the portal," the I-T department said in a statement after the meeting. Sitharaman, the statement said, conveyed "the deep disappointment and concerns of the government and the taxpayers" about the continuing glitches in the e-filing portal. "She sought an explanation from Infosys for the repeated issues faced by taxpayers," it added. During the meeting, Parekh was also sensitised on the difficulties that the taxpayers were facing and the problems that are arising on account of the delays in the functioning of the portal. "Parekh explained that he and his team are doing everything to ensure the smooth functioning of the portal. Further, he said, over 750 team members are working on this project and Pravin Rao, COO of Infosys, is personally overseeing this project. He also assured that Infosys is working expeditiously to ensure a glitch-free experience to the taxpayers on the portal," the statement added. The portal, which went live on June 7, was not accessible on August 21 and 22 till late evening. It came back after what the tech major described was "emergency maintenance". This is the second time that Sitharaman has met the Infosys team over the issue. She had on June 22 met Parekh and Rao. Infosys was awarded the Rs 4,242 crore contract in 2019 to develop the new portal. The project was aimed at developing the next-generation income tax filing system to reduce processing time for returns from 63 days to one day and also expedite refunds. Between January 2019 to June 2021, the government has paid Rs 164.5 crore to Infosys for developing the portal. The new income tax e-filing portal 'www.incometax.gov.in', however, faced tech glitches from day one with users complaining that certain functionalities were either unavailable or working slow. Consequently, the I-T department had to allow the manual filing of remittance forms and also extend due dates for electronic filing of forms related to intimation by pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi in a tweet said it's "been two months since the IT portal was launched and yet no resolution has been found to resolve the problems. How does summoning & castigating the CEO become PR material for finance ministry? Nothing but a mighty embarrassment for a country talking of Aatmanirbhar & Digital Bharat". PHDCCI Chair Direct Tax Committee Mukul Bagla said India has around 7 crore persons or entities who file their income tax returns. Due to glitches in the income tax portal, their day-to-day functioning has been adversely affected since June 7. Taxpayers are unable to download documents filed earlier with the income tax department or file their income tax returns for ay 2021-22 if they opt for new rates u/s 115BAC. The assessee is not able to file returns pursuant to notice u/s 148, file reply to penalty proceedings etc. Many other important tax functions have been affected, he said. "In the absence of a fully functional income tax portal, either we suspend all income tax proceedings till it is functional and further extend due dates of filing ITR, otherwise the life of the tax payer as well as the tax professional is very miserable," Bagla added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-sitharaman-sets-september-15-as-deadline-for-infosys-to-resolve-i-t-portal-glitches-1022794.html
23-08-2021||National||TMC calls Centre’s monetisation plan anti-people, demands its immediate rollback||The TMC on Monday claimed that the Centre’s National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) is an example of “government getting privatised by crony capitalists” and demanded the immediate rollback of the "anti-people decision". The party’s Rajya Sabha chief whip, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, also said that never before in the history of independent India, a "Union government has so helplessly surrendered to the corporate". "This BJP government is run by the corporate, of the corporate and for the corporate. This government has been completely privatised by crony capitalists. "Under the garb of National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), it is actually a privatisation programme. They are selling off everything — from railways to ports and highways. This is a bankrupt government. We want immediate rollback of the decision," he said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced the Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) scheme which will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-calls-centre-s-monetisation-plan-anti-people-demands-its-immediate-rollback-1022796.html
23-08-2021||National||India risks 6 lakh daily Covid-19 cases without more vaccinations: Study||By Archana Chaudhary India may record an unprecedented 6,00,000 new infections a day if the country fails to boost the pace of vaccination and avert a third coronavirus wave, according to a new study. The National Institute of Disaster Management — which falls under the Ministry of Home Affairs — predicts a surge in cases as early as October. Daily infections could reduce to 2,00,000 if the government executes its 1-crore-a-day vaccination plan, the report stated, citing a study by Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Energy University and Nirma University. The NIDM advises organising hospital beds and vaccinating the vulnerable to avert the devastation of the second wave that peaked in May, after killing more than 2,50,000 residents. Other forecasters have also predicted a new wave in coming weeks, though most see it as weaker than the previous surge.  The study, while acknowledging lack of scientific evidence that a possible third wave may affect kids, suggested vaccinating children with serious underlying health conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-risks-6-lakh-daily-covid-19-cases-without-more-vaccinations-study-1022805.html
23-08-2021||National||We'll never even think of going back to Afghanistan now: Women refugees in India||On August 15, when her native city Kabul fell to the Taliban, 19-year-old Mariam Arzo Nooyar was crying at her house in south Delhi's Bhogal, saying all hope of redemption for her war-torn Afghanistan was replaced by nightmares. Nooyar, an Afghan refugee, along with her family had moved to India seven years ago in hope of a safer and prosperous future. "India is our home now and every year August 15 is the day of festivities in the country to mark its Independence Day. But this August 15, when India was celebrating its 75th Independence Day, we lost our, as Kabul fell to the Taliban that very day. I was depressed and sad, and cried the whole day in my room," she said with a heaviness in her voice. She was among the hundreds of Afghan refugees, mostly youths, who gathered and vociferously protested in front of the UNHCR office here amid deepening crisis in Afghanistan in the wake of takeover of the strife-torn nation by the Taliban. "The Taliban claim to do their acts in the name of Islam. But killing innocent people and curbing rights of women, is it Islam? Today, the Taliban people are hunting those who worked for the US when it occupied Afghanistan and government officials, musicians, artists, journalists. I have no hope left for my Afghanistan," Nooyar said. Wearing a traditional scarf with the national colours of Afghanistan, she and her friend Kayenat Yusufi, 18, sit in a corner of a streetside near the UN Refugee Agency office in Vasant Vihar, to take a rest. Yusufi, a class 12 student, points to her pair of black denim which she has paired with her traditional dress on top, accessorised with an Afghani scarf. "In Afghanistan right now, I cannot even think of wearing this outfit. The Taliban men will beat me with sticks or rods and even shoot at me. I shudder to think what our fellow women and girls are undergoing in Afghanistan," she lamented. Yusufi and Nooyar shouted slogans during the protest as they are both volunteers of the Afghan Solidarity Committee, an umbrella organisation of Afghan refugees in India, which led the demonstration. PTI spoke to a large number of female protestors, who hail from different parts of Afghanistan, and had moved to India in the past few years or over a decade ago. Tamanna,10, came to the protest site along with her mother, Hasala Rahmoni, from an Afghan refugees enclave in Noida. She held up a placard with a solidarity message that read 'please provide practical support to asylum seekers and refugees'. The young girl aspires to become a doctor, but the recent turn of events in her homeland has broken her heart and left her mother, who was a teacher of Afghan Dari (Persian) language in Afghanistan before migrating to India a few years ago, in a state of depression. "The Taliban, they kill people and don't allow girls to go to school or women to venture out," the 10-year-old rued. "My relatives are there in Afghanistan. I am worried about them and women and girls in general. How can we be happy in India, if our Afghanistan and Afghani people live in fear and uncertainty," her mother, Rahmoni said. Asked if they would ever like to return to their homeland, both mother and daughter said, "No, never. With the Taliban in control now, we can't even think of returning. It's hell right now." Among women protestors were also people who have lived in India for over a decade now. Zaalasht Akhtari, a resident of Lajpat Nagar, had moved to India 13 years ago. At Delhi's 'Little Kabul', she lives with her parents, three sisters and a brother. "I worked in the marketing department in the health sector. But, after the Taliban took over, the entire medical tourism flow from Afghanistan has stopped. Fate of women there, the less said the better. The Taliban, appeasing women to just form a government. They are evil, they will return to their old self," Akhtari said. Farkhunda Hami, 22, a fashion designing student, and her friend Alnuss Sada, 19, who also sat through the protest, were dejected thinking of the fate of the women and young girls back in Afghanistan. Amid evaporating hopes and feelings of fear and frustration, many young girls walked around the protest site, wrapped in the Afghan national flag, seeking to inject a sense of optimism amid a sea of pessimism. Being aware of the current situation, best friends Sadaf Kargar, 14, and Beheshta Niyazi, 13, who hail from Mazhar-e-Sharif and Kabul respectively, and now live as refugees in Tilak Nagar, expressed no desire to return to their native country ever, but demanded more support from the Indian government and the UNHCR. "I can at least walk freely with my country's flag in the streets of India. In Afghanistan, the Taliban will kill me if I even show my flag," Niyazi lamented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/well-never-even-think-of-going-back-to-afghanistan-now-women-refugees-in-india-1022812.html
23-08-2021||National||Will accept caste-based census if all parties agree: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said she will accept a nationwide caste-based census if all political parties reach a consensus on the matter. Banerjee's statement came at the backdrop of a 10-party delegation from Bihar headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi to push for a caste-based census. "When there will be a discussion and if a consensus is reached, I will not have any problem accepting it. I will not fight if all political parties and states reach a consensus. Let political parties, the CMs and the Central government reach a consensus," Banerjee said. She declined to say much on the issue, saying that sentiments differ from one state to the other. Banerjee said, "Nitish-ji has put up his questions on this issue. Let's see how others react to it." Statistics about different castes will help in formulating development schemes effectively as many of them have not benefitted so far in line with their actual population, the Bihar CM has said. The BJP leadership has so far not taken a categorical stand on the issue which has been lapped up by a number of regional parties, many of them its rivals in different states. With census being the Union's prerogative, it is now up to the Centre to take a call on the demand. There is a view that a caste census will bring the Mandal politics to the centre stage of politics and can be an effective weapon in the hands of regional parties to counter the BJP's Hindutva and welfare planks, the twin issues used by the saffron party to make inroads into the OBC vote bank at the expense of state-based parties. The caste-based census has not taken place in the country since British rule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-accept-caste-based-census-if-all-parties-agree-mamata-banerjee-1022816.html
23-08-2021||National||Parents with adopted child moving abroad have to intimate Indian diplomatic missions||The government on Monday introduced a new clause in the adoption regulations, according to which when parents with their adopted child move abroad within two years of adoption have to intimate Indian diplomatic missions of their departure and arrival at least two weeks in advance. This information has to be given through a written communication by parents, who have to also give full contact details, according to a gazette notification of the Women and Child Development Ministry. The notification said it shall be the responsibility of the Indian Mission of the country to which the child has moved to perform all the assigned duties under the Adoption Regulations, 2017, in respect to the adopted child. Under the Adoption (First Amendment) Regulations, 2021, it said that "the amendment has been notified in accordance with the relevant sections of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (2 of 2016)". Earlier, there was no such provision of such intimation under the regulations. "In the Adoption Regulations, 2017, in regulation 40, after sub-regulation (7), the following sub-regulation (for intimation) shall be inserted...," the notification said. The new sub-regulation 7A states that "where the adoptive parents move with the child to some other country within two years of adoption, the concerned Indian Diplomatic Missions in the country of departure and arrival, shall be intimated at least two weeks in advance through a written communication by the adoptive parents with their full contact details at the new place and thereafter, it shall be the responsibility of the Indian Mission of the country to which the child has moved, to perform all the assigned duties under the Adoption Regulations, 2017 in respect of the adopted child".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parents-with-adopted-child-moving-abroad-have-to-intimate-indian-diplomatic-missions-1022820.html
23-08-2021||National||Air India to operate weekly Indore-Dubai flight from September 1: Jyotiraditya Scindia||Air India will start operating a weekly flight between Indore in Madhya Pradesh and Dubai in the UAE from September 1, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said on Monday. Scindia is Rajya Sabha member from Madhya Pradesh. "Great news for the people of Indore! Air India is going to start new services between Indore and Dubai that will operate once a week (on Wednesday) currently," the minister said on Twitter. Financial bids for disinvestment-bound Air India are likely to be received from qualified interested bidders (QIBs) by September 15, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh had said on July 22 in Lok Sabha. The Centre had invited Expression of Interests (EoIs) for Air India on January 27, 2020. The last date of submission -- after multiple extensions due to Covid-19 pandemic -- of EoIs was December 14, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-to-operate-weekly-indore-dubai-flight-from-september-1-jyotiraditya-scindia-1022836.html
23-08-2021||National||India 'place to be' for app innovators today: Rajeev Chandrasekhar||India is the "place to be" for app innovators today, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Rajeev Chandrasekhar said on Monday as he exhorted entrepreneurs to tap into massive opportunities offered by one of the largest digital economies and its expanding market. With Digital India unleashing the power of technology in the country over the last seven years, there can be "no better time" for young innovators or entrepreneurs to be trying out new ideas, Chandrasekhar said. The app economy is galloping at a rate that is much faster than other areas of the digital economy, the minister said. "For app innovators today, India is the place to be," he said speaking at an event to launch 'AmritMahotsav App Innovation Challenge 2021' for Indian entrepreneurs and startups. While areas like traditional software, e-R&D (Research and Development), and SAAS (Software as a Service) are growing fast amid rapid digitalisation in post-Covid world, the app economy represents significant value and opportunities. "...that is an area India has lagged. The two years of app innovation challenge are not only about playing catch up of that aspect of digital economy but to create a huge momentum and sense of confidence that if there are other countries and entrepreneurs around the world who can do it, we can do it too," Chandrasekhar pointed out. Not only is the app innovation challenge a "challenge of ideas" and "competition of innovation," it is also about getting a slice of one of the largest digital economies in the world. "And given the fact that India is going to be one of the largest connected markets in the world in the next couple of years, if you're an innovator anywhere in the world, this is the best place to be in," the minister said. Even underperforming or undershooting on audience targets would yield millions of users, he said adding that the Ministry of Electronics and IT is firmly behind entrepreneurs and startups, offering full support to them. "You have heard of the term perfect storm and heard the term used in negative connotation...I consider this to be a perfect storm in positive connotation... Government is rock solid behind entrepreneurship and startups in particular. The ecosystem of the digital economy is growing leaps and bounds, and the post-Covid digitalisation of world and the digitalisation of India throws up that aspect of the opportunity," Chandrasekhar observed. The Innovation Challenge launched on Monday is in continuation of the AatmaNirbhar App Innovation Challenge organised in 2020 that helped identify 24 'Winning Apps' and 20 'Promising Apps'. Over 500 million people are estimated to be using smartphones in India, and three-quarters of them are online. Indians are also among the top downloaders of apps in the world, an official release said adding that the massive market holds a slew of opportunities for Indian innovators and tech wizards. The AmritMahotsav App Innovation Challenge 2021 has been launched in 16 categories including culture and heritage, health, education, social media, emerging tech, skills, news, games, entertainment, office, fitness and nutrition, agriculture, business and retail, fintech, navigation and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-place-to-be-for-app-innovators-today-rajeev-chandrasekhar-1022837.html
23-08-2021||National||Develop cadre for mental healthcare: National Institute of Disaster Management||Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on mental health and there was an urgent need to develop a cadre of trained psycho-social support providers, the National Institute of Disaster Managment (NIDM) said in a report. The report, which was submitted to the Prime Minister's Office, said there was a shortage of mental health professionals – psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, psychotherapists for addressing the mental health crisis unfolding in the country on account of the pandemic. It recommended completing the mental health pyramid that comprises a mix of formal and informal interventions to support those facing pyscho-social issues. The report suggested training of new cadres of mental health workers for suicide prevention, psychological first aid, risk and harm prevention by running courses through colleges and training institutes. It also suggested sensitive handling of calls informing about death of loved ones and ensuring that the bereaved has access to a support system and counselling services if need be. The experts also recommended grief counselling and emotional support for frontline workers – doctors, nurses, ward boys/girls, crematorium workers, ASHAs, volunteers, especially those who are at the village level. The NIDM report also counselled “lot of caution” before opening up vaccination for children. “There needs to be solid peer-reviewed clinical data before vaccinating children against Covid with the vaccines that have been given Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA),” the report said. In view of a possible third wave of the pandemic, the report suggested identification of need for rehabilitation of Covid affected children – both short as well as long term. “Hospitals should be well equipped with a comprehensive child care model. ... If a child is positive then there should be a place where hospitals can accommodate the parents as well and vice versa,” it said. India on Monday reported 25,072 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest increase in 160 days. Active cases in the country declined to 3,33,924, the lowest in 155 days, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate increased to 97.63 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/develop-cadre-for-mental-healthcare-national-institute-of-disaster-management-1022841.html
23-08-2021||National||Three copies of Sikh holy book flown-in from Afghanistan||Three 'saroopas' (copies) of Sikh holy book Guru Granth Sahib and 75 people, including 46 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were being evacuated from Afghanistan. Manjinder Singh Sirsa, President of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) said several people have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan Gurdwara in Kabul. Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri shared pictures of the copies of Guru Granth Sahib being carried to an Indian Air Force aircraft at Kabul airport. The evacuation of these 46 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus at such a challenging time is a big relief for us, said Sirsa who is also coordinating with the government in the evacuation mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/three-copies-of-sikh-holy-book-flown-in-from-afghanistan-1022844.html
23-08-2021||National||Oil India can't be judge in its own cause, will reconstitute panel: SC on Baghjan oil well tragedy||The Supreme Court on Monday said that it will re-constitute a committee set up to suggest remedial actions after assessing the environmental damage caused by the PSU following a major fire in Assam's Baghjan oil well saying “Oil India cannot be a judge in its own cause”. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah asked law officers — K M Nataraj and Aman Lekhi — to go through the suggestions given by petitioners on the names of experts and it will re-constitute a committee. “We will re-constitute the committee and it will be headed by Justice B P Katakey. Oil India cannot be judge in its own cause. We will delete the names of representatives of Oil India and instead incorporate some experts, who will be associated with the work of assessing the damage and providing remedial compensation on account of the loss which has been caused to the environment, including the loss of biodiversity as a result of the blowout which took place at the oil field of OIL,” the bench said. Well number 5 at Baghjan in Tinsukia district, had been spewing gas uncontrollably and it caught fire on June 9 last year, killing two of OIL's fire fighters on the site. The top court said that on August 26, the court will take up the matter as first item and pass the orders with regard to the same. Senior advocate Siddharth Mitra, appearing for petitioner activist Bonani Kakkar, said that four out of six experts who have been suggested are well conversant with the subject matter, having been associated with the work of the Committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The committee is headed by Justice B P Katakey. During the hearing, the bench told Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi that how can a representative from Oil India be in a panel to assess the damage, when the damage is alleged to have been caused by the Public Sector Undertaking (PSU). “Suppose there is a chemical industry responsible for a gas leak or any other incident. Now, when one has to assess the damage caused to the environment or to biodiversity, can that company be part of the committee. Of course it can be heard by the committee but cannot be part of that committee,” the bench told Lekhi. Mitra said that no funds have been given for the restoration of the environment ever since the incident took place. “It is undisputed that people have been given compensation to those who got displaced but as far as environment and biodiversity damage is concerned, not a single penny has been given,” he said. However, Lekhi, who was appearing along with another Additional Solicitor General K M Natraj, countered the arguments made by Mitra and said that “sweeping statements” are being made without taking into the account the funds already sanctioned. The bench said that it will also ask Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) to appoint a nodal officer to provide funds and make travel arrangements for the members of committee and other things. On July 1, the top court had observed that the NGT must have "some alacrity and concern" for the environment and expressed dissatisfaction over its order in which a top official of Oil India Ltd was inducted into the panel. The top court stayed the February 19 order of the NGT which said OIL cannot disown its responsibility over the fire in Assam's Baghjan oil well by shifting the blame on the contractor and had constituted a fresh six-member committee that had included the OIL chief to fix responsibility for the failures of the concerned individuals. The NGT order had come on a plea filed by Kakkar and others alleging the failure of the authorities in preventing the blowout of Baghjan oil well. Mitra had told the top court that for the determination of damages and compensation and for the restoration of the Dibru Saikhowa National Park and Wetland, a ten-member Committee has been constituted headed by the Chief Secretary, Assam in which the Managing Director of OIL has been inducted as a member. The NGT in its order had said it "prima facie" agrees that there was the failure of OIL in taking safety precautions and there is a need for ensuring that such incidents do not recur. "We direct this aspect to be gone into by a six-member committee headed by the Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas in consultation with the DG Hydrocarbon and DG Mines Safety, DG Oil Industry Safety and PESO (Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization), Chief Controller of Explosives, New Delhi within three months," the NGT bench had said. The said Committee may review the situation and take appropriate remedial measures, including fixing responsibility for the failures of the concerned individuals in the present incident, the NGT had said. With regard to the issue of accountability for the past compliances and the remedial action, the NGT had also formed another seven-member joint committee. The last aspect is assessing the damage to the environment and remedial restoration plan, including Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, the Maguri-Motapung Wetland, the green panel had said. "We direct this aspect to be looked into and remedial measures planned by the ten-member Committee headed by the Chief Secretary, Assam, nominees of MoEF&CC and CPCB, Assam Wetland Authority, State Biodiversity Board of Assam, SEIAA Assam, State PCB, Chief Wildlife Warden Assam, District Magistrate, Tinsukia, and Managing Director, OIL," the NGT had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oil-india-cant-be-judge-in-its-own-cause-will-reconstitute-panel-sc-on-baghjan-oil-well-tragedy-1022849.html
23-08-2021||National||Centre eyes Rs 35,100 crore from partial sale of Bharatnet network, tower infra||The government expects to realise Rs 35,100 crore from the partial sale of Bharatnet fibre assets and around 13,500 mobile towers owned by state-run telecom firms as part of its national monetisation pipeline released on Monday. Government think tank Niti Aayog has valued over 2.86 lakh kilometre of optical fibre assets laid by BBNL and BSNL under rural broadband project Bharatnet at Rs 26,300 crore, according to the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) document. According to the document, BSNL's 13,567 mobile tower assets and MTNL's 1,350 towers have been valued at Rs 8,800 crore. Both the PSUs jointly own 69,047 mobile towers. "Indicative monetisation value of Rs 26,300 crores has been considered over FY23 and FY 24. It may be noted that the actual private investment towards these packages could be lower than the estimated capex and a portion of capex may be met out of grant," the NMP document said. According to the document, the indicative monetisation value for Bharatnet fibre assets is considered based on a capex approach. The total approved cost for Bharatnet project is Rs 61,109 crore which includes Rs 42,068 crore for BharatNet (Phase-I and Phase-II) and a maximum of Rs 19,041 crore on viability gap funding (VGF) for implementation of the PPP model of BharatNet in 16 states, according to government information shared in Parliament. As on March 31, 2021, the government has utilised Rs 24,201 crore for the project. "The bidding process for this project (Bharatnet) is expected to be initiated during FY'22 and the actual outlay of capex will happen over 2 years from the date of award," the document said. According to the NMP, 5,25,706 kilometres of optical fibre has been laid under Bharatnet project which aims to connect all villages in the country with a high speed broadband network. Earlier the scope of the project was limited to 2.5 lakh gram panchayats which has now been extended to village level. I n the first phase of telecom asset monetisation proposed in FY'23, the NMP estimates to realise Rs 20,180 crore which includes Rs 15,780 crore from Bharatnet fibre and Rs 4,400 crore from mobile tower sale. In FY'24, Niti Aayog estimates to realise Rs 14,920 crore comprising Rs 10,520 crore from Bharatnet fibre and Rs 4,400 crore from sale of BSNL and MTNL mobile towers. The NMP proposes to realise 6 lakh crore from asset sale during FY 22-25 across various sectors of which 6 per cent value is expected to be realised from the telecom sector. "The NMP is meant to serve as an essential roadmap for the Asset monetisation of various brownfield infrastructure assets across roads, railways, shipping, aviation, power, telecom, oil and gas, and warehousing sectors," the document said. The government in the union-budget 2021-22 envisioned preparation of NMP to provide a direction to the monetisation initiative and visibility of investors and NITI Aayog was tasked with creation of the NMP for brownfield core infrastructure assets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-eyes-rs-35100-crore-from-partial-sale-of-bharatnet-network-tower-infra-1022852.html
23-08-2021||National Politics||Row over BJP flag being placed over national flag on Kalyan Singh's mortal remains||A photograph of the BJP flag placed over the national flag on the mortal remains of late Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh has kicked up a controversy on social media. The photo, tweeted by the BJP, shows the body lying in state, draped by the Tricolour, but half of it was seen to be covered up by the party flag. The party flag was placed on Singh's body over the national flag by BJP President JP Nadda and state BJP President Swatantra Dev Singh. Samajwadi Party spokesperson Ghanshyam Tiwari criticised the BJP on the issue. "Party above the Nation. Flag above the Tricolour. BJP as usual: no regret, no repentance, no sorrow, no grief," he tweeted. Youth Congress chief Srinivas BV tweeted: "Is it ok to place party flag over Indian flag in New India?" A tweet from the Youth Congress official handle said: "BJP flag on top of tricolour! Are self-proclaimed patriots respecting or insulting the tricolour?" Senior Congress leader and party MP Shashi Tharoor also took to Twitter to raise the issue. Kalyan Singh, 89, had passed away on Saturday night after a prolonged illness that led to multi-organ failure. Earlier on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had visited Lucknow to pay his respects to the departed leader. Section 2 of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act says: "Whoever in any public place or in any other place within public view burns, mutilates, defaces, defiles, disfigures, destroys, tramples upon or otherwise shows disrespect to or brings into contempt (whether by words, either spoken or written, or by acts) the Indian National Flag or the Constitution of India or any part thereof, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both." Earlier this year, an instance of disrespect to the flag had taken place at the iconic Red Fort during the farmers' rally. After the farmers entered the forecourt of the fort, climbed its ramparts, and hoisted a religious flag on a mast outside, the Centre said it would "not tolerate disrespect to the flag".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/row-over-bjp-flag-being-placed-over-national-flag-on-kalyan-singhs-mortal-remains-1022604.html
23-08-2021||National Politics||PM has to decide on caste-based census: Bihar CM Nitish||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led all-party delegation on Monday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanded a separate caste-based census. The 10-party delegation included the Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, former chief minister Jitan Ram Majhi, BJP leader Janak Ram among others. Kumar told the Prime Minister that the suggestion for caste-based census was made by the RJD leader and all parties in the state agreed to it. “Let us wait for the decision of the Prime Minister,” was the chief minister's refrain to questions on expectations from the central government. Yadav, the chief minister's arch-rival, said he was hopeful that the prime minister would agree to have a caste-based census. “If animals and trees can be counted, then why not people of castes. When the government has no scientific data on the population, how can it make welfare policies,” asked Yadav, the former deputy chief minister of Bihar. BJP leader Janak Ram, a minister in the BJP-JD(U) coalition government in Bihar, said whatever decision the prime minister takes will be acceptable to all. The chief minister said the statement of Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai's reply in Rajya Sabha that there was no proposal for releasing caste-based population data had triggered “unrest” among people. Asked if JD(U) and the RJD were coming closer politically on the pretext of caste census, Yadav said the opposition in Bihar has always supported the government on pro-people measures and those in national interest “Once caste census is carried out, then we will get to know actual information about all castes. Development work for them can then be taken up effectively,” he said. The meeting also witnessed some warm moments when the Prime Minister enquired about the well-being of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad. Yadav then briefed Modi about the health condition of his father before the delegation went on to put forth their demands formally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-has-to-decide-on-caste-based-census-bihar-cm-nitish-1022605.html
23-08-2021||National Politics||Bengal BJP divided over demand of division of state||A day after state BJP President Dilip Ghosh verbally supported Union Minister John Barla's demand of separate statehood for North Bengal, the state BJP leadership is divided over the issue with some of the frontline leaders openly criticising the demand. Senior leaders like Locket Chatterjee and Rahul Sinha spoke strongly against the North-South divide of the state. Chatterjee, who is also an MP from Hooghly said, "We never want a bifurcation of the state. The culture of Bengal is different. We live in harmony and Bengal is very dear to each one of us. Bengal will remain Bengal from north to south and east to west." Chatterjee, who took part in drawing portraits of Rabindranath Tagore and sang his songs on Sunday in a programme in Hooghly said, "Rabindranath celebrated 'Rakhi Bandhan'. Those who have Rabindranath in their hearts and minds and their hearts and minds can never divide Bengal". Union Minister and MP from Alipurduar John Barla has been demanding for a separate state for quite a long time but the issue took a controversial turn when state BJP President Dilip Ghosh, a couple of days before, said, "The entire responsibility of this lies with Mamata Banerjee. 75 years after Independence why do the people of North Bengal have to go other states for jobs, education and healthcare facilities? In Jangalmahal the situation is the same. Why the women in Jangalmahal will have to depend on sal and tendu leaves for livelihood. Why do they have to go to Odisha, Ranchi and Gujarat for jobs". "If they (the BJP MPs) have raised such demands (Bifurcation of the state), then it is not unjustified," he added. The remarks of Ghosh triggered debate across the state including the state BJP itself. National secretary of BJP Rahul Sinha without naming anyone said, "Those who want to change the name of the state and divide the state geographically are insulting Rabindranath Tagore. There is still a section of people in the state who want to divide Bengal," he said. Sinha narrated how Rabindranath started Rakhi Bandhan in October 1905 to protest against the bifurcation of Bengal. "This is the time we should remind ourselves of the thoughts of Rabindranath. We should take the message at the state and national level and make people aware of the significance of Rakhi," he added. Trinamool Rajya Sabha chief whip Sukhendu Sekhar Ray said, "BJP has encouraged fissiparous elements to divide Bengal after suffering a humiliating defeat in the recent elections."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bengal-bjp-divided-over-demand-of-division-of-state-1022618.html
23-08-2021||National Politics||If animals, trees can be counted, then so can people: Tejashwi Yadav bats for caste census||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday strongly pushed for a caste census during a meeting of a delegation led by Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  Stating that it will be a "historic" measure in helping the poor, Yadav said, "If animals and trees can be counted, then so can people." A 10-party delegation from Bihar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday in support of a nationwide caste-based census. Kumar was joined by RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav and representatives of many other other parties, including the BJP, and both leaders made a strong push for counting the population on the basis of caste. Kumar told reporters later that Modi heard them patiently. Asked about the prime minister's stand on the issue, he said Modi did not "deny it" (caste census) and heard out everyone. A caste-based census will help in formulating various development plans effectively, he said. Asked if the Kumar's JD(U) and the RJD are getting closer with both parties joining hands over the issue, Yadav said the Opposition in Bihar has always supported the government over pro-people measures and those in national interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/if-animals-trees-can-be-counted-then-so-can-people-tejashwi-yadav-bats-for-caste-census-1022623.html
23-08-2021||National Politics||'Anti-India, absurd': Anurag Thakur on Mehbooba Mufti's 'Taliban' remarks||Addressing reporters here on Sunday night, he claimed the PDP and its allies have been upset since their exit from power and the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019. Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are on the path of development under the BJP regime, the Union information and broadcasting minister said. Addressing Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) workers in south Kashmir's Kulgam district on Saturday, Mehbooba asked the Centre to take a lesson out of Afghanistan where the Taliban seized power and made the US flee, and urged the government to hold dialogue in Jammu and Kashmir and return its special status. Referring to the Taliban seizing power in Afghanistan, the former chief minister warned the Centre "to not test us" and asked the government to "mend its ways, understand the situation, and see what is happening in your neighbourhood". Thakur said Mehbooba's statement is "anti-India" and "absurd". He claimed the PDP and its allies have been upset since their exit from power and the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution that accorded special status to Jammu and Kashmir. "They should understand that whatever happened in the past will not be repeated. Both Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are on the path of development and will continue to thrive under the BJP rule. They will become model states of India," he said. State BJP chief Suresh Kashyap, Rural Development Minister Virender Kanwar and Deputy chief whip of state government Kamlesh Kumari were also present at the press conference. Thakur, who is also the minister for youth affairs and sports, said sports will be given priority under the New Education Policy and all modern facilities will be provided to the budding sportspersons of India. He said sports will be promoted across the country through 'Khel Maha Kumbh' and budding sportspersons will be picked out from there. Thakur said Himachal Pradesh will be developed as a modern hub of sports and will be known as 'Khel Bhoomi' (land of sports). He also credited Prime Minister Narendra Modi for improving health services and curbing the spread of coronavirus in the country. Thakur also thanked the people of Himachal Pradesh for giving him a rousing reception during his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in the state. He said that nearly 30,000 to 40,000 people blessed him during the yatra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anti-india-absurd-anurag-thakur-on-mehbooba-muftis-taliban-remarks-1022637.html
23-08-2021||National Politics||Clever, shrewd moves needed to defeat BJP in 2024 general elections: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday said opposition parties will have to make "shrewd and clever moves" to defeat the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections and West Bengal and Maharashtra have shown that the Modi-Shah juggernaut can be halted in the poll battlefield and on the political chessboard. "Only thing you need is a strong will to fight," an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana said, adding that a definite action plan is the need of the hour. The Shiv Sena fell out with the BJP after the Maharashtra Assembly polls in 2019 over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post. The Uddhav Thackeray-led party subsequently forged an alliance with the NCP and Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. In the West Bengal polls held earlier this year, the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) retained power with a landslide victory. The editorial in Saamana said despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 19 rallies, Mamata Banerjee's flag fluttered high in West Bengal and (Union Home Minister) all of Amit Shah's political planning and financial management was defeated. "Two years ago, the prestige of Raj Bhavan in Maharashtra put at stake, but the BJP couldn't form government in the state," the Marathi daily said. It was apparently referring to the hush hush early morning ceremony held last year at the Raj Bhavan where BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as chief minister after his party and the Shiv Sena fell out. "West Bengal and Maharashtra showed that the BJP can be defeated in the election battlefield and on the political chessboard," the Sena said. It mocked the recent 'Jan Ashirwad Yatras' of various Union ministers, saying if nothing is done, then these "Jan Ashirwad Jatras (fairs) will hypnotise people again". The Union ministers during the yatras were doing nothing, but abusing the opposition parties. Most of these ministers were "outsiders in the BJP", it said, adding that "dedicated BJP workers were participating in these 'jatras' like fools". Given this scenario, the opposition parties will have to make their moves "cleverly and shrewdly", the Sena said. "The result of 2024 (polls) will depend on how clever and shrewd moves are made. The opposition parties will have to do it. Preparation and dress rehearsal will have to be done. First the opposition parties will have to win the trust of people that they can provide a viable alternative," it said. Notably, Congress president Sonia Gandhi recently convened a meeting of various political parties. The editorial said it would be wrong to assume that the coming together of these 19 political parties will lead to weakening and exit of the Modi government. This is because, in these 19 parties, there are many parties which now resemble "old dilapidated houses", it said. Unless these dilapidated houses are repaired and given a new look, the other side (BJP) won't face shocks of unity, it added. The Sena said instead of mere deliberations, a definite action plan is the need of the hour. "The opposition's unity should not be on a weak foundation," it opined. The Sena claimed the BJP has governments "only in Assam and Uttar Pradesh". "The governments in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka have been formed by toppling the democratically-elected regimes," it added. The editorial also said that a "Jagjivan Ram" was needed in the present political arena in the national interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/clever-shrewd-moves-needed-to-defeat-bjp-in-2024-general-elections-shiv-sena-1022649.html
23-08-2021||National Politics||Why some BJP MPs want a separate state in North Bengal||Showing support to newly appointed Union minister John Barla's demand for a separate state or a Union Territory in north Bengal, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh has said that the demand is not “unjustified”. Ghosh’s remark on the matter has divided the state BJP leadership over the issue as there are some leaders from the party who are criticising this demand. However, this is not the first time such a demand has come from BJP leaders. Barla has been making this demand for a long time now. Earlier, two BJP MPs from North Bengal and a BJP MLA from Dabgram-Fulbari had also demanded to make North Bengal a separate state. So why do the BJP MPs want a separate state in North Bengal? According to Ghosh’s recent remark, the reason for this demand is for the "development" of the North Bengal region. "The entire responsibility of this lies with Mamata Banerjee. 75 years after Independence, why do the people of North Bengal have to go to other states for jobs, education and healthcare facilities? In Jangalmahal the situation is the same. Why the women in Jangalmahal will have to depend on sal and tendu leaves for livelihood? Why do they have to go to Odisha, Ranchi and Gujarat for jobs?” Ghosh told IANS . Also, a point to note here is that when Barla first raised this demand, Dilip Ghosh’s remark was different from what it is now. He had then distanced himself from Barla’s comment and had also mentioned that it was not the party’s demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-some-bjp-mps-want-a-separate-state-in-north-bengal-1022751.html
23-08-2021||National Politics||Punjab bothers Congress again; rumblings in Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan as well||Congress' woes in all the three states ruled by it - Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan - are overflowing with the row within Punjab Congress, keeping it on toe eight months before polls, even after the party set up a high power co-ordination meeting group to work on a proposal for roaster of Ministers to sit at Punjab Congress Bhawan. A day after Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh asked Sidhu to rein in his advisors after the alleged atrocious comments of two of them recently on sensitive issues like Kashmir and Pakistan, Sindhu on Monday hit out at the party-ruled government over prices of crops. "The sugarcane farmers issue needs to be immediately resolved amicably …. Strange that despite the higher cost of cultivation in Punjab the state assured price is too low as compared to Haryana / UP / Uttarakhand. As torchbearer of agriculture, the Punjab SAP should be better !," Sidhu tweeted. Singh asked them to stick to giving advice to Sidhu. Both Garg and Mali were recently appointed by Sidhu as his advisors. The Chief Minster warned them against such "atrocious and ill-conceived comments that were potentially dangerous to the peace and stability of the state and the country". Opposition Shiromani Akali Dal questioned the “silence” of Sidhu on this issue while BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra called their comments "appalling". "It shows the thought process of the party. Will Mr Rahul Gandhi answer whether he appointed Sidhu's advisors?" the BJP leader asked. Punjab BJP wrote a letter to Sidhu seeking immediate tough action against Mali. As the controversy deepened, Sidhu summoned both Garg and Mali to his residence in Patiala on Monday. Rahul Gandhi will be meeting Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and Health Minister T S Singh Deo on Tuesday amid simmering tension between the two leaders. With no end to the delay in the much talked about cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan in which Sachin Pilot's loyalists were set to be accommodated, the patience in the pilot camp is running thin. BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav on Thursday hit out at the ruling Congress in the state slamming "fight for the chair" between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Pilot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-bothers-congress-again-rumblings-in-chhattisgarh-rajasthan-as-well-1022791.html
23-08-2021||National Politics||BJP's 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' should be 'Jan Khyama Yatra': Congress||Raking up past scam cases and alleged unfulfilled promises, the opposition Congress on Monday slammed the BJP and said their "Jan Ashirwad Yatra" (people’s blessings" procession) should have been renamed "Jan Khyama Yatra" (people’s forgiveness procession). Addressing a press conference at Dibrugarh, Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) President Bhupen Borah alleged the BJP has failed to fulfil any of the promises it has made since it first came to power in the state in 2016. "BJP should have named the "Jan Ashirwad Yatra" as "Jan Khyama (Apology) Yatra" for not being able to fulfil their promises to the people of Assam. The BJP is avoiding its responsibilities and is trying to hide its failures," Borah said. The three-day "Jan Ashirwad Yatra" of the BJP started on August 21 after Union Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Sarbananda Sonowal reached Guwahati. "When he was President of the BJP state unit, Sonowal had promised that he would take action against those involved in Louis Berger and Saradha scams. What happened to those promises? What blessing is Sonowal seeking? Is it a blessing for not fulfilling his promises?" Borah taunted. He pointed Sonowal had promised to give Scheduled Tribe status to six indigenous communities, fully implement the National Register of Citizens and implement all clauses of the Assam Accord, and alleged that the Union Minister had "failed” to keep “even one promise". "Will he speak about providing employment to the unemployed or reassure people on being able to control rising prices? … the chief minister (Himanta Biswa Sarma) and the supply minister (Ranjeet Kumar Dass) have already admitted their inability to check price rise," Borah alleged. He also alleged that Sonowal failed to take any concrete steps to check the perennial flood and erosion problem of the state and sought a reply from the Union Minster on this. "The present CM Himanta Biswa Sarma himself said that the cattle syndicate (involved in smuggling cattle across international borders) is worth Rs 1,000 crore. Along with that supari smuggling (of betel-nuts from Myanmar) and drug smuggling are going on. Can Sonowal now say why he failed to combat these during his stint as the CM?" the senior Congress leader asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-jan-ashirwad-yatra-should-be-jan-khyama-yatra-congress-1022813.html
23-08-2021||National Politics||Chidambaram's Goa appointment won't make a difference to BJP's positive poll prospects: Official||The appointment of former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram as a senior poll observer for the Congress party will not have any impact on the ruling BJP's electoral prospects, state Bharatiya Janata Party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said on Monday. "Somebody asked me, Chidambaram has been appointed (by the Congress) for strategy. What about you all?' I told them that even if Rahul Gandhi is sent here, then it will not make any difference, because we have a Rahul Gandhi in every booth," the state BJP president said. "They have only one Rahul Gandhi, we have many. All of our workers are masters at their jobs," Tanavade added. Tanavde was responding to a statement made by his counterpart, state Congress president Girish Chodankar who had said that the Congress was confident of making a serious pitch to grab power in the 2022 state assembly polls, now that the party had appointed Chidambaram, a party veteran as the senior All India Congress Committee's (AICC) election observer in-charge of Goa. "In the past, election observers were usually appointed barely two months ahead of the elections. It is for the first time that the party leadership has appointed observers a good six months ahead. And the fact that a senior leader of the status of Chidambaram has been appointed as observer shows that the party wants to leave nothing to chance this  time,” Chodankar said on Sunday, days after Chidambaram's appointment by the AICC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chidambarams-goa-appointment-wont-make-a-difference-to-bjps-positive-poll-prospects-official-1022819.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||CM Kejriwal to inaugurate Delhi 1st smog tower on August 23||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will inaugurate the capital's first smog tower at Cannaught Place on August 23, Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Thursday. The over 20-metre-tall structure, being set up to improve air quality in a radius of around 1 km, will "operate at full capacity" after the monsoon season, the minister told reporters. "Chief Minister Arvid Kejriwal will inaugurate the smog tower on August 23. Thereafter, experts will ascertain its impact on pollution. Based on the results, we will take a decision on installing more equipment," he said. Rai had earlier said the COVID-19 pandemic delayed the construction work of the smog tower. The Delhi cabinet had approved the pilot project in October last year. The smog tower will be able to purify 1,000 cubic metres of air per second, according to Rai. A two-year pilot study will be undertaken to ascertain the effectiveness of the smog tower after it becomes operational, an official said. A control room has been set up at the site to monitor the operations of the smog tower. Another 25-metre-tall smog tower, built by the central government at Anand Vihar, is expected to become operational by August 31, officials of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said. Tata Projects Limited (TPL) is building the two smog towers with technical support from IIT-Bombay, which, in collaboration with IIT-Delhi, will validate their performance. The NBCC India Ltd. has been appointed as project management consultant. The CPCB is the nodal agency for the tower at Anand Vihar, while the Delhi Pollution Control Committee is the nodal agency for the one coming up at Cannaught Place. The two towers will have 1,200 air filters each developed by experts at the University of Minnesota in the United States — which also helped design a 100-metre-high smog tower in Xian, China. The smog towers, being built at a cost of Rs 22 crore each, are estimated to reduce concentration of PM2.5 up to 70 per cent in a 1-km radius around them. The Supreme Court had in January last year directed the central government to construct a smog tower to reduce pollution at Anand Vihar, and the Delhi government to install another such structure at Connaught Place in three months. In August, the apex court had reprimanded the Centre and the state government for missing the deadline for completing the construction of two smog towers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-kejriwal-to-inaugurate-delhi-1st-smog-tower-on-august-23-1022551.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||UP govt to name roads after former CM Kalyan Singh in 6 districts||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday announced that one road each in six districts, including Lucknow and Ayodhya, will be named after former chief minister Kalyan Singh. The Public Works Department (PWD) will prepare a proposal for this, it said. "One PWD main road each in Ayodhya, Lucknow, Aligarh, Etah, Bulandshahr and Prayagraj will be named after Kalyan Singh," Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said here. PWD officials will soon send a proposal in this regard, he said. Singh, who was ailing for some time, died at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) here on Saturday night. He was 89.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-to-name-roads-after-former-cm-kalyan-singh-in-6-districts-1022639.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Sharjeel Imam denies inciting violence through anti-CAA protests, tells court 'cannot be hammered by sedition'||JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested for allegedly making inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, told a Delhi court on Monday that he cannot be hammered with sedition as his speeches did not call for violence. Imam has moved the court seeking bail in a case related to speeches made by him at two universities in 2019, where he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. He has been arrested under UAPA and sedition. During the hearing, advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir, representing the accused, apprised Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that no part of his speech called for any kind of violence to be initiated. “When Sharjeel Imam says that this piece of legislation (CAA/NRC) is unconstitutional, and seeks to persuade the government to rethink and says if you don't do it, we will be on the streets, he cannot be hammered by sedition,” the counsel asserted. He further said that the right to protest, the right to blockade, and the right to bring the country to a standstill is not equal to an act of sedition. “The speech did not call for violence. He just called for a road blockade. He did not say that the northeast should become a different state and declare independence. That would have been seditious,” advocate Mir added. He emphasised that Imam is not a member of any banned organisation or terrorist gang but is merely a student. The alleged inflammatory speeches were made at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13, 2019, and at Aligarh Muslim University on December 16, 2019. He is in judicial custody since January 28, 2020. Imam is accused of offenses relating to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code, and indulging in unlawful activities under the UAPA. Delhi Police had filed a charge sheet against Imam in the case, in which it alleged that he allegedly gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the Central Government and instigated the people which led to the violence in December 2019. “In the garb of CAA, he (Imam) exhorted people of a particular community to block highways leading to major cities and resort to 'chakka jaam'. Also, in the name of opposing CAA, he openly threatened to cut off Assam and other Northeastern states from the rest of the country,” the charge sheet had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sharjeel-imam-denies-inciting-violence-through-anti-caa-protests-tells-court-cannot-be-hammered-by-sedition-1022640.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Jewellers in Jammu stage protest; join one-day strike against gold hallmarking||Jewellers in Jammu shut their businesses and staged a demonstration on Monday in response to the one-day national strike against the "arbitrary implementation" of mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery. The protesters sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention in the matter. The Sarafa Association Jammu Province and Swarankar Sangh Adhoc Committee Jammu jointly staged the peaceful protest at Jain Bazar, the main jewellery market in the old city, raising slogans against "arbitrary implementation" of HUID (hallmark unique identification number). Mandatory gold hallmarking has come into force from June 16 in a phased manner. The government has identified 256 districts from 28 states and union territories for the phase-1 implementation. Gold hallmarking, a purity certification of the precious metal, was voluntary in nature so far. "The new BIS Act does not go well with the recommendations of NITI Aayog. Implementation of new laws has been done in an arbitrary manner, especially the hallmarking of gold jewellery with HUID, wherein jewellers are finding it extremely hard to implement the same in letter and spirit,” president Sarafa Association Jammu Raman Suri said. He said the jewellers across India have been selling BIS-approved jewellery for almost 25 years and there is not even a single complaint by the consumers. "These new provisions have become troublesome for both the jewellers and consumers equally. Moreover, there is no adequate infrastructure to implement the new provisions properly,” he added. The protesters said mandatory hallmarking of jewellery is a good step which is going to ensure the customer of guaranteed gold purity, but it is practically impossible to mark delicate jewellery items with HUID stamps, which is hampering the business. They urged the government, especially BIS Director-General Pramod Kumar Tiwari, to revisit the Act and recommendations of NITI Aayog, so that real issues confronting jewellers are understood and then the laws are re-implemented after necessary amendments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jewellers-in-jammu-stage-protest-join-one-day-strike-against-gold-hallmarking-1022674.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Jaipur Golden Hospital Covid deaths: HC gives time to Centre, AAP to reply to plea for CBI probe ||The Delhi High Court Monday granted additional time of six weeks to the Centre and Delhi government to file replies on a plea seeking CBI probe into the death of 21 Covid-19 patients at Jaipur Golden Hospital here in April allegedly due to oxygen shortage. The court, which was hearing the plea filed by the families of some patients who died on the intervening night of April 23 and 24, also permitted the petitioners to file a rejoinder to the governments' responses. “By that time things will be clearer. We will see. You have approached the MM (Metropolitan Magistrate) also,” said Justice Rekha Palli as the matter was listed for further hearing on December 9.  Senior advocate Rahul Mehra and standing counsel Kiritman Singh, appearing for Delhi government and the Centre respectively, sought to file their responses to the petition. The aspect of criminal investigation was pending consideration before a magisterial court, Mehra said. Advocate Utsav Bains, appearing for the petitioners, said that the aggrieved families before the high court and the magisterial court were not the same. Singh said the Supreme Court was also seized of the issue of granting ex gratia compensation. “File your counter. I'm not passing any interim order anyway,” the judge said. On June 4, the court had issued notice to the Centre and Delhi government on the plea which contended that the cause of death of the patients was respiratory failure due to insufficient supply of oxygen and not comorbidities as stated by a Delhi government committee in its report. The petitioners claimed that the committee came out with an "erroneous" report that those who died did not suffer suffocation due to lack of oxygen supply. The petition thus sought quashing of the committee's report and a direction for a probe by CBI or an independent agency into the deaths "so that the truth can be brought to light and justice be given to the deceased persons and their families" and they be provided compensation. The plea alleged that the incident took place "due to deliberate inaction and failure of the respondents (Centre, Delhi government and the hospital) to provide adequate oxygen to the patients despite knowing that any shortage of oxygen supply would lead to their immediate death”. As a result, "the respondents herein have rendered themselves not only liable to pay compensation to the families of the deceased victims but also for criminal prosecution" for culpable homicide,” the plea has said. The petitioners also contended that the hospital did not even inform the family members about the shortage otherwise they would have arranged for at-least high flow oxygen cylinders and this would have saved the life of their loved ones who died as the pressure in the cylinders was low. It has contended that the Centre, Delhi government and the hospital "were under a legal and moral obligation to ensure no-one dies due to non-supply of oxygen".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaipur-golden-hospital-covid-deaths-hc-gives-time-to-centre-aap-to-reply-to-plea-for-cbi-probe-1022675.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Hurriyat rejects allegations of involvement in 'selling' admissions in Pak medical colleges||The Hurriyat Conference on Monday rejected the allegations that amalgam leaders were involved in "selling" admissions in medical colleges of Pakistan for financing terror in Kashmir.  The Hurriyat, led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, in a statement said, "The Hurriyat Conference completely rejects and denounces the propaganda being promoted in print and other media by authorities, that its executive leadership, who could recommend aspiring Kashmiri candidates to medical and technical colleges in Pakistan, would 'sell' the admission seats to students for money." On Sunday, officials had said that a ban under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act may be imposed on both factions of the secessionist conglomerate Hurriyat Conference. They said a recent probe into the granting of MBBS seats to Kashmiri students by institutions in Pakistan indicates that the money collected from aspirants by some organisations, which were part of the Hurriyat Conference conglomerate, was being used for funding terror organisations in the union territory. The amalgam said that it wants to put on record that "this is completely unfounded, and can be verified by those students or parents whom they have recommended, many among them being from economically weaker sections".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hurriyat-rejects-allegations-of-involvement-in-selling-admissions-in-pak-medical-colleges-1022711.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi opens first smog tower in fight for cleaner air||New Delhi opened its first "smog tower" on Monday aimed at reducing the air pollution blamed for thousands of premature deaths every year, but experts were sceptical. Concentrations of tiny deadly particles in Delhi's air regularly exceed safe limits by up to 20 times, particularly in winter when its 20 million people are enveloped in a noxious grey blanket of smog. Forty giant fans on the 25-metre (82-foot) tower will pump 1,000 cubic metres of air per second through filters that halve the amount of harmful particulates in a radius of one square kilometre (0.4 square miles), according to engineers. "Today is a big day for Delhi in its fight for clean air against pollution," Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said after the inauguration near the busy shopping area of Connaught Place. The installation "is being looked at in an experimental way. We will analyse the data and if it's effective, more towers will be built across Delhi," Kejriwal added. The tower cost $2 million and critics say erecting a sufficient number to clean the air substantially across the city would cost huge amounts of public money, and that efforts would be better directed at the sources of the smog. These include vehicle exhaust, heavy and small-scale industry, construction activity, the combustion of waste and fuel, and in winter the burning of crops in neighbouring regions. "Let's just be clear that this is futile, an absolute waste," Karthik Ganesan from the Council on Energy, Environment and Water told AFP. "Now that taxpayers' money has been spent, let Delhi be the test case for all other Indian cities... to ensure no other city spends on such ideas which we can't afford," he added. India has 14 of the world's 15 most polluted cities, according to the World Health Organization. A 2020 study in the Lancet found there were 1.67 million deaths in the country attributable to air pollution in 2019 including almost 17,500 in Delhi. In 2018 China built a much larger 60-metre smog tower in the polluted city of Xian, but the experiment has not spread to other cities so far. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-opens-first-smog-tower-in-fight-for-cleaner-air-1022718.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||'Thought Taliban might kill us': Indian man recalls harrowing experience before escape||Jeet Bahadur Thapa shudders to recall how he and other Indians thought they might be killed by the Taliban gunmen any moment after they were made to sit on ground in an open area at Kabul airport for five hours by the militia before they could leave for India. Thapa, 30, a native of Chinore village in Uttar Pradesh, was working as a supervisor in a consultancy company in Afghanistan for two and a half years and was among those evacuated after the Taliban took over Kabul. As many as 118 people from India worked in the company and all of them started on foot for the Denmark embassy, which was 30 km away, hoping that they will get a safe passage to India. “There was the fear of the Taliban. Some robbers stopped us and robbed us of about Rs 1 lakh and all the other belongings. "Some Taliban members accosted us shortly before we arrived at the embassy and asked if we were Hindus. They let us go after we introduced ourselves as Indian citizens," Thapa said. When the Indians told them that they were robbed, the Taliban members claimed that local criminals might be involved and that the Taliban were not involved in such activities, according to Thapa. "Many people were injured after walking for so long in the dark," he said. On August 18, they reached the airport area in Kabul where lakhs of people had gathered in a desperate bid to escape from the country. They spent three days there with barely any food. "The Taliban gunmen present there made all the Indians sit on the ground in an open space for about five hours. We sat silently in fear that the Taliban who had modern weapons might kill us," he said. "When an Army plane arrived, we all left for Delhi on August 22 morning," he said. Thapa said there is an undeclared curfew in Afghanistan. "All companies and offices are closed.  No one is leaving their house... Women and children in Afghanistan are very afraid and that's why no women are seen on the roads," he said. Replying to a question, he said he did not see the Taliban committing atrocities on women but people fear them due to their past actions. "The Taliban are on the streets due to which there is an atmosphere of fear. The Taliban are constantly appealing to the people of the country that no person should leave Afghanistan and that that they won't let anyone cause any trouble," he said. The Islamic militia seized control of Kabul on August 15 after taking over almost all key towns and cities, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thought-taliban-might-kill-us-indian-man-recalls-harrowing-experience-before-escape-1022722.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Pro-Pakistan slogan row: Digvijaya Singh says crowd said 'qazi sahab zindabad'||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh has said the people booked under the NSA in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh some days ago for alleged inflammatory sloganeering were shouting 'qazi sahab zindabad' and not 'Pakistan zindabad'. In a tweet on Sunday night, the Rajya Sabha MP said the slogan was tweaked on the basis of fake news, adding that "the Madhya Pradesh police should have acted after verifying the matter". He demanded that the action of arrests, if any in the case, be reversed. 'Qazi sahab zindabad' slogan was twisted to 'Pakistan zindabad'," the former chief minister minister said. Hitting back, MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra tweeted that Singh was "supporting" anti-national forces as part of "appeasement politics" and asked the latter to "lead such people to Pakistan". On Sunday, the stringent National Security Act (NSA) was invoked against four persons for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans during a Muharram event in Geeta Colony in Ujjain on August 19. "We have identified 16 persons who raised such slogans and efforts are on to identify others," Ujjain Superintendent of Police Satyendra Shukla had told PTI on Sunday. Over a dozen people had been booked under sections 124(a) (sedition) and 153 (provocation which can cause riot) of the Indian Penal Code, police had said. Reacting to the incident, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had earlier said his government would not tolerate "Taliban-like" mindset.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pro-pakistan-slogan-row-digvijaya-singh-says-crowd-said-qazi-sahab-zindabad-1022725.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Kalyan Singh cremated, Yogi Adityanath, Union ministers including Amit Shah attend funeral||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh was cremated with full state honours at Banshi Ghat in the state's Bulandshahar district on Monday. Singh's son and MP Rajveer Singh lit the funeral pyre. Singh had died on Saturday after a protracted illness at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences. Union ministers Amit Shah and Rajnath Singh, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan and other senior BJP leaders were present on the occasion. Earlier Singh's body was brought to his native village of Atrauli in Aligarh district to enable the people to pay their respect to the departed soul. ''It's a huge loss to the BJP....he (Kalyan Singh) will remain a source of inspiration for the BJP,'' Shah later said. Controversy, however, erupted after BJP tweeted a photograph showing the saffron party flag over the Tricolour in which Singh's body had been draped. The photo showed BJP president J P Nadda paying respect to the mortal remains of Singh at the BJP headquarters here on Sunday. The opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) and Congress took strong exception to keep the BJP flag over the Tricolour and termed it 'disrespect' to the national flag. ''BJP has no respect for the Tricolour.....the photograph shows it clearly,'' said a senior SP leader on Monday. According to the BJP leaders here, Singh had expressed the desire to be draped in the BJP flag after his death. ''Kalyan Singh had said on several occasions that to be draped in the BJP flag after death was his last wish,'' said a UP BJP leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kalyan-singh-cremated-yogi-adityanath-union-ministers-including-amit-shah-attend-funeral-1022726.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Umar Khalid calls Delhi riots conspiracy case 'cooked up', points to contradictions||Former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy case, told a Delhi Court on Monday that there were various contradictions in the police's claims and called it a "cooked up" case. Khalid, along with several others, has been booked under the stringent anti-terror law UAPA. They are accused of being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. He has sought bail in the case. Trideep Pais, Khalid's lawyer, told Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat that the FIR was cooked up and unnecessary, and was used selectively to target and frame them. The counsel pointed to two contradictions in Delhi Police's claims. Firstly, he showed the court a 21-minute video clip of Khalid's speech in Maharashtra, which the prosecution had allegedly labelled inflammatory. The lawyer, pursuant to showing the video, apprised the court that his client did not give any call for violence through the speech and in fact gave a message of unity to the people. “A message of unity based on Gandhi ji was given by Umar Khalid that day. It was termed as terror. Content is not seditious. He is talking about democratic power. He referred to Gandhi,” Pais added. Secondly, he argued that as per the police case, Khalid conspired with other accused on January 8 to cause riots during former US President Donald Trump's visit, however, the news about his visit was announced only in February. “These are the kind of lies they are peddling. This is a joke. This FIR is a cooked-up theory. Is it that easy to prosecute people? Do you have no responsibility as a prosecution?” Pais said. Delhi Police had recently said that the bail plea has no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against him before the court by referring to the charge sheet filed in the case. In April, the former JNU student was granted bail in one of the riot cases. The court while granting him bail noted that he was not physically present at the scene of the crime on the date of the incident. Besides him, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/umar-khalid-calls-delhi-riots-conspiracy-case-cooked-up-points-to-contradictions-1022727.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Man sexually assaulted by 2 in UP as 3 others 'witness' crime||A 22-year-old man was reportedly beaten up and sexually assaulted by two men in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida as three people watched the entire crime unfold as spectators, police said on Monday. The incident had taken place in the Dankaur area on August 18, but it was reported to police on Sunday by the mother of the victim, a senior official said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women and Child Safety) Vrinda Shukla said the mother came to know about the incident only after word spread in her village, and she immediately approached the police. "The woman complained that her 22-year-old son had been beaten up and sexually assaulted by two men. An FIR has been lodged. The incident took place on August 18 but the woman came to us about it on August 22 (Sunday) when word spread about it in their village," Shukla said. Denying claims of five people being involved in the sexual assault, the officer said the other three were called to the spot 'to be witnesses' of the act. She further clarified that there was no grievous physical injury to the assaulted person. "The FIR was lodged without any delay, and police teams have been formed to ensure the arrest of the accused persons at the earliest," DCP Shukla added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-sexually-assaulted-by-2-in-up-as-3-others-witness-crime-1022790.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Chief of LeT affiliate TRF killed in encounter in Srinagar||The self-styled chief commander of The Resistance Front (TRF), an affiliate of Pakistan based Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit, was killed along with his accomplice in a brief shootout with J&K police in Alouchibagh area of Srinagar on Monday evening.  "Top commander of #proscribed #terror outfit LeT/TRF Abbas Sheikh & his 2IC Saqib Manzoor killed. A big #success," a police spokesman while quoting IGP Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, tweeted. Sheikh and Manzoor had figured in police's recent hit list of top 10 militants operating in the valley.  Sources said the police had pinpointed the location of the militants as the duo were playing cricket with local boys in a congested Alouchibagh area. "The police didn't give the militants any chance to open fire and neutralised them before they could understand the situation," they revealed.  Sheikh, in his late 40s, was one of the oldest surviving militants’ active in Kashmir. He was a recycled militant and was affiliated with Hizbul Mujahideen before switching loyalties to the newly formed TRF. His sister Naseema Banoo was arrested by the police last year in June from south Kashmir’s Kulgam district under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). Several members of Sheikh’s family, including his two brothers and nephews have been killed over the past 25 years. They had all joined militancy at one point of time. Manzoor, who had made it to the top ten most wanted militants list had joined the militant ranks recently and is believed to have been involved in the killing of two policemen in uptown Baghat area of Srinagar in February this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chief-of-let-affiliate-trf-killed-in-encounter-in-srinagar-1022802.html
23-08-2021||North and Central||Bails may be granted to life convicts after undergoing 10 year period in jail, UP govt tells SC||Uttar Pradesh government on Monday suggested to the Supreme Court that bail pleas of life convicts, if they have undergone 10 years of jail term, and in other cases where half of the period of the maximum sentence awarded have been spent, can be considered by the Allahabad High Court. The state government and the High Court have put caveats also and said that to ensure “public peace and the well-being of the society, life convicts who are hardened criminals, repeat offenders, kidnappers, in crimes related to massacre (three or more than three murders), habitual criminals, and fall in prohibited categories as per the U.P Jail Standing Policy - no bail should be granted.” The state and the high court registry have given their suggestions to the top court in pursuance of an earlier order asking them to help it in laying down “broad parameters” for grant of bail by the high court itself to the convicts whose appeals are pending for longer periods. In a 102-page document, a bench of justices S K Kaul and Hemant Gupta was apprised of the steps taken for ensuring speedy disposal of criminal appeals in the high court which is presently having 93 judges against the sanctioned strength of 160. “As of August 2021, there are approximately 1,83,000 Criminal Appeals pending both at Lucknow Bench and Allahabad High Court,” it said, adding, “As of August 2021, there are 7,214 convicts in various jails across Uttar Pradesh who have already undergone more than 10 years of their conviction and their Criminal appeals are pending before the High Court.” “Bail to be considered by the High Court in cases of such convicts who have already undergone a Total period of actual imprisonment as under: (i) In cases of life convicts - 10 years (ii) In other cases - where prisoner has undergone more than half of the period of the maximum sentence awarded,” it suggested. In another suggestion, they said the period of pendency of criminal appeals could also be a relevant criterion for granting of bail by the high court. “Criminal Appeals which have been pending for more than 7 years in the High Court and there appears no likelihood of any early hearing of the appeal particularly those undergoing a sentence of life imprisonment, can be a relevant criterion for consideration of Bail,” it said. However, they also referred to the prohibited categories such as “hardened criminals, repeat offenders, kidnappers, in crimes related to massacre” who should not be granted bail and rather the hearing in their cases be fast-tracked. It referred to the existing Uttar Pradesh Jail Standing Policy regarding premature release of prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment. Female convicts, who are in jail for 14 years without remission and male counterparts, who are in there for 16 years without remission, can be considered for premature release in cases where life terms were imposed. If convicts are suffering from major diseases then as per Jail Manual, they can be released on verification of their ailments, they said, adding that convicts above the age of 70 and 80 years can be considered for premature release if they have been in jails for 12 years and 10 years respectively without remission. Convicts in the prohibited category, except those who are professional killers and have been found guilty of contract killing, can be released if they have served 20 years in prison without remission, they said. Convicts in the prohibited category, except those who have escaped from jail or police custody and have been sentenced to life imprisonment in more than one criminal case, can be considered for premature release after serving 25 years in jail without remission. “It may be further ordered that the appeals filed by such prisoners in which bail is denied should be accorded priority in hearing by the High Court,” the state and the high court’s registry have said. They said the past conduct and criminal history of the convicts needed to be inquired into and if prisoners who might pose a risk to the public cannot be granted bail pending appeal. The factors such as the likelihood of the prisoner continuing to commit violent crimes if granted bail and the criminal past which demonstrates poor decision making or impulsive behaviour that has endangered others needed consideration while deciding bail pleas, they said, adding that an impartial inquiry into these aspects are needed. “The Appellate Court must inquire as to whether the Appellant’s counsel has been ready to argue the Criminal Appeal or has been seeking adjournments,” it said, adding that the prisoner should have filed at least one Application for Early hearing of Appeal in the past one year," they said. They said that “strenuous efforts” are being made to expedite hearing of criminal appeals and “more than 16,279 Criminal Appeals have been disposed of in the past five years and various Circulars are also being issued from time to time by the High Court.” “Some Single & Division Benches can be nominated by the Allahabad High Court to dedicatedly hear only criminal appeals and a Priority list can be prepared considering the seriousness of crime, oldest matters, age of convict, period of sentence awarded, Bail refused cases, etc,” they said. The top court was hearing 18 criminal appeals of the convicts in heinous offences seeking bail on the ground that they have spent seven or more years in jail and be granted bail as their appeals against the convictions are yet to be listed for regular hearing in the high court due to the long pendency. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bails-may-be-granted-to-life-convicts-after-undergoing-10-year-period-in-jail-up-govt-tells-sc-1022821.html
23-08-2021||Oasis||The transformation of the self||Transformation, as we all know and have experienced, is in fact a natural process of life-- there are ups and downs. It’s a journey of self-discovery which has moments on mountaintops and moments in deep valleys of despair. It’s a known fact that every human being is transformed physically, mentally, spiritually, moment after moment and throughout his or her lifetime. Physical growth, social and ecological environment, learning and education and the events in life are some of the factors that are constantly playing upon every human being and are bringing about transformation. The greatest difficulty in this process is man’s own resistance or non-cooperation with change. In the present situation, when a man doesn’t have constant happiness and one is not immune to ill-health and other sorrows and sufferings of the world and when the clouds of destruction are looming large, there should not be any agitation in thoughtful persons to transform their lifestyles into a kind that does not bring sufferings to them. If once this process of transformation starts and a few people are transformed, then it automatically catches other people’s attention. We must ask ourselves, is there anybody who does not like a smiling rose? who would not like a cool morning breeze on sunny summer days? Similarly, if there is a person who always wears a smile on his/her face and who always speaks words that are refreshing, energising and sweet as the nightingale’s melody, then who will be able to resist this temptation of being like this lovely fellow? Does the innocence of a child not impress all? Who has never in his life been nourished by milk? Archimedes had said “Give me a lever long enough and a fulcrum on which to place it, and I shall move the world.”  Similarly, Almighty supreme says, if you change individually, you will be able to change through each one of you a large part of the world. So, on your shoulder rests the responsibility of transformation of the whole world. Never think that if X, Y, or Z will change only then will I change, because if I change, others around me will definitely change. So the whole process is of changing yourself and not them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-transformation-of-the-self-1022597.html
23-08-2021||Opinion||India is no country for dying firms||A telecom carrier and a retailer are showing a mirror to India’s tryst with assisted corporate demise and rebirth. The image staring back is one of defeat snatched from the jaws of victory. As the five-year-old bankruptcy experiment flounders, blame it on what development scholars refer to as “isomorphic mimicry”: Emerging economies ape the form of successful Western institutions but leave them dysfunctional and devoid of content, almost guaranteeing their failure. Global investors were genuinely excited by India’s 2016 insolvency law, hoping to profit from the Rs 19 lakh crore ($260 billion) of bad loans, including those written off by banks in the last eight years. Initial success in finding new homes for distressed steel plants raised hopes that the savings-starved economy would extricate valuable capital from failed ventures. But now, creditors are balking at 90 per cent haircuts, and bailout funds are disillusioned with everything from long delays in admitting cases by tribunals to a chronic shortage of judges. Large, indebted businesses continue to turn into zombies. Absent a miracle, Vodafone Idea Ltd. can’t possibly repay the $30 billion the unprofitable wireless firm owes the government and banks. Future Retail Ltd. was hoping to stay afloat by selling assets to Mukesh Ambani’s bigger empire. But Amazon.com Inc., from which Future’s founder Kishore Biyani had taken money after promising to not sell out to India’s richest man, has legally blocked the deal. Unless Biyani and Amazon can strike a compromise, the pandemic-battered firm’s survival looks iffy. Corporate death is a feature of capitalism, not a bug. India copied the British playbook of putting creditors in charge of insolvent firms. Debtors can initiate in-court bankruptcy proceedings, or lenders can pull the plug. On paper, everything looks fine. But if the institution was actually working to its intended purpose, India Inc. wouldn’t still be grappling with large enterprises that are both living and dead — just like the fabled cat in quantum physicist Erwin Schrödinger's thought experiment. There’s no easy answer to what’s gone wrong. As BloombergQuint says, Vodafone Idea is reluctant to file. The experience of other bankrupt phone networks doesn’t inspire confidence that it will be allowed to retain its licenses in insolvency. Without them, the carrier with 255 million subscribers is worth very little. Having recently extended the maturity of Future’s $1.4 billion of onshore debt, banks are wary of the loan-loss provisions they’ll have to make by dragging it to a bankruptcy tribunal. It’s a Catch-22: Recoveries could be dismal later. Last week, Future paid the coupon on its offshore bonds within the 30-day grace period. However, the notes are still trading at about 60 cents to the dollar.   No two bankruptcies are the same, but India’s processes for handling them have some common deficiencies. Across the country, 27 tribunals are being run by 29 judges; at least 25 short of what’s required. Many have no experience in financial matters. One judge, M.B. Gosavi, sits on four benches. Cases from Noida, a suburb of Delhi where big builders have defaulted to homebuyers, land before a single tribunal member 300 miles away. The insolvency courts also adjudicate unrelated matters under the Companies Act, overwhelming an already strained system.  Delays abound, not just in approving a sale or liquidation in 270 days as the law proposed originally (the time limit was later increased to 330 days), but even in admitting cases to start the clock. Punjab National Bank has tried in vain since November 2018 to put Indian Steel Corp. into bankruptcy. KKR & Co.’s India unit moved against Sintex-BAPL Ltd. a year ago. But an operational creditor came up with its own petition against the auto parts maker, settled with it, and the firm exited bankruptcy. KKR’s application was finally admitted only last month. Leaving aside the top nine bankruptcies initiated in 2017 at the central bank’s behest, creditors’ recovery rate has been just 24%, according to Macquarie Research.   The current corporate landscape is a colonial legacy. A handful of British managing agencies used to hold sway over large swathes of productive assets with very little capital. The agencies, which came to be controlled by Indian business families, were outlawed in 1969, but a heavily state-dominated banking system still allows empire-building by politically connected debtors on a sliver of loss-absorbing equity. When government-owned banks lose money, taxpayers fill the hole. The power imbalance and the perverse incentives were known when parliament legislated the bankruptcy law. So lawmakers packed it with creditor-friendly features. But then came the inevitable pushback. Politicians, who have to contest expensive elections with corporate donations, simply lost their nerve for tough love. Urjit Patel, the previous central bank governor who sought to make large borrowers more accountable by ending banks’ evergreening of soured loans, failed and quit abruptly. It’s still not too late to turn the bankruptcy regime into a real institution. Maybe it will happen only once the state is no longer a dominant player in the lending market. But even awaiting bank privatization, procedural infirmities can be fixed relatively easily if politicians want to put a stop to misallocation of capital. Perhaps they don’t. As economist Lant Pritchett and others have noted, isomorphic mimicry is a great technique for ensuring persistent, successful failure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-is-no-country-for-dying-firms-1022569.html
23-08-2021||Opinion||Shiv Sena's purification politics||There's no getting away from caste. Outraged at the sight of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s Narayan Rane paying homage to the Bal Thackeray memorial last week, staunch Shiv Sainik Appa Patil found only one way of expressing his revulsion. He "purified" the memorial by pouring milk and sprinkling gau mutra (cow urine) on it. Patil calls himself a proud third-generation Shiv Sainik. He considers Bal Thackeray his god, not an uncommon phenomenon in Maharashtra. He looks after the Sena chief's memorial and performs puja before it every morning. To have Narayan Rane, Thackeray's protégé-turned-traitor (he was expelled from the party in 2005), offer flowers to his god was an "impure" act Patil could not tolerate. Patil is not the first Sainik to perform this ritual. Thirty-four years back, Chhagan Bhujbal (now in the Nationalist Congress Party) had poured Gangajal over the Martyrs' memorial from which Mumbai's landmark Hutatma Chowk gets its name. The previous day, thousands of Dalits had assembled there to protest against the Maharashtra government's decision to drop Dr B R Ambedkar's book, Riddles of Hinduism, from its compilation of Ambedkar's works after the Shiv Sena and the Maratha Mahasangh had objected to its inclusion. Obviously, for Bhujbal, the presence of the Ambedkarite hordes had defiled the monument that commemorates the 107 killed in police firing during the Samyukta Maharashtra movement, which resulted in the birth of the state in 1960. Interestingly, neither of the two "purifications" fit into the traditional caste equation under which such rituals are carried out. Not one of the characters involved is Brahmins. Narayan Rane is a Maratha, considered "upper caste" (even though they clamour for OBC status today); Bhujbal belongs to the Mali OBC caste, "low" in the caste hierarchy but ranked "higher" than the Scheduled Castes. Ironically, Bhujbal left the Sena in 1991 on the issue of caste. Thackeray refused to support reservations for OBCs introduced in 1990 by PM V P Singh through the Mandal Commission. Thereafter, whenever Bhujbal accused the Sena chief of being casteist, Thackeray would scornfully point to Bhujbal's "purification" of Hutatma Chowk after the Dalit rally. However, Thackeray didn't condemn Bhujbal's blatantly casteist act when it took place. How could he? Thackeray was openly anti-Dalit, not against Scheduled Castes as such, but against those sections who'd rejected Hinduism and were aggressively demanding their rights, i.e., the Neo-Buddhist Ambedkarites. The Dalit Panthers' first clashes were with the Sena in 1974, and the Sena was the only party that opposed the demand to rename Marathwada University as Dr. Ambedkar University. Shiv Sainiks were involved in the violence against Dalits that marked the prolonged Namantar agitation for the university's renaming. At the same time, the Sena was not, and is still not seen as an "upper caste" party, in the way the BJP was till recently. The OBCs supported the Sena. In Appa Patil's act, there is no element of caste animosity. Yet, it remains deeply casteist because the concept of purification is itself Brahmanical. The distinction between "pure" and "impure", the belief that the touch of certain persons defiles that which is touched, arises from a feeling of caste superiority. It is significant that neither CM Uddhav Thackeray nor anyone from the Congress and NCP, who share power with the Sena in Maharashtra, have condemned Appa Patil's "purification". All parties in the state swear by its anti-caste tradition and invoke the names of Jyotiba Phule and Ambedkar. It was left to the BJP's Devendra Fadnavis to recall Maharashtra's "progressive tradition" while condemning Patil's act. But being an RSS man, he termed it "Talibani". Ironically, towards the end of the 2014 Assembly election campaign, when it seemed clear that Modi's appeal would sweep Maharashtra, an RSS veteran told me gleefully that with the BJP's ascent, Maharashtra's progressive tradition, which the Socialists were so proud of, would at long last be wiped out. (Maharashtra was a bastion of the Socialist Party, and Socialist stalwarts from SM Joshi to Mrinal Gore fiercely opposed the RSS.) Has his prophecy come true, or is the silence over Appa Patil's "purification" just "coalition dharma" again proving stronger than ideology? However, what is even more disturbing is the way Dalits across the country are routinely performing similar acts of "purification". In 2018 in Meerut and Hubballi (Hubli), Dalits poured milk and Gangajal on Ambedkar's statue after BJP leaders garlanded it. Last year, this was done by none else than the Communist Party of India (CPI) and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) workers after local MP, Union minister Giriraj Singh garlanded Ambedkar's statue in Begusarai. Truly, there's no escaping caste. (The writer is a Mumbai-based journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/shiv-senas-purification-politics-1022615.html
23-08-2021||Panorama||GHG emissions: A long way to go from extreme heat to green feat||Climate scientist Raghu Murtugudde, University of Maryland, United States, explained the recent weather events in Uttarakhand, “What is unusual in the current scenario is the very warm temperature anomaly to the west of north India over Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan. The Arabian heat pumps winds into the northern Arabian Sea and there has been strong wind along the coast of Oman and going straight over Gujarat into Uttarakhand, which is increasing the chances of cloudbursts.” Floods, landslides, glacial lake bursts, excess rainfall, excess snowfall, and unseasonal rains would increase if climate change were not mitigated. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has defined cloudburst as an event when 100 mm of rain is received in an hour over a 20 to 30 sq km area. Countries are still debating among themselves as to how and when the emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) are cut to restrict the rise in temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius over and above the temperature of the pre-industrial era. While the Paris climate accord is still to be implemented by member countries, we are expecting drastic steps of shutting down fossil fuel-based economies and propelling green energy as soon as possible. The Glasgow meeting in November 2021 raises our hope. The impact of global warming has been ruining our lives and livelihoods. As if Covid was not enough, tourism in Konkan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and northern West Bengal is severely disrupted by rains and landslides, and many tourists were forced to cancel their travel plans and hotel bookings. While Europe, India and central China were in flood, the USA, Greece, Turkey and Siberia reeled under wildfire. A month earlier, western Canada and the northwestern USA were the centres of massive heat waves. In Vancouver, people suffered in homes built in woods, not meant for such hot conditions. Air conditioners and fans were inadequate and people draped themselves in cold towels. Nearly 100 senior people died in Vancouver because of the heatwave. About 200 km away, the city of Lytton broke all Canadian records ever, with the temperature reaching 49.6 Celsius. This followed wildfire engulfing the city, reducing almost everything to ashes. All studies have pointed out that the heating of the planet is the reason for extreme weather conditions. The heads of states of G7 nations at the Carbis bay meeting in the United Kingdom have reiterated the goal of cutting GHG emissions by 45% of 2010 level by 2030 and further to become net-zero by mid-century. However, China has announced to peak its emissions by 2030 and net-zero by 2060. The warming of land and oceans is causing unprecedented cloudbursts, heat waves and wildfires; world leaders should exert pressure on China and bring the country on board. They have also faced a recent cloudburst when more than 600 mm of rainfall was received in three days, inundating Zhengzhou where 300 people perished and roads and subway turned into flowing rivers, damaging properties extensively. However, US climate envoy John Kerry has called on China to increase the speed and depth of its efforts to cut emissions. He added that the temperature has already gone up to 1.20 C and promises made during and since the Paris accord would still see the temperature increase by 2.5 to 30 C. He was critical of Indonesia, Brazil and other countries still building new coal-fired power stations and are illegally cutting down rainforests, thus damaging the lungs of the world and destroying irreplaceable biodiversity. However, wildfires in 1.5 million hectare forests in Siberia, 1.3 million ha in California and .5 million ha in Greece and Turkey should be the cause of greater worry. Towns and cities were choked with smoke and GHG emissions from forest fires. Growing stock in forests is the best and the cheapest carbon sink. We have released carbon in the atmosphere and also lost space for sequestration; we are hit by a double whammy. John Kerry must go round and ensure that forest fires across the globe are controlled. In Greece, coal-fired power stations slated for retirement were brought back into service to shore up the national grid, under pressure due to the widespread use of air-conditioners for relief from the heat. We are in a vicious cycle as we are forced to burn additional fossil fuels to keep ourselves cool. In the energy and climate joint ministerial meeting of G20 nations in Napier, Italy, our Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav called rich nations for lowering their per capita emissions to global average by 2030. India emits 7% of global emissions and has per capita emissions of about 2.47 tonnes of CO2 equivalent as compared to the global average of 6.45 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The minister added, “The momentum of climate action can only be accelerated when there is enough support through means of implementation including finance and technology.” China, a country of 1.4 billion people, emits 25% of global emissions and comparison of per capita emissions will provide more leverage to them. The US and The EU (including the UK) contribute 13% and 19% of global emissions respectively. To bring down global emissions, all top polluters must be targeted and China cannot be allowed to go scot-free on the basis of population. There are bottlenecks in the transition to clean energy. Renewable technologies require more wiring as compared to fossil fuel-based power generation. Solar or wind power plants and electric cars require three to five times more copper as compared to fossil fuel-based generation. Aluminium is another metal vital for solar and other green energy projects. About 40% of the world’s copper supply came from Peru and Chile and in both countries, mining projects are slowed down. Also, 60% of the world’s aluminium supply came from China, where production is brought down as part of a campaign to reach carbon neutrality. A sharp rise in demand for metal like copper, aluminium etc for renewable energy projects pushes the prices upwards, making projects more prohibitive. International cooperation is required on the issue of raw materials and the transfer of technology that can be flagged for the Glasgow meeting. (The writer is former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests , Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/ghg-emissions-a-long-way-to-go-from-extreme-heat-to-green-feat-1022595.html
23-08-2021||Panorama||Off the record||Objectionable call Arun Chandra Bhowmick, an MLA belonging to the BJP, the ruling party, drew flak after he asked supporters to attack Trinamool Congress workers in the style of the “Taliban” on August 18. “Trinamool is trying to damage the Biplab Kumar Deb-led government. I want to appeal to all of you to attack them in Taliban style as soon as they land in Agartala airport. We shall protect our government with the last drop of our blood,” Bhowmick said at a function at the state capital Agartala. As the video of his comment was shared on social media, netizens scoffed at him and Trinamool Congress leaders said Bhowmick’s “open threat” exposed how the ruling BJP has readied a “hooligan force” to tackle the political threat from Mamata Banerjee-led party ahead of the Assembly elections slated for 2023.  Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati “All good” The ruling party BJP seems to have, for the time being, ended an internal conflict of ambitions by taking two decisions--issuing a statement that it will contest 2022 Assembly polls under the incumbent chief minister Vijay Rupani and his deputy Nitin Patel, and transferring party’s strong Patidar community leader and state general secretary (organization) Bhikhu Dalsaniya to Bihar. Interestingly, Dalsaniya’s name had been among the frontrunners who were rumoured to replace Rupani. Rumour has it that the decision to send Dalsaniya, a full-time worker, out of state was taken after state president C R Paatil’s request, who wanted to have full control over the party organisation. To do that, it is said that Paatil was asked to let Rupani continues as the chief minister and end their animosity which was out in public.  Satish Jha, Ahmedabad  Protest during a protest  When AIADMK MLAs, led by Opposition Leader Edappadi K Palaniswami, entered the Assembly on August 18, all of them wore a black ribbon in protest against the new DMK government’s move to reinvestigate the 2017 Kodanad estate break-in case. Palaniswami’s bête noire in the party and the coordinator of the party, O Panneerselvam, was an exception. He did not pin a black ribbon on his shirt pocket, but instead kept the ribbon inside his pocket. Though he staged a walkout along with his party MLAs, OPS never wore the black ribbon, prompting others to quip, “whether he was protesting against” EPS during a protest. What better chance for OPS to express his displeasure over EPS?  E T B Sivapriyan, Chennai Cashing in on sentiments There has been a steady surge in ‘Facebook page’ journalism in Kashmir in recent years. People holding mics with logos claiming to be journalists have shown an utter disregard for professionalism and ethics. One such outlet has reached an audience that exceeds any mainstream newspaper in the Valley. The outlet besides blackmailing people, including girls, was busy collecting funds worth crores in the name of the poor. This ‘business model’  is cashing in on the sentiments of the people. However, the owner ran out of luck as police arrested him in an extortion case recently. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar  New slogan The Congress has decided to counter BJP’s ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan with ‘Jai Shri Ganesh’ in Uttarakhand, which goes to elections early next year. Religion and national security have traditionally formed a heady cocktail for election campaigns and the Congress is not keen to be found wanting on the twin issues. The ‘Jai Shri Ganesh’ slogan, coined by former chief minister Harish Rawat, is seen as an evocation to the god worshipped at new beginnings. Incidentally, the Uttarakhand Congress chief Ganesh Godiyal is also considered to be a Rawat acolyte. The question of if the evocation to ‘Ganesh’ is an attempt to establish Rawat’s protege in state politics will be answered in the days to come. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-1022596.html
23-08-2021||Right in the Middle||My pet tortoise||This story dates back to the early sixties. My parrot Johnny escaped, preferring freedom over the boredom of the ‘gilded’ coot. RK, a boyhood friend of mine, came forward to get me another parrot. But I did not want another parrot. "What about a golden fish?" asked RK. "No, keeping a fish in a small tank and keeping a bird in a cage is the same. I want something that will stay with me of its own free will for a long time without requiring confinement," I said   “Then….what suits you is a baby tortoise. A real lifetime pet," said RK. The next weekend he took me to Madras Moore Market. RK had in his pocket a big sum of Rs 20 in one rupee coins which he pilfered from his father's coin bag. I made my choice from a dozen baby tortoises kept in a tub. When the small little fellow was placed in my palm I was thrilled. ‘Feed him some grass cabbage or spinach he will be happy' said the seller as he placed the tortoise in the cotton bag I had with me.  RK gave him the name Ambi-- a common title by which little boys are addressed in Brahmin households in Tamil Nadu Reaching home, I jubilantly showed my new pet to my mother. She was startled. "Why on earth have you brought this inauspicious creature home? It brings misfortune!” she exclaimed. My father returned from his daily tuition duty, had his supper and lay in his easy chair. I went up to him apprehensively, holding Ambi in my cupped palms and announced "Dad, meet my new pet Ambi". I expected a fusillade of rebukes from him but to my great relief he took a long contemplative look at Ambi and said, “You can keep him but change his name. Call him Kurma”. Thus Kurma (Tortoise in Sanskrit)  alias Ambi, joined our home and became the ninth member of our family.   The joys of having a non-naughty tortoise as a pet are many. When I was doing my homework he would be walking around like a sleepwalker with his droopy eyes. When I held him in a turned-turtle position he would slowly kick his elephantine legs in the air like a baby. When he was asleep, to wake him up, I would just gently knock on his shell as we do on our doors. He would stick out his sleepy, bald head and seem to ask “What on earth have you disturbed me for?” Kurma did not bring misfortune, he actually brought the fortune. Hardly a month after Kurma entered our life my grandfather won Rs. 1,000 in Tamil Nadu raffle. He celebrated the event by buying laddus for us and lettuce for Kurma.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/my-pet-tortoise-1022593.html
23-08-2021||Second Edit||Welcome priority for sports||The most successful Olympics that India enjoyed in Tokyo 2020 has prompted many states to renew their focus on sports which otherwise has been the most neglected part of their list of priorities. Everyone, from chief ministers to the prime minister have sidestepped pressing issues for a brief passage of time to justifiably honour the men and women who have brought laurels to the country. The euphoria around India's Olympic success has been so huge that it has pushed even Karnataka, a state where barring cricket, infrastructure for other sports across the state is average, to realise the value of investing in sports. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has announced formation of a high-level committee tasked with identifying 75 promising athletes from the state for the Paris Olympics. For a state where education is the number one priority amongst a vast majority of parents, this is a welcome sign. Before Karnataka, only a few states had understood the importance of promoting sports, with Odisha, Haryana and Punjab leading by example. While Odisha has been the primary sponsors of the Indian hockey team, Haryana, a state which has been pumping in a good amount of money over the years in wrestling and boxing besides encouraging shooting and track and field events, further loosened its purse strings on the medal winners and has promised to invest more for the next Olympics cycle.  Since the London Olympics in 2012 where India bagged six medals, the Central government has been increasing its investment in sports. Two years after the London bash, the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports (MYAS) started the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS) where potential medallists were identified and funded generously. The number of recruits in TOPS has been growing steadily over the years and now talented athletes have been nurtured. In fact, for the Tokyo Olympic cycle over Rs 1,000 crore was allocated to TOPS. Athletes have constantly hailed the Sports Authority of India and MYAS for being far more dynamic that has made their lives a lot easier. While Karnataka does host Dasara Games, it is safe to say that sports has not been on its priority list for many years now. The abject state of the Sree Kanteerava Stadium is well known. Not a single athletics meet there passes without a hitch or two. This is Bengaluru, the high-tech city of the country, so you can just imagine what will be the condition in other districts. While it is good that there has been some initiative ahead of the Paris Olympics, the state must also ensure infrastructure and quality coaching are ramped up simultaneously. Only then can the state dream about producing good athletes consistently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/welcome-priority-for-sports-1022590.html
23-08-2021||South||'Covaxin for children may get DCGI nod before trial period'||The Central government and the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) may give approval to the Covaxin vaccines for children soon for emergency use, sources said. The administration of two doses of vaccination has been completed among children and blood samples have been sent for the third time to check the effectiveness in terms of producing antibodies among children, sources told IANS. A total of 90 children were subjected to Covaxin trials in Karnataka. However, the trial will take 210 days to complete. As it will take another 5 to 6 months from now, they can't wait till then in the current circumstances to release the vaccination for children, sources underlined. "Final report will come on 210th day. The government and DGCI can take calls any day after 56th day of the trial Emergency use. However, the study period will be there for 210 days. Before also, while releasing Covid vaccines for adults the government of India and DCGI did not wait till the completion of 210 days. Vaccines were released earlier," sources said. Cheluvamba Hospital in Mysuru attached to Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) entrusted with the conducting of Covaxin's Clinical trials on children has sent third blood samples of children to designated laboratories. The DGCI might take a call for the release of Covid vaccines for the children after ensuring efficacy of vaccines through antibody titre tests, reliable sources in the health department told IANS. The Mysuru Cheluvamba hospital is one among the five medical institutes identified in the country, which had got the institutional ethics committee approvals for Covaxin's clinical trials on children. The trials are being done in the monitoring of principal investigator and Associate Professor, department of Paediatrics Dr. Pradeep N. The Covid vaccination trail for children comprises administration of two vaccinations between 0 and 28th day along with blood sampling. On 56th day, there will not be vaccination but blood samples will be collected. There will be another blood sampling on 118th and also on 210th day of the trail. DGCI will give approvals in a phased manner first starting with children aged 12 years and above in the first phase. The approvals will be given for release of vaccines for 6 to 12 years of children and later for children aged between 2 to 6 years. "Everyone is safe during the course of the trial except for around 10-12 children experiencing mild fever and pain on the day of vaccination and the following day. The symptoms disappeared after a day or two in them also. No vaccination related complications found," sources said. Third wave will definitely be there, say health experts. "Paediatric population, if at all affected, will be with mild symptoms. So many are already infected and there is herd immunity among children. Until now we have not found any severe cases similar to adults," sources said. "Most of the children will recover. Only fear is mutation of the virus and Paediatric ICUs are being readied to face the worst situations" a health expert said. Zydus Cadila, a leading pharmaceutical company in India was recently authorised by DCGI for its needle-free ZyCoV-D Covid-19 vaccine for the children aged 12 years and above.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covaxin-for-children-may-get-dcgi-nod-before-trial-period-1022565.html
23-08-2021||South||Multiplexes, theatres in Tamil Nadu to welcome guests from August 27||Multiplexes and theatres in Chennai and other parts of Tamil Nadu, as well, will start receiving film lovers from August 27, nearly four months after cinema halls were closed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association said on Monday. With the state government relaxing Covid-19 lockdown regulations permitting theatres to re-open from today, theatre owners are bracing for a grand re-opening this weekend hoping to draw a steady trickle of movie lovers. On Saturday, Chief Minister M K Stalin announced extending the ongoing lockdown in the State by another two weeks till September 6 but permitted the re-opening of theatres with 50 per cent occupancy. And along with it, the government allowed beaches and parks to be thrown open to the members of the public from today. "We have planned to re-open from August 27 throughout the State," said 'Rohini' Panneerselvam, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association. Asked if all the staff have been vaccinated against coronavirus, he told PTI that all the staff members have received their first dose of the vaccine. "All those who ought to receive the second dose will get it soon," he said and indicated that the association members are gearing up for the re-opening. As per the government’s SOPs the cinema halls should be disinfected and seating arrangements should ensure social distancing. “Yes, we will strictly implement all the government safety norms on Covid-19," Panneerselvam added. The previous AIADMK government had ordered the closure of cinema halls from April 26, after they recommenced business in November last year, owing to the coronavirus second wave. After the DMK stormed to power, the government announced several relaxations in various stages and had allowed the re-opening of theatres from today. The Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association even made a representation to the new government seeking the early resurrection of the theatres which had been severely affected since the pandemic broke.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/multiplexes-theatres-in-tamil-nadu-to-welcome-guests-from-august-27-1022691.html
23-08-2021||South||Will not allow Karnataka to proceed with Mekedatu: Tamil Nadu||Reiterating its opposition to a reservoir in Mekedatu, Tamil Nadu on Monday said it was taking “all necessary action” to prevent Karnataka from taking up construction of a dam across River Cauvery “in violation” of the final order of the Tribunal and a judgement of the Supreme Court. Tabling the first separate policy note of the department and presenting the Demand for Grants, Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan asserted that Tamil Nadu will continue the fight to ensure that the state’s rights are not compromised in inter-state water disputes with Karnataka and Kerala. “The Government of Tamil Nadu is taking all necessary action to prevent Karnataka from constructing a Dam at Mekedatu or any other place, in the Cauvery basin of Karnataka in violation of the Final Order of the Tribunal and the Judgment of the Supreme Court and to safeguard the rights of Tamil Nadu,” Durai Murugan said. The minister also said the Tamil Nadu government will go ahead with the ambitious project to link Cauvery with Gundar within the state, which is being opposed by Karnataka. He also noted that the state government has moved the Supreme Court against an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) closing proceedings against the Mekedatu project. The appeal was made as Tamil Nadu feels the NGT closed the case without giving the state an opportunity to present its side. Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are locked in an intense battle over the former’s plan to construct a reservoir in Mekedatu across Cauvery. Tamil Nadu opposes the project saying it cannot be constructed without its permission as a lower riparian state, but Karnataka says it does not need a nod from any neighbouring state. Durai Murugan also announced that 1,000 check dams and barrages will be constructed in the state in the next 10 years to conserve water – barrages will come up across Cauvery, Kollidam, and Thamirabarani in the first phase. The minister said drones will be deployed to monitor water bodies in the state. Durai Murugan also said the Government was committed to inter-linking of peninsular rivers like Mahanadhi, Godavari, Krishna, Pennar, Palar, Cauvery, Vaigai, and Gundar. “The Government of Tamil Nadu is taking all efforts to implement the Inter Linking of Rivers Project to alleviate the water shortage in Tamil Nadu,” he said. Mullaperiyar and other water issues with Kerala Durai Murugan said Chief Minister M K Stalin had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi in June to instruct the Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change to advise the Government of Kerala not to delay in giving the required clearances to carry out the works and to restore the water level in the Mullaperiyar Dam to full reservoir level (FRL) of 152 ft. “On receipt of clearances, the work would be undertaken. Continuous efforts are taken to obtain the Forest Clearance from the Union Government. The works which does not require clearances have been completed,” the minister said, adding that a meeting with Kerala officials at the Additional Chief Secretary level to resolve water-related issues will be held shortly in Thiruvananthapuram. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-not-allow-karnataka-to-proceed-with-mekedatu-tamil-nadu-1022741.html
23-08-2021||South||Madurai Mutt disregards Nithyananda’s claims, coronates new chief||Harihara Desika Gnanasambantha Paramacharaya took his chair at the Madurai Aadheenam on Monday in the presence of pontiffs from various aadheenams across the state. The Madurai Mutt was established 1,500 years and revitalized by Thirugnana Sambandhar, one of the celebrated poet-saints of the Tamil Shaivite tradition. The new chief succeeds Arunagirinathar, the 292nd head of the Madurai Aadheenam, who passed away on August 13. “The coronation ceremony went off peacefully. As per the tradition, Harihara Desika Gnanasambantha Paramacharaya, who was declared as junior pontiff by Arunagirinathar, took charge in a simple ceremony,” the mutt said. The mutt said there was no controversy in the appointment as Nithyananda was not even a member of the Aadheenam. Nithyananda, the controversial godman wanted by Karnataka Police in a slew of cases including those relating to sexual harassment of inmates of his monastery, had last week appointed himself as the head of the Madurai Aadheenam. Nithyananda, who was appointed as junior pontiff of the famed Madurai Aadheenam in 2012 by Arunagirinathar, was removed from the post within a few months on the charges of misconduct. However, the self-styled godman continued to claim he was part of the mutt and declared his own appointment after Arunagirinathar’s death. Arunagirinathar, who headed the monastery for over 30 years, was a living example for communal harmony. He used to invite clerics and priests from other faiths to the mutt often and quote from Quran and Bible often to drive home the message that every religion teaches universal brotherhood. The Madurai Aadheenam has a rich tradition and is the oldest Tamil Shaivite monastery. Thirugnana Sambandhar is one of the most prominent of 63 Nayanmars who are believed to have lived between sixth and 10th centuries BC. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madurai-mutt-disregards-nithyananda-s-claims-coronates-new-chief-1022749.html
23-08-2021||South||Kodanad case: Accused move Madras HC to examine Palaniswami, Sasikala||In a new twist to the Kodanad break-in, three persons accused in the case have moved the Madras High Court seeking to examine former Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, ousted AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala and six others in the case. The Criminal Revision Petition under Section 233 of Cr. PC was filed by Deepu, Satheesan, and Santhosh Samy. They wanted the court to examine Palaniswami, Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s foster son V N Sudakaran, the then-Nilgiris Collector Shankar, the then-Nilgiris SP Murali Rambha, two employees of the Kodanad Estate and an AIADMK office-bearer from Gudalur. The petition was filed after the District Sessions Judge rejected the plea to examine the above-mentioned persons except Natarajan, a staff of the Estate, as witnesses. The petition demanded that the High Court set aside the order of the Sessions Court and issue a direction to examine all the witnesses. “The learned judge of the trial court failed to consider the sensitivity of the case wherein the Second Respondent (accused Sayan) has come forward in digital media to depose about the involvement of the former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and dismissed the petition in a mechanical manner,” the petition said. The sessions judge “erred in rushing up” the proceedings of the case while the investigation officer has intentionally left out to record the statements of material witnesses, they alleged. The petition has been filed at a time the DMK government has ordered reinvestigation into the case. Palaniswami has cried foul alleging that the DMK was trying to “frame” him in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kodanad-case-accused-move-madras-hc-to-examine-palaniswami-sasikala-1022754.html
23-08-2021||South||Prisoner’s bid to move from Mysuru jail to Kerala with prank threat call foiled||A threat call received by a police officer in Kerala on the eve of the Independence Day was found to be a prank by a prisoner at Mysuru central prison in an attempt to move out of the highly restricted life there to a more liberal life in any Kerala prison. Jayesh Kant, hailing from Dakshina Kannada, made the call to additional deputy commissioner of police of Kollam city in Kerala Jossy Cheriyan on August 14. The caller said that three places will be bombed on August 15 and one of the targets is a judicial officer. The police swiftly launched a probe and traced that the call originated from Mysuru prison and a police team from Kollam city proceeded to Mysuru and traced the caller. A sub-inspector who took Jayesh’s statement told DH that his motive seemed to be to move out of the Mysuru prison. He is under trial in a twin murder of his relatives and had earlier made a prison breaking attempt. He had also made bids to end his life and was accused in some other cases also. Hence he is kept in high security cell and allowed to move out only for a short period every day. This seems to have prompted him to make the prank attempt to move out of the prison and he expected that once he is booked for the threat call he might be taken to Kerala for producing before court. He had spent around five years in hideout in parts of Kollam after the twin murder and was also hoping that he could have a more liberal life in a prison in Kerala. He also had a diary containing contact numbers of many police officers and journalists and he was suspected to have made such prank calls earlier. He also claims to have links with many notorious gangsters. The additional deputy commissioner said that a case was registered on the basis of the call. If the accused was not having any serious motives, the case might be closed in the due course after further verification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prisoner-s-bid-to-move-from-mysuru-jail-to-kerala-with-prank-threat-call-foiled-1022763.html
23-08-2021||South||TTD introduces DRDO-made laddu bags that are ocean safe and consumable by cattle||Lord Venkateshwara devotees can now carry home their beloved swami-prasadam laddus in an eco-friendly way and can dispose of the bags later by feeding them to cattle if they wish to. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), with the help of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), has now introduced laddu bags made from corn starch. These bags are “ocean-safe” and are consumable by the cattle. A sales counter of the DRDO-made biodegradable bags was opened at the Laddu Complex near the Tirumala shrine on Sunday. “Our Advanced Systems Laboratory in Hyderabad is involved in research to find the best environmentally friendly replacement for the hazardous plastic. We have come out with these eco-friendly bags made of corn starch which degrades naturally within 90 days. These bags are not harmful even if the cattle consume them,” said DRDO chairman Satish Reddy. While the conventional polyethene bags are toxic to the environment and take nearly 200 years to degrade, these corn starch bags are offered as a “sustainable, cost-effective and ocean-safe alternative”. A bag worth two rupees can hold five to six laddus and a Rs 5 bag has a capacity of around 10. TTD Executive Officer Jawahar Reddy said that they plan to commence “full-fledged sale of DRDO bags, after taking the pilgrims' feedback for a few days.” To minimise single-use plastic on the Tirumala hill, the TTD had earlier stopped the sale of plastic bags at its laddu counters and had replaced them with cloth, jute bags. The TTD has plans to make Tirumala a plastic-free zone soon. While the sale of plastic water bottles is banned, devotees are advised not to carry such plastic bottles with them to the temple town. “All the shopkeepers and locals too should cooperate in the TTD's mission to eradicate plastic from Tirumala", an additional EO Dharma Reddy said earlier. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-introduces-drdo-made-laddu-bags-that-are-ocean-safe-and-consumable-by-cattle-1022804.html
23-08-2021||South||Fresh row over 1921 Malabar Rebellion’s history in Kerala||A reported move to exclude leaders and martyrs of the Malabar Rebellion of Kerala of 1921 from the Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle has triggered a row in Kerala with historians opposing the move, while BJP leaders terming the Malabar Rebellion leaders as the Taliban. The debate came close on the heels of RSS leader Ram Madhav terming the Malabar Rebellion as the first manifestation of Talibanism in the country. The Malabar Rebellion often came under debate. Last year a Malayalam film production based on the Malabar Rebellion triggered allegations from BJP and other Sangh Parivar outfits that it was an attempt to glorify the ‘anti-Hindu’ leader of the movement, Variyamkunnath Kunjahammed Haji. The fresh debate started following reports that a panel reviewing entries to the fifth edition of the Indian Council of Historical Research’s (ICHR) Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle recommended that the Malabar Rebellion could not be considered as freedom struggle as it was a rebellion against the landlords who are Hindus and no slogans against British rule was raised. There were 387 martyrs in the rebellion. While, Congress and Indian Union Muslim League leaders in Kerala flayed the move alleging that it was an attempt to distort history as well as to implement divide and rule, BJP national vice president A P Abdullakutty commented that Variyamkunnath Kunjahammed Haji was the first Taliban leader of Kerala. He added that even the family of Communist leader and former Kerala Chief Minister E M S Namboodiripad had suffered due to the Malabar Rebellion. Even while terming it as a politically motivated move, ICHR’s former chairman M G S Narayanan told a section of media that since there was no solid historical backing for either version of the Malabar Rebellion there was enough scope for debates on the matter. Meanwhile, the BJP was stepping up attack against Kerala speaker M B Rajesh, who is a CPM leader, over his recent statement comparing the Malabar Rebellion leader to Bhagat Singh. His remark came at a function to commemorate the centenary of the Malabar Rebellion. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fresh-row-over-1921-malabar-rebellion-s-history-in-kerala-1022811.html
23-08-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh 'three capitals' case posted to November 15||The Andhra Pradesh high court has adjourned the hearings in the case challenging the three capitals plan of Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy to November 15. The decision by a three judge bench on Monday was following requests from some of the advocates and also the petitioners' plea to postpone the hearings citing the threat posed by the Covid-19 third wave. The Amaravati farmers, who parted with about 33,000 acres of land in 2015 for the grand, greenfield capital planned by the then Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu, are on a continuous agitation since December 2019, when Reddy had announced his plans to strip the region in Guntur district of its sole, mega capital status. Some of the farmers and public representatives had challenged the capital decentralisation and abrogation of the AP Capital Region Development Authority legislation brought in by the Reddy government in January 2020. The acts were notified in July last year. However, hearing dozens of the petitions, the AP high court had in August 2020 barred the YSRCP government from making any move shifting the executive capital to Visakhapatnam. In January, Justice JK Maheshwari was replaced b Justice Arup Kumar Goswami as the AP high court chief justice. The Justice Goswami headed bench convened in virtual mode on 26 March to consider the opinions of the government and farmers to decide on the course to be adopted for the case amid the pandemic and had posted the matter to May 3. The case was later posted to August 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-three-capitals-case-posted-to-november-15-1022817.html
23-08-2021||South||Kerala may tighten restrictions as Covid surge continues||A review meeting by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the Covid situation is likely to be held on Tuesday. A decision on steps to contain the Covid spread may be taken at the meeting. A total of 13,383 more fresh positive cases were reported on Monday when 85,650 samples were tested. The test positivity rate on Monday was 15.63 per cent. Over the last week, the TPR was remaining above 15 per cent. The health minister’s caution came as social distancing norms were flouted across the state during the Onam celebrations. Apart from crowding at shops and commercial streets, tourist spots in the state were also witnessing a heavy rush during the Onam holidays. Experts were learnt to have cautioned that the daily number of fresh Covid positive cases may go up to 30,000 in the coming weeks. Already the hospital bed occupancy crossed the 50 per cent mark. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-may-tighten-restrictions-as-covid-surge-continues-1022831.html
23-08-2021||South||Kerala youth recounts harrowing experience on return from Afghanistan||A youth from Kerala who was among the group of Indians evacuated from Afghanistan said that it was like a second birth as they were held hostage by the Taliban. He had even conveyed to some of his relatives that his life was almost over. "Over the last one week, our lives were on tenterhooks. I felt safe only after reached Delhi by Sunday," said Deedil Rajeevan a native of Kannur district in Kerala. Rajeevan was the first to get in touch with the Kerala government’s Non-Resident Keralites Affairs department after the Taliban gained control of Afghanistan. He indeed helped many Malayalis to get in touch with the authorities helping with the evacuation. He also said that some officials of the Ministry of External Affairs were in close contact with them giving moral support. Rajeevan, who reached the Kannur international airport on Monday, told reporters that over the last week many like him were praying for life as they were in the custody of the Taliban. A batch of around 150 was proceeding to the airport in six buses. Taliban took custody of the buses and took them to a vacant building and verified the documents like passports. He said that the Taliban said that they won’t hurt them and asked whether they would prefer to remain in Afghanistan and continue to work. But everyone wanted to leave the country owing to a feeling of insecurity. "When I got a chance to go to the toilet, I informed a cousin over mobile that if there is no further information about me, you may presume that I am gone," he said. Rajeevan said that even as tension was prevailing in most parts of Afghanistan, Kabul was safe and companies in the region were also doing well. Hence they continued to work. But the Taliban’s entry to Kabul came all of a sudden and hence foreigners had to run for safety with what they had with them, said Rajeevan, who had been working in Afghanistan over the last ten years. After Rajeeven got in touch with NORKA authorities, the state government also shared his contacts with the MEA. He that the Indian government as well as Kerala government for the efforts taken for their evacuation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-youth-recounts-harrowing-experience-on-return-from-afghanistan-1022842.html
23-08-2021||South||Schools in Telangana to reopen for offline classes from September 1||The K Chandrasekhar Rao government has decided to reopen all the educational institutions across Telangana for offline mode of classes from September 1. Rao has instructed the education and other department officials to prepare for the reopening and get the school buildings, hostels etc thoroughly cleaned and sanitized by August 30. “Covid-19 has crippled the education sector. The indefinite closure of schools has caused miseries for the private school teachers. The pandemic situation in the state is better than before and the normal public activities have also resumed. Experts are also cautioning that students remaining away from schools for such a long time could affect them psychologically. Considering all these factors, we have taken the decision to reopen the schools and colleges for all the standards, implementing all the precautionary measures,” Rao said. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, schools were reopened from August 16. As of Monday, the number of Covid-19 cases under treatment or isolation in Telangana is 6,308 officially. In AP, the active cases recorded are 14,159. Hyderabad vaccine drive Meanwhile, a special 10-day Covid-19 vaccination drive was initiated on Monday for 100 per cent coverage of the eligible population over 18 years of age in Hyderabad. According to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation officials, about 50 lakh people have already received at least one dose of the vaccine. 175 mobile vaccination vans are also pressed into service for total coverage of the 4846 colonies, slums and other habitats across the city. Households, where all the members are vaccinated, would get a GHMC sticker on their front door confirming the same. Telangana chief secretary Somesh Kumar claimed the GHMC drive as “the first such mission mode initiative in any metro-city in the country to ensure 100 per cent coverage of the eligible people.” According to the situation, officials said the drive could be extended by five days. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/schools-in-telangana-to-reopen-for-offline-classes-from-september-1-1022850.html
23-08-2021||State||Bommai asks Ministers to visit schools, PU colleges reopening on August 23||With schools for class nine and ten and pre-university colleges in Karnataka opening from Monday, Chief Minister of the State Basavaraj Bommai asked his Cabinet colleagues to visit the campuses to encourage teachers and students. In a set of tweets, Bommai asked the students to review the precautionary measures for Covid-19. "Children of classes 9, 10 and PUC get back to their schools & colleges from tomorrow. I urge my Cabinet colleagues to visit the campuses in their districts, encourage students, teachers and review the precautionary measures taken for the safe conduct of physical classes," Bommai tweeted. He said the state government has decided to reopen schools and colleges considering the future of the children. Stating that all safety measures have been taken as suggested by experts, Bommai said, "I appeal to parents to encourage their children to attend physical classes and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour." The schools and colleges were shut following the fear of the third wave of Covid-19 hitting children. Karnataka conducted the 10th class examination this year defying the Covid scare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bommai-asks-ministers-to-visit-schools-pu-colleges-reopening-on-august-23-1022508.html
23-08-2021||State||Many private schools in Karnataka may stick to online classes||Karnataka government’s decision to resume offline classes for grades 9 and above from Monday has not gone down well with many parents, forcing many schools to continue with online mode. Surveys conducted by several Bengaluru-based schools showed parents reluctant to send children to schools. “We have received a message from the school saying that 85% of the parents and students opted for online classes and considering this, the school has decided not to resume offline classes as of now,” said a parent of a class 10 student from Cluny Convent High School, Malleswaram. “Our school has decided to wait till September 1 to resume offline classes. We have received a communication from the school saying they will continue with online classes,” said a class 11 student from Swarga Rani School, Rajarajeshwari Nagar. Meanwhile, some parents are worried about the increase in Covid-19 cases. “The government itself is imposing measures like night curfew, weekend lockdown, and opening schools. Will any parent send children to school in this situation?” questioned a parent. “Despite all precautionary measures in place, some parents are not willing to send their wards to schools,” said a principal from a school affiliated to CBSE. Government school teachers are also expecting poor attendance. According to teachers, the decision not to provide midday meal and Ksheera Baghya scheme will affect the attendance. Experts and academicians also felt that providing a midday meal was important. Senior academician V P Niranjanaradhya requested the chief minister to reopen classes even for primary grades and provide midday meal and Ksheera Baghya schemes. Dr B Gayethri Devi, principal Little Flower Public School said, “The response from parents for offline classes is poor, but we have decided to conduct classes even if for one or two students basically to motivate parents as they are a bit skeptical.” “This is a slow process and we need to motivate parents and boost their confidence. We have decided to begin with lab and practical classes,” Gayethri Devi. Manilal Carvalho, principal Delhi Public School East said, “We will commence offline classes for grades 11 and 12 from Monday. For grade 9 and 10, we will plan in the coming days. This is following parents’ response to our survey.” Schools have decided not to ply buses to pick up and drop students and have informed parents to make their own arrangements. “With the current situation it is impossible to provide transportation considering fuel prices and small number of students turning up for offline classes,” said a principal of another ICSE school from Bengaluru South. Schools, teachers unhappy Meanwhile, some school managements are not happy with the directions from the government to offer both offline and online classes. “This is going to be stressful for teachers and conducting classes in both modes is not easy,” said one of the principals. “Considering the health and personal life of our teachers, we have divided teachers into two batches. Those who attend offline classes will not involve themselves online,” says another principal. “Handling both online and offline classes is very stressful. For instance, I conduct classes for both 9th and 10th grades. Concentrating on kids in any one mode of teaching is comfortable but not on both,” said a teacher with a private school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/many-private-schools-in-karnataka-may-stick-to-online-classes-1022532.html
23-08-2021||State||Covid vaccine clinical trial participants must approach trial sites for certificates||Clinical trial participants of Covishield and Covaxin vaccine who volunteered to take the jab before anyone else did, and before the Co-WIN portal came into existence, need final vaccination certificates that are QR-coded to prove their vaccination status. While 2,250 Covaxin clinical trial participants at Jeevan Rekha Hospital, Belagavi, and hundreds  at Vydehi Hospital have been given hospital certificates that they were participants of the phase 3 Covaxin trials, now they have to approach government vaccination centres to register on Co-WIN and get final QR-coded vaccination certificates. This will enable them to prove their vaccination status at workplaces. Placebo recipients have also been contacted by the trial sites to get vaccinated. Child participants who were a part of Zydus Cadilla's ZyCoV-D vaccine trial however will have to wait till the trial is unblinded to get vaccination certificates. There are over 2,000 people in Karnataka who participated in various Covid vaccine clinical trials including paediatric vaccine trials where 20 children were enrolled. ZyCoV-D got emergency use authorisation in India for use in individuals above the age of 12 on Friday. Dr Amit Bhate, director, Jeevan Rekha Hospital, told DH, "While we did not provide hospital-level vaccination certificates for all, whoever reached out to us and demanded it were given one. They can go to a government CVC, who will register them on Co-WIN and get final QR-coded certificates. "While 1,125 trial participants were given the placebo during the trial, another 1,125 participants were given the Covaxin vaccine. Contacting all placebo recipients and vaccinating them has been completed too." "As far as the paediatric trials of ZyCoV-D goes, it depends on when the company decides to unblind the trial as the trial is still ongoing and the observation period will end in February 2022," he added. A clinical research expert at Clintrac International Pvt Ltd, the clinical research institute that did the Covaxin vaccine trial at Vydehi Hospital said, the trial is considered ongoing as the participants' safety will be monitored for one year. "We still need long term safety data from the participants. They have trial participant IDs plus their data has been sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research to be uploaded on Co-WIN so that they can download the QR coded vaccination certificate. Our trial participants were even able to go to the US and UK with just these IDs. "Even I have travelled abroad with this ID (the expert was Vydehi's advisor and was jabbed as a part of the trial). Only some universities needed students to quarantine themselves upon arrival for a certain period or take a WHO-approved vaccine upon arrival if they were previously jabbed with Covaxin in India," he said. B Suresh, Pro Chancellor, JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, Mysuru, where 250 participated in Covishield's clinical trial, said, "The details of participants of Covishield were sent to the government to upload on the Cowin portal and they will shortly get their certificates. The placebo group have also been vaccinated with Covishield in March itself if they wanted to get vaccinated."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-vaccine-clinical-trial-participants-must-approach-trial-sites-for-certificates-1022760.html
23-08-2021||State||23 Karnataka districts report no Covid deaths on Monday||Karnataka reported 1,151 fresh infections on Monday. Bengaluru accounted for 270 of the total cases. A total of 10 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 37,155. This is the first time in months that 23 districts reported zero deaths. Three deaths were reported from Dakshina Kannada district and two from Hassan. Belagavi, Kodagu, Mysuru, Tumakaru and Udupi reported one death each.  The total number of cases now are 29,39,767. As many as 1,442 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 28,82,331. The state now has 20,255 active patients, over half of them are in two districts alone. While there are 7,669 active cases in Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada has 2,886 cases.  The positivity rate for the day touched 1.08%, while the case fatality rate was 0.86%. As many as 1,06,364 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total number of tests to 4,20,71,388. With 5,28,909 jabs administered on Monday alone, the state has given 3,74,62,848 doses so far. As many as 2,86,45,215 people have been administered the first dose, while 88,17,633 people have been given the second dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/23-karnataka-districts-report-no-covid-deaths-on-monday-1022787.html
23-08-2021||State||Karnataka govt to decide on quarry licences near KRS after review||The government has received several requests to renew quarrying licences, following the closure of quarries near Krishnaraja Sagar reservoir.  The government will take a call on these proposals after thoroughly reviewing them, Mines and Geology Minister Achar Halappa Basappa said on Monday.  The minister told reporters that the government would assess whether allowing any mining activity around KRS would affect its safety, while noting that a task force was set up recently under the Mandya deputy commissioner to verify the same. He dismissed complaints that the safety of Krishnarajasagar reservoir was compromised due to illegal quarrying around it, maintaining that currently all quarrying or mining near the dam had been stopped completely. It can be recalled that the alleged illegal quarrying around KRS had triggered a slug fest between Mandya MP Sumalatha and JD(S) leaders, including former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy. The MP had petitioned Union Home Minister Amit Shah and former mines and geology minister Murugesh Nirani, urging them to curb quarrying around the dam. The department will look into illegal sand mining at large across the state and will tackle it in a time-bound manner, the minister said.  The government is coming up with a comprehensive sand policy soon, the minister said. Apart from curbing illegal sand mining, the policy is expected to offer sand at affordable prices to the common man.  He said that the government was looking at measures to increase revenue from taxes and royalties collected by the department. Achar Halappa Basappa, who also holds the women and child development portfolio, said the families of anganwadi workers who breathed their last during the Covid first wave were compensated, while the process to pay compensation to the families of those who died during the second wave was under progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-decide-on-quarry-licences-near-krs-after-review-1022828.html
23-08-2021||State||Action on Lokayukta report: 14 Karnataka depts complied with rules, HC told||The state government on Monday submitted before the high court that a nodal officer has been appointed to furnish information about the action taken report on the enquiry reports forwarded by the office of the Lokayukta. In a memo filed before a division bench, headed by Justice Satish Chandra Sharma, the government said that 14 government departments have filed action taken reports, with respect to 128 reports out of 141 reports, under the provisions of the Karnataka LokayuktaAct. The PIL filed by Sai Datta, a Bengaluru-based social activist, claimed that the government is not complying with the provisions of the Lokayukta Act to file action taken report within a stipulated time. Whenever Lokayukta or Upalokayukta forwards a report under section 12 (1) of the Lokayukta Act recommending remedial measures, the competent authority as per 12 (2) of the Act shall file an action taken report within the time specified in the enquiry report, he contended. The memo was filed by L Sharada, joint secretary, Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR -Vigilance), the nodal officer in thiscase.  The memo stated that instructions are awaited from the remaining 10 departments, such as revenue and urban development. The bench adjourned the hearing to September 9. The petitioner had stated that according to the information obtained under the RTI, in more than 342 cases an action report was not filed by the concerned competent authorities. He also stated that in 932 cases consent from competent authorities is awaited for taking up action as per rule 14 (2) (d) of Karnataka Civil Services (CCA) Rules. The petitioner contended that inaction on the part of the competent authorities is nothing but abdicating their statutory duties. The action taken reports from various departments are pending for a long time and not complying with the statutory provisions has resulted in the defeat of the very object of the statute, he argued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/action-on-lokayukta-report-14-karnataka-depts-complied-with-rules-hc-told-1022833.html
23-08-2021||State||Pay more toll at Mulbagal, Hoskote plazas from Sept 1||Travelling between Mulbagal and Bengaluru will get costlier from September 1 as the toll fees at Hoskote and Mulbagal plazas will go up by Rs 5 to Rs 10. At Mulbagal toll plaza, single and return journeys for cars will cost Rs 75 and Rs 110 while monthly pass price will cost Rs 2,205, a hike of Rs 65. Light commercial vehicles and minibuses will pay an additional Rs 5 and Rs 10, for single and return journeys, respectively, and the monthly pass will be dearer by Rs 110. As usual, multi-axle and heavy vehicles have attracted the steepest hike. Traffic at the Mulbagal poll plaza is yet to recover to the pre-pandemic levels. However, according to officials, the number of vehicles passing through the plazas has increased substantially over the last one month. At the Hoskote plaza, the single journey fee has not been hiked for cars and buses but the return journey will get costlier by Rs 5 for both. The monthly pass will cost Rs 560 (a hike of Rs 20). For light commercial vehicles and minibuses, the fee has gone up by Rs 5 even for single journeys. The bus passes will be dearer by Rs 25. Thousands of people use the tolled road every day to reach Bengaluru. Farmers bringing vegetables and flowers to the city’s K R Market will be affected by the hike in fees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pay-more-toll-at-mulbagal-hoskote-plazas-from-sept-1-1022847.html
23-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Schools, colleges reopen for classes 9-12 in Karnataka after five months||Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai likened the reopening to freedom for students from Covid-19. "Students are very happy. It's like, they have got a freedom today from Covid-19. August 15 is celebrated as a freedom for the country but for our students from classes ninth, tenth, 11th and 12 it's a real freedom for them with the opening of schools," Bommai told reporters after visiting a few schools in the city. He said students were facing a lot of issues in online classes such as communication and network problems but here in the physical classes they can interact with their teachers better. Apart from better teaching and understanding, students are happy that they are now with their friends, the Chief Minister said. Bommai told teachers, staff and students to follow Covid-19 norms. "There will be a experts' committee meeting by the month-end. Looking at the situation, we will take a call on two things -- one is regarding border districts and second is classes for class first to eighth standard," the Chief Minister explained. At an event here, Bommai said if the reopening of schools become successful, August 23 will be celebrated as Education Day just as September 5 is observed as Teachers' Day. He also said that this day is important as it will liberate children from Covid-19. The government decided to start the classes from Monday on the recommendation of the Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19. The TAC had said that the teachers and other staff in the schools and PU colleges should be vaccinated first. Further, it said the classrooms should be sanitised, social distancing and hand hygiene should be maintained and everyone should wear masks compulsorily. The Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh visited a few schools in the city and interacted with students. The government decided not to reopen schools and PU colleges in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru as Covid-19 positivity rate is above two per cent in these districts, government sources said. On the directions of the Chief Minister, the district in-charge ministers visited a few schools in their respective districts on Monday. In November 2020, degree colleges were opened and later in January 2021, 10th and pre-university colleges were opened for a brief period. The experiment could not continue for long as the second wave had hit the country and Karnataka was among the worst affected states reporting over 50,000 cases and about 500 fatalities daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/schools-colleges-reopen-for-classes-9-12-in-karnataka-after-five-months-1022695.html
23-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka first state to implement new NEP in country: CM Bommai||The Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Monday said the State would launch a policy of digitisation and research and development that could help implement the new National Education Policy (NEP), which aims at bringing fundamental changes in the education system. "If we want NEP to succeed, we must make it reach every child across the State. Digitisation is important to education for which we will bring a new digitisation policy," he said at the launch of the NEP in Karnataka thereby becoming the first State in the country to do so. He said the broadband networking would be made available in every village for which he sought the assistance of technocrats and academics. "The way you formulated the NEP, you have to help in making the digitisation policy happen," Bommai said. Under the digitisation policy, degree-level students would be given an iPad, he said. The Chief Minister further said a Primary and Secondary Education Council would be launched from the district headquarters town of Kalaburagi. Bommai said there are about 180 R&D centres in Bengaluru but lamented the lack of any connect with students. "There are over 180 R&D centres in Bengaluru related to every sector but what is the connect between the students and the R&D centres? I want a synergy between students and the R&D centres," he said. "We will have a new R&D policy. If not in Karnataka where else can this policy be formulated? This (R&D policy) is as important as the NEP," the Chief Minister said. Bommai said the R&D policy would reach every village, school and university. Stating that the universities have a pivotal role in implementing the R&D policy, the Chief Minister said he wanted every Kannadiga to be knowledgeable. He hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for aiming to bring fundamental changes in education through NEP. "Many people have ruled the country but only a few dared to make fundamental changes in the system, which could make the nation a world leader. NEP shows the foresightedness of our Prime Minister to liberate the education system from silos," Bommai said. The Chief Minister said the existing education system drags a child into the push and pull of life and never allows to explore his or her talent in painting, singing, athletics and other areas. "But the NEP liberates from the structural policy," Bommai said. Conceding that the implementation of the NEP would be a challenge as bringing in new changes has always been difficult, Bommai said he was optimistic that NEP would be successfully implemented in Karnataka. Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who attended the event virtually, hailed Karnataka for setting an example for other States to follow. He said the NEP is meant for the age group of 3 to 23. Former ISRO chairman Dr K Kasturirangan, who headed the National Committee for the Education Policy that formulated the NEP-2020, Karnataka Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan and Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh too spoke on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-first-state-to-implement-new-nep-in-country-cm-bommai-1022716.html
23-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka generated 4,113 tonne Covid-19 waste from Jan 2020 to June 2021, state informs NGT 2021||A total of 4,113 tonne of Covid-19 waste was generated in Karnataka from January 2020 to June 2021, the state has informed the National Green Tribunal. The state also informed the tribunal that it has taken steps to ensure scientific disposal of the waste. In May 2021, a total of 587 tonne of Covid-19 waste was generated, which was highest in comparison to the remaining months during that period, the state informed the Green Bench in its affidavit. The state government, in its compliance report about the handling of Covid-19 waste, also informed the NGT that Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has identified 36,021 health care establishments in the state and a total 77.54 tonne of bio-medical waste generated per day which was either treated in captive or at 27 common bio-medical waste treatment facilities in the state.  Earlier the NGT principal bench headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel has asked all states to take steps towards scientific disposal of Covid-19 waste. The bench also directed the Chief Secretary of States and Union Territories to closely monitor the scientific storage, transport, handling, management and disposal of waste as its improper handling poses a grave threat to the environment and health of people. The NGT, while directing the state Departments of Environment and pollution control boards to ensure compliance of Biomedical Waste Management Rules, 2016, sought an action taken report from the states. The Tribunal suggested the Centre and state governments adopt best practices in disposal of Covid-19 waste and create awareness about the precautions and steps to be taken by all handlers and workers as well as citizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-generated-4113-tonne-covid-19-waste-from-jan-2020-to-june-2021-state-informs-ngt-2021-1022814.html
23-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Speaker suggests action plan to boost students' immunity||Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri has urged the government to come up with an action plan to boost the immunity of students. In an official statement on Monday, Kageri, also a former minister for primary and secondary education, welcomed the government's move to resume schools and colleges. "However, it is essential to ensure that the children have the necessary immunity as educational institutes open," he said. He urged the government to launch a campaign to improve immunity among children, along with a rapid action team, to randomly visit schools to ensure Covid-19 standard operating procedures are in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-speaker-suggests-action-plan-to-boost-students-immunity-1022825.html
23-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt sets ball rolling for farmer producer organisations||The Karnataka government has set the ball rolling for 750 farmer producer organisations (FPOs) in the state, catering to farmers, fishermen and weavers. The FPOs are planned to serve as a platform for the producers to come together and work as a community, thereby boosting market for their produce. In a government order (GO) in this regard on Monday, approval was given for an estimated Rs 225 crore for the same. Recently, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai had announced the government’s plans for creating FPOs under ‘Amrith’ programmes.  According to the GO, these organisations will not only equip farmers with latest equipment, techniques and infrastructure to boost their produce, but will also serve as a platform to market the produce.  While they have been planned to be created at the hobli level, there will be separate FPOs for farmers, weavers and fishermen. Explaining how the FPOs are set to work, an official who is part of the planning process in the agriculture department told DH: “These bodies will be created at hobli-level and farmers themselves will lead it, while the government will merely take on the role of guidance. Training will be given to them initially on organising the FPOs. A state-level committee led by the development commissioner will look into the implementation process.”  The FPOs are expected to empower producers by offering them a platform to come together as a community. “If a farmer goes to the market individually with five to 10 quintals of produce, they will not have bargaining power. If they go as a community, they will be able to congregate themselves, have bargaining power and attract more buyers with a bigger volume of produce,” the official explained. The producers can also directly sell their produce to consumers. The FPOs will equally have the liberty to process their produce and sell it in their own brand, he added.   The government has set a three-year deadline to establish the 750 FPOs and the process for identifying the number of FPOs in each district and training the producers is set to commence soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-sets-ball-rolling-for-farmer-producer-organisations-1022834.html
23-08-2021||West||Spurt in malaria, dengue cases in Mumbai, Pune||There has been a spurt in Monsoon-related vector-borne diseases like malaria, dengue, leptospirosis, swine flu, chikungunya, and typhoid in Mumbai and Pune and its metropolitan areas. While a series of combat measures have been initiated in Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and Pune metropolitan region (PMR), the Public Health Department is also focussing on Western Maharashtra districts of Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara and Konkan districts of Raigad and Ratnagiri - that were affected by massive floods last month. So far, only one case of Zika virus was reported from Belsar village in Purandar tehsil of Pune district. Till mid-July, around 240 cases of malaria, 17 cases of leptospirosis, 10 and 13 swine flu cases have been reported in Mumbai, as per the data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). During the same period, around 300 cases of dengue, malaria and swine flu have been reported by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The number of Monsoon-related ailments has surged this year owing to the relaxations in lockdown-related restrictions, and that has resulted in the free movement of people after the flattening of the Covid-19 curve during the second wave. Now, people have again started eating junk food that has negative consequences on their health. Dr Sanjay Nagarkar, general physician, Apollo Spectra Hospital, Pune, said, “Dengue is a mosquito-borne illness that is life-threatening, typhoid is a bacterial infection that can lead to a high fever, and chikungunya is termed as a viral illness that happens due to mosquitoes. Currently, the number of patients infected with dengue, chikungunya, and typhoid is increasing. The majority of the patients who come to the outpatient department for treatment suffer from fever, and the number of these patients has increased around 10% since the last two weeks.” Dr Vikrant Shah, consulting physician, intensivist, and infectious disease specialist, Zen Multispeciality Hospital, Chembur, said: “Currently, we are seeing an increase in the cases of dengue and malaria. From the last four weeks, there has been a rise in cases of dengue and malaria. If the fever does not subside within two to three days, associated with chills, headache and myalgia should consult their doctor. These symptoms could be because of malaria, dengue. Also in Monsoon, fever with vomiting and loose stools, and yellow discolouration of eyes can point towards jaundice, acute gastroenteritis. Take medication as prescribed by the doctor and not opt for any home remedies.” Dr Kirti Prakash Kotla, a consultant pathologist at Apollo Diagnostics in Pune, said: “Contaminated water in the rainy season is leading to an increase in various infectious diseases. Patients with dengue, malaria, typhoid, and chikungunya tend to have a tough time. If diagnosed early, the patient can be successfully treated with timely intervention. So if you have a fever, instead of ignoring it, just seek medical attention.” During drives and awareness conducted by BMC, the larvae of dengue-carrying mosquitoes in 39,481 places and malaria-carrying mosquitoes in 7,922 places were found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/spurt-in-malaria-dengue-cases-in-mumbai-pune-1022603.html
23-08-2021||West||Goa police awaiting Russian consulate's nod for autopsy of actress||The Goa police are waiting for the Russian Consulate's nod to conduct postmortem of the body of a 24-year-old Russian actress, who was found dead in her apartment in North Goa district last week, an official said on Monday. Alexandra Djavi, who acted in some Tamil movies including "Kanchana 3", was found hanging in her rented flat in Siolim village of North Goa on Friday. A senior police official said the body was kept in a mortuary while they were waiting for a No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Russian Consulate to conduct the autopsy. The police have already started an investigation into the case and recorded the statement of her boyfriend, he said. The woman's boyfriend, who was living with her in the same apartment, had gone out when she died. Meanwhile, advocate Vikram Varma, the Goa representative of the Russian Consulate in Mumbai, urged the police to conduct a probe into the "possible role" of a Chennai-based photographer into the woman's death. The deceased had filed a complaint of sexual harassment against the photographer in Chennai in 2019, he said. "I was informed that the woman had been hounded and blackmailed by a person in Chennai. After a preliminary inquiry, the Chennai police had found enough evidence to register an FIR and subsequently arrest him,” he said. Varma said the case (of the woman's death) "may have other facets which are not clearly visible at this stage". The Russian Consulate was monitoring the case and would provide all required information and assistance to the Goa police, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-police-awaiting-russian-consulates-nod-for-autopsy-of-actress-1022660.html
23-08-2021||West||HC warns Maharashtra govt of stern action if any more child deaths due to malnutrition||The Bombay High Court on Monday warned the Maharashtra government of stern action if there are any more deaths of children due to malnutrition in the state's tribal belt. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation filed in 2007, highlighting the high number of deaths of children, pregnant women and lactating mothers in the state's Melghat region because of malnutrition. The plea also raised concerns over the lack of gynaecologists, paediatricians and radiologists in the public health centres of the region. The petitioner informed the HC bench on Monday that in the last one year, 73 children died in the region due to malnutrition. Advocate Neha Bhide, appearing for the Maharashtra government, told the court that all steps were being taken to address the issue. To this, the court said, “If your (government) machinery is so well equipped, then why have there been 73 incidents of children deaths due to malnutrition.” Noting that this was a serious matter, the bench directed the state government to submit details of how many children have died due to malnutrition in the tribal belt of the state from April 2020 to July 2021, and details about doctors sent to the public health centres in those areas. “If on the next date of hearing we are informed that there have been more deaths of children due to malnutrition, then we will hold the principal secretary of the state public health department responsible. The public health department secretary has to rise to the occasion,” the court said. “We are putting the public health department principal secretary on guard. If by September 6 (next date of hearing), we hear that there have been any more deaths then we will take a very stern view and action,” the court added. The court also directed the Union government to file an affidavit, stating how much funds have been sanctioned to the state government to address the issue of malnutrition and how the Centre was monitoring the situation. The court will hear the matter further on September 6. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-warns-maharashtra-govt-of-stern-action-if-any-more-child-deaths-due-to-malnutrition-1022686.html
23-08-2021||West||Over 15,000 jewellers in Gujarat join nationwide strike against HUID||Over 15,000 jewellers across Gujarat kept their businesses shut on Monday as they joined the nationwide strike against the implementation of Hallmarking Unique ID (HUID) system, industry stakeholders claimed. The 'token strike' against HUID was called by the All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) and supported by various associations across the country, including Gujarat. In Ahmedabad, nearly 6,000 jewellery shops and showroom owners joined the strike demanding a simpler hallmarking process, claimed Jigar Soni, president of the Jewellers' Association of Ahmedabad. "The call for strike was received well as majority of the jewellers kept their businesses shut," he said. Besides Ahmedabad, all prominent jewellery markets in Rajkot and various other cities also wore a deserted look since morning as shops remained closed. Industry stakeholders claimed that around 4,000 units in Rajkot and 3,500 shops and showrooms in the entire south Gujarat, including Surat, remained shut. Hundreds of jewellers in other parts of state also extended their support and refrained from opening their outlets, they said. "We are not against hallmarking. We are worried about the newly introduced HUID, because it will consume a lot of our time and the process is also not simple," said Arvind Patadiya, a prominent jeweller from Rajkot. Under this new system, a unique code will be given to every piece of jewellery at the time of hallmarking, he said, adding that the code will help in identifying the jeweller as well as the customer. "It will take over two weeks just to get an HUID stamp on a piece of jewellery. This will finish our business. Imagine the time and energy we will spend just to get an HUID stamp," he said. He claimed this system will eventually bring the "Inspector Raj" back. "To keep a check on benami transactions, the HUID also carries information about customers. We want the government to make the process more simple and fast. I am confident that the Centre would take a favourable decision," said Patadiya. Surat-based jeweller Dipak Choksi claimed that around 3,500 jewellers from south Gujarat joined the strike on Monday He said the HUID will only increase the clerical work of jewellers and it lacks clarity on the modification issue. "Customers usually want us to incorporate some minor changes even after a jewellery is ready. This is a normal practice. But, there is no clarity in this new system whether such modifications are allowed after the jewellery is stamped with the unique ID," he said. Choksi expressed confidence that the Centre will take into consideration such concerns and decide in favour of jewellers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-15000-jewellers-in-gujarat-join-nationwide-strike-against-huid-1022700.html
23-08-2021||West||Petitions against Gujarat Prohibition Act maintainable, says HC||The Gujarat High Court on Monday held as maintainable a batch of petitions challenging the provisions of Gujarat Prohibition Act, 1949 which bans the manufacture, sale and consumption of liquor in the state. A division bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice Biren Vaishnav said the court holds the petitions as “maintainable and be heard and decided on merits,” and kept them for final hearing on October 12. The HC, thereby, rejected preliminary objections raised by the state government regarding the maintainability of the petitions. Advocate General Kamal Trivedi hinted before the HC that the government may decide to approach the Supreme Court against the order. The government had maintained that it is not permissible for a court to examine the validity of any law or any new law or additional grounds when it has been upheld by the apex court in the past. The Supreme Court had upheld the Act in its judgment in 1951. In his submission, Trivedi had said a law that has been made valid by the Supreme Court today can be held invalid tomorrow, but the apex court is the right forum to decide the same and not the Gujarat High Court. The petitioners, on the other hand, had argued that the matter should be taken up on merits, as the provisions challenged in the pleas are materially different from what they were in 1951 as they have been amended over the years. The batch of petitions have challenged the constitutional validity of sections section 12, 13 (total prohibition on manufacture, purchase, import, transportation, export, sale, possession, use and consumption of liquor), 24-1B, 65 of the Gujarat Prohibition Act, 1949, and sought them to be declared as ultra vires Article 246 of the Constitution. One of the petitions argued that the provisions are "arbitrary, irrational, unfair, unreasonable, and discriminatory" and "despite prohibition being in place for more than six decades, a steady supply of liquor continues to be available through an underground network of bootleggers, organised criminal gangs, and corrupt officials." "With expanding interpretation of the right to life, personal liberty and privacy, as contained in Article 21 of the Constitution, a citizen has a right to choose how he lives, so long as he is not a nuisance to the society. The state cannot dictate what he will eat and what he will drink," said a plea filed by one Rajiv Patel and two others. The HC had, on June 23, reserved its order on the maintainability of a batch of petitions challenging the provisions of the state's liquor prohibition law as contrary to the citizen's rights to privacy, life and personal liberty as enshrined in the Constitution. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/petitions-against-gujarat-prohibition-act-maintainable-says-hc-1022705.html
23-08-2021||West||Koregaon-Bhima accused were procuring sophisticated weapons: NIA||The group of accused arrested in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon-Bhima case were sourcing funds to procure sophisticated arms and ammunition from the clandestine international market, according to the draft charges filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Though the draft charges do not mention a plot to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi as claimed in 2018, but they mention one of the motives being to "cause the death of public functionary”. The 17-point draft charges submitted were presented before Special Judge DE Kothalikar, who presides over the NIA court. The accused, members of CPI (Maoist), were charged with promoting the activities and ideologies of banned outfits, mobilising people and students, training in handling sophisticated arms and explosives with the larger objective to conspire against and destabilise the government of India and Government of Maharashtra, threaten its sovereignty with large-scale violence, strike terror in the people, among other things. It pointed out that the CPI (Maoist) worked with its frontal organisations like Anuradha Ghandy Memorial Committee (AGMC), Kabir Kala Manch (KKM), Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), Committee for Release of Political Prisoners (CRPP), Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights (CPDR), Peoples Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR), Coordination of Democratic Rights Organisations (CDRO), Democratic Students Union (DSU), Visthapan Virodhi Jan Vikas Aandolan (VVJVA), and Revolutionary Writers Association with an objective to establish "Jantana Sarkar" (people’s government) by way of an revolution supported by a commitment protracted armed struggle to undermine and to seize power from the State. The draft charges state that the accused had conspired to demand and organize Rs 8 crore for annual supply of M4 rifles with 4,00,000 rounds and other arms through suppliers from Nepal and Manipur. They were also accused of using substances like wires, nails, nitrate powder, and possessing and transporting sophisticated weapons like Chinese QLZ-87 Automatic Grenade Launchers, Russian GM-94 Grenade Launchers and M4 rifles with 4,00,000 rounds, which by its very nature was to cause or likely to cause death or injuries to any person or persons or loss of or damage to or destruction of properties and was an attempt to do or "cause death of public functionary." The Maharashtra Police and later NIA had arrested a total of 16 accused in the case, of whom Father Stan Swamy passed away before of age-related ailments. The 15 accused facing trial are: Sudhir Prahlad Dhawale, Rona Jacob Wilson alias R alias RW, Surendra Pundalikrao Gadling alias SG, Shoma Kanti Sen, Mahesh Sitaram Raut alias Rohit Verma alias Rohit, P Varavara Rao alias PV, Vernon Stanislaus Gonsalves, Arun Thomas Pereira, Sudha Bharadwaj, Anand Bapurao Teltumbde alias AT, Gautam Navlakha alias Darbar alias G alias GN, Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil alias HB alias Venkat, Sagar Tatyaram Gorkhe alias Aakash, Ramesh Murlidhar Gaichor alias Yogesh, Jyoti Raghoba Shankar Jagtap alias Vaishali. The six wanted accused are Milind Teltumbde alias Comrade M alias Dipak alias Sahyadri, Comrade Prakash alias Navin alias Ritupan Goswami, Comrade Manglu, Comrade Deepu, Kishan alias Prashanto Bose and Mupalla Laxmana Rao alias Ganpati GS alias Chandrashekar alias Comrade G.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/koregaon-bhima-accused-were-procuring-sophisticated-weapons-nia-1022720.html
23-08-2021||West||ED files prosecution complaint against Anil Deshmukh's aides in PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate on Monday filed its first chargesheet in connection with the bribery-cum-money laundering scandal involving former Maharashtra Home Minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh.  The ED registered a case against Deshmukh after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed an FIR against him on April 21 in the wake of allegations made by former Mumbai Police Commissioner and now Commandant General of Home Guard, Param Bir Singh, that the then minister had fixed a monthly collection target of Rs 100 crore for the now dismissed Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze.  The chargesheet was filed against Deshmukh’s Personal Assistant Kundan Shinde and Personal Secretary Sanjeev Palande.  Deshmukh (72) is considered close to NCP President Sharad Pawar and General Secretary Praful Patel.  The chargesheet was filed before the special court assigned to hear matters related to the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Deshmukh was summoned by the ED five times in the past for questioning but he failed to appear. Deshmukh’s wife Aarti Deshmukh and son Hrishikesh Deshmukh had also been summoned, however, they too had failed to appear before the federal agency.  It also attached properties to the tune of Rs 4.2 crore which are linked to Deshmukh and his family. Using dummy companies based in Delhi, the Deshmukh family had allegedly laundered the tainted money of Rs.4.18 crore and showed it as an amount received by a trust called Shri Sai Shikshan Sanstha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-files-prosecution-complaint-against-anil-deshmukhs-aides-in-pmla-case-1022743.html
23-08-2021||West||No Dahi Handi celebrations in Maharashtra for second year in a row||For the second year in a row, there will be no traditional Dahi Handi festivities involving human pyramids during Sri Krishna Janmashtami festival in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic.  The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government feels that the current drop in the cases after the first wave and the devastating second wave is just a “window period” and overcrowding needs to be avoided. At a meeting presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray — which was also attended by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Home Minister Dilip Walse-Patil among others — it was decided not to go ahead with the Dahi Handi festival.  “Set aside festivals for some time and work towards social initiatives and fight the pandemic,” Thackeray told the online meeting.  "The restrictions (announced by the government from time to time) are for the wellbeing of people. Only a few people speak of protesting against these curbs. They should rather protest against coronavirus and not against the government," he said. According to Thackeray, Covid-19 is a deadly virus. “In some districts, the second wave is still being felt, while in some places the situation has improved….this is a window period…we have to be careful,” he said pointing out that some countries have returned to lockdown.  Pawar pointed out that the State was faced with the threat of the Delta Plus variant, which could trigger the third wave. “It is going to spread fast and we cannot take any chances” he said. The opposition BJP, however, has opposed the decision and demanded the Dahi Handi festival be allowed to go ahead traditionally under certain conditions.  "Those who have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccines must be allowed to organise the traditional Dahi Handi at low heights without crowding. The festival should not be banned," BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said.   “We will celebrate the festival…100 per cent…this is a Hindu festival and we will celebrate,” said BJP MLA Ram Kadam, who organises one of the biggest Dahi Handi festivals in Ghatkopar area of Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-dahi-handi-celebrations-in-maharashtra-for-second-year-in-a-row-1022771.html
23-08-2021||West||Gujarat anti-liquor law can be judicially scrutinised in wake of SC's privacy judgement: HC||Over six decades after coming into existence, the state government's liquor prohibition law is set to undergo a judicial scrutiny with the Gujarat High Court on Monday holding as maintainable a set of petitions challenging the laws. The court held that the anti-liquor law will have to be examined in view of recent Supreme Court judgements on "right to privacy" as a fundamental right. The petitioners have challenged the legal validity of the law on several grounds including it being violative of right to equality, privacy, among others. The prohibition law, known as Gujarat Prohibition Act 1949, bars citizens from purchasing, possessing and consuming alcohol. Over the past two decades, however, the government has lifted the curbs by allowing special permits on medical grounds to the locals and tourists to buy and drink in the state. The division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and justice Biren Vaishnav passed the order, allowing the clutch of petitions filed by citizens, including a practicing doctor and a journalist, for lifting the liquor law. The preliminary order was passed after the state government objected to the petition on maintainability on the grounds that the validity of the law had been dealt with by the Supreme Court back in 1951 and it can't be challenged before the high court. The advocate general Kamal Trivedi had argued that "any new ground of challenge by the petitioners may be appropriately raised, contended and dealt with by the Supreme Court alone and not by this Court." He argued that even if new grounds have come up over the course of the last seven decades, it would be only the apex court which can deal with the matter and not the high court. The petitioners countered this argument by stating that since 1951, when the apex court decided the matter, the prohibition law has gone through several changes and many new provisions have been added which were not challenged. They also said that the challenge to the provision of the 1949 Act back then was mainly on the ground of lack of legislative competence when the right to privacy had not been declared to be a fundamental right. They have argued that over the years, fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution have been expanded by various constitution bench judgments, and the prohibition act should be tested in accordance with those changes. The petitioners have argued they can't be prohibited from their choice of "within the confines of private space, subject to orderly behavior, of privately possessing, transporting and consuming liquor." The division bench led by chief justice Nath held that the petitions challenging prohibition of import, transfer, possession, buying liquor, consuming, prohibition of entry in state of intoxication, among others, were not under challenge in the Supreme Court and some of these sections were introduced by way of amendments. The court brushed aside the state's argument that these contentions were "cosmetic" in nature as the "substance" of the act has not changed. It opined that "the newly added provisions in our opinion are not mere cosmetic in nature but they confer valuable rights." It adds, "Moreover, the challenge as to the prohibition of intoxicating beverages for human consumption being violative of Part III of the Constitution was never under challenge or was under examination before the Courts before." The bench has stated that for the first time, Supreme Court in the case of Justice K S Puttaswamy VS Union Of India recognised the "Right to Privacy” of the citizen as a fundamental right in 2017 and "the petitioners have assailed some of the provisions of the 1949 Act on the ground that they violate the Right to Privacy. The same has never been tested before in the context of personal food preferences weaved within the right to privacy." Final hearing on the petitions will start from October 12. Meanwhile, the state hinted in the court that it may move to the Supreme Court against the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-anti-liquor-law-can-be-judicially-scrutinised-in-wake-of-scs-privacy-judgement-hc-1022808.html
23-08-2021||West||231 cases of Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 detected in Maharashtra||Maharashtra has reported 231 cases of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 in India's financial capital of Mumbai and other places in the state. While the Delta variant led to the second wave of the pandemic earlier this year, the Delta Plus is expected to trigger the third wave. The Maharashtra government and BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) have confirmed the development. The figures emerged from the tests conducted on the first batch of 188 samples at the BMC’s Kasturba Hospital. "While 128 patients were found infected with the Delta Plus, 2 were Alpha types, 24 were Kappa types, and the rest showing common Covid-19 virus infections,” BMC officials said. Meanwhile, the Public Health Department said that 27 fresh cases have been reported in the state excluding Mumbai taking the cases to 103. These include Amravati (6), Gadchiroli (6), Nagpur (5), Ahmednagar (4), Yavatmal (3), Nashik (2) and Bhandara (1). Meanwhile, state reported 3,643 fresh cases and 105 deaths of Covid-19 taking the progressive total to 64,28,294 and 1,36,067, respectively. During the day, 6,795 patients were discharged taking the tally of recovered patients to 62.38-lakh plus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/231-cases-of-delta-plus-variant-of-covid-19-detected-in-maharashtra-1022839.html
