24-08-2021||First Edit||Opposition has much work to do||The significance of last Friday’s meeting of opposition parties, called by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, was that it was the first formal attempt made by the parties, with participation from the Congress, to form a common plank against the BJP. It is important that Sonia Gandhi took the initiative for such a meeting after some recent exploratory moves by other parties. Yashwant Sinha’s Rashtra Manch had convened a meeting of regional parties in June which was attended by leaders of eight parties, including the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the CPM. Last month, West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC leader Mamata Banerjee convened a meeting that put forward the idea of an opposition alliance for the 2024 general elections. There have also been informal gatherings and discussions on the theme. Sonia Gandhi’s online meeting was attended by the top leaders of 18 parties, including Mamata Banerjee, the NCP’s Sharad Pawar, the DMK’s MK Stalin, the Shiv Sena’s Uddhav Thackeray, and the CPM’s Sitaram Yechury. It was the largest such gathering, and may signal the keenness of opposition parties to find a common ground. It might also show that no opposition unity would be effective without participation by the Congress. The Congress has been weakened, but it still remains a national party, with presence in all the states. It is the largest party after the BJP. Sonia Gandhi noted the “determined unity’’ of opposition parties during the monsoon session of Parliament as a welcome sign and said there is no alternative but to work together to pose a challenge to the NDA during the 2024 elections. The parties have called for a 10-day protest against the government in September. They have a tough challenge before them, considering the political situation in the country. The Congress does not have a clear leadership and it is not known what position other parties would give it. Most other parties have following only in their own states or among certain groups and would not be able to help one another. Some of them are even rivals. But they have displayed a common intent to fight the BJP, and their joint statement has identified some issues, including the mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic, inflation, unemployment, farm laws and illegal surveillance of citizens. Some of these issues may fade away but others may remain relevant over the next three years. Parties will have to find common ground and forge unity in common action. But they will have to bury their narrow interests and go beyond a purely anti-BJP platform to present a positive political and governance agenda to the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/opposition-has-much-work-to-do-1022955.html
24-08-2021||In Perspective||UBI: The idea is gaining ground||There has been a surge in interest among policymakers, economists and the media in the last few years on whether governments the world over should provide a basic income to all their citizens. Some of them call it ‘Universal Basic Income’ (UBI) while others call it a ‘Basic Income’, to be given not to all but to a target group fulfilling certain criteria. In 2016, voters in Switzerland had overwhelmingly rejected a proposal for an unconditional basic income proposal, which would give Swiss Franc (CHF) 2,500 to all citizens regardless of their employment status or income level. Elsewhere, in Silicon Valley in the US, there has been a growing concern that artificial intelligence and automation will make millions of jobs redundant and a UBI will need to be provided to fulfill the basic needs of people. Andrew Yang, one of the early presidential nomination hopefuls for the 2020 presidential elections campaigned for a UBI plan called the ‘Freedom Dividend’, under which every American adult would get $1,000 every month. Yang’s campaign was in response to fears among citizens that increasing automation might snatch away as many as one-third of jobs in America in the next decade. In India, the Economic Survey of 2017 highlighted the need for a UBI as a social security model, but one that would replace all existing subsidies. The very inclusion of the concept in the Economic Survey was an admission by the government of the failure of welfare schemes in helping the poor, and that it was willing to discuss, for the first time, the viability of the UBI concept with stakeholders. Guy Standing, a British economist and professor at the University of London, has been a vocal advocate of unconditional basic income for many decades now. He says that it is a means of social justice and a mechanism for freedom from domination by public authorities using their power to decide arbitrarily on who should be included in welfare schemes. He states that contrary to welfare schemes like the public distribution system (PDS) in India, where all families below the poverty line get food items at subsidised rates, a basic income helps families choose the items they want to consume as money is transferred into their bank accounts directly. Standing argues that because families have the freedom under the system, the UBI would have more emancipatory value than just money value. He further states that while basic income is not a panacea for all economic ills, it should be a part of the new distributive system that governments need to build in the 21st century. Other proponents feel that governments can save time and money under this model as payments are automatic and direct. Successive governments, as well as the public, are aware of the shortcomings of the PDS -- the huge administrative and logistical costs that are incurred in procuring, storing and distributing food grains through the tens of thousands of fair price shops or “ration shops”, as they are called. Standing also points out that while the quality of food grains distributed through ration shops is inferior, womenfolk in most poor households waste a lot of time separating the grain from the chaff. Though there has been consensus among economists on the role of governments in providing income to their citizens, the debate is over whether it should be income for all or income only to a target group fulfilling certain criteria. One group feels, why should income be distributed to all citizens? They point out that those who have the skills to earn in the economy do not need any support from the State. Advocates of UBI, on the other hand, argue that just like any other fundamental right, UBI should be provided to all citizens. They assert that UBI can be a tool for individuals irrespective of gender, income status or age to face a crisis and can help them live life on their terms. Further, they say that UBI would empower people to take risks in life. They feel that citizens who do not want any support under UBI should be given the freedom to opt out of the system voluntarily, similar to the “opt out” option given to users under the LPG subsidy scheme. Critics of basic income point out that men in the family getting basic income may spend money on alcohol, cigarettes, or drugs. The solution to this is to make the women in the family the beneficiaries, which would enhance women’s empowerment. Another concern expressed by the critics is that the UBI may make people reluctant to seek work by making them lazy and lethargic. Whatever the merits and demerits of UBI, the debates and discussions on whether income should be given to all citizens or only to those passing “means tests” have given further impetus to a global movement that could become a reality soon. (The writer is a chartered financial analyst and a former banker and currently teaches at Manipal Academy of Banking, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/ubi-the-idea-is-gaining-ground-1022958.html
24-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Indifferent attitude of people rising positivity rate in Udupi'||Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha warned of taking strict measures against those violating the Covid-19 norms. He told media persons on Monday that people were seen wandering without masks. The indifferent attitude of people is increasing Covid-19 positivity rate. The positivity rate consistently is 2.5 per cent to 3 per cent in the past few days. The tests have been increased to 8,000 from 3,000 every day. He added that there are plans to increase the number of tests to 10,000. Those seen without the masks will be subjected to Covid-19 tests. All attempts will be made to ensure that the positivity rate goes below 2 per cent by the end of this month, he added. Jagadeesha added that the district stands second in the vaccination status in the state next only to Bengaluru. The overall vaccine coverage stands at 64 per cent, while in above 60 years category 85 per cent of the people are covered under the vaccination programme. The district is receiving more vaccinations these days and is capable of giving 20,000 doses per day, he added. There are 65 swab collecting teams and each team is involved in the collection of 60-70 swabs everyday. Measures will be taken to ensure that each team collects 100 to 120 swabs per day, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/indifferent-attitude-of-people-rising-positivity-rate-in-udupi-1022896.html
24-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||519 nomination papers for Belagavi City Corporation polls||A total of 519 nomination papers were filed for Belagavi City Corporation elections. Among them, 434 nomination papers were filed on Monday. Political parties contesting the civic body election on party symbol too ensured that their candidates filed nomination papers. Filing of nomination papers had commenced on August 16, with election notification being issued. On the third day, two candidates had filed nomination papers, seven on fourth day and 76 on fifth day. A whopping 434 candidates filed nomination papers on the last day on Monday. BJP candidates were contesting the election from all 58 wards, while Congress has fielded candidates from 49 wards. AAP candidates filed nomination papers from 28 wards JD(S) from 12 wards and AIMIM from six wards. Candidates of political parties filed their nomination papers on the last day.A total of 364 candidates filed nomination papers as independents. Candidates backed by Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti-Shiva Sena filed nomination papers as independents. It has been practice of MES to designate some independents as its supporters and later after the results claim rest Marathi speaking candidates as those committed to its ideology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/519-nomination-papers-for-belagavi-city-corporation-polls-1022916.html
24-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru robbery: Rs 5 lakh award for credible info on robbers||The Mysuru police have declared a cash reward of Rs 5 lakh to anyone providing credible information on the armed robbers who shot dead a man at a jewellery shop in the city on Monday evening. Chandrashekar alias Chandru, 23, a mason, died on the spot after a gang of armed robbers opened fire on him at Amruth Gold and Silver Palace. He had been to the shop for purchasing a ear ring. However, the shutter of the shop was closed and he was waiting outside. Meanwhile, the robbers came out with the booty and saw Chandru walking into the shop. They opened fire at him killed him instantaneously, before fleeing spot. The robbers had barged into the shop, downed the shutters and looted jewellery after assaulting the shop owner. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Pratap Reddy visited spot for an inspection on Tuesday. Mysuru Police have intensified investigation into the case and announced a cash prize of Rs 5 lakh to anyone giving credible information on the robbers.  Police Commissioner Chandragupta said that a total 25 officers and 80 staffers were fully dedicated to nab the culprits. He said that identity of the informant will be kept confidential.  “They can share information on phone number 94808 02200, any time of the day,” he added. Police suspect that the robbers are from outside Karnataka as they were heard conversing in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-robbery-rs-5-lakh-award-for-credible-info-on-robbers-1023130.html
24-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karwar man returns safely from Afghanistan||A man from Karwar, who was working as a driver in Kabul, returned to his hometown safely on Tuesday. Rajesh Paduvalkar, a resident of Sadashivgad in Karwar taluk, was working in Kabul as a driver for three years for a company which supplied food to the armed forces of the United States. As the Taliban took control of Afghanistan, Rajesh was under the care of the US Forces and he was sent to Qatar from Kabul by a flight. An IAF flight brought him from Qatar to New Delhi. Rajesh reached home on Tuesday. “The US Army had informed about the worsening situation in Afghanistan on August 14. By that time the Taliban had occupied most of Afghanistan except Kabul. There were people from Nepal, Sri Lanka and Uganda working like me. Around 20,000 people had gathered as the airport to return home,” Rajesh told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karwar-man-returns-safely-from-afghanistan-1023134.html
24-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mission hospital selected to train Covid warriors in Udupi||The Lombard Memorial (Mission) Hospital in Udupi has been selected to train frontline covid warriors in dealing with a potential third wave of Covid infection, Hospital Director Dr Sushil Jathanna said. Incidentally, it is the only hospital to be selected to provide this training for people in Udupi. The training is sponsored by National Skill Development Council and Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, in collaboration with Association of Healthcare Providers of India, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched this customised crash course in June 2021 to meet the required number of covid frontline workers across the country. The new job roles identified include basic care support, emergency care support, advance care support, sample collection support, home care support and medical equipment support. The training will include intensive classroom training and on the job training in various settings under the supervision of medical and nursing staff. This initiative will support various state and district administrations in their fight against Covid-19 and will help reduce the excessive workload on doctors and nurses while always being under their supervision. The cost of the training will be borne by the National Skill Development Council and the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE). Jathanna said that it was a privilege and honour for the Hospital to be selected to train frontline Covid warriors. It will also enable the Hospital to contribute towards the fight against the Covid pandemic, he added. The training programme will be led by Dr Suja Karkada and Veena Menezes of Lombard College of Nursing, Udupi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mission-hospital-selected-to-train-covid-warriors-in-udupi-1023181.html
24-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||MIT to introduce MTech course in Defence Technology||The Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), MAHE, will introduce M Tech course in Defence Technology. The specialisation in the subject will be offered during second year of the course, sourced said. The MIT’s association with Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) not only resulted in the introduction of the course but also ensured internship programme for final-year postgraduate students at the organisation. Former scientists from the DRDO will be employed as faculty for the course due to the sensitivity involved in the technologies being considered under the programme. The course is expected to be offered at the earliest with documental and discussion processes being underway. The intake, presently, has been fixed at 30 students. The MIT accepted the proposal after the DRDO and AICTE came up with the same. MIT Director Cdr Anil Rana said that negotiations are going on for laboratories under the DRDO that are required for the students. The private organisations which are into defence sector for system integration manufacturing equipment will be involved in drafting of course programme, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mit-to-introduce-mtech-course-in-defence-technology-1023183.html
24-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sulking Karnataka Minister Anand Singh assumes charge||Disgruntled Karnataka Minister Anand Singh on Tuesday said he has assumed charge as Minister for Environment, Ecology and Tourism, following assurance from the Chief Minister and state BJP President to look into his "appeal". Singh has been sulking ever since Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai allocated him the Environment, Ecology and Tourism portfolios on August 7 and had not taken charge as the Minister. He wants a 'better' portfolio. "I have brought to the notice of the party-state president my appeals and discussed with him a few things. He asked me to first take charge of the portfolios I have been allotted and begin work, and that my appeals will be considered and necessary action will be taken," Singh said. Speaking to reporters ahead of taking charge as the Minister at Vidhana Soudha, the seat of state secretariat and legislature here, he said that he has got similar directions from the CM. "On the assurance that my appeals will be considered and soon a solution will be found to my issues, abiding by the directions from the party and the Chief Minister, I have come to take charge as the Minister," he added. Singh, earlier in the day met BJP state President Nalin Kumar Kateel at the party office here and Bommai. Asked whether change in portfolio was his only demand and whether he has got assurances in this regard, Singh not willing to give any direct response said, the appeal that he had made to the Chief Minister in the past, he has repeated the same once again today and that the CM and party president have assured to consider it and take necessary action. "I have told whom I have to, as to what my appeal is," he said. In what was seen as a sign of posturing, Singh, earlier this month had shut his MLA office at Hospet and on August 11 had hinted about his resignation. However, he subsequently deferred his plans to resign following a huddle with Bommai, Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Shorapur MLA Raju Gouda. He had also met state BJP strong man and former CM B S Yediyurappa in this regard. A 4-time MLA, he was among the 17 legislators who had quit the Congress- JD(S) coalition and had joined the BJP in 2019. Before the Congress, Singh was earlier with the BJP and had served as a Minister between 2008 and 2013. Once linked to the mining scam, he has several cases pending against him. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sulking-karnataka-minister-anand-singh-assumes-charge-1023047.html
24-08-2021||Main Article||Poll campaigns: The new king-makers||Mamata Banerjee has retained her association with Prashant Kishor’s Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC). Kishor has been feted as the mastermind behind Mamata’s thumping success in the Bengal elections. Marketing-branding-analytics experts are crucial new entrants in Indian politics. From restructuring party organisations to playing a role in the distribution of tickets, political strategists and their outfits hold enormous sway over parties. So much so that after the victory in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, Kishor is now one of the prominent faces putting together an alliance against the NDA, working alongside veterans like Sharad Pawar. Though the beneficiaries in Kishor’s campaigns differ starkly, the contours of his work remain moneyed, incisive and manipulative. The pumping of enormous amounts of money into political campaigns allows a formidable space for high-profile political strategists and their teams who, in turn, help sustain the glitz of it all. The 2014 election campaign of the BJP, curated under Kishor’s non-partisan-sounding ‘Citizens For Accountable Governance’, was among the most expensive political campaigns in Indian history, and one that showed his political prowess. The poll season saw technology creeping into small towns and villages through the “Chai pe Charcha” discussions; 3D holograms of Modi were projected into villages and shanties which craved for stable electricity supply, or a robust internet connection. The glitzy campaign promised the emerald-laced city of Oz, curated by our very own team of branding wizards and the green-glasses they offer. This election campaign marked a shift in the ways in which campaigns were run in the country in recent memory. The public discourse was saturated with claims of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’, as the ‘Gujarat Model’ was aggressively promoted. A moneyed affair, the campaign revamped the scale on which elections were fought, bolstered by the growing fascination with technology in the country. Christopher Jaffrelot’s 2015 essay titled ‘The Modi-centric BJP 2014 election campaign: new techniques and old tactics’ analyses the scale of digital technology deployed in the campaign, and writes: “The team he (Modi) started to build then was largely made of US-trained professionals and IT experts, like Prashant Kishor, who formally set up in June 2013 a group called Citizens for Accountable Governance (CAG), with its headquarters in Gandhinagar. The 200-400 members of the CAG were more than vote mobilisers, not only because they were paid — like some 800 of their interns — but also because their work was to build a dense network of vote mobilisers at the grassroots level.” The virtual rallies themselves cost around Rs 60 crore, while the total cost of BJP’s 2014 campaign was pegged at Rs 715 crore. The ethos of these activities has continued to mark much of BJP’s activities thereafter: between 2019-2020, the BJP government spent Rs 713.20 crore of the taxpayers’ money on advertisements, and BJP was the largest spender on Facebook ads at over Rs 4.16 crore in a span of 18 months. A report released by the Centre for Media Studies said that the BJP spent around 45% of the total expenditure for 2019 on the Lok Sabha elections, making it one of the most expensive campaigns. Kishor’s I-PAC consists mostly of young professionals who undertake a variety of tasks like data mining, social media management, research and campaign management. In his workings with the TMC, Kishor’s style remains similar. In August 2020, the TMC was the highest spender on political campaigns in India. Pages run by the I-PAC or the TMC were amongst the highest spenders on ads, sometimes even bypassing the BJP’s ad expenditure in Bengal throughout 2020-21. The advertising campaign during elections and the tricks in its hats no longer remain hushed. Kishor was seen explaining tactics like christening Mamata Banerjee “Banglar Meye” (Bengal’s Daughter) during the elections: no longer the provider — the “Didi”, Mamata was now the ‘daughter’ of Bengal. By inference, a daughter must be protected against the invading outsiders, the “Bohiragoto”. While this allowed the Bengal CM to escape accountability, it also resonated with the time-tested, sexist trick of pegging women as helpless daughters of the community who hold its honour. Take for instance, the I-PAC-run website banglargorbomamata.com. The dogged, in-your-face curation of Mamata Banerjee as “Bengal’s pride” is hard to miss. From the very name of the website to the carefully listed photographs of the “BGM (Banglar Gorbo Mamata)” event, Mamata and Bengal’s pride seem inextricable. She is pinned as the unsullied image and the messiah of Bengal’s culture. Though questions about the rising unemployment in the state, failure of the state in conducting TET/WBSSC exams, amount of money spent on clubs, violence seen during the 2018 panchayat polls, etc., affected people’s daily lives, they did not feature in the narrative leading up to the elections. The 2014 image-making of Modi, when read alongside Mamata’s 2021 campaign, presents the model of political functioning where top-down narratives are aggressively, expensively sponsored. Elections are now also marketing campaigns. This intricate act of curating what must be aggressively pushed forth in print, television and social media has increased political parties’ expenditure on advertisements and election campaigns. The amount of money that goes into the making and sustaining of organisations like I-PAC is enormous, which when funded by political parties leads to the increase in election costs. These marketing wizards ensure that the glitz of political campaigns remains continual and high-pitched, while the details about the funding of parties remains as murky as ever. In these times, parties with deeper pockets will be able to outsource political labour, hire experts, marketers and analysts who hold the ready privilege, pliable expertise and quick-fix strategies of moulding the public discourse, often at the cost of robust engagement between political leaders and voters. As the political decibel level continues to rise with money, the guiding ethos of our politics risks becoming the “survival of the richest”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/poll-campaigns-the-new-king-makers-1022959.html
24-08-2021||Mysuru||SP phone-in programme evokes good response||Superintendent of Police R Chetan assured that the Police department will give priority to ensure law and order in the district. The phone-in programme, organised by Deccan Herald - Prajavani evoked a good response, on Tuesday. Readers from across the district participated in the programme seeking the SP's attention over various problems faced by them. Most of the readers suggested holding 'Jana Samparka Sabha' at all the hobli and taluk levels that helps in developing coordination with the police and the public. This will facilitate the police to understand the local problems and to resolve the issues. The people of Nanjangud and K R Nagar sought additional police stations. The SP also assured of quick action and encouraged the people to give leads on any illegal activities or crime promising that the information will be confidential. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/sp-phone-in-programme-evokes-good-response-1023007.html
24-08-2021||National||Govt appoints Abhay Kumar Singh as joint secy in newly created Ministry of Cooperation||Abhay Kumar Singh has been appointed as joint secretary in the Ministry of Cooperation which was recently formed with an aim to strengthen the cooperative movement in the country, according to a Personnel Ministry order issued on Monday. Singh, a 2004-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Bihar cadre, has been appointed as joint secretary in the ministry for a combined tenure of seven years against the newly created post. The appointment has been cleared by the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, according to the order by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT). Among other appointments, Vijaya Lakshmi Nadendla, a 1995-batch IAS officer of the Bihar cadre, and Priya Ranjan, a 1998-batch Indian Forest Service officer of the Rajasthan cadre, have been appointed as joint secretaries in the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. Pramod Kumar Meherda, a 1997-batch IAS officer of the Odisha cadre, has been appointed as managing director in National Food Security Mission (NFSM) under the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare with additional charge of the post of secretary, Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board (ASRB). Kavita Garg, a 1999-batch Indian Defence Accounts Service officer has been named as joint secretary in the Ministry of AYUSH. Kavita Singh, a 2004-batch IAS officer of the Punjab cadre, was appointed as joint secretary in Cabinet Secretariat by temporarily upgrading the post of director held by the officer to be further adjustable against a regular vacancy, the DoPT said. Vibhu Nayar, a 1990-batch IAS officer of the Tamil Nadu cadre, was named as executive director, India Trade Promotion Organisation (ITPO) under the Department of Commerce. The ACC also cleared the appointment of Madnesh Kumar Mishra, a 1990-batch Indian Revenue Service (Income Tax) officer as joint secretary in the Ministry of Culture and Dinesh Kumar, a 2004-batch lAS officer of the Nagaland cadre as joint secretary in Department of Defence. Appointments of Sanjay Kumar, a 1995-batch Indian Audit and Accounts Service officer, as additional FA and joint secretary, Ministry of Defence (Finance); Vedveer Arya, a 1997-batch Indian Defence Accounts Service officer, as additional FA and joint secretary in the Ministry of Defence (Finance) and Peeyush Kumar, a 1997-batch lAS officer as joint secretary, Department of Economic Affairs have also been cleared. Sreekanth T, a 2004-batch lAS officer, was appointed as Deputy Election Commissioner, Election Commission of India, while Shailendra Singh, a 1997-batch IFoS officer was named as Deputy Director General (DDG), UIDAI headquarters in New Delhi under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. In the order, the ACC approved appointments/premature repatriations of many officers at Joint Secretary/Joint Secretary equivalent level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-appoints-abhay-kumar-singh-as-joint-secy-in-newly-created-ministry-of-cooperation-1022887.html
24-08-2021||National||BMC polls: Congress internal report suggests Riteish Deshmukh, Sonu Sood and Milind Soman for Mayoral post||An internal report of the Congress has suggested the names of actor-activist Sonu Sood, actor and celebrity Riteish Deshmukh and model-turned-fitness enthusiast Milind Soman as possible candidates for the coveted post of Mumbai Mayor. The elections to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are just months away and the Congress has decided to go alone and have launched preparations.  The report drafted by Ganesh Kumar Yadav, the Secretary of Strategy Committee of the Mumbai Regional Congress Committee (MRCC) has stressed on the need to declare the Mayor candidate before the polls.  “The Mayor candidate should not have political baggage, should be from a public background and  should have some appeal among youths and other sections of society,” the report states. The report suggests the names of Sonu Sood, Riteish Deshmukh and Milind Soman. However, it goes on to add that the Mayor candidate could be from a professional background like a well-known architect, town-planning expert, start-up owner.   The report has gone viral on WhatsApp groups. When contacted, Yadav said: "I have not given any report to the media...you can ask the MRCC President." However, he refused to comment whether he has given any report to the Congress leadership. Jagtap could not be reached for comments. “The party can in fact declare a Mayor candidate and also give some tickets to young professionals, social activists, start-up owners as an image building exercise,” the report states.  Sonu Sood is a senior actor and he has emerged as a saviour of lakhs of migrant workers by sending them home during the nationwide lockdown after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic.  Riteish Deshmukh is a senior actor and son of late Congressman and two-time former Maharashtra Chief Minister Vilasrao Deshmukh. Milind Soman, a national-level swimmer, was a successful supermodel, actor and now is a fitness evangelist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bmc-polls-congress-internal-report-suggests-riteish-deshmukh-sonu-sood-and-milind-soman-for-mayoral-post-1022893.html
24-08-2021||National||Modi, Merkel discuss situation in Afghanistan over phone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and German Chancellor Angela Merkel discussed the Taliban’s imminent return to power in Afghanistan during a phone call on Monday. Modi and Merkel discussed the “unfolding security situation” in Afghanistan and its implications on the region and the world. They emphasised the importance of maintaining peace and security, with the most urgent priority being the repatriation of the stranded people, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi. The two leaders also discussed issues on the bilateral agenda, including cooperation in Covid-19 vaccines, development cooperation with a focus on climate and energy, and fostering trade and economic relations. They exchanged views on issues of multilateral interest such as the forthcoming COP-26 meeting and the Indian initiative to promote a dialogue on maritime security at the United Nations Security Council, the MEA stated. “They emphasised commonality of perspectives between both sides on promoting inclusive cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-merkel-discuss-situation-in-afghanistan-over-phone-1022898.html
24-08-2021||National||DH Toon | 'A third Covid wave is coming'||An expert panel under the National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM), the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), has warned that the third wave of Covid-19 may peak in October.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-a-third-covid-wave-is-coming-1022910.html
24-08-2021||National||India logs 25,467 new Covid-19 cases, 354 deaths||India added 25,467 new Covid-19 cases, while the active cases declined to 3,19,551, comprising 0.98 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The total tally of Covid-19 cases has increased to 3,24,74,773. The death toll has climbed to 4,35,110 with 354 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The active cases were the lowest in 156 days, while the national Covid- 19 recovery rate has increased  to 97.68 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said.  A reduction of 14373 cases has been recorded in the total number of active Covid- 19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,47,526 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 50,93,91,792. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.94 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 28 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.90 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 60 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,17,20,112, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 58.89 crore Covid- 19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Tuesday morning. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 354 new fatalities include 105 from Maharashtra, 90 from Kerala and 68 from Odisha. A total of 4,35,110 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,36,067 from Maharashtra, 37,155 from Karnataka, 34,734 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,792 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,584 from Kerala and 18,371 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-25467-new-covid-19-cases-354-deaths-1022933.html
24-08-2021||National||UP Police give clean chit to AAP MP Sanjay Singh, two others in hate speech case||The Uttar Pradesh Police has given a clean chit to AAP MP Sanjay Singh and two other party workers in a hate speech case registered here last year, officials said on Tuesday. In its final report filed in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Manoj Kumar, the Crime Branch said no evidence was found against Sanjay Singh and Aam Aadmi Party workers Samerjit Singh and Brij Kumaru, they said. Sanjay Singh was booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the IT Act on August 13 last year for allegedly making remarks against a community and claiming that the Uttar Pradesh government was favouring a certain class of society. Multiple cases were registered against the Rajya Sabha MP, who is also the AAP's Uttar Pradesh incharge, in connection with his remarks. The court will hear the complainant's reply on the final report on September 16, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-police-give-clean-chit-to-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-two-others-in-hate-speech-case-1022948.html
24-08-2021||National||WhatsApp now allows booking of Covid-19 vaccination slot: Here's how you can book it||Abhishek Singh, CEO of MyGov and NeGD, took to Twitter to announce the launch of this new service.  “Now book vaccination slots by simply sending ‘Book Slot’ to @MyGovIndia Corona Helpdesk on @WhatsApp, verify OTP & follow the steps. Grateful to WhatsApp & @haptik for their continued support to build this chatbot,” he tweeted He also tweeted a link to the WhatsApp booking of Covid-19 vaccine. Here are the steps to register for your Covid-19 vaccinations via WhatsApp: 2. Now, send a 'Book Slot' message to the chat that has opened. 3. Then you will need to enter a six-digit OTP that you receive via SMS. 4. After that, you need to select the preferred date and location for vaccination, pin code, and the type of vaccine. After you finish these four steps, you will receive a confirmation message of your Covid-19 vaccination registration. WhatsApp CEO Will Cathcart also tweeted about the partnership adding that Covid-19 vaccination certificates can be downloaded via the app as well. The government made downloading vaccine certificates available on WhatsApp earlier this month. Here's how you can download your Covid-19 vaccination certificate via WhatsApp: 1. Type ‘covid certificate' and send it to the same MyGov chat bot. 2. Enter the OTP that you received on the chat. 3. Download the certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-now-allows-booking-of-covid-19-vaccination-slot-heres-how-you-can-book-it-1022949.html
24-08-2021||National||India brings back 78 more people from Afghanistan||India on Tuesday brought back 78 people, including 25 of its nationals and a number of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated from Taliban-besieged Kabul to the Tajik city. The group along with three copies of the Sikh scripture, Guru Granth Sahib, was airlifted from Kabul to Dushanbe by a military transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force on Monday. With Tuesday's evacuation, the number of people brought back to Delhi reached over 800 since August 16 when the first group was airlifted from Kabul, a day after the Taliban seized control of the Afghan capital city. The evacuees were received at the Indira Gandhi International Airport by Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and V Muraleedharan. "Blessed to receive & pay obeisance to three holy Swaroop of Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji from Kabul to Delhi a short while ago," Puri tweeted. An Air India flight brought back the people from Dushanbe. "Joined Minister Shri @HardeepSPuri ji at Delhi Airport in receiving Swaroop of Shri Guru Granth Sahib ji arrived from Afghanistan along with evacuees," Muraleedharan tweeted. Earlier, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said 78 people are being brought to Delhi on an Air India flight. "Helping in the safe return from Afghanistan. AI 1956 en route to Delhi from Dushanbe carrying 78 passengers, including 25 Indian nationals. Evacuees were flown in from Kabul on an @IAF_MCC aircraft," he said on Twitter. On Monday, India brought back 146 of its nationals to Delhi in four different flights from the Qatari capital Doha, days after they were evacuated from Kabul by NATO and American aircraft. India has stepped up efforts to evacuate its citizens as well as its Afghan partners from Kabul in view of the deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital and other parts of the country after the Taliban swept to power last week. On Sunday, India evacuated 392 people including two Afghan lawmakers in three different flights under the evacuation mission. The Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. Within two days of the Taliban's capture of Kabul, India evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in the Afghan capital. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy on August 16. The second aircraft evacuated around 150 people including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians from Kabul on August 17. India carried out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other friendly countries. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-brings-back-78-more-people-from-afghanistan-1022971.html
24-08-2021||National||Plea challenging Asthana’s appointment as Delhi Police chief filed in Supreme Court, Delhi High Court informed||The Delhi High Court was informed on Tuesday that a petition challenging the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner has also been filed before the Supreme Court. The submission was made in response to the High Court’s August 18 query on whether any other plea concerning Asthana’s appointment is pending before any court. The query was raised while hearing a petition by an advocate challenging Asthana’s appointment as Delhi Police Commissioner and extension of his service by one year. At the outset, advocate Prashant Bhushan informed a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh that he has filed a petition on behalf of NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) before the Supreme Court on August 10 challenging Asthana’s appointment and it is likely to come up for hearing on Wednesday. “It is informed to this court that on very same appointment under challenge, already a writ petition has been preferred before the Supreme Court and the said matter is coming up for further hearing…,” the bench said while dictating the order. To this, Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, representing the Centre, said the plea has not yet been heard by the Supreme Court and it will be the first hearing on Wednesday. “It is not before the court, it is before the registry. There is a marked distinction between the two,” he said, adding that they have not been served with the copy of the petition. The Central government standing counsel Amit Mahajan said they are not aware of such a litigation. The bench asked Bhushan to give a copy of the petition to the Centre’s counsel and listed the petition filed before it by Sadre Alam, a practising advocate, for hearing on September 24. The bench said it had raised the query if any such petition concerning Asthana’s appointment was pending in any other court as it was in its mind that some matter was there. “There cannot be two orders in a similar matter. What if there are contradictory orders or observations,” it said. The 1984-batch IPS officer, serving as the director general of Border Security Force, was appointed the Delhi Police Commissioner on July 27, four days before his superannuation on July 31. In his petition before the high court, Alam has sought quashing of the July 27 order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs appointing Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner and also the order granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him. Advocate B S Bagga, representing Alam, has argued that Asthana's appointment was in violation of the existing service law. “Four days before retirement he was appointed to the post,” he has stated as he claimed that the service conditions mandate a minimum residual tenure of six months. ASG Sharma had contended that this petitioner has no locus standi to challenge Asthana's appointment. The plea also sought initiation of steps for appointing the Delhi Police Commissioner strictly in accordance with the direction issued by the Supreme Court earlier. “The impugned orders (of MHA) are in clear and blatant breach of the directions passed by the Supreme Court of India in Prakash Singh case as (i) respondent no.2 (Asthana) did not have a minimum residual tenure of six months; (ii) no UPSC panel was formed for appointment of Delhi Police Commissioner; and (iii) the criteria of having a minimum tenure of two years has been ignored,” the plea said. It claimed the High-Powered Committee comprising the Chief Justice of India, Prime Minister and the Leader of Opposition, in its meeting held on May 24, 2021, rejected the Central government's attempt to appoint Asthana as the CBI Director on the basis of the “six-month rule” as laid down by the Supreme Court in Prakash Singh. The appointment of Asthana to the post of Commissioner of Police, Delhi must be set aside on the same principle, it said. The petition with similar prayers which has been filed by CPIL before the Supreme Court has urged to direct the central government to produce the July 27 order it issued, approving the inter-cadre deputation of Asthana from Gujarat cadre to AGMUT cadre. The petition has also urged the apex court to set aside the Centre's order to extend Asthana's service period. A contempt plea in the apex court by advocate M L Sharma has been filed against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah for appointing Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner in alleged violation of the judgement in Prakash Singh case. In his petition, Sharma has said that according to the apex court's judgement of July 3, 2018, the process of appointment should begin three months prior to the vacancy and the person being appointed must have a reasonable period of service left.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-challenging-asthana-s-appointment-as-delhi-police-chief-filed-in-supreme-court-delhi-high-court-informed-1022978.html
24-08-2021||National||Smog towers ‘quick fix’, no scientific evidence of long-term benefits: Experts||Smog towers may provide immediate relief from air pollution in a small area but they are a costly, quick fix measure with no scientific evidence to back their long-term benefits, several experts said after the first such structure was inaugurated in Delhi.   Governments should instead tackle root causes and promote renewable energy to tackle air pollution and reduce emissions, the experts said.   “It will be really unfortunate if other cities decide to follow suit and set up these expensive, ineffective towers. They are an enormous distraction from what should be the governments' focus: reducing emissions,” Santosh Harish, a fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, told PTI.   While smog towers might come across as a visible solution to air pollution, there is no scientific evidence -- even globally -- to support that they can filter outdoor air effectively, added Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead at the Delhi-based Council on Energy, Environment, and Water (CEEW).   Their comments came soon after Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated India’s first smog tower in the city’s Connaught Place area on Monday. The government claimed it will purify 1,000 cubic meters of air per second within a radius of around one kilometre.   Kejriwal said the over 24-meter tall structure, the first of its kind in India, has been set up as a pilot project and initial trends will be available within a month. If the pilot project is successful, more smog towers will be installed in the national capital.   Another 25-metre tower, built by the Central government at Anand Vihar, is expected to become operational by August 31.   Each tower costs around Rs 22 crore. Air will be sucked in from the top of the tower, filtered, and released through fans at the bottom.   Arguing that anti-smog towers are an ineffective means to control pollution, environment experts raised concerns over their feasibility and said there are no studies to assess the impact of this technology on ambient air quality.   Environmentalist Harjeet Singh noted that the installation of the smog tower in Delhi is just a quick-fix solution. It will provide immediate relief from air pollution, and that too only in a small catchment area.   "We must tackle the root causes of air pollution and promote green public transport, adopt better waste management practices and switch to renewable energy,” Singh told PTI.   CEEW’s Ganguly said the data on the effectiveness of the newly installed smog tower should be pursued rigorously by the government and be made available publicly. “Only once the evidence is available should the state and other parts of the country consider investing in more such towers,” Ganguly told PTI.   Severe air pollution in north India has become an annual affair and smog towers have often been viewed as a quick solution to counter the foul air.   In November 2019, an expert panel estimated that Delhi will need a total of 213 anti-smog towers to battle the pollution crisis.   In 2018, China built a 100-metre smog tower in Xian. The project led to noticeable improvement in air quality in the city, according to researchers from the Chinese Academy of Sciences who monitored the project.   However, experts in India were unimpressed. According to Singh, questions have been raised about the efficacy of even smog towers in China.   “We need to focus on the sources and promote solutions that are systemic and promote behavioural changes,” he added.   Agreeing that smog towers have no scientific basis as a policy measure to tackle air pollution,  Harish said, “… there is no evidence from previous pilots to justify setting up this tower at such high costs.”   Ganguly concurred. Rather than investing further in unproven technologies, Delhi must set an example by redirecting these funds on strengthening monitoring of construction sites and industrial units, improving waste management in the city, and prioritising health risk communications, she said.   There are different technologies used to clean the air. One uses a highly effective particulate arrestance (HEPA) filter, which filters smaller pollution particles and is used in indoor air purifiers.   Another method uses electrostatic precipitators that attract pollution particles and collect them at the base of the tower.   The smog tower in Connaught Place has 40 fans and 5,000 filters developed by experts at the University of Minnesota which also helped design  the smog tower in Xian.   A Delhi government statement said the smog tower is based on a downdraft air-flow model.         Its 40 huge fans will suck air from the top of a special type of canopy structure and release clean air filtered through novel geometry filters, it said.         Since it's a new technology, it is being implemented on an experimental basis. Tata Projects Limited (TPL) built the smog tower with technical support from IIT-Bombay and IIT-Delhi, which will analyse its data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smog-towers-quick-fix-no-scientific-evidence-of-long-term-benefits-experts-1022980.html
24-08-2021||National||India's Afghan evacuation mission named 'Operation Devi Shakti'||India's complex mission to evacuate its citizens and Afghan partners from Kabul after its swift takeover by the Taliban last week has been named as "Operation Devi Shakti". The name of the operation was known when External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar mentioned it in a tweet on Tuesday while referring to the arrival of a fresh batch of 78 evacuees in Delhi. "Op Devi Shakti continues. 78 evacuees from Kabul arrive via Dushanbe. Salute @IAF_MCC, @AirIndiain and #TeamMEA for their untiring efforts. #DeviShakti," he said. Op Devi Shakti continues. 78 evacuees from Kabul arrive via Dushanbe. India began the complex evacuation mission by airlifting 40 Indians from Kabul to Delhi on August 16, a day after the Taliban seized control of the Afghan capital city. So far, India has evacuated over 800 people amid a deteriorating security situation in Kabul and scramble by various nations to rescue their citizens. Thousands of Afghans have been crowding around the Kabul airport for over a week, in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality. At a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 17 directed officials to ensure the safe evacuation of all Indians from Afghanistan and provide refuge to Afghan Sikhs and Hindus wanting to come to India. In the last few days, India stepped up its efforts to evacuate Indians and its Afghan partners from Kabul amid increasing hostilities by the Taliban. After India evacuated the Indian embassy staff from Kabul on August 17, Jaishankar had described the mission as a "difficult and complicated" exercise. On Tuesday, India brought back 78 people, including 25 of its nationals and a number of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated from Kabul to the Tajik city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-afghan-evacuation-mission-named-operation-devi-shakti-1022987.html
24-08-2021||National||AirAsia India, IndiGo flights came within 8 km of each other on Jan 29: Investigation report||AirAsia India's Ahmedabad-Chennai flight and IndiGo's Bengaluru-Vadodara flight came within 8 km of each other with 300 ft vertical separation between them over Mumbai airspace on January 29, according to an Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) report. The probable cause for this "serious incident" was the air traffic controller's "loss of situational awareness", the report released earlier this month said. Another probable cause was that the situation was evaluated by the controller at the Mumbai airport "under the influence of preconceived mind", it said. Explaining the incident, the report said that most of the flights that go from Ahmedabad to southern India overfly Bhavnagar. However, on January 29, the AirAsia India flight was on a route that is usually taken by planes descending to land at the Mumbai airport. Due to the change in routing by AirAsia India flight and "direct routing" of the IndiGo flight that was coming from the opposite direction, "heading of both aircraft became reciprocal to each other" but at different altitudes, it mentioned. At this time, when there was enough lateral separation, the automation system of the air traffic controller issued a "predicted conflict warning". However, the controller did not respond to the visual "predicted conflict warning", the report stated. The controller presumed that the AirAsia India flight was following its usual route over Bhavnagar due to his or her previous experience. Therefore, the controller perceived that the AirAsia India flight is not in the immediate vicinity of the IndiGo flight, it said. By the time the controller realised the situation, the Air Asia India flight had reached 38,008 ft while the IndiGo flight was flying at 38,000 ft. The AirAsia India flight continued its ascent as its traffic collision avoidance system (TCAS) issued a warning to the pilots, it said. "It (Air Asia India flight) was at 38,396 feet when the conflicting traffic was resolved," the report said. The IndiGo flight maintained an altitude of 38,000 feet. "The minimum separation between both the aircraft was recorded as 8 km laterally while (it was) 300 feet vertical(ly) when the AirAsia India flight was below the IndiGo flight and it was 6.5 km laterally when the vertical separation was 500 feet when IndiGo flight was below the AirAsia India flight," the report mentioned. It recommended that suitable corrective training may be imparted to the controller with an emphasis on situational awareness and the importance of warnings generated on the automation system. "It is recommended that Airports Authority of India may reassess the volume of traffic in all sectors which were withdrawn due to less number of traffic during the lockdown and may implement sectors as before pandemic," it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airasia-india-indigo-flights-came-within-8-km-of-each-other-on-jan-29-investigation-report-1022994.html
24-08-2021||National||IKEA to launch first city store in Mumbai||Swedish home furnishings retailer IKEA on Tuesday said it is going to open its first-ever city store in India at Mumbai, which would be more accessible to its customers in the city. After opening a large-format store in Navi Mumbai last year, IKEA is now opening a small city store at Worli, Mumbai, located at Kamala Mills, said a statement. "In line with IKEA’s long-term commitment to Maharashtra and India, the Worli store will be the first of its kind in India, following cities such as Paris, Moscow and Shanghai," said a statement. The Worli City Store will be followed by a second city store in Mumbai, said IKEA, adding that it believes strongly in the Indian market potential and there will be further store openings in the next year. The city store format allows IKEA to be adapted to smaller spaces in an urban context, which is between 50,000 - 100,000 sq ft, whereas the traditional big IKEA blue box, is typically 400,000 - 500,000 sq ft. "The store in Worli will be 80,000 sq ft and will open towards the end of 2021, complete with all safe shopping measures in place," it said. The city store would have a restaurant and services such as remote planning, personal shopper besides Click & Collect under its omnichannel landscape. IKEA India Market and Expansion Manager Per Hornell said Mumbai is one of our most important markets. "With our first IKEA India city store in Worli, we will continue to meet many more people in Mumbai with our beautiful, affordable and sustainable home furnishings solutions for creating a better everyday life at home," he said. This store will be the third physical store that IKEA opens in India. IKEA had opened its first store opened in Hyderabad in 2019, followed by its Navi Mumbai in December 2020 and the third large IKEA store is expected to open in Bengaluru next year. Earlier this year, it launched IKEA shopping app and has extended it to several cities as part of its omni-channel expansion. "IKEA has an ambition to meet 200 million people in India over next few years with an omnichannel approach," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ikea-to-launch-first-city-store-in-mumbai-1022996.html
24-08-2021||National||UAE temporarily suspends visa-on-arrival for passengers from India||Authorities in the UAE have temporarily suspended the visa-on-arrival facility for passengers who are arriving from or have been in India in the past 14 days, according to Etihad Airways. The Abu Dhabi-headquartered airline, which is the second flag carrier of the UAE, said in a tweet that it is working to update its website with the latest information. “The UAE authorities have decided to temporarily suspend the Visa-on-arrival facility for passengers who are arriving from or been in India in the past 14 days,” Etihad said on Twitter.  The tweet was in response to a query by a passenger whether an Indian citizen holding a US visa can fly to Abu Dhabi and get visa-on-arrival and travel to Dubai without quarantine. The airline also advised passengers to “please keep an eye out for latest regulations”. The latest travel update is applicable to passengers having a visa or residence permit issued by the US, the UK or a European Union member state. Travel regulations to and from the UAE have frequently changed in recent weeks considering the developing Covid-19 situation. On April 22, Dubai-based Emirates Airline announced that its flights from India to the UAE will be suspended for 10 days. On August 5, the UAE lifted a ban on transit passengers from India. On August 10, the UAE’s flag carrier Emirates announced that UAE residents flying in from India and five other nations are no longer required to present Covid-19 vaccination certificate for entry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uae-temporarily-suspends-visa-on-arrival-for-passengers-from-india-1022998.html
24-08-2021||National||India to likely resume Covid vaccine exports in 2022||By Chris Kay and Archana Chaudhary India will likely restart exporting Covid-19 vaccines next year once it has immunized its own adult population, the head of an influential government expert panel said.   India, which has the second largest Covid outbreak with over 3.25 crore infections, should have six locally-developed shots by the end of 2021, Arora said. As the head of vaccine advisory group, he helps the Indian federal government evaluate new vaccines as well as review data from those already rolled out.  Home to the world’s biggest vaccine-producing industry, India earlier this year was shipping out shots to poorer nations amid Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s much-touted vaccine diplomacy. There was also an expectation that the country would be a major supplier to the World Health Organization-backed Covax effort for global equitable access to these vaccines.  But the onset of a devastating second-wave of infections and local supply delays prompted the government to prioritize its own citizens and halted overseas shipments in April. Covax has since struggled to make up for the shortfall, looking instead to countries such as China to fill the gap as India slowly bolsters its own capacity. A boosted portfolio of vaccines by the year end should cover Indian government’s plans to fully immunize 920 million adults, Arora said. “That means our requirement will be 1.8 million doses by that time,” he said. “The way our pipeline is we should be able to reach and meet our target by the end of the year.” Upcoming Production Already vaccines from AstraZeneca Plc -- churned out by the Serum Institute of India Ltd. -- and Bharat Biotech International Ltd. are being widely deployed in the country, while doses from Cadila Healthcare Ltd. and Russia’s Sputnik V are expected to begin local production in coming months.  Serum, the country’s largest supplier, should be raising its monthly contribution to about 150 million doses from almost 120 million shots currently, Arora said. By September, Bharat Biotech will provide about 120 million doses after “some initial glitches.” Other Indian vaccine makers, Biological E. Ltd. and Genova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd., should also start contributing to the supplies, he said. Arora said that India isn’t looking to imported vaccines to help boost its own supplies. The country has been negotiating with foreign vaccine makers, such as Pfizer Inc., over legal indemnity clauses that the companies are demanding but there’s been no breakthrough yet. “We are totally, kind of, banking on indigenously manufactured vaccines,” he said. “Our estimates on supply lines do not take into account any of the vaccines from abroad.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-likely-resume-covid-vaccine-exports-in-2022-1023006.html
24-08-2021||National||45% cops, common people feel demands of Naxals, insurgents genuine but methods wrong: Survey||Around 45 per cent of police personnel and common people believe that the demands of insurgency groups and Naxals are "genuine but their demands are wrong" and cite "inequality and discrimination" and "unemployment" among major reasons for people joining such outfits, a survey has claimed. The 'Status of Policing in India Report 2020-2021: Policing in Conflict-Affected Regions' also claimed that both police and common people generally supported a fair trial for insurgents and Naxals but "troublingly" one in every five policemen or common people were of the opinion that killing a "dangerous Naxalite/insurgent is better than a legal trial". The report prepared by an NGO Common Cause in association with CSDS, Lokniti, Tata Trusts and Lal Family Foundation also highlights a "prejudice" among police and common people that social groups like Adivasis and poor are more likely to join such groups and this colours police's treatment of them. The report is based on surveys conducted in Naxal or insurgency-infected 11 states -- Jammu and Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Assam, Tripura, Nagaland and Manipur.  According to the survey, 46 per cent of the common people and 43 per cent of the police personnel believe that the "cause of the conflict groups is legitimate but the means adopted by them are wrong." People from insurgency-affected regions (53 per cent) are more likely to hold this opinion, compared to those from LWE-affected regions (42 per cent). Among the SCs 42 per cent, STs 50 per cent and OBCs 43 per cent believe that the demands are genuine but methods wrong formulation. It is 40 per cent among poor, 44 per cent lower class, 50 per cent middle class and 60 per cent among the rich. It said 22 per cent of common people and 42 per cent of police believe Naxals and insurgent groups spread "unnecessary violence" while 20 per cent of the common people and 9 per cent of police believe these groups "struggle for the rights of the poor". On the opinion on dealing with Naxals and insurgents, 75 per cent of police personnel and 66 per cent of common people were of the view that "no matter how dangerous" they are, police should try to "catch them and follow proper legal procedures". In what was described as troubling, the survey said 21 per cent of police personnel and 19 per cent of common people were of the view that "for the greater good of the society, sometimes killing" them is "more effective than giving them a legal trial". Asked about the major reasons for naxalism or insurgency in their areas, 14 per cent of common people believed that inequality, injustice, exploitation and discrimination led to discontenment while 13 per cent marked poverty and 11 per cent unemployment as the causes for people joining such groups. Among policemen, 17 per cent felt unemployment as the major reason while poverty/hunger were chosen by 15 per cent and inequality, injustice, exploitation and discrimination as the main causes for insurgency or naxalism. The survey said there is "systemic bias against certain social groups who the police believe are more likely to join or support naxalism or insurgency activities -- 26 per cent police personnel feel that tribals or indigenous people are more likely to get into naxalism/insurgency while 11 per cent said that poor are more susceptible in getting involved in such activities. Women have an "especially vulnerable status and tend to be targeted" both by the conflict-groups and security forces in the conflict-affected areas -- 22 per cent of people said they knew a woman either arrested by the police or detained by the  army or paramilitary. People also spoke of women being sexually assaulted by the conflict groups (10 per cent), police (7 per cent) and the army/paramilitary (5 per cent).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/45-cops-common-people-feel-demands-of-naxals-insurgents-genuine-but-methods-wrong-survey-1023010.html
24-08-2021||National||India pips US to rank 2nd in list of most attractive manufacturing hub globally; China 1st||India has overtaken the United States (US) to become the second-most sought-after manufacturing destination globally, driven mainly by cost competitiveness, according to real estate consultant Cushman & Wakefield. China remains at number one position, the consultant said in its 2021 Global Manufacturing Risk Index, which assessed the most advantageous locations for global manufacturing among 47 countries in Europe, the Americas and Asia-Pacific (APAC). "India takes the second spot after China as the most sought-after manufacturing destination globally," Cushman and Wakefield said in a statement. The US is at third position, followed by Canada, Czech Republic, Indonesia, Lithuania, Thailand, Malaysia and Poland. In the last year's report, the US was at second position while India ranked third. The consultant said that this indicates the growing interest shown by manufacturers in India as a preferred manufacturing hub over other countries, including the US and those in the APAC region. "The growing focus on India can be attributed to India's operating conditions and cost competitiveness. Also, the country's proven success in meeting outsourcing requirements has led to the increase in the ranking year-on-year," the statement said. The rankings in the report are determined based on four key parameters, including the country's capability to restart manufacturing, business environment (availability of talent/labour, access to markets), operating costs, and the risks (political, economic and environmental). The baseline ranking for top manufacturing destinations is determined on the basis of a country's operating conditions and cost-effectiveness. "This year, India and the US switched places (second and third) taking India one rank above from the rankings released last year, when India stood at the third place. "This switch in ranking is attributed to the plant relocations from China to other parts of Asia due to an already established base in pharma, chemicals and engineering sectors, that continue to be at the centre of the US-China trade tensions," it said. As far as the cost scenario ranking goes, India continued to retain the third spot like last year, while Vietnam is pushed to the fourth position from the third. "Despite being among the top-three countries in the baseline and cost scenario rankings, there is a long road for India to traverse when it comes to areas like managing the geopolitical risks involved in running business and its ability to restart its manufacturing business after a devastating second wave of the Covid-19 virus," Cushman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pips-us-to-rank-2nd-in-list-of-most-attractive-manufacturing-hub-globally-china-1st-1023018.html
24-08-2021||National||India's first mRNA Covid vaccine safe in early trials, say regulators||India's first and only mRNA vaccine against Covid-19 on Tuesday received regulatory approval for advanced clinical trials to examine its protective efficacy, raising the hopes of its availability for public use after a few months. “It is a matter of pride that Nation’s first mRNA-based vaccine is found to be safe and the Drugs Controller General of India has approved the phase II/III trial. This is an important milestone in our indigenous vaccine development mission and positions India on the global map for novel vaccine development,” said Renu Swarup, Secretary, DBT. Developed by Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd, a Pune-based company with support from the Department of Biotechnology, the indigenous vaccine uses the same messenger RNA-technology based platform that has been exploited successfully by Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech to come out with the world’s two most successful vaccines with around 95% efficacy against the rampaging Covid-19 epidemic. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation approved the trials on the basis of recommendations by a Subject Expert Committee which perused the interim phase-1 data and found that the vaccine candidate was safe, tolerable and immunogenic. The trials will be conducted at approximately 10-15 sites in Phase II and 22-27 sites in Phase III. Gennova plans to use the DBT-ICMR clinical trial network sites for the trials, which are likely to commence in early September. "The biggest advantage of a mRNA vaccine is that in case of emergence of a new variant, a new vaccine can be quickly made,” Sudhanshu Vrati, executive director at the Regional Centre of Biotechnology and a member of a government advisory panel on Covid genome sequencing told DH. Gennova may need six to eight weeks to use its mRNA technology platform to come out with a new vaccine targeting a new variant. While the thermo-stability of such vaccines developed by Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech remains an issue, sources familiar with the Gennova product said that the homegrown vaccine can remain stable at 2-8 degrees Celsius. Another advantage of an mRNA vaccine, according to Vrati, is that such vaccines contain only the right type of proteins instead of several types of proteins as seen in conventional vaccines While the Centre earlier said it would procure 6 crore doses from Gennova between August and December, it is not clear whether the company would be in a position to supply such a quantity by December after completing the trials. Sanjay Singh, CEO of Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd said “After establishing the safety of our mRNA-based Covid-19 vaccine candidate (HGCO19) in phase-I clinical trial, Gennova’s focus is to start phase II/III pivotal clinical trial. In parallel, Gennova is investing in scaling up its manufacturing capacity to cater to the nation's vaccine requirement.” Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna, the manufacturers of two successful mRNA vaccines with 95% efficacy, are in talks with the central government to supply their vaccines in the Indian market, but there is no decision yet on the part of the government. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-mrna-covid-vaccine-safe-in-early-trials-say-regulators-1023023.html
24-08-2021||National||First Indian mRNA vaccine gets nod for Phase 2/3 trials||India's first mRNA vaccine HGCO19 received DCGI nod for Phase II/III clinical trials on Tuesday. The Covid-19 vaccine has been developed by Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Ltd, a Pune-based biotechnology company in partnership with the Department of Biotechnology.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-indian-mrna-vaccine-gets-nod-for-phase-2/3-trials-1023031.html
24-08-2021||National||1,500 farm union representatives from across India to come together at national convention||Over 1,500 representatives of farm unions from across the country will come together to discuss future strategies for the ongoing farmers' protest during the national convention on August 26 and 27, farmer leaders said. The two-day convention at the Singhu border is being held to mark the completion of nine months of the farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws. "Unlike our other events, the national convention is not going to be a mass gathering or a rally. Instead, 1,500 representatives of farmer unions from across the country will come together for two days at the Singhu border to discuss strategies to sharpen and intensify our protests," farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar told PTI. He added that the convention was aimed at bringing together farmers from across the country, so that everybody could be part of the decision making on how the protest was to be taken forward. "We have been protesting for nine months. It is not a short span of time. We want to include everybody, and representatives of farmer organisations from east, west, south and north… everybody will be here," Kohar added. One of the major issues that will be up for discussion at the convention will be the farmers' upcoming 'mahapanchayat' in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar on September 5. "Our next strategy is the Muzaffarnagar 'mahapanchayat' on September 5, which will also be discussed at the convention. Preparations for the 'mahapanchayat' are in full swing. I know that at least 5,000 vehicles will be travelling to Muzaffarnagar,” Kohar said. On August 26, the farmers' protest against the three contentious laws will complete nine months since they first arrived at the Delhi borders. The farmers have been demanding the repeal of the three laws, which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties. While the Singhu border will be the central point of the national convention, gatherings will be organised in different parts of the country parallely. In Chandigarh, farmer leader Paramjit Singh said about 2,000-2,5000 people are expected to come together to discuss the "issues that have been impacting the farmers as well as the common man". "We will gather on the ground in sector 25 where a stage will be put up. On one of the days of the national convention, Rakesh Tikait is expected to visit our gathering and address the crowd,” he said. "Leaders of different farm unions will also participate to discuss how the agitation should be taken forward,” Singh said. He added that the farmers have ensured that their protests are peaceful, and do not cause any inconvenience to people. "Farmers have been very straightforward about their demands from the beginning. It is the government that is being stubborn,” Singh said. "We will continue to be patient because we do not want to cause any inconvenience to anyone. The government will have to give in to our demands because we will continue building pressure,” he said. According to the farmers leaders, the visiting representatives from different states, including Kerala, Karnataka, Gujarat, and Tamil Nadu, will be provided accommodation at the Singhu border itself. "We have been protesting constantly over the last nine months. This convention will also be a way to recall our struggle through the last nine months," said Rachpal Singh, another farmer leader. "The farm union leaders from across the country, who will stay at the Singhu protest site, will address the protesters there talking about our agitation, the three black laws and the state of farmers in the country," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1500-farm-union-representatives-from-across-india-to-come-together-at-national-convention-1023033.html
24-08-2021||National||Bangle seller attack: 3 arrested; Congress sees 'polarisation' bid in incidents of attack on Muslims||The incident of bashing up of a Muslim bangle seller in Indore on Tuesday kicked up a political row with the Opposition Congress seeing a larger pattern behind such incidents in various places ahead of Assembly polls in seven states “These incidents are a prelude to inciting communal conflict, violence and polarisation in the run-up to the next round of State elections,” former P Chidambaram said. Noting that such incidents have happened in Ghaziabad, Kanpur and now, the Congress leader asked “who are these persons who are emboldened to decide what is right and what is wrong? If the State Home Minister will justify mob violence and vigilante justice, why is he remaining in the chair of Home Minister?” Chidambaram’s attack was targeted at Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra, who reportedly said that the bangle seller was attacked after people realised that he was using a fake name to run his business. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tagged a photo of the bangle seller surrounded by men and said “these goons are insulting the great Hindu culture by spreading violence. Shame on you, is this the rule of law". The comments came two days after a 25-year-old man selling bangles on the streets was beaten up by a mob in Madhya Pradesh's Indore city on Sunday. While three persons have been arrested on charges of assaulting the bangle seller, the incident took a curious turn later as the police booked the bangle seller under the POCSO Act for allegedly touching a 13-year-old girl inappropriately. A video clip earlier went viral on social media showing people accusing the bangle seller of eve-teasing and provoking others to bash him up. Congress spokesperson Shama Mohammed said, “After a mob thrashed a Muslim bangle seller in Indore, the state Home Minister, instead of speaking out against the assailants, tries to blame the victim, alleging he used a fake name. Why is it that after every incident of communal assault, the BJP tries to protect the mob!” In another incident, five people were arrested in Rajasthan’s Ajmer town for allegedly thrashing two beggars who apparently looked like Muslims and asking them to go to Pakistan. Action was taken after a video went viral on social media purportedly showing the accused, beating and threatening the men seeking alms in a housing colony in Ajmer. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangle-seller-attack-3-arrested-congress-sees-polarisation-bid-in-incidents-of-attack-on-muslims-1023036.html
24-08-2021||National||RSS-affiliate Bharatiya Kisan Sangh warns of nationwide agitation from September 8||RSS-affiliate Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) on Tuesday warned of a nationwide agitation from September 8 if the Centre fails to act on its demands on farm laws and MSP by the end of this month. Minimum Support Price (MSP) should be decided on the basis of cost, and a new law should be formulated, keeping in mind the concerns raised by farmers, to resolve the dispute arising out of the new farm laws, it said. "For these demands, a nationwide symbolic dharna will be organised on September 8. The Modi government has been given time till August 31 to act on the demands. If it does not take a positive stand on our demands, then after the dharna on September 8, a decision will be taken on further steps," BKS treasurer Yugal Kishore Mishra said here. "Farmers do not get a remunerative price for their produce. MSP is not remunerative," he said, adding that his organisation was being compelled to agitate because of this. "RSS does not run the Narendra Modi government, otherwise our organisation would not have to resort to agitation. No government has been serious on issues that are in farmers' interest," the BKS leader said. Asked about the Modi government's promise to double the income of farmers, he said it should first be determined how much is being spent by them. To a question on whether both the Atal Bihari Vajpayee and the Narendra Modi governments ignored farmers, Mishra replied, "Absolutely." "Neither the Atal government nor the Modi government considered the issue of remunerative price on the basis of cost," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rss-affiliate-bharatiya-kisan-sangh-warns-of-nationwide-agitation-from-september-8-1023045.html
24-08-2021||National||2 people beaten up for begging in Ajmer, told to 'go to Pakistan'; 5 youth arrested||Five people were arrested after a video clip purportedly showed them thrashing two people, who were told to "go to Pakistan", for seeking alms in a housing colony in Ajmer city of Rajasthan, police said. The police took action based on the video that got circulated on social media last Friday. The main accused Lalit Sharma, who beat up the beggars, was arrested on Friday while four other accomplices identified as Shailendra Tak, Tejpal, Surendra and Rohit were arrested on Saturday, SHO Ramganj Satendra Singh said. He said the action was taken suo motu on the basis of the video clip. “The victims are not yet identified and they are being traced. They apparently looked like Muslims,” he said. The video purportedly shows a young boy, a man and a woman. They were cornered by a group of five youths. In the video, Sharma is seen purportedly kicking the boy on his head. He also slapped another man for apparently begging in the housing colony and asked him to "go to Pakistan" for seeking alms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-people-beaten-up-for-begging-in-ajmer-told-to-go-to-pakistan-5-youth-arrested-1023049.html
24-08-2021||National||ISRO conspiracy case: Ex-DGP granted anticipatory bail by Kerala court||Siby Mathews, a former DGP rank officer of Kerala, was granted anticipatory bail in the CBI case regarding the alleged conspiracy in the over 25-year-old ISRO espionage case of Kerala. The Thiruvananthapuram principal sessions court granted anticipatory bail on Tuesday despite strong objections of CBI as well as ISRO former scientist Nambi Narayanan and two Maldivian women who faced allegations of espionage. The Kerala High Court had earlier granted anticipatory bail to four former police and IB officers, including former Gujarat DGP R B Sreekumar, who was also arraigned in the CBI case. The HC had also maintained that prima facia there was no evidence that the accused acted against the interest of the country. After being acquitted of the charges of espionage, Narayanan had moved the court seeking action against the police and intelligence officials. Subsequently, the apex court ordered a CBI probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-conspiracy-case-ex-dgp-granted-anticipatory-bail-by-kerala-court-1023050.html
24-08-2021||National||India’s envoy Sandhu discusses trade ties with US Commerce Secretary as part of broader strategic partnership||India’s US Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu has met US Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo and underscored the importance of bilateral commercial relationship and their commitment to growing business ties in support of the broader strategic relationship. The meeting here on Monday came days after Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said hopes of an India-US trade pact are off the table for now. Sandhu and Raimondo discussed the US-India commercial relationship, according to a statement issued by the US Department of Commerce. “During their meeting, Secretary Raimondo and Ambassador Sandhu underscored the importance of this commercial relationship and their commitment to growing business ties in support of the broader strategic relationship,” it said. They also discussed scheduling the US-India CEO Forum and US-India Commercial Dialogue and the rescheduling of the US-India High Technology Cooperation Group meeting, it said. Sandhu and Raimondo also discussed US-India technology collaboration and improving digital economy policies to strengthen that collaboration, the statement added. Following Goyal's remarks on the Indo-US trade agreement, Ambassador Atul Keshap, Chargé d’Affaires at the US Embassy in New Delhi spoke to the Indian minister for over two hours on August 20, discussing trade between the two countries. "I had a very spirited exchange of views with Commerce Minister @PiyushGoyal about how #USIndia trade can and should attain the USD 500 billion vision set by @Potus. Across our 2+ hour discussion we agreed that our great democracies should work more closely to advance our mutual prosperity," Keshap tweeted. Goyal while speaking at an industry event in Mumbai on August 19 said that hopes of an India-US trade pact are off the table for now, with the Joe Biden administration conveying to India that it is not interested in a free trade agreement. "The US as of now has kind of indicated that they are not looking for new trade agreements, but we look at working with them for more market access issues on both sides and I think that would also be a big relief and a big opportunity opener for our export sector," he had said. According to the data of the commerce ministry, in 2020-21, the trade between the US and India dropped to USD 80.5 billion as compared to USD 88.9 billion in 2019-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-envoy-sandhu-discusses-trade-ties-with-us-commerce-secretary-as-part-of-broader-strategic-partnership-1023056.html
24-08-2021||National||Why no FIR against Anurag Thakur, Kapil Mishra?: UAPA accused in Delhi riots case||Jamia Millia Islamia Alumni Association President Shifa-Ur-Rehman, who was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Delhi riots asked in the court on Tuesday why no FIR was registered against Union Minister Anurag Thakur, BJP leader Kapil Mishra, and others for allegedly instigating riots. During the bail hearing, Shifa's lawyer, Abhishek Singh, showed Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat a complaint filed by him on January 30, 2020, seeking registration of FIR against Thakur, Mishra, another BJP leader Parvesh Sharma, and Jamia Shooter Ram Bhakt Gopal for allegedly “instigating riots”. “Did the prosecution even bother to call them as witnesses or accused or issue a notice that we want to know something? Because they said 'shoot xyz' so they know who those people are. They will at least have some evidence. Why was no FIR registered against them? This was the complaint I was pursuing,” Singh said. According to the complaint, as read by the lawyer in the court, Shifa mentioned that Mishra took out a rally in which slogans to shoot were raised, following which Thakur on January 28, 2020, said: “desh ke gaddaron ko...” In January 2020, Thakur had reportedly egged on participants of an election rally to raise an incendiary slogan. While the minister raised the slogan "Desh ke gaddaron ko... (the traitors of the country)", the crowd responded by chanting "shoot them." Shifa is accused of collecting money to fund various sit-in protests against Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC). He, along with several others, has been booked under the anti-terror law in the case for being the "masterminds" of the February 2020 violence, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured. Alluding to the alleged funding, the lawyer affirmed that Shifa had made "some financial arrangements" but questioned whether paying some protestors make it an offence under the stringent UAPA. Advocate Singh further emphasized that being a member or president of the alumni association or a protester is not an offence as people are entitled to their opinion and can peacefully protest against anything. “Why have I been roped in? I fail to understand. There is a fundamental right to protest. If a certain section of society is aggrieved by certain legislation and protest against it, that is not a crime. They can protest,” the lawyer told the court. Furthermore, Shifa's counsel sought bail for him saying that there has been a systematic violation of his fundamental rights and that he cannot be put in the bracket of rioters. He also read his WhatsApp chats to show that there was no instigation of violence. Besides him, former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain and several others have also been booked under the stringent law in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-no-fir-against-anurag-thakur-kapil-mishra-uapa-accused-in-delhi-riots-case-1023059.html
24-08-2021||National||A-G K K Venugopal terms Bombay HC's 'skin-to-skin contact' judgment 'outrageous'||Attorney General K K Venugopal on Tuesday asked the Supreme Court to overturn the Bombay High Court's judgement which held that sexual assault offences under the POCSO would not be attracted if there was no direct 'skin to skin' contact between the accused and the child. Calling the verdict a "dangerous and outrageous precedent", he contended before a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi that the judgment would mean that a man who sexually abused a child after wearing a pair of surgical gloves will be acquitted. "If tomorrow a person wears a pair of surgical gloves and feels the entire body of a woman, he won't be punished for sexual assault as per this judgment. This is outrageous. Saying that skin-to-skin contact is required would mean a person wearing gloves getting an acquittal. The judge clearly didn't see the far-reaching consequences," he said. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala of the HC's Nagpur Bench had acquitted an accused observing that groping of the breasts of a minor girl over her clothes will not amount to the offence of 'sexual assault' under Section 8 of the POCSO.  Maintaining that there should be 'skin to skin' contact to attract the offence, the High Court held that the act in question will only amount to a lesser offence of 'molestation' under Section 354 IPC. The Attorney General said that the High Court's judgment was contrary to the legislative intent. "There are 43,000 POCSO offences in the last one year," the A-G said. He was arguing on the appeal filed by him against the High Court's judgment. Maharashtra's counsel supported the A-G's arguments. The state government's appeal against another controversial judgment of the Bombay High Court was also put before the top court. The HC had then held that the act of holding a minor girl's hands and opening the zip of pants would not come under the definition of "sexual assault" under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. As no counsel appeared for the accused, the bench directed the Supreme Court Legal Services Committee to make available the services of two senior advocates along with Advocates-on-Record from its panel to represent the accused in both the appeals. The matters have been posted for final hearing on September 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-g-k-k-venugopal-terms-bombay-hcs-skin-to-skin-contact-judgment-outrageous-1023060.html
24-08-2021||National||SC asks DoT not to invoke bank guarantee of Airtel for 3 weeks to recover AGR dues of Videocon||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Department of Telecommunication not to invoke the bank guarantee given by Bharati Airtel for a period of three weeks for not clearing Videocon Telecommunications Ltd's adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues of over Rs 1,300 crore. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah refused to entertain Airtel’s plea against the DoT demand. However, the court allowed the telecom firm to approach TDSAT against the decision. It also restrained the DoT from invoking bank guarantees of the company for three weeks. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the Bharti Airtel, contended that the company received communication on August 17, saying the firm must make payment and if it failed to do so then there was a possibility of invoking various bank guarantees. He submitted that Rs 18,000 crore dues have already been paid by the telecom company in accordance with the top court’s order. However, there was another figure, which was attributed to Videocon Telecommunications. “The liability is of Videocon….full liability of the seller," he said. "By adding the dues of Videocon to the demand made from Airtel, the DoT has violated the apex court’s order that AGR dues cannot be recalculated or reassessed," he claimed. The court, however, said it would not interfere with its order but would grant liberty to Airtel to move any other alternate forum to redress its grievances. Divan said that the alternate forum will be the Telecom Disputes Settlement and Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT). The court then allowed Airtel to withdraw the application. The DoT, in an affidavit filed earlier this year on the status of statutory dues paid by telecom operators, said it was planning to slap Videocon Telecommunications Ltd's AGR dues over Rs 1,300 crore on Bharti Airtel. Videocon Telecommunications had sold spectrum of 30 MHz to Bharti Airtel in 2016. A note submitted by the DoT in the top court last year stated that Vodafone Idea owed Rs 58,254 crores, out of which it has paid around Rs 7850 crore; Bharti Airtel owed Rs 43,980 crore and it has paid over Rs 18,000 crore; and Tata Telecom owed Rs 16, 798 crores, out of which it has paid Rs 4,197 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-dot-not-to-invoke-bank-guarantee-of-airtel-for-3-weeks-to-recover-agr-dues-of-videocon-1023079.html
24-08-2021||National||Keeping beard in a 'disciplined force' not constitutional right: Allahabad HC||In a significant verdict, the Allahabad High Court has ruled that keeping a beard by a member of a 'disciplined force', is not a constitutional right and is therefore not protected by Article 25 (freedom to profess, practice and propagate religion). A single bench headed by Justice Rajesh Singh Chauhan of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court delivered the judgement while rejecting the writ petition filed by a Muslim police constable Mohammed Farman, who was suspended for disregarding the directive to cut his beard while being deployed at Khandasa police station in UP's Ayodhya district. The court also observed that it was essential for the police, which was a law enforcing agency, to have a "secular image". "A member of a disciplined force must strictly follow the executive orders or circulars issued by the department or the higher authority... such executive intimation/orders are issued to maintain the discipline in the force directing to keep the appearance and uniform befitting for the members of disciplined force... police force has to be a disciplined force and being a law enforcing agency, it is necessary that such force must have secular image which strengthens the countenance of national integration," the court said. "Non-cutting the beard despite making the petitioner aware by the In-charge Station House Officer of police station Khandasa when the petitioner was posted as constable to the effect that the police personnel may not have beard as it is a violation of direction/circular being issued by the higher officials is not only a wrong behaviour but the same is misdemeanour, misdeed and delinquency of the petitioner," it further said. The court also said that the rights given under Article 25 of the constitution are not absolute. "Article 25 guarantees freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion, therefore, having beard by a member of disciplined force may not be protected under Article 25 of the Constitution of India... all the rights have to be viewed in the context and letter and spirit in which they have been framed under the Constitution... as a matter of fact rights guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution of India have inbuilt restrictions," the court remarked. The petitioner had challenged his suspension and charge sheet after refusing to follow the directive to cut his beard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keeping-beard-in-a-disciplined-force-not-constitutional-right-allahabad-hc-1023084.html
24-08-2021||National||SC asked to set up monitoring panel to expedite CBI/ED cases against MPs/MLAs||The Supreme Court was on Tuesday asked to set up a monitoring committee headed by a former judge of the top court or chief justice of a High Court to evaluate the reasons for the delay in investigation of cases lodged by the CBI and the ED against sitting and former MPs and MLAs.  The panel, also comprising the heads of the CBI, and the ED and Home Secretary, may issue directions for timely completion of the investigation.  Notably, a total of 121 cases are pending against sitting and former MPs/ MLAs in Special Courts, CBI, across the country, and as many as 58 cases are punishable with life imprisonment. Senior advocate and amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria along with advocate Sneha Kalita made the suggestion to the top court in a status report indicating as many as 37 CBI cases against former and sitting MPs/MLAs were pending investigation.  Out of 121 cases before the court, in nearly one-third of cases, the trial was moving at snail’s pace as charges have not been framed, though offences were committed several years back. The report was filed in a 2016 petition by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay seeking direction to fast-tracking criminal trials against sitting and former MPs/MLAs.  The fourteenth report stated out of 121 cases pending trial before the Special Courts, CBI, even the charges have not been framed in 45 cases, though the offences alleged to have been committed several years back. The report highlighted the inordinate delay in several cases pending trial before CBI courts in different parts of the country.  According to Enforcement Directorate’s status report, a total number of 51 Members of Parliament (MP/ex MPs) are accused in cases arising out of offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. However, the report does not show as to how many MPs/MLAs are sitting and/or former legislators. The report suggested that courts before whom the trials are pending may be directed to expedite the proceedings in all pending cases on a day-to-day basis in terms of Section 309 of the Criminal Procedure Code. The report asked the top court to constitute a monitoring committee within two weeks for expediting the pending investigations. It also said, in the case, additional courts were required, the High Courts and the appropriate state government should constitute such courts. Further, the CBI should ensure that public prosecutors do not seek adjournment and the witnesses are produced on the dates fixed. In case, the accused persons do not cooperate with the trial, the court may consider cancellation of bail, it added. It also said the trial courts may be directed to proceed with the cases, notwithstanding the interim order of the High Court, in view of the top court's orders of September 16, 2020 and November 04, 2020, in the case of Asian Resurfacing of Road Agency Private Limited Vs CBI, (2018).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asked-to-set-up-monitoring-panel-to-expedite-cbi/ed-cases-against-mps/mlas-1023091.html
24-08-2021||National||Covid in India may be entering some kind of stage of endemicity: WHO's Soumya Swaminathan||The endemic stage is when a population learns to live with a virus. It's very different from the epidemic stage when the virus overwhelms a population. On clearance to Covaxin, she said she is fairly confident that the WHO's technical group will be satisfied to give Covaxin clearance to be one of its authorised vaccines and that could happen by mid-September. In an interview to journalist Karan Thapar for news website The Wire, Swaminathan said given the size of India and heterogeneity of population and immunity status in different parts of the country, it is "very very feasible" that the situation may continue like this with ups and downs in various parts of the nation. "We may be entering some kind of stage of endemicity where there is low-level transmission or moderate level transmission going on but we are not seeing the kinds of exponential growth and peaks that we saw a few months ago," Swaminathan said. "As far as India is concerned that seems to be what is happening and because of size of India and heterogeneity of population and immunity status in different parts of country in different pockets, it is very very feasible that the situation may continue like this with ups and downs in different parts of the country, particularly where there are more susceptible population, so those groups who were perhaps less affected by first and second waves or those areas with low levels of vaccine coverage we could see peaks and troughs for the next several months," she said. She said she hopes that by the end of 2022 "we would be in that position that we have achieved vaccine coverage, say 70 per cent, and then countries can get back to normal". On prevalence of Covid among children, Swaminathan said parents need not panic. "We can take from the sero survey and what we learnt from other countries also that while it is possible that children could get infected and transmit, children luckily have very mild illness most of the time and there is a small percentage that gets sick and get inflammatory complications and few will die but much much less than the adult population...But it is good to prepare... preparing hospitals for paediatric admissions, paediatric intensive care is going to serve our health system in many ways for other illnesses children have but we should not panic about thousands of children crowding into ICUs," she said. On use of drugs like Remdesivir, HCQ or Ivermectin for treatment, she said as of now, there is no evidence that HCQ or Ivermectin have any role to play in reducing mortality or morbidity in people infected with the virus or actually preventing people from getting infection, so, therefore, there are no grounds on which recommendations can be made in use of either of these drugs for treatment or prevention. "Solidarity trial showed Remdesivir does not reduce mortality, it may have a marginal benefit in subgroup of patients who are ill enough to need oxygen but not ill enough to be on ventilation so there may be a marginal benefit but certainly, Remdesivir does not do much in stage of moderately or severely ill patients. It is also very expensive. Drugs like Dexamethasone and Oxygen are the two essential ones that save lives," she added. On clearance to Covaxin, she said the decision can be made hopefully by mid-September. "The Bharat Biotech submitted their data in the third week of July which was the first data set, then there was an updated data set that came in the middle of August. The committee has gone back to the company with some questions which they must be in process of answering now. I think the technical advisory group that ultimately approves will meet in the first 10 days of September and so we are hoping it happens soon after that," she said. "So by the middle of September I am thinking, and the reason it took longer was because of back and forth and the need for more data requested from the company and this is the usual process. People think it is taking longer for Covaxin than for others but that is not the case... each company that applied for EUL (Emergency Use Listing) had taken this period of 4 to 6 to 8 weeks to get all the data needed," she said. On the third wave, she said no one has a "crystal ball" and it's impossible to predict a third wave. "It will be impossible to predict when, where the third wave will be upon us and if at all a third wave will come. However, you can make an educated guess on some of the variables that have an impact on transmission," she said. On booster doses, she said there are both scientific and moral, and ethical reasons for not rushing into boosters. "...so it would also be in self interest of countries who have excess doses now to send those doses out through Covax to countries that desperately need them," she said. On vaccine passport concept, she said, "We do not believe that vaccination has to be a prerequisite at least at the global level to do things like travelling because we haven't given everyone an opportunity to get vaccinated there is so much inequity in access to vaccines, so the first thing is to get rid of the inequality then you can allow people vaccinated to relax certain measures." Vaccine passports are for allowing international travel to those fully vaccinated against coronavirus. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-in-india-may-be-entering-some-kind-of-stage-of-endemicity-whos-soumya-swaminathan-1023095.html
24-08-2021||National||People will get some relief in coming months: Hardeep Singh Puri on fuel price rise||The government is very sensitive to the issue of the rise in fuel prices, Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday, asserting that people will get some relief in the coming months. International oil prices are slowly coming down and stabilising, the minister added, addressing a press conference. "The central government is very sensitive to this issue...I see that in the coming months, relief will come," he told reporters, replying to a query if any relief can be expected in the near future. Puri, however, defended the government on the consistent rise of fuel prices in the country, saying the Centre imposes an excise duty of Rs 32 per litre and the revenue thus generated is spent on various welfare schemes. "The central government is also very sensitive to other responsibilities that we have...the government provided free rations to 80 crore people, free vaccines, all other facilities. So it's a part of that picture," he said. The minister said the excise duty levied by the central government continues to remain the same today as it was in April 2010. "For example, when international price was 19 dollar 60 cents or 64 cents per litre, then also we used to impose Rs 32 per litre. Now when it is 75 dollar per litre, we are still imposing the same Rs 32 per litre," he said. Fuel prices in India are determined by the international market since the Congress-led UPA deregulated oil pricing in 2010, Puri said. Besides the excise duty imposed by the central government on fuel, the states also levy VAT, he added.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-will-get-some-relief-in-coming-months-hardeep-singh-puri-on-fuel-price-rise-1023100.html
24-08-2021||National||Annual income can't be sole criterion to determine creamy layer: Supreme Court||In an important judgement, the Supreme Court on Tuesday said state governments cannot determine 'creamy layer' of a backward class solely on the basis of annual income or economic criteria, to deprive the group benefit of reservation in jobs and admission to educational institutions. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose pointed out that the Supreme Court’s judgment in Indra Sawhney case (Mandal Commission case) (1992) has clearly laid down that social, economic and other factors have to be taken into account for the purpose of determining the ‘creamy layer’ within a backward class and then exclude them from quota benefits. The top court passed its judgement while striking down a 2016 notification of the Haryana government to deny benefits of reservation to those among the backward classes with an annual earning of Rs 6 lakh and above.   It directed the Haryana government to bring about out a fresh notification to determine ‘creamy layer’ among the other backward classes (OBCs) within three months by considering social backwardness and other factors, in addition to the economic criterion.   Though the Haryana Backward Classes (Reservation in Services and Admission in Educational Institutions) Act, 2016 provided for considering social, economic as well as some other factors in defining ‘creamy layer’, the court pointed out the notification issued on August 17, 2016, mentioned monetary income of Rs six lakh as the only criterion.    “Strangely, by the notification dated August 17, 2016, the identification of ‘creamy layer’ amongst backward classes was restricted only to the basis of economic criterion. In clear terms, this court held in Indra Sawhney (case) that the basis of exclusion of ‘creamy layer’ cannot be merely economic,” the bench said. The bench said that the notification was in flagrant violation of the directions issued in the Indra Sawhney case. The court also objected to the state government's decision in clubbing income from salaries or agricultural land in determining the gross annual income for the purpose of defining creamy lawyer. This was at variance with the 1993 memorandum issued by the Union government on revision of income criteria to exclude socially advanced sections (‘creamy Layer’) from the purview of reservation for OBCs. The current annual income limit for 'creamy layer' under the Central government is Rs 8 lakh. The court's judgement came on a plea by 'Pichra Warg Kalyan Mahasabha', which had challenged the validity of the 2016 notification on the ground that it not only breached the guidelines laid down by the top court in Indra Sawhney case but also was discriminatory for creating a sub-classification within the same class. The notification stated children of persons having gross annual income up to Rs three lakh would first get the benefit of reservation. The left-out quota shall go to that class of backward classes of citizens who earn between Rs three lakh and Rs 6 lakh per annum. The sections of backward classes earning above Rs six lakh per annum would be considered as ‘creamy layer’ under the Act. The state government, for its part, defended the notification, saying the sub-classification was to ensure that people with lower income amongst backward classes get the maximum benefit of reservation.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/annual-income-cant-be-sole-criterion-to-determine-creamy-layer-supreme-court-1023105.html
24-08-2021||National||Can India and the world trust the US after its Afghan debacle?||The credibility of Washington's foreign policies has come under a cloud with the unfolding of events in Afghanistan following the pull-out of US troops from the country. After the humilating Afghan debacle, can the US be trusted with their other initiatives such as the QUAD or the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue on the global stage? As the world watched the developments in Afghanistan with disbelief, the US will have to fight the rapidly growing trust deficit, which would be felt among its post-war allies including Japan, Korea and the 10-nation Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). At a time when India-US relations have been cementing amid the changing geopolitical landscape, pressure is building on the South Block to revisit its overall foreign policy in the wake of the Afghanistan crisis. "New Delhi should keep all channels of co-operation (with other countries) open. Already, we have suffered considerably due to US sanctions on Iran which led to confusions with Tehran. Besides, there have been setbacks over the Chabahar project as well," an analyst told India Narrative. The Narendra Modi government stopped oil imports from Iran in early May, 2018 after the US sanctions on Tehran kicked in.The Observer Research Foundation (ORF) said in its report that across the world there are worries about the reliability and credibility of the US as a guarantor of security. "It would be foolhardy to take American credibility on external commitments as a given. While there are fewer doubts about US commitments to Europe and the NATO, the looser arrangements in the Indo-Pacific leave open many questions," the ORF paper stated. Many have also opined that this is a "Saigon (now Ho Chi Minh) moment" for the US. Gerald Ford, then US President announced in April 1975 that for Washington, the Vietnam war, which it was spearheading was "finished." According to Al Jazeera, "the president's words landed like shells of cold indifference on the ears of the South Vietnamese who had been promised support by successive US administrations, including Ford's." Following the US withdrawal, Saigon fell and the Communists assumed power.Though US President Joe Biden has made it clear that he has no regrets in withdrawing from Afghanistan as "the objectives of the war have been met," "the goals of wiping out terrorism, nation building, political stability and peace stand like a ruin in the face of the empire," the news organisation said. While many eyebrows have raised over India's US policy, Shakti Sinha, Hony Director, AB Vajpayee Institute of Policy Research and International Studies told India Narrative that the move should not come as a surprise to the world. "The US has been talking about pulling out its troops, the world including India should have been prepared for this though from a humanitarian point it is an extremely sad episode." Sinha, who served as head of the governance and development section of the UN Assistance Mission in Afghanistan between 2006 and 2008, said. The Doha Peace Agreement was signed last year in February. The agreement signed by the US--under the Donald Trump regime -- and Taliban got the support of China, Pakistan and Russsia. Under the agreement, the US and NATO forces committed to pulling out of Afghanistan. Several experts also said that the exit of the US from Afghanistan will allow Washington to focus more on China. "The US is withdrawing from Afghanistan because it wants to concentrate its resources against China," Satoru Nagao, fellow at Hudson Institute, told India Narrative. Irrespective of the course that the US charters once it closes the Afghanistan chapter, it will have to seriously look at rebuilding its credibility as a world power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-india-and-the-world-trust-the-us-after-its-afghan-debacle-1023110.html
24-08-2021||National||Two Special Courts to try cases against MPs, MLAs in Karnataka manned by one Judge, SC told||The Supreme Court was on Tuesday told though two Special Courts have been set up to try cases against MPs/MLAs in Karnataka, however, both the court are presided over by one judicial officer. "Both the Special Courts are at the stage of sessions level. Both appear to be presided over by the same judicial officer B Jayantha Kumar before whom a total number of 155 cases are pending," a status report filed by senior advocate Vijay Hansaria along with advocate Sneha Kalita stated. It asked the top court to direct the Karnataka High Court on the administrative side to post another judicial officer to preside over the second Special Court constituted at the Sessions level. The report further pointed out a new court of Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate though established by the government order of April 9, but no judicial officer has been appointed granting the power to try Magistrate triable cases. "The High Court and the State Government may be directed to complete the process within a period of two weeks," it submitted. The report stated that 82 cases are pending as on August 12, 2021 before Special Court I, out of which 45 are Sessions triable and 37 are Magistrate triable. Before the Special Court II, 73 cases are pending as on August 12, 2021, out of which 15 are Sessions triable and 58 are Magistrate triable. The report was filed in a 2016 petition by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for expediting criminal trials against sitting and former MPs/MLAs. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-special-courts-to-try-cases-against-mps-mlas-in-karnataka-manned-by-one-judge-sc-told-1023117.html
24-08-2021||National||At least 10 evacuees from Afghanistan test Covid positive||At least 10 evacuees from Afghanistan tested Covid-19 positive after their arrival at the Indira Gandhi International airport here on Tuesday, according to people coordinating evacuation efforts with the Indian government. An Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) official said 81 people, who arrived from Afghanistan on Monday and Tuesday, have been sent to the ITBP's quarantine facility at Chhawla in south-west Delhi. According to an office memorandum issued by the Union Health Ministry on Monday, people arriving from Afghanistan have to undergo a mandatory “minimum 14-day institutional quarantine” at the ITBP facility. “Any person testing positive or detected as symptomatic shall be shifted to dedicated Covid Care Centre or Covid hospital of NCT of Delhi,” the memorandum read. Kanv Bhalla, an entrepreneur coordinating rehabilitation efforts on behalf of New York-based philanthropist Mandeep Singh Sobti, said, “All 78 people, who arrived from Kabul via Dushanbe, underwent Covid-testing at the IGI airport. Of them, around 10 have tested positive.” Sobti and Paramjeet Singh Anand through their Sobti Foundation have been making efforts to rehabilitate these distressed Afghans in coordination with the government of India, Bhalla said. “Some people have tested positive for the infection. However, there is no clarity on their count,” said Puneet Singh Chandhok, president of the Indian World Forum, an organisation coordinating evacuation efforts with the Ministry of External Affairs and the Indian Air Force (IAF). Sources at the LNJP Hospital said two Indian nationals, who were among the people brought to India from Afghanistan, have been admitted to its Covid ward after testing positive. "These two patients are male and their condition is stable. They were brought to the LNJP Hospital yesterday," an official source told PTI. Earlier in the day, 78 people, including 46 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, flew into Delhi from Kabul via Dushanbe on an Air India flight along with three copies of Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib. Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and V Muraleedharan received the three copies of the Sikh scripture and the batch of Afghan Sikhs at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport. The three copies of Guru Granth Sahib will be taken to Guru Arjan Dev Ji Gurdwara in New Mahavir Nagar, according to Chandhok. Nearly 200 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are still stranded in Afghanistan. These people have taken shelter at the Karte Parwan gurdwara in Kabul, which is close to the airport, he said. According to people sheltered in the gurdwara, the 10-kilometre-long drive to the international airport through various checkpoints is one of the biggest challenges in the rescue efforts. Around 75 more Afghan Sikhs and Hindus are likely to be evacuated soon, Chandhok added. Till Tuesday evening, India had brought over 800 people from Afghanistan as part of the evacuation mission that began on August 16, a day after Kabul fell to the Taliban. Thousands of Afghans have been crowding around the Kabul airport for nearly a week, in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality. India is carrying out the evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other friendly countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-least-10-evacuees-from-afghanistan-test-covid-positive-1023120.html
24-08-2021||National||DSGMC chief urges Amit Shah to grant citizenship to Afghan Sikh, Hindu refugees||DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa on Tuesday urged Union Home Minister Amit Shah to amend the Citizenship Amendment Act so that Afghan Sikhs and Hindus can get Indian citizenship. In a letter written to Shah, Sirsa thanked the Centre for evacuating members of Sikh and Hindu community from war-torn Afghanistan. "Your good self is humbly requested to make necessary amendments and provision(s) in (the) Citizen Amendment Act (CAA) law so that Afghan Sikhs and Hindus who have taken refuge in India in the year 2020 and 2021 may also get benefited," the letter stated. He said the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) is also making "all necessary arrangements to rehabilitate these Afghan Sikhs and Hindus in India". "Their religions and lives were under constant threat in the regime of Taliban. As there is no scope for them to return back to their country, they and their children have to face many challenges to resettle in India until Indian citizenship is granted to them. They are desperately looking up to (the) Indian Government as a beacon of hope," he said. Sirsa urged the home minister to consider the issue on priority to make the necessary amendments and provisions in the CAA in the interest of Afghan Sikh and Hindu migrants. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan earlier this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. On August 15, the capital city Kabul also fell to the Taliban. A large number of Afghans attempted in vain to flee the war-torn nation. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dsgmc-chief-urges-amit-shah-to-grant-citizenship-to-afghan-sikh-hindu-refugees-1023144.html
24-08-2021||National||India interested in hosting 2036, 2040 Olympics: IOC President Bach||India are among a host of countries who are interested in hosting the Olympic Games in 2036, 2040 and even beyond, International Olympic Committee (IOC) President Thomas Bach has said. The IOC recently announced that the city of Brisbane will host the 2032 Summer Games. Even after Brisbane, Australia, was chosen last month to host the 2032 Summer Games, the IOC enjoys a queue of suitors to host the Olympics in 2036, 2040 and even beyond, Bach said in a report in the 'Wall Street Journal'. Those aspiring hosts include Indonesia, India, Germany and Qatar, the report added. "And this is just the ones which come to my mind. So we are really in a very good long-term position," Bach was quoted as saying by the WSJ. Bach's comments have come at a time when escalating costs, running into millions of dollars, of staging the Games has sparked debates. The recently-held Tokyo Games also faced protest for the amount of money spent in hosting the Olympics. Indian Olympic Association (IOA) Secretary General Rajeev Mehta confirmed to PTI that they indeed had shown interest in hosting the showpiece event. "In a meeting of an IOC Commission via video conference before Tokyo Olympics, IOA had expressed interest in hosting Olympics in 2036 and beyond," Mehta said. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had, in March this year, said they would make every effort and upgrade the infrastructure to successfully bid for the 2048 Games, to mark 100 years of independence. India had also showed interest in hosting the 2032 Olympics as part of a long-term hosting strategy that also included the 2030 Asian Games and the 2026 Youth Olympic Games. The 2030 and 2034 Asian Games were awarded to Qatar and Riyadh, respectively, in December.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-interested-in-hosting-2036-2040-olympics-ioc-president-bach-1023149.html
24-08-2021||National||India, Russia to have permanent channel to exchange views on Afghanistan||India and Russia will set up a permanent diplomatic channel of communication between the two nations for the exchange of views on the situation in Afghanistan. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian President Vladimir Putin discussed the unfolding situation in Afghanistan during a phone call on Tuesday. They also discussed the implication of the Taliban’s imminent return to power in Afghanistan for the region and the world. “They expressed the view that it was important for the two strategic partners to work together and instructed their senior officials to remain in touch,” according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi. Putin’s office in Moscow said that he and Modi agreed to set up a permanent bilateral channel of consultations on the issue of Afghanistan. India and Russia, along with Iran, Tajikistan and Turkey, had in the 1990s supported the Northern Alliance, a group of warlords, who had fought the Taliban in Afghanistan. But as the Taliban now appears to be set to return to power in Kabul after the withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies, Russia has not taken a hardline position on the Sunni Muslim militant organisation. Putin recently stated that the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan was a reality and the international community would have to work with it. New Delhi also refrained from publicly criticising the Taliban. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also recently indicated that India had also taken note of the reality of the recent fast-paced developments in Afghanistan. New Delhi already signalled that it might recognise a new regime in Kabul with participation from the Taliban, if it was an “inclusive dispensation” with the representation of all communities of Afghanistan, respected the aspirations of the children and voices and rights of women and promised not to allow anyone to use the country to export terror to other countries in the region and beyond. Modi and Putin on Tuesday noted the importance of coordinated efforts by India and Russia for restoring peace and stability in Afghanistan, ensuring security in the region as a whole. They stressed building up cooperation in countering the spread of terrorist ideology and the drug threat emanating from the territory of Afghanistan, according to a press release issued by Kremlin in Moscow. The Prime Minister had a phone call with German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Monday and discussed the “unfolding security situation” in Afghanistan and its implications on the region and the world. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-to-have-permanent-channel-to-exchange-views-on-afghanistan-1023150.html
24-08-2021||National||Woman who had set herself ablaze outside Supreme Court dies||A 24-year-old woman who had set herself on fire along with a man outside the Supreme Court here died on Tuesday, police said. The body was handed over to her family after post-mortem following which they cremated her at the Nigambodh Ghat here, they said. The woman had suffered 85 per cent burns in the incident on August 16. The man, 27, had suffered 65 per cent burns and succumbed to injuries on Saturday. Both were admitted to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said, "The woman succumbed to injuries during the course of treatment on Tuesday." Following the incident, police had registered a case under Section 309 (attempt to commit suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. They suspected that the man had convinced the woman to take the extreme step. Police said she was from Uttar Pradesh''s Ghazipur and was reportedly raped by Bahujan Samaj Party MP Atul Rai in 2019. The MP has been in judicial custody in the case for the last two years, police said. According to police, before attempting suicide, the woman, together with her associate, had recorded a Facebook Live video in which she disclosed her identity and claimed that she had filed the rape case against Rai in 2019. She had said that some senior Uttar Pradesh police officers were supporting the accused. Earlier, a senior police officer had said that the man and the woman took the extreme step as a court had issued a non-bailable warrant against them in a case of forgery for allegedly submitting wrong proof of age in the rape case. In her Facebook video, the woman had mentioned the warrant and that she had been summoned by the judge, police said. According to police, in March, the woman had filed a plea in the Supreme Court, seeking transfer of her rape case from Allahabad to Delhi for a fair trial and said that she faced a threat to her life. Later in August, a local court in Varanasi issued a non-bailable warrant against her in the forgery case based on a complaint filed by Rai''s brother, they said. Following the suicide attempt, two Varanasi policemen including Varanasi Cantt SHO Rakesh Singh and investigation officer Girija Shankar, probing the case of forgery against the rape victim were suspended and an inquiry was initiated into the matter, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-who-had-set-herself-ablaze-outside-supreme-court-dies-1023160.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||'Would have slapped Uddhav': Narayan Rane's remark sparks row||A major political controversy broke out over Union Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises Minister and senior BJP leader Narayan Rane’s comments on Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray.  Rane, popularly known as Dada, is the bete noire of Uddhav. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given him a tight slap,” Rane said. Rane, however, said that he has not committed any crime. “I will not comment on reports….I don’t know whether there is an FIR against me and not one has told me….I have committed no crime,” he said.  Rane also threatened action against the media if it maligned his image.  “I have been in politics for 52 years….I know the relevant sections of law and know what constitutes an offence or not,” he said. A veteran politician, Rane is currently touring the coastal Konkan belt, his bastion, as part of the Jan Aashirwad Yatra.  Security beefed up Security has been beefed up across Maharashtra on Tuesday to avoid any clash between Shiv Sainiks and Rane’s supporters. Additional police personnel were posted outside Rane's Mumbai residence and bungalow in Sindhudurg.  Rane's remarks drew sharp reactions from Shiv Sena, whose workers put several posters in Mumbai calling him a 'kombdi chor' (chicken stealer) along with his photo, a reference to the poultry shop he ran in Chembur several decades ago before he joined Shiv Sena under late supremo Balasaheb Thackeray. “Rane has lost his mental balance,” said Shiv Sena MP from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg Vinayak Raut, adding that he would request Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his removal from the government. “The Jan Aashirwad Yatra was with a good motive and purpose…that purpose is now lost,’ he said. Rane is currently camping in Chiplun in Ratnagiri district and has not reacted so far.  Asked about the comments of Rane, senior BJP leader Pramod Jathar said: “Rane saheb has spent 40 years with Balasaheb….what Rane said is just ‘Thakeri-language’  that he has learnt.”  The Maha Vikas Aghadi partners too have taken serious cognisance of the offence. “The BJP is trying to play in Maharashtra politics akin to what they did in West Bengal,” he said.  Meanwhile, a complaint has been registered with the Nashik police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/would-have-slapped-uddhav-narayan-ranes-remark-sparks-row-1022932.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||Won't defend, but also won't express regret over Rane's remarks against CM Uddhav Thackeray: Maharashtra BJP chief||Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday distanced himself from Union minister Narayan Rane's remarks about slapping Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter’s ignorance of the year of India’s independence. “I am not defending Rane's comments, but I will also not express regret," Patil told a regional news channel. There is speculation that Rane may be arrested over the remarks against the chief minister. Some reports said a team of Nashik police has left for Chiplun in Konkan region, where Rane is present now, after a complaint against the Union minister over the remarks. Patil wondered how a state could plan to arrest a Union minister. "Is there no administrative procedure?" he asked. “People who are pointing fingers at Rane should not forget that there have been several instances of Uddhav Thackeray using inflammatory language,” the BJP leader said. On Monday, during his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in adjoining Raigad district, Rane said, “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap." The BJP leader and former Shiv Sena chief minister claimed Thackeray forgot the year of independence during his August 15 address to the people of the state. Thackeray had to check the year of independence with his aides midway during the speech that day, Rane said. Mumbai BJP MLA Ram Kadam defended the Union Minister and said, "Rane is know for his aggressiveness. There could be a difference of opinion over his choice of words.” He alleged that from the day of commencement of the Jan Ashirwad Yatra, the Thackeray-led Maharashtra government was trying to misuse power and hinder Rane's rally. "This is cheating by the state government. The state government is scared because of the massive response garnered by his rally,” the legislator told a news channel. He also claimed that Thackeray as CM had earlier made controversial statements and also used inflammatory language. "However, it was conveniently ignored by people as well as the state machinery,” Kadam said.  BJP leader Pramod Jathar, who is co-ordinating Rane's yatra in Ratnagiri district, said, “Rane's language is similar to that of late Balasaheb Thackeray (the founder of Shiv Sena). The Jan Ashirwad Yatra will continue for sure.” Asked about Rane's remarks, he said, “CM Thackeray forgetting the year of independence is more insulting. Rane only expressed feelings of the common man.” However, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik claimed the BJP was trying disturb the harmony in Maharashtra, and said "there will be repercussions" if a person makes controversial remarks. "The state will not accept this kind of language. Rane has not only insulted CM Thackeray, but also the people of this state. If a person makes controversial remarks, there will be repercussions,” said Malik, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra. He also claimed that the BJP was trying to do politics, "like it did in West Bengal by inciting violence". "The BJP must understand that Maharashtra will not get into it," he added. Meanwhile, a case has been registered against Rane at Chatushringi police station in Pune over his remarks. Pune's Deputy Commissioner of Police Mitesh Ghatte said, "An offence has been registered against Rane under IPC Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 505 ( statements conducing to public mischief), following a complaint by an office-bearer of the Yuva Sena (the Shiv Sena's youth wing."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wont-defend-but-also-wont-express-regret-over-ranes-remarks-against-cm-uddhav-thackeray-maharashtra-bjp-chief-1022957.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi meets Baghel, Singh Deo after internal rumblings in Chhattisgarh||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday held discussions with Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and his detractor – senior minister in the state government T S Singh Deo – as Congress appeared hurtling towards another crisis even before it put its house in order two other states: Punjab and Rajasthan. While Baghel flew from Raipur on Monday evening a hours after Singh Deo reached the national capital from Bhopal on Monday afternoon. The two leaders were rivals for quite some time but the rumblings grew after June this year when the Baghel government completed two and half years in office. This was because of the purported promise of rotational Chief Ministership formula that was speculated to have been agreed between them by the Congress high command when the party had formed a government in the state, winning Assembly polls after a gap of 15 years. AICC general secretary for Chattisgarh, P L Puniya, had, in June itself, denied that there was any such half-half-CM formula in the state, indicating that Baghel would continue in the post. Baghel in July said he was ready to step down if the high command asked him to do so but also indicated that such formula generally exists in a coalition government of two parties while Congress has a clear majority on its own in the state. While many in the party agree that such an informal proposal did exist, there was no written or public announcement of any such formula. While Baghel is 60, Singh Deo is 68. In 2018 when the Chhattisgarh polls took place, Baghel was the state Congress chief and after elections named the Chief Minister with majority MLAs supporting him. The two leaders, Baghel and Sindh Deo met Gandhi at his official residence, where Puniya was also present. “After a long time, I am going to Delhi. (Last month) I visited Himachal Pradesh to take part in the funeral of Virbhadra Singh ji as a representative of Sonia Gandhi during which I met Priyanka (returning to Delhi). This time the meeting is with Rahul Gandhi. There will also be a meeting with AICC General Secretary KC Venugopal and state's incharge PL Punia,” Baghel had said on Monday before leaving for the national capital. He had also feigned ignorance about Singh Deo also meeting Gandhi saying he has information of "meeting with Rahul ji only”. Baghel, Singh Deo and Tamradhwaj Sahu were in contention for the Chief Minister's post after the election results and when the CM post went to Baghel, the other two were inducted as Cabinet ministers in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-meets-baghel-singh-deo-after-internal-rumblings-in-chhattisgarh-1022979.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||Legalised loot, organised plunder: Congress on National Monetisation Pipeline||The Congress on Tuesday described the government's infrastructure monetisation plan as "legalised loot and organised plunder", alleging that invaluable public assets created over decades are being handed over to a chosen few. The government is giving away assets worth crores made from the hard work of the people to its billionaire "friends", the Congress further alleged. "First came the demonetisation disaster, which Dr Manmohan Singh rightly described as 'organised loot and legalised plunder'. Now comes monetisation mela — invaluable public assets created over decades given away to a chosen few. This is legalised loot and organised plunder," senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra alleged the government is giving the "jumla of Aatmanirbhar (rhetoric of self-reliance)" but has made the country dependent on its "billionaire friends". "While giving the 'jumla' of 'Aatmanirbhar', they have made the entire government dependent on 'billionaire friends'. All the work for those billionaire friends and all the wealth also for them," she said in a tweet in Hindi. "This government is giving away assets worth lakhs of crores made from the hard work of the people of the country in the last 70 years to its billionaire friends," the Congress general secretary added. "आत्मनिर्भर" का जुमला देते-देते पूरी सरकार को ही "अरबपति मित्रों" पर निर्भर कर दिया। सारा काम उन्हीं अरबपति मित्रों के लिए, सारी संपत्ति उन्हीं के लिए। 70 सालों में देश की जनता की मेहनत से बनी लाखों करोड़ रु की संपत्ति अपने अरबपति मित्रों को दे रही है ये सरकार। Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that under the BJP, the country's assets will not be saved. "Sale of country's properties worth Rs 6 lakh crore -- roads, rail, mines, telecom, power, gas, airports, ports, sports stadium...Modi ji will sell everything from the earth to the sky. If there is BJP, the assets of the country will not be saved," he said in a tweet in Hindi, using the hashtag "#StopSellingIndia".  Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman unveiled the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) on Monday that included unlocking value by involving private companies across infrastructure sectors -- from passenger trains and railway stations to airports, roads and stadiums. As many as 25 Airports Authority of India (AAI) airports, including the ones at Chennai, Bhopal, Varanasi and Vadodara, as well as 40 railway stations, 15 railway stadiums and an unidentified number of railway colonies have been identified for getting private investments. Stating that there is no transfer of ownership or land, she said, "The NMP talks about brownfield infra assets where investments have already been made, where there is a completed asset which is either languishing or which is remaining not fully monetised or which is remaining underutilised."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/legalised-loot-organised-plunder-congress-on-national-monetisation-pipeline-1022990.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||Modi should clarify India's stand on Taliban: Srinivas B V||Prime Minister Narendra Modi should speak on Taliban and reveal the country's policy on the issue, Indian Youth Congress national president Srinivas B V said on Monday. "Why has Prime Minister Narendra Modi failed to react to Taliban issue?" he asked. The PM should reveal the country’s stand so that people of India, as well as foreigners, understand it, he told media persons at Circuit House on Monday.  Srinivas lashed out at BJP National General Secretary C T Ravi for his "hookah bar" jibe against former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. He said that Ravi was issuing statements to appease Modi, Amit Shah and J P Nadda. "Narendra Modi failed to fulfill the promise of generating employment in the country and bringing back black money stashed in foreign banks. 'Ache din' promise has benefited a mere four to five people in India," he said. Karnataka State Youth Congress president Raksha Ramaiah said the BJP government had ignored the youth in the state. “The Congress has been raising its voice against unemployment and inflation in the country," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-should-clarify-indias-stand-on-taliban-srinivas-b-v-1022993.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||Rane didn't mean to insult Maharashtra CM, will clear his stand on issue: Athawale||Amid a row sparked by Union minister Narayan Rane's remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the BJP leader's cabinet colleague Ramdas Athawale on Tuesday said Rane didn't intend to insult the CM and he will clarify his statement. A huge political firestorm erupted in Maharashtra over Rane's remarks about slapping Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter’s ignorance of the year of India’s independence. Irate Sena activists are holding protests in various cities against the remarks. "Rane only meant that Thackeray is not doing anything for the development of Maharashtra and he seldom steps out of his residence 'Matoshree' in Mumbai to understand the problems faced by the people. Rane meant that such a chief minister does not have the right to occupy the chair. This was his feeling," the Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment told reporters. "Rane didn't mean to insult the chief minister. He will clear his stand on this issue," the RPI(A) leader said. Athawale also said Rane just vented his anger as the expectations of people from the chief minister were not getting fulfilled. "A CM must ensure justice for all. He is also expected to ensure the generation of jobs. But nothing is happening in Maharashtra on these fronts in the last two years. Rane's real cause of anger was the lack of development in Maharashtra," Athawale added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rane-didnt-mean-to-insult-maharashtra-cm-will-clear-his-stand-on-issue-athawale-1023024.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena demands removal of Rane from ministry||Rattled by Union MSMEs Minister Narayan Rane’s “slap” slur against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Shiv Sena has formally demanded his sacking from the Central government. Senior Shiv Sena leader and Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg MP Vinayak Raut wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanded Rane’s removal from the union council of ministers, into which the BJP Rajya Sabha MP has been recently inducted. According to him, Rane does not deserve to remain in the Cabinet because of the kind of language he has used against a chief minister. In the letter, Raut had quoted Rane as saying: “yeh kaisa mukhya mantri hai, jisko apne desh  ka swantrata diwas pata nahi…agar mai waha hota toh kaan ke neeche thappad laga deta”. “Such kind of language is an insult to the Prime Minister as well,” he said. "I believe a person like Rane, who forgets the post he is representing, has no right to continue on it. It is my humble request to you to seek his resignation and remove him from your cabinet,” wrote Raut, who had earlier defeated Rane’s son Dr Nilesh Rane from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-demands-removal-of-rane-from-ministry-1023052.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||Pilot says BJP's 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' amid price rise, threats on nation's borders beyond comprehension||Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Tuesday said it is beyond comprehension that the BJP is seeking people's blessings through 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' when the prices of petrol and diesel have crossed Rs 100-mark and China and Pakistan are "attacking" India at its borders. He alleged that the BJP never did anything positive as the opposition party in Rajasthan in the last two-and-a-half years. The former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan also exuded confidence that the Congress will win in all six districts where Panchayat Samiti and Zila Parishad elections will be held starting Thursday. Pilot, who came here to visit Congress MLA Hemaram Choudhary's family following the demise of his brother, was speaking to reporters at Jodhpur Circuit House before heading back to Jaipur. The Congress leader wondered what 'ashirwad' (blessings) the BJP is seeking from people when the prices of petrol and diesel have crossed Rs 100-mark, the price of cooking gas cylinder has surpassed Rs 800, the country faced a "pathetic" situation during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and "China and Pakistan are attacking the country at borders". "They (BJP) are seeking the public's blessings in such a situation, this is beyond comprehension," Pilot said. Thirty-nine newly inducted and elevated Union ministers belonging to the BJP are undertaking 'Jan Ashirwad Yatras' to cover 212 Lok Sabha constituencies and travel over 19,567 km to reach out to people and tell them about the government's achievements. Pilot claimed that the Congress will emerge victorious in all six districts of the state where panchayat polls will be held later this week. "The Congress will win in all the six districts where panchayat elections are taking place because the BJP has not done anything positive as the opposition party in the last two-and-a-half years. All this while, they remained engaged in a poster war and in establishing who is big and who is small," he said. The election for 200 Zila Parishad and 1,564 Panchayat Samiti seats in Bharatpur, Dausa, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Sawai Madhopur and Sirohi districts will be held in three phases on August 26, 29 and September 1. On the farm laws, Pilot said it's been nine months since these legislations were introduced but the government refuses to let go of its "obstinacy". The government threatens and arrests farmers, "but you will never talk of justice. This is sheer obstinacy and such obstinacy is not a good sign for democracy," he said. Reiterating the Congress' stand on the contentious farm laws, he said that they must be rolled back and the government should listen to farmers. Asked about cabinet expansion in Rajasthan, Pilot said, "Let us see what happens in the time to come."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pilot-says-bjps-jan-ashirwad-yatra-amid-price-rise-threats-on-nations-borders-beyond-comprehension-1023058.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||Rane's arrest violative of constitutional values: J P Nadda||Slamming the Maharashtra government for the arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane, BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday said it was violative of constitutional values, and his party will not be cowed down by such actions. In a tweet, Nadda said the "huge" response the BJP has received in its 'Jan Aashirvad Yatra' has jolted its rivals. "We fight democratically. The yatra will continue," he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ranes-arrest-violative-of-constitutional-values-j-p-nadda-1023061.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||Modi govt gifting India's 'crown jewels' to its businessmen friends: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday slammed the Centre's move to monetise its assets across key sectors, saying the Modi dispensation is selling India's "crown jewels" built in the last 70 years and "gifting" them to their two-three businessmen "friends". Addressing a press conference here with former Union finance minister P Chidambaram, the former Congress chief said the BJP has claimed that nothing happened in India for 70 years, but now all assets created in all these years with public money are being sold out. Gandhi alleged that the government's privatisation plan was aimed at creating monopolies in key sectors. This will kill jobs, eliminate the informal sector, destroy small businesses and lead to "enslaving" of people, he alleged. Gandhi said that the BJP government has clearly mishandled the economy that was built by the UPA government, and is now resorting to selling the country's assets as a "last resort" to generate some money. "The prime minister (Narendra Modi) and the BJP had a slogan that the Congress party has done nothing in 70 years, and the finance minister (Nirmala Sitharaman) took a decision to sell all the assets built in these years. The prime minister is in the process of selling the crown jewels of this country," he told reporters. "This entire privatisation, monetisation of assets is designed to create monopolies. The whole idea behind this exercise is to create monopoly for three or four people," he said, adding that everyone knows for whom this is being designed. Gandhi said the central idea of this is what this country has built over the last 70 year is being "gifted" to their "businessmen friends". Noting that the creation of monopolies in this country is "extremely dangerous", he said, "We have dealt earlier with the monopoly in India - it used to be called the East India Company. It enslaved this country and it was basically a monopoly that is what is happening now. We are heading into enslavement." "This is not just a gifting of India's assets, this is going to ensure that the young people in India will not be able to find employment in the future," he said. He cited the example of the farm laws and said these will destroy the informal sector in agriculture and will ensure monopolists enter. The prime minister believes large monopolists can transform this country, but he does not realise that when large monopolies are created there are no jobs and this leads to social tension, anger and social explosion, Gandhi claimed. He said that he had warned about COVID-19 bringing disaster but was ridiculed. Gandhi cautioned that this monetisation will lead to youths not getting jobs, and the entire industrial structure is controlled by two or three people. "The prime minister is not working for the people of India. The prime minister is working for two or three monopolies," Gandhi alleged, urging the youth to fight this. "Mr Modi is not the prime minister, he is an instrument; he is doing a particular job for these people," he said. In a tweet in Hindi, the Congress leader said, "National 'Friendship' scheme - rail, road, airport, power, gas, petrol, mines, stadium, warehouse." Gandhi said the government has clearly "mishandled" the economy and does not know what to do now. "They have basically destroyed what the UPA built and now as a last resort they are selling everything that we helped create. This is a huge tragedy and it is something that every patriotic, nationalist person should oppose," he said. On the government's claim that ownership of PSUs was not being given away, he said, "they don’t have the courage to say that "we are giving and so, they have to say, we are leasing it". The Congress leader also listed out the assets that this government planned to sell to its businessmen "friends". He said the Congress is not against privatisation, but there has to be a strategy and no strategic asset should be sold. Former Union minister Chidambaram said that raising funds cannot be the sole aim for selling assets built over the last 70 years. "They are indulging in, what I would call a grand bargain sell, a grand closing down sale," he said, adding, "this is all hatched in secrecy in this wonderful organisation call NITI Aayog." Chidambaram said that all stakeholders, including employees, worker unions, farmers, must be consulted before embarking on such large sale of assets. "This exercise has been designed without any ex-ante criteria. The government should have spelt out, what its criteria is and what its goals were. You don't embark upon such a big exercise without first setting out the criteria and what your goals are," he said. Chidambaram said one does not embark on such an exercise without any consultation with stakeholders. Taking a swipe at the government, he said, "I know that there are many magicians in this country but I cannot imagine a greater magician in this government. I think this is a scandal." Urging people to discuss and debate this monetisation plan, he said, "I think this is a dangerous slide and I wish the country wakes up to what these guys are up to." Finance Minister Sitharaman on Monday unveiled an ambitious Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that included unlocking value by involving private companies across infrastructure sectors -- from passenger trains and railway stations to airports, roads and stadiums. As many as 25 Airports Authority of India (AAI) airports, including ones at Chennai, Bhopal, Varanasi and Vadodara, as well as 40 railway stations, 15 railway stadiums and colonies have been identified for private investments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-gifting-indias-crown-jewels-to-its-businessmen-friends-rahul-gandhi-1023081.html
24-08-2021||National Politics||'Political hypocrisy': BJP on Congress' sell-out charge||BJP on Tuesday hit out at the Congress, accusing it of political hypocrisy for its claims that the Modi government was “selling” national assets through the Rs 6 lakh crore monetisation pipeline. Union Minister Smriti Irani cited the Congress-led UPA initiatives of privatisation of airports, monetisation of the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, and redevelopment of the New Delhi Railway Station through private partnership. “Is this Rahul Gandhi's allegation that a government whose 'mukhia' was his mother had sold rail, road and airport,” Irani asked. “This man's politics begins with hypocrisy, is sustained through arrogance and ends with contempt,” she said, adding the Congress leader today displayed all of it. Congress leaders Gandhi and P Chidambaram had accused the Modi government of selling all the national assets that were created over the past 70 years. “It again proves that Rahul Gandhi had shamelessly tried to target the Central Government which has brought the entire monetisation process in a transparent manner and fill coffers of the country and saved the country from the ‘thieves’ of the Congress party,” said Irani, who defeated Gandhi in the Lok Sabha elections from Amethi.  With Gandhi accusing the Modi government of promoting a few select corporates and alleging that the country was heading towards "enslavement", Irani shot back, saying "enslaved" are those who, under a family rule, speak of breaking the country, a reference to controversial comments on Kashmir and Pakistan by two advisors of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Asked about Rahul Gandhi's claim that he had warned the government of the Covid-19's dangers too, the BJP leader and Amethi MP shot back saying there was not even a district hospital and CT scanner in the constituency he represented for 15 years. BJP leader and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the opposition party is a "non-performing asset" that has no value. Speaking to reporters, Naqvi took a swipe at the Congress, calling it a "depressed defaulter dynasty" and a "champion of confusion and contradiction". While the Modi government and the BJP are engaged in the "construction of the country, the Congress is involved in the "destruction of the country", he alleged. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-hypocrisy-bjp-on-congress-sell-out-charge-1023107.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||MP: Case filed against bangle seller under POCSO Act; 3 held for assaulting him||Police have arrested three persons on charges of assaulting a bangle seller, but the episode took a new turn when he himself was later booked under the POCSO Act for allegedly touching a 13-year-old girl inappropriately in Indore city of Madhya Pradesh, officials said on Monday. The bangle seller, Tasleem Ali (25), was also accused of possessing fake documents related to his identity, they said. The officials said the minor girl filed a complaint with the Banganga police station in Indore against Ali, alleging he introduced himself as “Golu, son of Mohan Singh” to sell bangles at her home on Sunday and after describing her as “very beautiful”, he touched her inappropriately. When the girl raised an alarm, her mother rushed out of home and when the bangle seller tried to escape from the spot, neighbours and other local residents caught and thrashed him, they said, adding three persons were arrested for assaulting him. In the melee, Ali, who hails from Uttar Pradesh, left behind a carry bag in which two Aadhaar cards were found, the officials said. While one of the cards had the name of “Asleem, son of Morsingh,” the second one carried his identity as “Tasleem, son of Mohar Ali,” they said. Based on the girl''s complaint, a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and IPC sections 420 (cheating) and 471 (using fake documents as real ones), among others, was registered against Ali, the officials said. Superintendent of Police (SP) Ashutosh Bagri said, “Cops have found two Aadhaar cards of different names from the carry bag of Ali besides a burnt voter identity card in which his name was not clear. But in the column of father''s name, ''Mohan Singh'' is printed on it.” State Congress spokesman Aminul Khan Suri posted a 44-second video of Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh-based Ali, in which he is heard stating, “Years back, an identity card was made in my village with my pet name “Bhura” while in the Aadhaar card my name is written as Tasleem Ali. None of these identity documents are fake and they both are real.” Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said in Bhopal, “The controversy started when this man described himself as a Hindu to sell bangles to women during the holy month of saavan, while he actually belongs to another community.” “The home department has given a report that this man (Tasleem Ali) had identified himself with a Hindu name though he belongs to another community. Cops have found two suspicious Aadhaar cards from his possession,” he said. The home minister said legal action was taken in matters related to the bangle seller, including the assault on him. Three persons, who were part of the crowd that had assaulted Ali, were arrested, Mishra said. In a viral video of the incident, some people are purportedly seen thrashing the bangle seller even as he begs for mercy. A man was also seen levelling allegations of eve-teasing against Ali and egging on people to beat him up. The bangle seller had filed a complaint in the Central Kotwali police station late Sunday night alleging five to six persons, who were part of a mob, started beating him up after asking his name in the Govind Nagar area of Indore, the officials said. Ali also alleged in his complaint that members of the mob used objectionable words against him and snatched Rs 10,000 in cash, mobile phone, Aadhaar card and other documents besides bangles worth over Rs 25,000 from him. A police official said based on the man''s complaint, an FIR was earlier registered under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups), 141 (unlawful gathering), 147 (rioting), 395 (dacoity), 120- B (criminal conspiracy) and other relevant provisions against unidentified persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-case-filed-against-bangle-seller-under-pocso-act-3-held-for-assaulting-him-1022871.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||Gorakhpur native recalls horror of being under Taliban guns’ shadow for four hours||Back to his home at Chauri Chaura in Gorakhpur from Afghanistan on Monday, 40-year-old Shailendra Shukla shudders to recall the harrowing, week-long uncertainties in Kabul after its fall to the Taliban and his over 4-hour-long captivity under them. On his return to Gorakhpur on Monday afternoon, Shukla said he along with several other Indians were taken hostage by around ten Taliban men when they were on their way to Kabul international airport on Saturday morning to take an IAF flight. They were, however, rescued by the prompt intervention of the Indian embassy officials in Afghanistan and media men, who rushed to them after coming to know that they have been taken hostage, he said. Shailendra had gone to Kabul on July 16 for two and half months for the maintenance of machines in a private firm in Kabul but had to cut short his visit after the Taliban took over Kabul. “Soon after Kabul fell to the Taliban, our factory owner restricted us to the factory premises due to security reasons but we were continuously in contact with the Indian embassy and also with the media,” said the Chauri Chara''s Naya Bazar area resident. “The Indian embassy officials finally took us to Khalij Hall in Kabul on Friday night and then we headed to the Kabul airport in six buses on Saturday morning along with our embassy coordinator in one of the buses,” he said. "But soon after we left for the airport around, eight-ten Taliban people stopped our buses and asked us to move with them. They took us to some unknown place and made us sit there under the shadow of their gun,” he said, recalling the horror. “But after coming to know of our situation, several media persons along with some of our Kabul embassy officials reached us within hours after which our captors turned friendly to us and even gave us tea and lunch. We were eventually freed after four and half hours of captivity," said Shukla, heaving a sigh of relief. “We were then ferried to the airport and boarded an IAF plane, which took off for India. We landed at the Hindon Airforce Base on Sunday along with 150 other Indians,” he said. “I reached Anand Vihar Railway station in Delhi and took a train to Gorakhpur,” he said, thanking the Indian government and media men in Kabul who, he said, ensured their safe return to their homeland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gorakhpur-native-recalls-horror-of-being-under-taliban-guns-shadow-for-four-hours-1022881.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||Boy falls to death from 12th floor on first birthday||A one-year-old boy died after he allegedly fell off space between staircase from the 12th floor of his building here on his first birthday on Monday, turning celebrations into grief for his family, police officials said. The boy lived in a high-rise society in the Bisrakh area in Greater Noida (West) where the incident took place during the day while his family and relatives were decorating the house, the officials said. “While playing in the common area on the 12th floor of the building outside his flat, the child reached the staircase and fell down the space between the iron handrails that run horizontally parallel,” a police spokesperson said. “The boy fell down on the ground floor of the building, leading to his death,” the spokesperson said. According to officials, the boy had turned one on Monday and his family had planned a celebration to mark the occasion with some friends and relatives joining them at their residence. Upon being alerted about the incident, a police team was rushed to the spot immediately, police said. The body was later sent for a post-mortem and further legal proceedings were underway, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/boy-falls-to-death-from-12th-floor-on-first-birthday-1022883.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||DU decides to implement NEP from 2022-23, triggers row||The Delhi University has decided to implement the National Education Policy from the next academic year, prompting the varsity teachers' body to call a strike on Tuesday. The Standing Committee on Academic Matters, in its meeting on Monday, approved the implementation of the policy from 2022-23, the four-year undergraduate programme and the multiple entries and exit options for students. The committee, however, deferred discussion on the implementation of the Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC). The Standing Committee’s recommendations will come up for discussion in the Academic Council meeting on Tuesday. The university had formed a 42-member high powered committee to look into the NEP’s implementation. The 42-member committee had also recommended continuing with the university's three-year undergraduate programme but to “assimilate in its structure” a four-year degree programme as well and implement both one-year and two-year postgraduate programmes. This was approved in the meeting. The Standing Committee also accepted retaining the three-year honours degree courses by assimilating it in the four-year honours degree and four-year honours degree with research courses. The committee also said “the quality of the degree conferred by the university should not be compromised”, therefore the “existing structure and workload should continue along with the addition of various courses”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-decides-to-implement-nep-from-2022-23-triggers-row-1022899.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||Three unidentified militants killed in Kashmir’s Sopore||Three militants affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF), an affiliate of Pakistan based Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit, were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Tuesday. The night-long gunfight at Pethseer, Sopore erupted after a joint team of army’s 52-Rashtriya Rifles, J&K police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) launched a cordon-and-search-operation following inputs about the presence of militants in the area. A police spokesperson said that the trapped militants were given an opportunity to surrender, however, they fired indiscriminately upon the security forces, which was retaliated leading to an encounter in which three local militants were killed. They were identified as Faisal Fayaz Thokar, Rameez Ganie  (both residents of Shopian) and Ghulam Mustafa Sheikh resident of Kupwara. Police said the slain militants were affiliated with militant outfit LeT/TRF. The latest encounter comes barely a few hours after the police killed two top commanders of the TRF in Srinagar, The duo, according to the police, were responsible for several killings and motivating the youth to join terror ranks. Sheikh was one of the longest surviving militants as he had cases registered against him that go back to 2006. 102 militants and 21 security forces and police personnel have been killed in Jammu Kashmir since the beginning of this year. The highest number of militants (31) were killed in July, while 14 were neutralised in the first 24 days of this month. Among over 102 militants killed in J&K this year, only 11 were Pakistanis, while the rest were all locals. According to the army, there are still 200-225 militants active across J&K despite the fact that almost no infiltration has taken place so far this year. Official data reveal that 82 locals joined militancy in the first seven months of 2021, while 88 ultras were killed in the same period in encounters with the security forces. The spate of recruitment suggests that the counter-offensive of security forces is proving to be a zero-sum game, as for every militant killed, a new one is immediately being recruited. Last year, there were around 220 active militants in Kashmir and despite the killing of 80 militants this year, the number, as per police records, remains more or less the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-unidentified-militants-killed-in-kashmir-s-sopore-1022915.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||FIR against poet Munawwar Rana for comparing Valmiki to Taliban||Madhya Pradesh police have registered an FIR against Urdu poet Munawwar Rana for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by comparing Maharshi Valmiki, who wrote the Ramayana, with the Taliban, an official said. The case was registered against Rana in Guna on Monday following a complaint filed by Sunil Malviya, state secretary of the BJP's Scheduled Caste cell, and other members of the Valmiki community. Talking to a channel, Rana had said, “Valmiki became a God after he wrote the Ramayana, before that he was a dacoit. A person's character can change. Similarly, the Taliban, for now, are terrorists, but people and characters change.” Malviya alleged that Rana disrespected Maharshi Valmiki with his comments and hurt the feelings of the Valmiki community and Hindus. "He compared Maharshi Valmiki with the Taliban and hurt the religious feelings of Hindus. So, we have filed a complaint against him,” he told reporters. Guna Superintendent of Police Rajiv Mishra on Monday said, "A case was registered against Rana at the Kotwali police station. The case will be forwarded to the district concerned (Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh)." The case was registered against Rana under IPC Section 505 (2) (statements conducing to public mischief) and was being forwarded to Hazratganj police station at Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-poet-munawwar-rana-for-comparing-valmiki-to-taliban-1022944.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court asks CBI to ascertain health condition of 1984 anti-Sikh riots convict Sajjan Kumar||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the CBI to ascertain the medical condition of 1984 anti-Sikh riots case convict and former Congress MP Sajjan Kumar on his plea for bail due to deteriorating health. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy sought an affidavit by the CBI before September 6.  The politician is at present undergoing life imprisonment for his role in a case related to killings of five member of a family in Raj Nagar in Delhi during the 1984 anti-Sikh riots case. The Delhi High Court had on December 17, 2018 awarded him life imprisonment for the "remainder of his natural life".  Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Kumar, submitted that he should he immediately released from jail due to his worsening health condition. In September, last year, the top court had declined to entertain the bail petition filed on health grounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-asks-cbi-to-ascertain-health-condition-of-1984-anti-sikh-riots-convict-sajjan-kumar-1023000.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||Puri receives holy books from Kabul; 44 Afghan Sikhs flown in from Afghanistan||Ahead of the Punjab elections, Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and V Muraleedharan on Tuesday drove to the airport to receive three 'saroopas' of Guru Granth Sahib that were brought here from strife-torn Afghanistan. Puri posted a video on his Twitter handle, standing barefoot on the aerobridge near the aircraft door to receive the 'saroopas' (copies) of the Sikh holy book that were brought here from the Karte Parwan Gurdwara in Kabul. Amid chants of 'Satnam Waheguru', Puri and senior BJP leaders R P Singh and Tajinder Bagga carried the suitcases containing the 'saroopas' on their heads and walked in procession along with 44 Afghan Sikhs who were also evacuated on the special flight. Among the 44 Afghan Sikhs were three sevadaars – Sardar Himmat Singh, Sardar Kulraj Singh and Sardar Dharmendra Singh – who brought the holy books from Kabul. BJP leaders hailed Puri's gesture of personally receiving the holy books at the airport, contending that India was the only country where “all Indic spiritual traditions” will find a safe home to live and thrive. “Performing their duties Union Ministers Puri and Muralidharan showcase Modi government's commitment & devotion towards Sikhs & Sikh Gurus by being personally present to receive Shri Guru Granth Sahib Swaroop that arrived from Afghanistan in Delhi,” BJP leader Sunil Deodhar said. The gesture by Puri and BJP leaders comes amid the heat faced by the party in Punjab for ignoring the farmers' demands of scrapping the three farm laws. BJP, which till recently was a junior partner in the coalition with the Akali Dal, has announced that it will contest the upcoming assembly elections alone. The BJP's tough stand on the three farm laws has resulted in several leaders quitting the party fearing a backlash from the farmers, who have been protesting on the borders of the national capital for the past nine months. Puri sought to justify the amendments to the Citizenship Act citing the situation in Afghanistan, where religious minorities were fleeing the country that was taken over by the Taliban. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/puri-receives-holy-books-from-kabul-44-afghan-sikhs-flown-in-from-afghanistan-1023004.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||PAGD reiterates its demand for restoration of special status of J&K||People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), on Tuesday, reiterated its demand for restoration of special status of Jammu and Kashmir along with full statehood. PAGD leaders held a meeting at the Gupkar residence of National Conference president Farooq Abdullah which was attended by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami and other second rank leaders of the political parties which are part of alliance. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Tarigami, who is spokesperson of the PAGD, said they passed a resolution in the meeting in which several points have been raised including the restoration of what has been snatched on August 5, 2019. “The voices of people are being muzzled. This has never been witnessed. But, cannot sustain for a long,” he said and warned that the silence in Jammu and Kashmir should not be taken as “normalcy". Tarigami asserted that the alliance will not act as mute spectators over the ‘humiliation’ being faced by the J&K people. Earlier, while addressing the meeting, Mehbooba reportedly said that those “who claim that Article 370 won’t come back have no faith in Almighty. We should not lose hope.” “Article 370 secured our land and jobs, but now outsiders are on prowl. You can see how outsiders have taken control of sand extraction contracts. How NHPC has looted our resources and power projects,” she alleged and added that Kashmiris were being silenced on the barrel of the gun. “PSA awaits those who speak the truth. Journalists are being harassed, arrested, deprived of getting passports,” the PDP chief alleged. The PAGD meeting was held despite authorities not giving permission for it in view of the Covid-19 protocols. The PAGD is an alliance of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of J&K which was revoked by the Centre on August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pagd-reiterates-its-demand-for-restoration-of-special-status-of-jk-1023034.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||RSS workers being sent to UP villages to create trouble at election booths: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday alleged that RSS workers from other states were being sent to villages in Uttar Pradesh for creating trouble at election booths and hinder the electoral process. "The BJP is busy creating conspiracies at the (election) booths. The party does not respect the constitution. It is conspiring to cheat democracy by adopting unfair practices during elections. RSS workers from other states are being sent to villages to create trouble at booth level," he said in a statement issued here. "As the Samajwadi Party (SP) enjoys massive support in UP, the saffron party is afraid and wants to destroy the sanctity of the democratic system… The BJP government has not only created anarchy in the state, but has committed a great sin by hindering the development of the state," he said. Claiming that the BJP-led state government has made fairness and transparency of the Election Commission "questionable", Yadav said the recent arrest of a 24-year-old man for allegedly hacking into the Commission’s website and creating hundreds of fake voter IDs is a “very serious matter”. "There should be an inquiry to find out about such cases in the entire state and if they were done under the patronisation of the state," he said. The former chief minister added that leaders and workers of opposition parties are also being harassed by the BJP government. He said while women are scared, farmers are suffering and the economy is in dire straits. "In the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the BJP will surely be wiped out with the support of the people," Yadav claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rss-workers-being-sent-to-up-villages-to-create-trouble-at-election-booths-akhilesh-yadav-1023074.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||Ex-army man keeps dead son's body in deep freezer for 24 days||The administration in Uttar Pradesh's Sultanpur district on Tuesday acceded to the demand of an ex-army jawan, who had kept the body of his dead son in a deep freezer for 24 days and refused to cremate him until a second post-mortem was conducted as he suspected that his son had been murdered. According to the police sources, the ex-army man, identified as Subedar (retd) Shiv Prasad Pathak, has agreed to cremate his son after the postmortem. Sources said that Pathak's son Shivank, who worked in Delhi, had died on August 1, 2021, under suspicious circumstances. Though Pathak alleged that his son had been murdered and demanded registration of cases against some of his colleagues, the Delhi police refused to lodge any case and handed over Shivank's body to him after the autopsy. Demanding a second postmortem, Pathak refused to cremate the mortal remains of his son and had kept his body in a deep freezer since then. The district administration had on Sunday warned Pathak of legal action if he failed to cremate the body immediately. ''I am happy that the administration has agreed to conduct another postmortem,'' Pathak, a resident of Saraiya Majahoa village in the district, said. He said that he had also approached the local police to register a case in this regard but they also refused. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-army-man-keeps-dead-sons-body-in-deep-freezer-for-24-days-1023093.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||Taking legal action does not amount to abetting suicide: Delhi HC||Sending a legal notice and filing a criminal complaint does not amount to offence of abetment to suicide in spite of the presence of a suicide note, said the Delhi High Court. “Abetment involves a mental process of instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in doing of a thing,” explained Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri. The court’s ruling came in a case where a seller had committed suicide after receiving a legal notice and facing a criminal complaint from a buyer for an alleged non-delivery of a product. “The deceased had felt harassed but, in these facts, the act of petitioner (buyer) could not be held to have abetted the deceased in committing suicide. The filing of a criminal complaint by the petitioner was his legal recourse, as advised to him,” the judge said in August 23 order. The court observed that the act of suicide did not have any “live link” or proximity with the acts of the buyer who filed a plea before the high court for setting aside a trial court order refusing to accept police’s closure report in the case. The court opined that the buyer had no intention or mens rea and it cannot be said that he instigated the deceased to commit suicide. The court noted that as per the call data record, it was the deceased who had called the buyer twice during the relevant time duration and the only call received by the deceased was from the police station with regards the criminal complaint which was yet to be registered as an FIR. "The issue involved when narrowed down is whether issuance of a legal notice and filing of a complaint case by the petitioner would amount to ‘abetment’ punishable under Section 306 IPC," said the court. “This Court is of the opinion that necessary ingredients of the offence punishable under Section 306 IPC are not made out against the petitioner and the petition is allowed and the impugned order passed by the learned ASJ directing the Trial Court to proceed with the matter, is set aside,” the court ordered. In the present case, the buyer, a resident of USA, entered into a transaction with the deceased seller for purchasing an antique vintage motorcycle. As per the buyer, in spite of complete payment, the deceased did not handover the possession of the vintage motorcycle for two years, following which the petitioner came to India and sent a legal notice and filed a criminal complaint with the police for cheating and other offences. After the buyer left the country, the seller committed suicide and left behind a suicide note naming him as the reason for taking the extreme step. An FIR under Section 306 IPC was subsequently filed by the police on the deceased’s wife’s complaint, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/taking-legal-action-does-not-amount-to-abetting-suicide-delhi-hc-1023103.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||PAGD adopts resolution to restore J&K’s special status||People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Tuesday adopted a resolution for restoration of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir along with full statehood. The PAGD leaders held a meeting at the Gupkar residence of National Conference president Farooq Abdullah which was attended by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, CPI (M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami and other second-rank leaders of the political parties which are part of the alliance. “Unconstitutional decisions of August 5, 2019, taken in the Parliament to nullify Articles 370 and 35A of the Constitution of India and the damaging legislation which dismembered the historic state and created two Union Territories – Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh – has created a big political void and deep uncertainty in the erstwhile state," the resolution reads. “It is most unfortunate that the judicial challenges against this abrogation as a violation of the Constitution continue to remain pending before the Supreme Court even after two years,” it said. The PAGD also demanded the release of all political prisoners immediately and an end to “Indiscriminate use of draconian laws". The resolution also expressed dismay over the June 24 meeting of J&K leaders with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi. “Nothing substantial emerged after the Prime Minister’s ‘Dilli ki Doori and Dil ki Doori’. No confidence-building measures have been taken to provide some relief to the distressed people of the region,” the resolution reads. It also said the successive executive orders post-August 2019 like domicile laws, curbs on media, ‘intimidation’ of government employees, ‘discriminatory’ rules on employment are some of the ‘authoritarian diktats’ that have been imposed on the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The alliance leaders “firmly resolved to uphold the glorious traditions of unity, amity and brotherhood of the people of different regions and communities.” “We assure our people that we shall remain on their side under all circumstances for their better future and dignified life,” they resolved. Talking to reporters after the meeting, Tarigami, who is the spokesperson of the alliance, said the voices of people are being muzzled. “This has never been witnessed. But, it cannot sustain for long,” he said and warned that the silence in J&K should not be taken as “normalcy.” Tarigami asserted that the alliance will not act as mute spectators over the ‘humiliation’ being faced by the J&K people. The PAGD meeting was held despite authorities not giving permission for it in view of the Covid-19 protocols. The PAGD is an alliance of six mainstream political parties seeking the restoration of the special status of J&K which was revoked by the Centre on August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pagd-adopts-resolution-to-restore-jk-s-special-status-1023109.html
24-08-2021||North and Central||Haryana assembly passes Parivar Pehchan Bill amid Congress opposition||The Haryana assembly on Tuesday passed a Bill aimed at creating a unique identification number for each family and preparing their database to enable them to access various government services. The Haryana Parivar Pehchan Bill, 2021, was passed by the state assembly amid strong opposition by the Congress, which questioned its need, raising concerns over the security of data collected for preparing Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP or the family IDs). Demanding the withdrawal of the Bill, senior Congress leader Kiran Choudhary described it as “a draconian law, which will have serious ramifications”. “This is being brought in haste. The intention of this bill is insidious. It will end the privacy of common citizens,” she claimed in the House. “A common hacker can breach the data. The law is an infringement of privacy rights,” she further alleged. “We are guiding ourselves towards a totalitarian regime. The common man will be exposed to snooping. This is an infringement of our fundamental rights,” Choudhary alleged. Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who is also the leader of the Opposition, demanded that the bill be withdrawn, saying it is not in the interest of democracy. Congress member Geeta Bhukkal questioned the need of bringing the law, saying “we already have multiple IDs including Aadhaar. Who is going to benefit from this entire mega exercise of collecting data?” She also demanded that the Bill be withdrawn. Responding to the opposition's charges, Chief Minister M L Khattar, who is also the leader of the House, said the right to privacy issue which is being raised by the opposition members is not an issue for the poor and added only those who have something to hide have this concern. On opposition members' concerns, Khattar told them that the PPP is not mandatory. Kiran Choudhary, however, contended that it will virtually become mandatory to avail various government services including its use in land registries. As per the Bill, a Haryana Parivar Pehchan Authority will be established. Every family, being a resident of Haryana, shall be entitled to obtain a Parivar Pehchan number by providing, submitting or updating on the designated portal, information comprising of such data fields, as may be notified by the Authority with the prior approval of the state government, the Bill said. The Parivar Pehchan number would be for determining the eligibility for or the provision of any scheme, service, subsidy or benefit provided or implemented by or on behalf of state government or any government agency or local authority, the Bill added. T argeting opposition, Khattar said the Haryana government is coming up with reformative schemes, which, it seems, are not acceptable to the opposition parties and making them feel jittery. “No one built a system for the state benefits reaching the last person standing in the queue. Parivar Pehchan Patra (PPP) scheme (family IDs) has been formulated to deliver the benefits of the schemes to that last person,” he said. He said that work is being done on this scheme for the last three years and 64 lakh families in the state have been registered in the PPP so far. “The family ID will help citizens of Haryana to take advantage of and avail government services,” he said. The chief minister said the data is needed to facilitate the citizens of Haryana. He said different departments have their own data which sometimes does not match with each other. The PPP scheme has been prepared, keeping this in mind and it will help consolidate various data. The chief minister said the birth, death and marriage registrations would also be linked with the PPP. “With this, real-time data will be available to us. It will make planning and the implementation of various welfare schemes easier,” he said, adding that out of 3.3 lakh government employees of Haryana, 2,98,274 employees have got their PPP made. He insisted that the data will remain completely safe and secure. "IT security features have been used to secure the data of the PPP. No one can use this information without permission. If there is any kind of theft of this data, a provision of punishment has also been made," he sought to assure the assembly. Khattar also said recently German ambassador to India during a meeting with him had praised the state government's PPP project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-assembly-passes-parivar-pehchan-bill-amid-congress-opposition-1023147.html
24-08-2021||Oasis||The relevance of our interconnectedness||It was Marcus Aurelius, the Roman emperor and stoic philosopher, who was one of the first thinkers to promote the idea of cosmopolitanism. He believed that he was a citizen of the world and not just of Rome. Several thinkers and philosophers after him espoused the idea and promoted the concept of interconnectedness. Today, in the middle of a global and unabated pandemic, this concept cannot be more relevant. Certainly, Covid-19 has revealed, among other hidden facts, that we are all citizens of the world and that what affects one part of the world will eventually affect the other parts as well. As citizens of the world, we will do well to remember that our actions and choices affect all around us.  The second, and in some parts of the world the third and even fourth, waves of the pandemic is largely due to the incorrect actions and choices of a few.  When it would have been a wise decision to postpone travel in the middle of an ongoing pandemic, many had unwisely and selfishly taken holidays and thronged tourist spots; when it would have pleased the gods well enough to pay obeisance to them from our homes during the pandemic, several devotees could not buy that idea and flooded pilgrim sites; when impulsive outings should have been replaced by being shut at home to help keep the virus at bay, for many this was impractical and too boring a way of living.   Alas! The virus has had the last laugh as it is mutating and spreading ceaselessly. Experts have opined that the only way this pandemic can be controlled is for each of us to be responsible and make a paradigm shift in our lifestyles keeping our interconnectedness in perspective. Undoubtedly, our choices and our current lifestyles have a great bearing on how long this pandemic could last.       It is said that what is not good for the hive is not good for the bee.  At a time when travel, tourism, pilgrimage and unnecessary outings are not good for the world at large, it means that it is not good for individuals as well. Mindful of the relevance of our interconnectedness may our daily actions in the current situation be selfless and pave the way for the end of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-relevance-of-our-interconnectedness-1022954.html
24-08-2021||Opinion||Don’t blame Joe Biden for losing Afghanistan||By Michelle Goldberg In 2019, allied and government airstrikes in Afghanistan killed some 700 civilians, more than in any other year since the war’s start, according to the Costs of War Project, a group working to tally the human toll of America’s post-9/11 conflicts. US and NATO airstrikes declined in 2020 after Donald Trump’s withdrawal agreement with the Taliban, but strikes by the Afghan air force increased. “As a consequence, the A.A.F. is harming more Afghan civilians than at any time in its history,” Neta C. Crawford, chair of the political science department at Boston University and co-director of the Costs of War Project, wrote last year. I don’t know the name or background of any of these civilians as I know the name of Zaki Anwari, the 17-year-old member of Afghanistan’s national youth soccer team who fell to his death after clinging to a US military plane evacuating people from Kabul. But America is as responsible for them as it is for the Afghans who will die because of our mismanaged withdrawal. Amid the wrenching scenes of the war’s denouement, that’s easy to forget, especially when commentators pretend that the conflict Joe Biden inherited could have been maintained at little price. There are two primary critiques of Biden’s Afghan policy. The first, which is valid, blames the administration for not clearing bureaucratic obstacles that kept Afghan allies waiting for visas, possibly stranding tens of thousands of people who deserve to be evacuated. The second, which is absurd, blames Biden for defeat in a war that was lost years ago. Ryan Crocker, Barack Obama’s former ambassador to Afghanistan, criticized the administration’s lack of “strategic patience” in a guest essay in The New York Times. “Mr. Biden’s decision to withdraw all US forces destroyed an affordable status quo that could have lasted indefinitely at a minimum cost in blood and treasure,” he wrote. In The Washington Post, Condoleezza Rice wrote, “Twenty years was not enough to complete a journey from the seventh-century rule of the Taliban and a 30-year civil war to a stable government,” adding, “We — and they — needed more time.” The argument for “patience” or “more time” assumes that the American presence in Afghanistan was doing more good than harm. For some Afghans, particularly in the capital, this was undoubtedly true. Keeping a contingent of US troops in Afghanistan might well have protected those who will be most hurt by the Taliban’s theocratic barbarism. But for America to remain in Afghanistan, Biden would have had to renege on Trump’s deal with the Taliban. More US troops would be required, and fighting, including US airstrikes, would almost certainly ramp up. That would mean more suffering, and more death, for many Afghan civilians. Crawford told me that the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan began releasing data on civilian casualties in 2008. Most years, she said, the Taliban, al-Qaida and the Islamic State group were responsible for the majority of civilian deaths, but not every year. “What we’ve seen overall is an increase in the number of civilians who’ve been killed since 2008,” she said. There were about 3,000 civilians killed in 2020, and before the Taliban takeover, she said, 2021 was on track to be as bad or worse. Now, even though the Taliban has free rein, she thinks civilian deaths could decline. “Given the collapse, or the withdrawal, of the Afghan national forces, military and police, I actually think we’re not going to reach what we were on track for, because some of these areas, people won’t be contesting for land. There won’t be airstrikes, which kill a lot of people. There will be less shelling.” As the journalist Azmat Khan wrote on Twitter, “Many young people in rural battlefields have never experienced life without war, without US bombings, Taliban attacks, night raids by Afghan forces, kidnappings.” Hard as it is to understand, “some youth feel they have a shot at a future now.” Maybe American violence in Afghanistan could be justified if it were improving the average Afghan’s life. But often we seem to have made people’s lives harder. The most recent report from the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction paints a damning picture of two decades of American efforts in Afghanistan: “US officials often empowered power brokers who preyed on the population or diverted US assistance away from its intended recipients to enrich and empower themselves and their allies. Lack of knowledge at the local level meant projects intended to mitigate conflict often exacerbated it, and even inadvertently funded insurgents.” Speaking of those who think Americans could have stayed in Afghanistan long-term simply to avoid losing, Crawford said, “What most of the conversation seems to be assuming here is that the level of civilian misery is taken out of the equation, and all that matters is who controls Kabul.” Taliban control of Kabul, of course, will also inflict civilian misery, and some youth will feel they’ve lost a shot at a future. There was never a decent way to leave the country, which is why we fought a futile war for 20 years. But there also wasn’t a decent way to stay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/don-t-blame-joe-biden-for-losing-afghanistan-1022919.html
24-08-2021||Opinion||Indian cricket team's McEnroe mould||John McEnroe, the explosive American tennis legend, was a master at manipulating the mind. His mind that is. A gifted stroke-maker with wonderful touch, McEnroe was at his glorious best when frothing and spewing venom. It was as if he needed to feel that the whole world was against him for him to raise his game a few notches. Towards that end, he saw an insult where none existed, a perceived slight intended only in his imagination. Aggression or anger can be a double-edged sword. One can either get carried away by the swirl of emotions or direct it constructively. McEnroe channelled his angst brilliantly; he knew what worked for him; he was smart enough not to tip over and be consumed by the rage deliberately building inside him. If there is ever a quest for a team equivalent to McEnroe, it will end with the current Indian cricket side. Over the last half-dozen years or so, under the outwardly tempestuous Virat Kohli, India have subconsciously adopted the McEnroe template. Clearly, it hasn't been to their detriment. Not without reason is it said that, especially in cricket, where the captain isn't a nominal title whose responsibilities aren't restricted to turning up for the toss alone, the team takes its lead from its skipper. Never was this more evident than in Australia earlier in the year. With Ajinkya Rahane stepping in for Kohli for the last three Tests, India didn't snarl and growl. Their aggression manifested itself entirely through their cricketing disciplines, whether in the form of a stonewalling Cheteshwar Pujara, a dominant Rishabh Pant, a hamstrung but determined Hanuma Vihari, or the remarkably mature debutant duo of Washington Sundar and T Natarajan. Histrionics and theatrics don't come naturally to Rahane. Kohli, by contrast, is in the McEnroe mould, almost looking for a fight to get himself going but wise enough to cast emotion aside the moment he settles into his stance. His is a lead that has rubbed on the likes of KL Rahul and Mohammed Siraj, neither unafraid to engage the opposition in verbal warfare but both as much in control of their angst as they need to be to perform optimally. It doesn't always make for pretty viewing, but if professional sportspersons are to be castigated for being too passionate so long as they conform to norms of acceptable behaviour (whose definition is, at best, subjective), it surely is a bit of a stretch. There is no place in sport for abuse and personal attacks. That goes without saying. But what is sports without a little drama, a little pow-wow, those tiny battles within the larger contours of the larger war? Lord's was the perfect illustration of how, when anger isn't directed through the correct funnels, it can backfire spectacularly. As also of how, when one's thinking isn't clouded by blind rage or the desperate need to prove a point, it can be the perfect fuel to launch a blistering attack. England took collective umbrage at Jasprit Bumrah's left-field bouncer barrage at talisman James Anderson late on the third evening. Bumrah has no history of intimidatory bowling in his five and a half years at the international level, so the impact was magnified further. Every screaming short ball that tickled Anderson's helmet, gloves or ribs drove England closer to the edge of the precipice. They were so intent on repaying Bumrah in the same coin on the fifth morning that, their thinking addled, they targeted head and limb more than the three stumps the batsman was guarding. Bumrah calmly rode that storm out, taking the wind out of England's sails. Was it any surprise that England came apart in their second innings after his unbeaten 89-run ninth-wicket stand with Mohammed Shami? Joe Root's men were hoisted with their own petard. India took the more prudent route. They knew they had their opponents on the hop; they realised when they came out with 60 overs at their disposal that they couldn't afford their anger to take the edge off their cricket. Siraj didn't shy away from having a go at batsmen, but when he turned at the top of his bowling mark, he was all business, plotting modes of dismissal rather than means of inflicting physical damage. That pretty much summed up the difference in mindsets. India have learnt how to use aggression to their advantage. They have an acute sense of who to use it against and when to do so. Australia and England are their favoured targets. Given their recent results against these two sides, who's to say they haven't got the balance spot-on? Whether one likes it or not, India aren't just a top cricketing side; they have also taken ownership of and finetuned the art of mental disintegration. (R Kaushik is a Bengaluru-based senior cricket writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/indian-cricket-teams-mcenroe-mould-1022992.html
24-08-2021||Panorama||‘Pak project is to submerge Af in a larger radical Islamist identity’||The Embassy of India in Kabul was shut down soon after the Taliban marched into the Afghan capital in September 1996. After the Taliban was ousted from power in October 2001, New Delhi sent one of its ace diplomats, Gautam Mukhopadhaya, to Kabul to reopen the embassy. He later served as India’s ambassador to Afghanistan from 2010 to 2013. The Taliban is now again in control of Kabul. Mukhopadhaya, now retired from the Indian Foreign Service, tells DH’s Anirban Bhaumik that the Taliban does not have an organic presence and is not going to be a permanent phenomenon in Afghanistan What went wrong in Afghanistan? The February 29, 2020, US-Taliban ‘deal’ was flawed and virtually handed over Afghanistan to the Taliban and Pakistan on a platter. The deal was signed behind the backs of the people and the Government of Afghanistan, with the help of Pakistan. It delegitimised the already weak, fractured and increasingly discredited government of Afghanistan and instead legitimised the Taliban. It placed Pakistan as the major enabler, giving it undue influence in the process. How did the Taliban remain such a potent force and why did the Afghan National Army (ANA) fail to resist it after the withdrawal of US and NATO troops? The US came to Afghanistan not to build a nation, but just to avenge the September 11, 2001 attacks and to eliminate the Al Qaeda. It came with a heavy military and political footprint and spent money, lining the pockets of contractors, middlemen, power brokers and opportunists. But it did not invest in the country or its economy or its people. It did not invest in democracy and institution-building. The US kept its investment in the ANA limited to counterterrorism training, to avoid not only spending more, but also (to avoid) hurting the sensitivities of Pakistan. The ANA Special Forces acquitted themselves admirably in dealing with terrorist attacks but were not equipped to hold territory or retake provinces or defend boundaries. It was a few ANA units that had to fight against the Taliban all over the country without adequate mobility. The US did not regard Afghanistan as strategic enough to prioritise it over Pakistan. Pakistan worked on a patient multi-pronged strategy to trick the US right from the beginning, preparing for the return of the Taliban once the US would inevitably tire and leave Afghanistan. It fooled the US again and again. It enabled training, financing and equipping of the Taliban. What happened in Afghanistan was a war by Pakistan against Afghanistan using Afghans brainwashed in the refugee camps and Madrasas along the Durand Line by radical preachers as a part of a Pakistani project to erase their Afghan and Pashtun identity and submerge it in a larger radical Islamic identity with the blurred territorial boundaries of an Emirate. The leaders of Afghanistan also failed to discern motives and actions of international players, build institutions, devise strategies to overcome foreign tutelage, connect with the people and join hands in rebuilding a united, independent and strong Afghanistan. It was a collective failure. How should the world take the Taliban’s claim that it has changed from what it was 20 years ago? The Taliban has changed, has understood the value of international legitimacy, recognition and diplomacy. It has learnt to use information and communication technology and language very well. It has used deception to great effect, including making President Ashraf Ghani believe at the last stages of the military takeover that a deal was in the making, and lulling the US into believing that it would not push for Kabul before complete withdrawal of NATO troops. Their rank and file may be amenable for some tactical discipline, but they have not changed. Their true colours are bound to come out, sooner or later. What should India brace for after the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan? How should it respond to it? The change of regime in Afghanistan does pose a long-term challenge for India. The alignment of power and influence that has existed in Afghanistan since 2001 will now be replaced with the informal alliance of Taliban, Pakistan and China, with Russia and Iran, too, aligned against the US. We still have our ties with Russia and Iran, but our only allies left in Afghanistan are the ones who will resist the Taliban. Some leaders of Afghanistan are holding talks with the Taliban to form what they call an ‘inclusive’ government. We should wait and see what they actually do. Most likely, even the appearance of some ethnic leaders will not change the reality of a total Taliban monopoly over power. With Pakistan in control, India will have no say in the new government in Afghanistan. We should let that process play out until the contradictions emerge. There is also some resistance beginning in different parts of the country. The Taliban has no organic presence in Afghanistan. Its presence is a result of failures of the international community and the Afghans. It is difficult to believe it is a permanent phenomenon. We should be wary of legitimising them or their military takeover, or recognising them until they clarify their relationship with Pakistan and, more importantly, with the Afghan people who do not share their alien ideology. Does the way it withdrew from Afghanistan diminish the reliability and credibility of the US as a strategic partner for India in the Indo-Pacific? The chaotic final moments of its withdrawal from Afghanistan will badly affect the standing of the US in the world. Not only has the US abandoned Afghanistan to the Taliban and Pakistan once again, but has betrayed democracy, human rights, especially women’s rights, for a regressive and repressive theocracy. The US allies in the region, democratic Afghanistan and India, are simply collateral damage. Our relations with the US are much wider and cannot be defined by Afghanistan alone. Afghanistan is far away from the US and ‘collateral’ to it. But we should not make the mistake of treating Afghanistan as just collateral in our larger relationship with the US. Afghanistan is strategically important for India. India should pursue its own independent policy towards Afghanistan, together with those other regional powers who will experience the downside of a Talibanised Afghanistan. Iran, Central Asian Republics and even Russia, too, are likely to feel the bite of extremism emanating from Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/pak-project-is-to-submerge-af-in-a-larger-radical-islamist-identity-1022952.html
24-08-2021||Panorama||Online gaming and paternalism||In an eloquent judgment pronounced on August 3, 2021, the Madras High Court invalidated a part of the Tamil Nadu Gaming and Police Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021. The Act had been passed to prohibit and criminalise playing and organising online games with stakes. This is a significant decision as across India, gaming platforms and gamers have been caught in the crosshairs of the states' crackdown on betting and gambling.  The Constitution grants states the power to legislate on betting and gambling. A paternalistic approach to governance fuelled hostility towards games with stakes as it is feared that these games could ruin lives. Eventually, the Supreme Court distinguished between games of chance and games of skill. The Court held the fundamental right to carry on trade and occupation would protect activities pertaining to games of skill and such games must not be equated with games of chance or gambling. Importantly, the Court held that even if a game involved chance, it would qualify as a game of skill if the skill component was substantial or predominant. Therefore, only reasonable restrictions could be imposed on games of skill. This distinction led to various courts ruling playing Rummy with stakes, betting on horse racing, etc were legal as they required application of skills. The amended Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, 1930 blurred the distinction between games of skill and games of chance. Before being amended, the law criminalised certain activities pertaining to games of chance. The law expressly declared that games of skill were exempted from those provisions. However, the Amendment Act stipulated that betting in cyberspace by playing Rummy, Poker or 'any other game' would be punishable even if they were games of skill.  The petitioners claimed that the amendment violated their fundamental right to carry on trade and occupation as the restrictions were unreasonable, disproportionate and manifestly arbitrary. The state of Tamil Nadu justified its law by pointing out that online games with stakes were addictive and people had died by suicide after incurring losses in these games. The state claimed that gaming platforms could easily escalate the element of chance in all the games and hence it was legitimate to ban. The Court was not swayed by the state's justifications. It held that when games of skill were protected by the fundamental right to carry on trade and occupation, the state could impose only reasonable restrictions. The Court observed that if the state wanted to address the deleterious effects of gambling, it ought to have imposed restrictions that were least restrictive and not a blanket ban.  The Court was critical of the excessive paternalism displayed by the state and the contention that as the 'rightful representative of the people' it considered these games as pernicious. It equated excessive paternalism with authoritarianism and held that the state could not deprive talented citizens of an opportunity to earn money.  In the past, various High Courts have declined to ban online fantasy games such as Dream 11. The Courts opined that Dream 11 was a game of skill as participants were required to exercise superior judgment and knowledge to win. The Supreme Court has declined to interfere with these decisions. These events have lessons for states like Karnataka which are keen on regulating online gaming.  Instead of imposing a blanket ban, states ought to regulate gaming platforms.  While operating fraudulent gaming platforms and luring participants through misleading advertisements should be dealt with sternly, states should also focus on spreading awareness on the risks associated with these games. Additionally, improving access to de-addiction therapies is vital to help people addicted to gambling and gaming.  Treading down the path of intrusive paternalism backed by popular morality will whittle down constitutional rights and stifle individual autonomy.  (The writer is an advocate)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/online-gaming-and-paternalism-1022953.html
24-08-2021||Panorama||Climate change: In Glasgow, India should take the lead||When the International Energy Agency (IEA) published its report (Net Zero by 2050), urging dramatic steps to limit the temperature increase to less than 1.5 degree Celsius above the average temperature of the pre-industrial era, the energy industry was shocked. Out of the IEA’s 480 recommendations, three have taken the centre stage — no more investment to look for new oil and gas reserves; stop production of all fossil fuel vehicles by 2030; and, stop production of fossil fuel boilers. In the developed countries, the IEA report has resulted in governments holding discussions to make appropriate policy changes in the energy sector; in India, there has been a deafening silence. India feels that since the developed countries have precipitated the climate change crisis, they should shoulder the main burden. While this is true, India cannot be indifferent by arguing that it has met its responsibility. India has agreed to increase its power generation through renewables by adding 175 GW by 2022 and 450 GW by 2030. India will also be able to meet another target — of reducing the carbon footprint by 33-35% from its 2005 levels by 2030.  Undoubtedly, this is a remarkable contribution on India’s part. However, we can and should do much more. The IEA’s stunning recommendations were followed a few weeks later by the European Union’s ambitious proposals to achieve net zero by 2050. It was also equally shocking because the EU would impose carbon border taxes on imports from countries that have less stringent climate protection rules. The proposals include stopping the sale of new petrol and diesel cars by 2035 (five years later than recommended by the IEA), and requiring that 38.5% of all energy be from renewables by 2030, as well as the imposition of carbon taxes. By reacting to the IEA report, the EU tried to take the leadership role by declaring its road map to fight climate change. However, this will not be enough. The US is also interested in taking leadership, as demonstrated by President Joe Biden. He held a virtual climate summit of 40 world leaders to assure the world that the US is serious about fighting climate change, reversing Donald Trump’s rejection of the Paris Agreement and walking the US back into it. However, there was no new earth-shaking outcome from the summit. While 60 countries have pledged to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, and China by 2060, India has not committed to any goal. The latest statistics show that of the total greenhouse gases produced in 2019, China accounted for 27%, the US 11%, India 6.6% and the EU 6.4%. However, of the total GHGs produced since pre-industrial times, the developed countries account for 79% and India, a mere 1.5%. Also, on per capita basis, India’s emissions are 1.9 tonnes, while that for the US and China, it is 15.5 and 7.4 tonnes. As can be seen from the above, climate change is on the global agenda. At the last G-7 meeting, leaders agreed to meet the overdue pledge of $100 billion per year assistance by developed countries to help poorer countries cut carbon emissions. Will they? However, it is the recent report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), giving a devastating message, “hell on earth”, that has ignited the media. The IPCC warns that within two decades, the average global temperature will rise by 1.5 degree C in comparison to pre-industrial times, and under some scenario, it can go as high as 5.7 degree C by the end of the century. Scientists have been able to draw clear links between global warming and specific severe weather events like heat waves, wild fires, floods, relentless rains and storms, droughts, etc. Atmospheric levels of carbon dioxide have not been this high in at least two million years. The last decade was quite likely the hottest the planet has been in 1,25,000 years. There is no dearth of books, reports and articles by climate change pundits on how to fight global warming. Microsoft founder Bill Gates, in his book How to Avoid a climate disaster has also laid out a detailed plan to achieve net zero to avoid climate catastrophe. Unlike Nobel prize winner Al Gore, who consumes 210,000 kwh of electricity a year, Bill Gates was frank enough to admit that he is an imperfect messenger: he owns big houses, and flies in a private plane. But he argued that he compensates for his absurdly high carbon footprint by buying carbon rights — not a very convincing argument. All environmental experts warn of a climate catastrophe. They also suggest that by quickly decarbonising the economy, the world will be able to avoid it. Their recommended strategies are to replace energy from fossil fuels by renewables like solar, wind, biofuels, hydrogen; to implement energy efficiency technologies to reduce energy demand; and to develop carbon capture and storage. It is surprising that no one has raised any inconvenient questions to challenge the thesis that we can avoid the climate crisis. What happens if we do not succeed in solving carbon capture and storage? How to manage the intermittency of power connected with renewables — solar and wind? Why should we blindly follow the GDP-maximising development goal, which will continue to increase energy demand?  As the world gets ready to hold the CoP-26 global climate conference in Scotland in November, India should consider taking the leadership role, at least of the developing countries, to push a new agenda. India should impress upon the developed world that their payment of $100 billion, if they do fulfil that promise, would neither be charity nor aid. It is their responsibility to solve the common problem they created by using most of humanity’s carbon budget. India should also impress on the world that we may not be able to solve the climate change crisis by only concentrating on decarbonisation. It should promote its civilisational message of “simple living, high thinking.” This may sound too naive or audacious or even simply idiotic. But when we weigh the consequences of our failure to avoid climate change catastrophe, we will realise that there are no painless or simple solutions. The only sure way to save the planet is by reducing energy demand by changing our very concept of development which, even in economic terms, is benefiting mostly the 1%. (The writer is an international oil industry expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/climate-change-in-glasgow-india-should-take-the-lead-1022965.html
24-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Amaldar Tennis!||Mysore Maharaja's College tennis courts are steeped in history, just as its other structures because of their colonial past. In the early '80s, my friend as professors in the university, Manu Chakravarthy and I happened to be regular spectators of tennis played by our senior colleagues. They played more to loosen their limbs than to ready themselves for any tournaments.  “Come on young men, pick up the rackets and do wall practice”, they would urge us. Always carrying a book in his hand, Manu would reel off the history of not only tennis but every other game in the world, but he would not play. As we had to engage the evening classes, both of us watched the veterans play for a while. They played with verve and vivacity embellished by a good dose of fun and frolic; friendly banter was never in short supply. When Shivalingaiah, the geography professor, made hardly any move to return the serve, his doubles partner would duly admonish him, “Shivalingaiah, this is Amaldar tennis!” In the past, an Amaldar was such an elevated officer that he would never budge from his seat. Applications, appeals, files --everything came to him. So in Amaldar tennis, as a rule, the ball should come to the player, the player was not expected to reach the ball! Likewise, “Perpendicular tennis” was another method evolved by another veteran. Ramaswamy, the Sanskrit professor would not receive the ball in a standing position; he would bend a little, almost squatting, and send the ball to the opposite court as if he was re-enacting the ritual in which he threw a ball of flowers at his bride as part of his wedding ceremony that occurred decades ago. There was also match-fixing of some sort. They had made a rule that the juniors should win at least four games against the seniors if they aspired to play on the latter’s court. Once Dr Mallesh, the physics professor, had taken three games against the venerable Ramaswamy and was struggling to win the fourth game. Ramaswamy accosted him to the net and whispered something in his ears. Instantly, Mallesh’s visage brightened up and the game was resumed. To everyone’s surprise, Mallesh took five points in a row and won the crucial fourth game and thus became eligible to play in the seniors’ court. The murmur of match-fixing was drowned by the guffaw that reverberated all across the field even reaching the sports pavilion. Though they watched Grand Slam matches played by the world champions, and analysed the nuances of the game, some of our veterans religiously stuck to their ‘Amaldar tenins’ and ‘Perpendicular tennis’. This, surely, was a great source of delight for us then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/amaldar-tennis-1022960.html
24-08-2021||Second Edit||Taking the sting out of ‘love jihad’ law||The Gujarat High Court’s order staying some sections of the state’s new anti-‘love jihad’ law is a setback to the state government. It would also serve as a cautionary note to other governments that have instituted such a law or are planning to do so. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021, was notified by the government in June. The law is a more stringent version of one that already existed and it was enacted in a hurry. An anti-‘love jihad’ law has been in force in the state since 2003. The government introduced some clauses in it through amendments which in effect treated an inter-faith marriage as involving forced religious conversion and thus as a criminal offence, unless permission was sought from a competent authority for that. Since such permission would be difficult to get and a request for it would be used to put pressure on the intending couple to refrain from marriage, any inter-faith marriage becomes impossible. The court said that some sections of the law would not operate “merely because the marriage is solemnised by a person of one religion with (a person of) another religion without force, allurement or fraudulent means, and such marriages cannot be termed as marriage for the purpose of unlawful conversion”. The court also noted that the government tried to shift the burden of proof on the accused. After an FIR is filed, the accused would be taken to jail and has to prove that the marriage did not take place by coercion. Any relative of the victim could file a complaint, too. It is clear from these provisions that the aim of the law was to prevent inter-faith marriages from taking place, to criminalise them, and to show up the male of the minority faith as the villain who seduced girls and did harm to the Hindu faith. The court has done well to order a stay which it thought was necessary to “protect the parties solemnised in an inter-faith marriage from being unnecessarily harassed”. During the hearings, the court made it clear that marriage is a matter of personal choice, and probed the government on its view on the matter. Religion should not be a barrier for love and marriage. Laws that constrain inter-faith marriages in many ways are generally driven by politics, and they do not respect the personal freedoms granted by the Constitution. There is no credible evidence to prove the claims made by Hindutva groups about ‘love jihad’. Governments should actually be encouraging inter-faith and inter-caste marriages to promote the spirit of tolerance and inclusiveness in society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/taking-the-sting-out-of-love-jihad-law-1022956.html
24-08-2021||South||84-day gap between two Covishield doses based on vaccine availability or efficacy: Kerala HC asks Centre||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday asked the Centre whether the 84-day gap between two doses of Covishield was based on availability of the vaccine or its efficacy. The query to the central government came from Justice P B Suresh Kumar while hearing a plea by Kitex Garments Ltd seeking permission to administer the second dose of Covishield vaccine to its workers. The judge also said that if efficacy was the reason for the gap, then he was "worried" as he was administered the second dose within 4-6 weeks of the first dose. The court said if availability was the reason for the gap, then those who are able to afford to buy it, like Kitex has, they should be allowed to take the second dose without waiting for 84 days as per the prevailing protocol. The court further said if efficacy was the reason then the scientific data in support of it be also provided. With the direction, the matter was listed for hearing on August 26 after the lawyer for the Centre sought time till Thursday to seek instructions. Earlier, on August 12, the high court had asked the Kerala government why it was permitting the second dose of vaccine only after expiry of 84 days from the first dose. The court had also asked the Centre what was the reason for increasing the gap between first and second dose of Covishield from the earlier 4 weeks to 12-16 weeks. On Tuesday, the state government said it was following the Covid vaccination guidelines issued by the Centre. Subsequently, the lawyer for the Centre sought more time to answer the court's query. Kitex in its plea has said that it has already vaccinated more than 5,000 of its workers with the first dose and has arranged for the second dose, but was unable to administer the same due to the prevailing restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/84-day-gap-between-two-covishield-doses-based-on-vaccine-availability-or-efficacy-kerala-hc-asks-centre-1023005.html
24-08-2021||South||5.1 magnitude quake in Bay of Bengal; tremors felt in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh||Mild tremors were felt in parts of Chennai after an earthquake with a magnitude of 5.1 on the Richter scale was reported in the Bay of Bengal on Tuesday afternoon.  The earthquake took place at 12.35 pm and had a depth of 10 km, the National Centre for Seismology said on its website. Many Chennaiites took to Twitter and Facebook to say they felt tremors in areas including Kodambakkam, Valasaravakkam, and Tiruvanmiyur among others.  There were no reports of damage to life or property. According to the NCE, the quake was reported in the Bay of Bengal around 296 km south-southeast of Kakinada, 312 km south-southeast of Rajahmundry, 320 km east-northeast of Chennai, 339 km south-east of Guntur, and 386 km east-northeast of Tirupati. No tsunami warning was issued after the earthquake.    Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/51-magnitude-quake-in-bay-of-bengal-tremors-felt-in-tamil-nadu-andhra-pradesh-1023028.html
24-08-2021||South||Sleaze video hits Tamil Nadu BJP; general secretary quits||A sting operation purportedly showing a senior leader in a sleazy video call with a woman party office-bearer rocked the Tamil Nadu BJP on Tuesday. Party general secretary K T Raghavan, the subject of the sting operation by a YouTube channel run by a journalist who is also a member of the BJP, resigned from his post, hours after the video went viral on social media. Stung by the sleaze video, Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai constituted a committee headed by state secretary Malarkodi to go into the bottom of the issue. He said the committee will go into the veracity of the allegations made in the sting operation. Madan Ravichandran, a journalist who joined the BJP in October 2020, released the video of the sting operation on Tuesday in which Raghavan is involved in a sleazy video chat with a “district-level” woman party functionary. The sting did not have any audio, and DH could not independently verify the authenticity of the video clip. Congress MP S Jothimani submitted a complaint to the Director-General of Police (DGP) demanding an investigation into the case and arrest of Raghavan. In the video, Madan claimed he sent the video clip in question to Annamalai, who told him to “go ahead” and release the video to ensure that the woman gets justice. The journalist also released a “screenshot of his chat” with Annamalai and featured it in the video. Madan also claimed that he had videos of 15 other BJP leaders. Hours later, Raghavan announced on Twitter that he has resigned as general secretary of Tamil Nadu BJP and pleaded not guilty. “The people of Tamil Nadu know who I am. I am not guilty. I will take the legal route. Dharma will win,” Raghavan said, adding that he took the decision after consulting Annamalai. In a statement, Annamalai said women office-bearers in BJP are “safe” and referred to his conversations with Madan on the sting operation. The former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer said Madan had told him that he has video proofs of “misdeeds” of some party leaders, and that action should be taken against them. “I replied to him that unless the allegations are proved, action cannot be initiated against anybody in the party whereas I also assured him of immediate action if allegations are proved,” Annamalai said, adding that Madan refused to hand over the video footage to him. Madan, Annamalai said, messaged him asking whether any action was taken against the leaders against whom he complained. “I stood very firmly on my stand that disciplinary action cannot be taken without knowing the real facts of the accusation. Therefore, I replied to him shortly in the message that ‘you may proceed if you want justice’,” Annamalai said. Annamalai said Raghavan met him in the morning and alleged that “high-end” technology was used to “defame” his stature. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sleaze-video-hits-tamil-nadu-bjp-general-secretary-quits-1023044.html
24-08-2021||South||Grand memorial set to be built for Karunanidhi on Marina beach||A grand memorial for five-time Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M Karunanidhi will come up at his resting place on Marina Beach in Chennai at a cost of Rs 39 crore. The memorial will be built in an area of 2.21 acres of land adjacent to the Anna Memorial. Chief Minister and Karunanidhi’s son M K Stalin made the announcement under Rule 110 in the Assembly – the first such declaration under the rule after the DMK government assumed office on May 7. The Marina Beach already has three memorials for Dravidian stalwart C N Annadurai, AIADMK founder and matinee idol M G Ramachandran and former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. The memorial for Karunanidhi will be the fourth such structure on Marina Beach. Listing the achievements of Karunanidhi as Chief Minister, Stalin said the memorial will be built at a cost of Rs 39 crore. Hours later, the government released a picture to show how the memorial will look like once completed. “Kalaignar’s (Karunanidhi) will be built in a way that it would help future generations realise his contributions to the society,” Stalin said in the Assembly. The announcement was welcomed by all political parties that have representation in the Assembly including principal Opposition AIADMK and its allies PMK and BJP. “We are duty-bound to welcome the announcement,” deputy floor of AIADMK O Panneerselvam said, recalling how his father “worshipped” Karunanidhi. Leaders from PMK and BJP also welcomed the announcement saying Karunanidhi deserved a memorial at his resting place. Karunanidhi, who died on August 7, 2018, was buried near the resting place of his mentor C N Annadurai on Marina Beach. The Tamil Nadu government refused to provide space on Marina Beach for Karunanidhi, but the DMK moved the Madras High Court and ensured that he was buried near Annadurai. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/grand-memorial-set-to-be-built-for-karunanidhi-on-marina-beach-1023096.html
24-08-2021||South||Transman participates in Kerala's famed ‘Pulikali’ performance||‘Pulikali’ (tiger dance), a popular folk art form of Kerala usually performed as part of Onam festival celebrations, witnessed a transgender person’s participation for the first time on Tuesday. While the event was limited only to men over the last several decades, over the last couple of years a few women also started performing it. People with their bodies painted as that of tiger dance to the tune of percussion performance. Men with big tummies used to be in much demand for ‘Pulikali’. As part of Onam celebrations there used to be a ‘Pulikali’ performance on the streets of Thrissur district, which is considered as the cultural capital of Kerala. Owing to Covid-19 last year and this year, the event was restricted to an online performance by various groups. Praveen Nath, a transman, who also earned the 'Mr Kerala' title in the transmen category recently, performed in the online tiger dance this time. He was part of Ayyanthole Desam Pulikkali Samghataka Samithi, one of the organisers of the event. Artists dressed up as tigers performed from various parts and screened it live on social media. Facebook had recently released a video on ‘Pulikali’ as part of the Onam celebrations of Kerala. Praveen, who had undergone sex reassignment surgery a few years back, used to say that he wanted to motivate others from the transgender community. It was this desire that led him to bag the 'Mr Kerala' title recently and performing in the 'Pulikali'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/transman-participates-in-keralas-famed-pulikali-performance-1023098.html
24-08-2021||South||Kerala to study increasing breakthrough Covid-19 cases||The breakthrough infection rate was found to be higher than five per cent in Kasargod Palakkad and Idukki districts. A Covid review meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to conduct a genome sequencing study at the three districts. Health department sources said that the high rate of vaccination, as well as the high number of testing in Kerala, were the reasons for the comparatively high number of breakthrough infections being detected in Kerala. It was difficult to determine the exact extent of breakthrough infection of the state as it would require a statewide drive. Most of those suffering breakthrough infections were only having mild or insignificant symptoms. Meanwhile, shortage of syringes was also becoming a concern for the state especially since the state was trying to enhance the Covid vaccination drive as a strategy to curb Covid spread. The Chief Minister said that at present the state has stock of 16 lakh syringes only. Steps were being initiated to pool a maximum number of syringes. The state is planning to give the first dose to a hundred per cent population above the age of 18 in districts where already 70 per cent got the first dose. The state government also decided to enhance Covid testing in ten districts where the vaccination drive was not progressing rapidly. Though it was widely anticipated the review meeting may lift the relaxations in lockdown in view of the Covid surge, so far no such decisions were announced. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-study-increasing-breakthrough-covid-19-cases-1023145.html
24-08-2021||State||Why pizza, burger when we have Ragi Mudde: Vice President Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President of India M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday urged people to avoid junk food and follow traditional Indian food, for maintaining good health. "...avoid junk foods. Eat traditional, local food. Our forefathers have suggested, practiced and promoted, and have given us such beautiful varieties of food. I'm in Karnataka, I need not explain to you how many varieties are here. Some of them have now become world famous," Naidu said. Speaking at an event here, he sought to know why we should run after junk foods like pizza and burgers when we have our own traditional food. "They (junk food) will be suitable for conditions of certain foreign countries, but they are not suitable for Indian conditions. Unfortunately, we started aping the west and westernisation, some of our kids also developed that weakness," he said. Noting that branding and marketing by companies made these junk food popular, Naidu said, "Chicken Manchurian...when you have your own locally made biryani, why Manchurian....? "Children also- these days ask for Chicken 65, when we have in Karnataka Ragi Mudde (Ragi balls) and naatu kodi pulusu (country chicken curry)- wonderful...enjoy it, why run after something else?" "Please follow Indian food, traditional food, organic food, for your own health. Because health is wealth...." he added. The Vice President was speaking at ‘Vaccinate India Programme’, an initiative of the Department of Planning, Government of Karnataka in collaboration with the Give India Foundation. Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai were among the others present at the event. Cautioning that Covid was not yet over, Naidu said without people's cooperation, the operation of the government will not be successful. "I would only like to tell the people that this (Covid) is not yet over, don't be casual. One has to be extra careful because there is talk of third wave. We have to be on guard, we should be following the protocol issued by the government of India and the state, also medical experts from time to time, and follow it," he said. He called on the people to perform their responsibility by getting vaccinated, maintaining a six feet distance, wearing masks, regularly washing hands, following disciplined way of life, physical fitness, and avoiding junk foods. Urging people to give up hesitancy for vaccination, the Vice President lauded Indian companies and scientists for developing vaccines against Covid, and pointed out that vaccines are now being supplied to other countries also. "So, we have vaccines, there is no dearth of vaccines, and if there is a need, as the Chief Minister was mentioning, I have already told him that I will be talking to the Union Health Minister and get you adequate vaccines," he said. Vaccination drive against Covid must become "Janaandolan" (public movement), with active participation from everyone, he said, adding that so far 58 crore vaccine doses have been administered and 13 crore people have been fully vaccinated in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/why-pizza-burger-when-we-have-ragi-mudde-vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-1023053.html
24-08-2021||State||Vice President bats for code of conduct for MPs||Political parties must evolve a code of conduct and discourage its members from being unruly in the Houses of Parliament, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said on Tuesday. Interacting with the media at a ‘meet and greet’ event held at Raj Bhavan, the chairman of the Rajya Sabha condemned the ‘new lows’ of the Upper House due to the behaviour of some MPs during the recently concluded monsoon session of Parliament. On whether he would recommend the political parties to adopt such a code, Naidu said that it was just a suggestion and it was left to the discretion of political parties. Naidu said that changes in anti-defection law were required to address the flaws in it. “You cannot defect individually (from a political party), but can do so as a group. Defection in retail (is) bad, (while) wholesale (is) allowed,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vice-president-bats-for-code-of-conduct-for-mps-1023129.html
24-08-2021||State||Handloom corporation opposes calling tenders for uniforms||Even as the Karnataka Handloom Development Corporation has been reeling under losses, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has directed the Corporation to come up with a development plan for its revival. In a review meeting of the corporation here on Tuesday, Bommai directed it to expand its commercial activities. With the education department issuing tenders for supply of uniforms, the handloom corporation is losing out on business. This task must be handed over to the corporation to revive its business, the corporation officials told the chief minister. The works for supply of uniforms can bring in business of Rs 10 crore to the corporation, they said.  "Also, works related to supply of uniforms used to provide job security to weavers. Of late, the education department has been calling tenders for the same," Siddu Savadi, chairman of the corporation told DH.  Bommai directed officials concerned to issue circular to all departments to procure at least 25% of the textiles required for their respective departments from the corporation.  He asked the corporation to conduct skill development for weavers. Coordinating with design agencies would help weavers to expand their market, he added. He encouraged the handloom corporation to set up stores to showcase its products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/handloom-corporation-opposes-calling-tenders-for-uniforms-1023137.html
24-08-2021||State||Ensure supply of textbooks to classes 9-10, HC to govt||The High Court on Tuesday said the state government should ensure supply of textbooks to students of classes 9-10. A division bench of Justices B V Nagarathna and P Krishna Bhat said attendance and imparting of education could be meaningful only if students have the textbooks. The court was hearing a PIL filed last year seeking for providing online classes to underprivileged children and children studying in government schools. The court was not satisfied with the statement filed by the state government on the issue of supply of textbooks. The additional government advocate informed the court that physical classes for students in 9-12 standards have started and gradually attendance of students will increase. It was further submitted that a decision regarding starting classes for 1-8 standards will be taken in the meeting to be held on August 30. The government said that the textbooks will be supplied in a phased manner and supply completed by September 30. The bench noted that education officers in taluk level can send textbooks in PDF format to the students who have necessary gadgets and efforts should be made to provide print-outs to those who do not have gadgets. The government was also told to ensure that textbooks are available in the open market for the students of classes 11-12. The court directed the state government to submit a status report on progress made on supply of textbooks in government and aided schools till August 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ensure-supply-of-textbooks-to-classes-9-10-hc-to-govt-1023139.html
24-08-2021||State||Non-filing of supplementary charge sheet in time no ground for bail: HC||The High Court said on Tuesday that a supplementary charge sheet is only an additional material collected against the accused persons and cannot be a basis for grant of default bail. The court said that the investigation officers can file an additional charge sheet without the leave of the court and statutory (default) bail under the provisions of section 167 (2) of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) cannot be made applicable. The petition was filed by one Santhosh Kadam, a resident of Solapur in Maharashtra. A former sarpanch, Santhosh is an accused in a case for theft, house-breaking, trespassing and also under the Arms Act, registered at Bevoor police station in Koppal district. His application seeking bail was rejected by the sessions judge in Koppal. The police had filed the charge sheet on January.4, 2021. The main accused Santhosh was arrested subsequently on February 6, 2021. The police filed a supplementary charge sheet on May 17, 2021. The petitioner contended that the supplementary charge sheet was not filed within 90 days from the date of his arrest and hence, he is entitled to statutory bail under Section 167 (2) of CrPC.  However, the prosecution claimed that the charge sheet was submitted against the petitioner prior to his arrest. Justice Rajendra Badamikar rejected the petition both on maintainability and on merits. “Section 167 (2) is applicable only when charge sheet is not laid down and it starts operative when accused is arrested during the course of investigation, but if charge sheet is filed against a particular accused and supplementary charge sheet is submitted against other accused for additional evidence, the provisions of Section 167 (2) of CrPC cannot be applicable,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/non-filing-of-supplementary-charge-sheet-in-time-no-ground-for-bail-hc-1023140.html
24-08-2021||State||Shiradi Ghat opens for all vehicles||Deputy Commissioner R Girish has issued orders permitting the movement of heavy vehicles on Shiradi Ghat road on National Highway 75 from 6 am to 6 pm. Based on the reports submitted by the officials of the National Highway Authority of India, the DC has issued the orders. According to the order, bullet tankers, cargo containers, long chassis vehicles, multi-axle trailers and goods vehicles above 20 tonnes are allowed to ply on the route. The district administration had earlier given permission for the movement of vehicles with only 20-tonne capacity, due to a landslide near Donigal village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shiradi-ghat-opens-for-all-vehicles-1023142.html
24-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to decide on reducing duration of state anthem||Karnataka Kannada and Culture minister, V. Sunil Kumar on Monday said that the state government will take a call on reducing the duration of the 'Nada Geethe' (State Anthem) during the 10-day legislature session starting from September 13. The Nada Geethe - Jaya Bharata Jananiya Tanujate (Victory to you Mother Karnataka, The Daughter of Mother India) - is a Kannada poem, which was penned by Karnataka's most revered poet Kuvempu and this poem was officially declared the state anthem of Karnataka on 6 January 2004. Since then, there has been demand for reducing the duration of this song which currently varies between four to five minutes depending on the rendition. The 'Nada Geethe' is sung at all government functions and in schools. Participating in an official meeting here, the minister told reporters that besides reducing the duration of the state anthem the state government will also take a decision on how the photograph of Kannadambe Bhuvaneshwari (Goddess of Kannada land) is to be displayed. He added that his department would also be holding meetings with Youth Empowerment and Education departments to deliberate celebrating various 'Jayanthis' (birth anniversaries) in a meaningful manner by involving the participation of people. "Tentatively we have decided to meet on August 27 in this regard," he said. The minister added that he was also thinking of involving these three departments to be part of 'amrit mahotsav' celebrations of independence to infuse the spirit of patriotism among youths, students and people. In 2014, there was a proposal to reduce the duration to one minute 50 seconds by the committee headed by Kannada prominent poet Channaveera Kanavi as the song currently varies between four to five minutes depending on the rendition. However, the formal proposal in this regard was made by Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP) in July 2019 to cap the duration of Naada Geethe - Jaya Bharatha Jananiya Thanujaathe - at two minutes and thirty seconds but the successive state government had been dilly dallying over this. Prior to making this proposal, in November 2018, the committee headed by KSP president Manu Baligar was formed to decide on the capping the duration without leaving out any lyric from the composition of poet laureate, Kuvempu. This committee was headed by eminent poets and jnanapeetha awardee Chandrashekar Kambara, Siddalingaiah, Doddarange Gowda, Kamala Hampana, B.T. Lalita Naik and other eminent personalities were part of the committee, who had given nod for the proposal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-decide-on-reducing-duration-of-state-anthem-1022923.html
24-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM to convene meeting in Delhi on water disputes||Karnataka Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai will convene a meeting of legal experts and senior lawyers in Delhi on September 26 to discuss various water disputes of the state. Bommai, who is expected to fly to Delhi on September 25, will also meet senior ministers of the Union Cabinet and BJP national president J P Nadda. Speaking to reporters, Bommai said that Advocate General and senior lawyers who represent Karnataka in cases regarding water disputes will be present at the meeting. "I will collect feedback from them on how to move ahead with regard to these cases," he said. The meeting gains significance following Tamil Nadu's vehement opposition to Mekedatu project proposed by the state. Opposition JD(S) has also announced a statewide padayatra over these issues. The CM said that he has also sought appointments with the Union Finance, Health, Jal Shakti, Defence and Agriculture ministers to discuss various projects of the state on September 26. On whether the four vacant berths in his Cabinet would be filled soon, Bommai said that he would meet Nadda in Delhi. "Based on his (Nadda) views, we will decide (about expanding the Cabinet)," he said. On the padayatra announced by JD(S), Bommai said that it was not appropriate to politicise land and water issues. "We will do our best to uphold the interest of the state when it comes to these issues," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-to-convene-meeting-in-delhi-on-water-disputes-1023013.html
24-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka planning 5 lakh Covid-19 vaccinations every day in September: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said his government is planning five lakh vaccinations every day against Covid-19, in the month of September, and expressed hopes of getting an adequate quantity of vaccines from the centre. "Vaccination is the only solution for the future waves (of Covid). So, the more population we vaccinate the safer India is. Karnataka has been at the forefront in vaccination, we have got vaccination centres throughout the state and we are planning to vaccinate five lakh every day in the month of September," Bommai said. Speaking at an event in Bengaluru, he said, presently the state govt is vaccinating about 3.5 to 4 lakh doses, and wants to scale it up. "The government of India has assured us all help and I'm confident that they will give 1.5 crore vaccines so that we can vaccinate five lakh persons every day. If this is done for the next three to four months, probably 80 per cent of our population will be vaccinated. That's the target we are trying to achieve," he added. The Chief Minister was speaking at 'Vaccinate India Programme,' an initiative of the Department of Planning, Government of Karnataka in collaboration with the Give India Foundation, that was attended by Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot. Bommai said he discussed with Naidu regarding vaccination and that the Vice President has assured him that he would personally speak to the Union Health Minister and will do everything possible to help Karnataka in getting adequate vaccines. He further said, "Once the availability is assured, I'm going to change the dynamics of vaccination in the state, aimed at reaching the last person, those who cannot afford. We will see to that across the state vaccination is done and we will have a safe society and safe Karnataka." Stating that philanthropy is our culture and probably without philanthropy the world would not have been what we are, the Chief Minister called on philanthropists and companies to come forward to help the government in vaccinating the poor and the downtrodden through CSR. "Together we have to fight. Karnataka will support all the CSR activities regarding Covid with open arms. We want to see the end of Covid," he said. Noting that a Covid third wave is expected in October, Bommai said, the government is taking all the precautionary measures like surveillance in border districts, building infrastructure like child paediatric centres and teams, ICUs, extra beds, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-planning-5-lakh-covid-19-vaccinations-every-day-in-september-cm-bommai-1023085.html
24-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,259 new Covid cases, 29 deaths ||Karnataka reported 1,259 Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 29,41,026 and the toll to 37,184. The day also saw 1,701 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,84,032. Out of 1,259 new cases reported, 295 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 371 discharges and 11 deaths. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 19,784. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.65 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.30 per cent.    Of the 29 deaths reported on Tuesday 11 were from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada had four each, while Hassan and Mandya each logged two fatalities, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 295, Dakshina Kannada 273, Udupi 128, Mysuru 102, Hassan 69, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,35,601, followed by Mysuru 1,75,439 and Tumakuru 1,19,013. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,12,048, followed by Mysuru 1,72,109 and Tumakuru 1,17,222. Cumulatively a total of 4,22,62,303 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,90,915 were on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1259-new-covid-cases-29-deaths-1023104.html
24-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||11 new evening colleges in Karnataka to cater to surge in demand for seats||To manage the sudden surge in the demand for undergraduate courses following the promotion of all II PU students to the next class this year, the higher education department is opening 11 evening colleges from this academic year. These colleges will come up at the existing government degree colleges. The department of higher education has issued an order permitting colleges in 11 cities to begin evening classes. The government RC college in Bengaluru is one such college.  Examinations for II PU were not conducted this year due to Covid-19 during May-June. This has resulted in more students getting eligibility to join undergraduate courses. “Starting of evening colleges was a proposal announced in the budget last year and we decided to make use of it this year, following the demand,” said a senior official from the department. The department has, through an order, directed the college managements to offer the courses which are job oriented. “The evening colleges must offer BCom, BCA and other courses, which can provide jobs,” the official said. The evening colleges will be established under Sandhya Shakti scheme at 11 city corporation limits in Bengaluru, Belagavi, Tumakuru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Davangere, Dharwad, Vijayapura, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi and Ballari.  The department has also given approval for posts of teaching and non-teaching staff at these evening colleges. Each college will get one principal, seven teaching, two non-teaching staff, beside three Group ‘D’ employees. According to department officials, this will also help students opt for courses as per the National Education Policy guidelines. “If the day college is offering combinations which are not available in the evening college, students of the evening college will have options to choose open electives from the day college,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/11-new-evening-colleges-in-karnataka-to-cater-to-surge-in-demand-for-seats-1023132.html
24-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, Ravi wants toilets project named after Modi||In the last seven years, 13.5 crore toilets have been constructed in India under Swacch Bharath Mission. The project should be named after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said BJP national general Secretary and MLA C T Ravi. Speaking at an event here, he said, “it was a major step to construct 13.5 crore toilets in the country. Naming the scheme after Modi is a symbol of respect and pride.” “The atrocities in Afghanistan and the anti-women policy there are dangerous to mankind. We should not consider Taliban issue as an internal matter of Afghanistan. Instead, the UN should intervene and solve the problem,” Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-ravi-wants-toilets-project-named-after-modi-1023141.html
24-08-2021||West||Security beefed up oustide Narayan Rane's Mumbai residence after his remarks against Maharashtra CM||Heavy police security was deployed outside Union Minister Narayan Rane's residence in Mumbai on Tuesday in the wake of his remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, an official said. BJP workers gathered outside Rane's residence on Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz (West) in the morning in support of their party leader. Besides, Shiv Sena workers, including women, carrying placards and shouting slogans against Rane, assembled outside an office of the Yuva Sena (the party's youth wing), located nearby in Juhu. A posse of police personnel, including women cops, were deployed outside Rane's residence to prevent any untoward incident, the official said. Rane, who was recently inducted into the Union Cabinet, had sparked off a row over his remarks about slapping Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray, for what he claimed as the latter’s ignorance of the year of India’s independence. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap,” Rane said during his Jan Ashirwad Yatra in adjoining Raigad district on Monday. Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey on Tuesday issued orders for the immediate arrest of Rane and a team of the city police left for Chiplun in Konkan region, where Rane is present now, after a complaint against the Union Minister over the remarks. A case was also registered against Rane in Pune, while the Shiv Sena lodged a complaint against him at a police station in Aurangabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/security-beefed-up-oustide-narayan-ranes-mumbai-residence-after-his-remarks-against-maharashtra-cm-1022973.html
24-08-2021||West||Shiv Sena, BJP activists clash near Narayan Rane's residence in Mumbai over his remarks against CM Uddhav Thackeray||Activists of the Shiv Sena's youth wing and the BJP clashed with each other near Union minister Narayan Rane's residence in Mumbai on Tuesday in the wake of his comments against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, police said. Stones were pelted from both the sides, following which police used cane-charge to disperse the agitators, an official said. The Shiv Sena workers sat on the Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz (West) near Rane's residence, and activists from both the sides shouted slogans against each other, the official said. Following the incident, the road was blocked from two sides, disrupting traffic in the area. Additional police force was deployed in the area, the official said. The clash took place during a protest organised by activists of the Yuva Sena (the Shiv Sena's youth wing) against Union minister Rane, he added. BJP workers had gathered outside Rane's residence in the morning in support of their party leader, while Shiv Sena activists, including women, carrying placards and shouting slogans against Rane, had assembled outside an office of the Yuva Sena (the party's youth wing), located nearby in Juhu. Heavy police security was deployed outside Rane's residence, the official said. According to police, Shiv Sena and BJP supporters also clashed at Chiplun in Maharashtra's Ratnagiri district. Besides, stones were hurled at the BJP's office in Nashik city, while Shiv Sena workers held agitations in Nagpur, officials said. Rane, who was recently inducted into the Union Cabinet, had sparked off a row over his remarks about slapping Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray, for what he claimed as the latter’s ignorance of the year of India’s independence. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap,” Rane said during his Jan Ashirwad Yatra in adjoining Raigad district on Monday. Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey on Tuesday issued orders for the immediate arrest of Rane and a team of the city police left for Chiplun in Konkan region, where Rane is present now, after a complaint against the Union minister over the remarks. A case was also registered against Rane in Pune, while the Shiv Sena lodged a complaint against him at a police station in Aurangabad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-bjp-activists-clash-near-narayan-ranes-residence-in-mumbai-over-his-remarks-against-cm-uddhav-thackeray-1022982.html
24-08-2021||West||Shiv Sena MP writes to PM Modi, demands sacking of Narayan Rane over his remarks against Maharashtra CM||Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday, demanding the sacking of Union minister Narayan Rane over his remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Raut said it was beyond his comprehension what message Rane would give to society when he himself was using such language. "It is also an insult to the prime minister of this country,” Raut said in the letter. Union minister Rane has sparked off a row over his remarks about slapping Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter’s ignorance of the year of India’s independence. “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap,” Rane said during his Jan Ashirwad Yatra in adjoining Raigad district on Monday. The BJP leader and former Shiv Sena chief minister claimed Thackeray forgot the year of independence during his August 15 address to the people of the state. Thackeray had to check the year of independence with his aides midway during the speech that day, Rane said Mentioning Rane's remarks, Raut in his letter to the PM said, "I believe a person like Rane, who forgets the post he is representing, has no right to continue on it. It is my humble request to you to seek his resignation and remove him from your cabinet.” Raut, who had earlier defeated Narayan Rane's son Nilesh from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg Lok Sabha seat, expressed hope that the prime minister will take immediate action in connection with the matter. NCP's Maharashtra unit president Jayant Patil, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in the state as part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, criticised the language used by Rane against the CM. "The language used by Union minister Narayan Rane is condemnable. It also shows what kind of cabinet colleagues Prime Minister Narendra Modi has gathered around him,” Patil told reporters. The NCP leader said he does not recall the use of such language earlier by any politician. Shiv Sena workers held agitations in parts of the state to protest Rane's remarks. The Sena and BJP activists also clashed with each other over the issue near Rane's residence in Mumbai. Patil, who is the state water resources minister, said he was not aware whether Shiv Sena workers alone were involved in the violence in some parts of the state. "The state home department will have a better information about it," he said. Asked if such incidents were lowering the standard of the state's politics, Patil said, “The standard of politics has not gone down, but some people have stooped low. Rane's comments against Thackeray are not only an insult of the CM, but also of the people.” Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole said Rane's remarks against CM Thackeray are against the state's culture. "Earlier, we thought that more number of ministers (from Maharashtra) in the Union ministry would benefit the state. But, such a statement from Narayan Rane is disturbing the state's environment," Patole told reporters in Nanded. "We protest against his statement," he said, adding that law will take its course against those who commit offences. Shiv Sena's youth wing leader Varun Sardesai asked whether senior BJP leaders approved of the language used by Rane against Thackeray. "Is this the same BJP of (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee or (Lal Krishna) Advani? They should come clean on it,” said Sardesai, the cousin of state cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is the CM's son. The Sena leader also said they did not ask anyone to gather outside Rane's residence in Mumbai. Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Hasan Mushrif also criticised the Union minister's remarks and alleged that the BJP was deliberately stoking a controversy through leaders like Rane "to destabilise the MVA government". "I do not think they will succeed in it,” he said. State agriculture minister and Shiv Sena leader Dada Bhuse said, “Rane seems to be sick and needs some medical attention. The BJP, in its dirty politics, is playing with the lives of people." The Covid-19 situation is still serious, he said, while referring to gatherings during Rane's yatra in the state.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-mp-writes-to-pm-modi-demands-sacking-of-narayan-rane-over-his-remarks-against-maharashtra-cm-1023002.html
24-08-2021||West||Narayan Rane arrested for 'slap slur' against CM Uddhav Thackeray||In an unprecedented development, Union MSMEs Minister Narayan Rane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon for his “tight slap” remark against Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray. On Monday, the BJP Rajya Sabha member, during the Jan Aashirwad Yatra, said, “Yeh kaisa mukhya mantri hai, jisko apne desh ka swantrata diwas pata nahi... agar mai waha hota toh kaan ke neeche thappad laga deta. (It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap.)" There were reports of clashes between Shiv Sena and BJP workers across the state. The statement rattled the Shiv Sena rank and files and also stunned the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, which had been at the receiving end of the opposition BJP.  Rane and Thackeray do not see eye to eye for nearly two decades and leave no stones unturned to target each other, however, this is for the first time things has reached this extent.  On Tuesday, at least three FIRs were lodged against Rane in Nashik, Pune and Raigad.  Condemning the arrest, BJP President Jagat Prakash Nadda said: “The arrest of Narayan Rane by the Maharashtra government is unconstitutional... we will not be frightened by such arrests. The Jan Aashirwad Yatra is receiving a tremendous response. We will fight it out democratically.”  A police team led by Ratnagiri Superintendent of Police Dr Mohit Kumar Garg took custody of Rane in Sangameshwar amid protests by his two sons, -- former MP Dr Nilesh Rane and MLA Nitesh Rane -- BJP MLC Prasad Lad and Pramod Jathar. “There is a threat to Rane saheb’s life,” claimed Lad, while the four staged a sit-in at the Sangameshwar police station.  Later Rane was shifted to Mahad in the neighbouring Raigad district.  The anticipatory bail application filed by Rane was rejected by the Ratnagiri court following which Rane’s legal team moved the Bombay High Court, which is yet to hear the petition.  Meanwhile, the Jan Aashirwad Yatra continued as per the plan.  Before his arrest, Rane denied committing any crime. “I will not comment on reports... I don’t know whether there is an FIR against me and not one has told me... I have committed any crime,” he said.  Rane also threatened action against the media if it "maligned his image." “I am in politics for 52 years... I know the relevant sections of law and know what constitutes an offence or not... is it not a crime if someone does not know about August 15? I had said I would have slapped... these were my words and this is not a crime,” he said. Security was been beefed up across Maharashtra on Tuesday to avoid any clashes between Shiv Sainiks and Rane’s supporters.  Rane's remarks drew sharp reactions from Shiv Sena, whose workers put several posters in Mumbai calling him a 'kombdi chor' (chicken stealer) along with his photo, a reference to the poultry shop he ran in Chembur several decades ago before he joined Shiv Sena under late supremo Balasaheb Thackeray. Asked about the comments of Rane, senior BJP leader Pramod Jathar said: “Rane saheb has spent 40 years with Balasaheb... what Rane said is just ‘Thakeri-language’ that he has learnt.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/narayan-rane-arrested-for-slap-slur-against-cm-uddhav-thackeray-1023014.html
24-08-2021||West||Indian Army obtain first batch of multi-mode hand grenades||The first batch of indigenously-made Multi-Mode Hand Grenades (MMHG) was handed over to the Indian Army in the presence of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in Nagpur on Tuesday. The grenade has a distinctive design, in that it can be used in both offensive and defensive modes. The grenades were manufactured by Economic Explosives Limited (EEL) following the Transfer of Technology from Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory of Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO). Chairman of EEL S N Nuwal handed over a scale replica of MMHG to the Defence Minister to mark the first delivery of ammunition from the private sector. Chief of the Army Staff General M M Naravane, Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman DRDO Dr G Satheesh Reddy and Director General, Infantry Lt Gen A K Samantra were among those present on the occasion. Singh termed the handing over of MMHG as a shining example of the increasing collaboration between the public and private sectors and a big step towards self-reliance in defence manufacturing. “Today is a memorable day in the history of the Indian defence sector. Our private industry is coming of age when it comes to defence production. It is an important milestone not only in the field of defence manufacturing but also in achieving AatmaNirbhar Bharat as envisioned by our Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said. He lauded DRDO and EEL for the speedy delivery of the order amidst Covid-19 restrictions and hoped for faster delivery of the next lot. Singh listed out the measures undertaken by the Government to transform the defence sector into a self-reliant industry that can cater to the present and the future needs of the Armed Forces. These include setting up of Defence Industrial Corridors in Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu; formulation of draft Defence Production and Export Promotion Policy (DPEPP) 2020; earmarking around 64 per cent of its modernisation funds under capital acquisition budget for 2021-22 for procurement from domestic companies; notifying two Positive Indigenisation Lists of over 200 defence items to promote self-reliance & defence exports; Corporatisation of Ordnance Factory Board (OFB); increasing FDI limit from 49 to 74 per cent under automatic route and beyond 74 per cent through government route and according to top priority to 'Buy {Indian-IDDM (Indigenously Designed, Developed and Manufactured)}' category for capital procurement. Singh made special mention of another initiative taken by the Government - Technology Transfer to Industries by DRDO. Describing the measure as the backbone of the defence industry, he lauded DRDO for being an incubator that is undertaking free of cost transfer of technologies as well as providing access to testing facilities and over 450 patents. This has not only enabled the Industry to use ready-to-use technologies but has also saved time, energy and money, he said. He also underlined the importance of Innovations for Defence Excellence (iDEX) saying that it aims to achieve self-reliance and foster innovation & technology development in the defence and aerospace sectors by engaging Industries including MSMEs, start-ups, individual innovators, R&D institutes and academia. Under this initiative, the problems being faced by the Armed Forces, Defence Public Sector Undertakings and OFB are identified and brought before entrepreneurs, MSMEs, start-ups and innovators through Defence India Startup Challenge (DISC) to find solutions. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-army-obtain-first-batch-of-multi-mode-hand-grenades-1023040.html
24-08-2021||West||BJP distances itself from Narayan Rane’s statement ||The BJP has distanced itself from Narayan Rane’s 'slap' remark against Maharashtra Chief  Minister Uddhav Thackeray but came to the defence of the Union MSMEs Minister who is now facing multiple FIRs and has been arrested. The Saffron party also made it clear that the Jan Ashirwad Yatra would continue as per the chalked out plan if he were arrested. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state BJP President Chandrakant Patil came to his defence.  “We do not support the statement made by Rane saheb but as a party we are with him as the (Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi) government is trying to victimise him…we are fully with Narayanrao Rane,” he said.  “We have to be cautious when speaking about the Chief Minister, we have to exercise restrain…but if Maharashtra Chief Minister forgets the Amrut Mahotsav of India’s Independence so anyone can get annoyed,” Fadnavis said.  However, he went on to add that the way the multiple FIRs are filed against him was not at all proper.  “Police have started from Nashik, Pune,” he said.  “First of all, this does not constitute a cognizable office, but attempts are being made to make it a cognizable office under the IT Act…but still even if it is made cognizable, you have to send notice and hear the person and then act further,” he said.  He also said that the government should show guts in acting against student's leader Sharjeel Usmani, who speaks against Hindus and goes away.  Fadnavis accused the MVA government of misusing the police. “For five years, I have worked with Maharashtra Police and I am proud of them, but the way it is being misused is shocking,” he said and referred to the cases against TV journalist-editor Arnab Goswami and actor Kangana Ranaut.  “I am not threatening, I am advising the police…please act as per law…for one offence you take three FIRs in three places…you know where are those (policemen) who did not act as per law,” he said which was an apparent reference to policeman Sachin Vaze. “I appeal to our party workers to maintain calm but if our offices are targeted we will not sit back,” he said and added that if the BJP offices are targeted, he himself and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar would stage a dharna.  Chandrakant Patil said that it was misuse of power. “You cannot arrest a central minister,” he said. “Every one has a style of speaking….we have Raosaheb Danve-Patil, who has his own style… Rane saheb has it own style…but if any objectionable word comes out…will you go out at arrest him?” he asked. Patil also referred to an old rally in Pandharpur when Thackeray referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi as “chor”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-distances-itself-from-narayan-rane-s-statement-1023041.html
24-08-2021||West||BJP claims threat to Rane's life; Shiv Sena minister says he needs shock treatment||There is a threat to Union minister Narayan Rane's life in police custody, a BJP legislator in Maharashtra claimed on Tuesday. State minister and Shiv Sena leader Gulabrao Patil, meanwhile, said Rane should be given "shock treatment" as he has lost his "balance". The Union minister was treated roughly by the police, BJP Member of Legislative Council (MLC) Prasad Lad alleged while talking to reporters at Sangameshwar in coastal Ratnagiri district. Rane was taken to Sangmeshwar police station after he was arrested over his statement that he would have slapped chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for `forgetting the year of India's independence'. "Police pushed Rane while he was having his lunch. He is nearly 70. Should a person of such age be treated like this? We feel there is a threat to his life," Lad said. "A doctor who did his check-up said Rane is diabetic but he could not check the sugar level. His blood pressure has increased. The current readings are 160/110. The doctor also said they took his ECG and considering he is a diabetes patient, his sugar needs to be checked and he should be hospitalized," the BJP legislator added. Lad also expressed apprehension that police may not produce Rane before a magistrate till 6 pm so that he does not get bail during the day. "The police may harass him during the night. The Nashik police which has sent a team to arrest him has not yet reached here,” Lad claimed. Speaking in Mumbai, Sena leader and minister Gulabrao Patil said Rane "has lost his balance". "He should be taken to Thane and given shock treatment to cure him," Patil said, apparently referring to the state-run mental hospital there. “The action against Rane is appropriate as it sends out a strong message to everyone who uses un-parliamentary language against people holding constitutional posts. Rane seems to have forgotten that he was once chief minister of Maharashtra,” he further said. Patil also claimed that Rane's entry into the BJP was a "major threat" to leaders in that party including Devendra Fadnavis, Pravin Darekar and Chandrakant Patil.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-claims-threat-to-ranes-life-shiv-sena-minister-says-he-needs-shock-treatment-1023066.html
24-08-2021||West||Congress-NCP condemn Narayan Rane's 'slap' slur against CM Thackeray||The Sharad Pawar-led NCP and Congress have condemned the statement of Union MSMEs Minister and Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.  The NCP and Congress are alliance partners of Shiv Sena in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.  Pawar, himself, however, has refused to comment on the developments.  NCP chief spokesperson and state’s Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said that the statement of Rane was unfortunate. “This is the kind of statement against a Chief Minister,” he wondered. “The BJP is trying to pursue politics in Maharashtra akin to what they did in West Bengal... this is unfortunate,” said Malik. State Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said the statement of Rane shows the desperation of the BJP. “They have tried everything and failed. The MVA government remains stable,” Sawant said, adding that they also had been in opposition, however, never used such language against then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-ncp-condemn-narayan-ranes-slap-slur-against-cm-thackeray-1023073.html
24-08-2021||West||Hindu refugees from Pakistan living in Gujarat to be given Covid jabs: Centre||Hindu refugees from Pakistan living in Gujarat on a Long Term Visa (LTV) will be vaccinated against coronavirus as instructed by the Centre, the Gujarat government said on Tuesday. Gujarat Minister of State for Home, Pradipsinh Jadeja, has held a review meeting with top officials, including state DGP Ashish Bhatia, to resolve various issues faced by these refugees settled in the western state. After the meeting, Jadeja said the BJP government in Gujarat will ensure that refugees do not face any problems. He added the state government has decided to vaccinate these refugees against coronavirus as instructed by the Centre, the release said. Lauding the Modi government for bringing CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) for the persecuted religious minorities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, Jadeja said the state government has already urged the Centre to ease the passport renewal process for those refugees who had arrived here from Pakistan before 2014. Since refugees living in Gujarat on LTV are finding it difficult to get an Aadhaar card, the government has urged the Centre as well as UIDAI to approve the LTV or residential permits as an address proof to get an Aadhaar card, said Jadeja. Since children of such refugees often face difficulties in getting admission in schools due to various technical issues, Jadeja directed officials to take necessary steps and monitor the admission process, said the release. It said the state Director General of Police will coordinate with various stakeholders to resolve issues being faced by the refugee children opting for higher education or wanting to study abroad. Since private companies demand "work permits' from LTV holders for jobs, the state government has initiated efforts for the same and also urged the Centre to look into the issue. Apart from the DGP, the meeting was attended by ACS, Home, Pankaj Kumar, Education Secretary Vinod Rao, Health Commissioner Jai Prakash Shivahare and Home Secretary Nipuna Torawane among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hindu-refugees-from-pakistan-living-in-gujarat-to-be-given-covid-jabs-centre-1023143.html
24-08-2021||West||Narayan Rane gets bail in 'slap' remark case||A court at Mahad in Raigad district of Maharashtra on Tuesday night granted bail to Union minister Narayan Rane, arrested over his controversial remark against state Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray which triggered a political row and protests. The BJP leader faces four FIRs across Maharashtra over his remark that he would have slapped Thackeray over the latter’s `ignorance' of the year of India’s independence. Rane was produced before Judicial Magistrate Shaikhbabaso S Patil at 9.45 pm following his arrest in the afternoon. Government pleader Bhushan Salvi sought seven-day police custody for the BJP leader to conduct further investigation. It was important to investigate if there was a conspiracy to tarnish the reputation of the chief minister, he said. Opposing the application, Rane's lawyers Aniket Nikam and Bhau Salunkhe argued that his health condition was serious as he was 69 years old and suffered from sugar and blood pressure issues. Nikam further argued that the offenses under IPC for which Rane was arrested were all punishable with less than seven years and hence his custody was unnecessary. Nikam also argued that Rane's arrest was illegal as no summons was issued to him under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure before his arrest. Court, after hearing both the sides, denied the police the Union minister's custody. It instead remanded him in judicial custody and then, on the plea moved by his lawyers, granted Rane bail on a surety of Rs 15,000. Rane was also asked to mark his presence at the Mahad police station on August 30 and September 13. If the police wanted to collect Rane's voice sample, they will intimate him and he shall cooperate, the court said. He was arrested on Tuesday afternoon by the Ratnagiri police and taken to Mahad in Raigad district. The FIR at Mahad was registered under IPC sections 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of public peace) and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/narayan-rane-gets-bail-in-slap-remark-case-1023152.html
