25-08-2021||Comment||Unforgetting Partition: Overcoming a state of amnesia||On the eve of India’s 75th Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared that August 14 would henceforth be observed as “Partition Horrors Remembrance Day”. The announcement immediately kicked up a political row. On the one hand, senior ministers in the government and senior RSS pracharaks celebrated it as a samvedansheel (sensitive) gesture by the Prime Minister to pay tribute to the struggles and sacrifices of the people who suffered allegedly due to the Congress’ ‘appeasement politics.’ On the other hand, members of the Opposition and secularists called it a political ploy to consolidate Hindu votes ahead of the UP elections. Why, one may ask, is it necessary to remember an event so painful as the Partition? Does it merely achieve petty political agenda or is there value in commemoration? When Aristotle claimed in his Politics that man is the only animal endowed with the gift of speech, he clearly missed out on mentioning memory as the other important gift. Unlike other species, human beings engage with memory not just by way of instinct but also as a conscious process by which they construct their own identities. Partition, one of the largest forced migrations of people in human history, led to the displacement of around 15 million people from their original homelands and the deaths of over one million. Many of those who survived the debacle, as well as their successive generations, continue to construct their subjectivities along the lines of having become uprooted from a land they called their own. The injustice inflicted on the survivors has been manifold: first, the horrors of a violent displacement for no fault of their own; second, the inadequacy of the State to provide for a dignified resettlement and livelihood; and third, the expectation from the State that they forget their pain and trauma for the sake of a cosmetic nation-building project. In a situation in which the very act of remembrance becomes a function of privilege, the near-eclipse of State records of conflict, violence, displacement and pain can lead to a permanent state of numbness. In recent decades, while there has been an explosion of scholarly research on Partition by historians, anthropologists and sociologists, there is negligible commemoration in the public realm of the horrors of the catastrophe. The existing scholarly literature, too, reveals multiple biases in the selection of events, their documentation and narration. While a majority of the work focuses on the western side of Partition (Punjab), a few studies devoted to the story on the eastern side primarily focus on Bengal. There is very little documentation, for instance, of Partition in Assam. Then, there are meta-cleavages and meta-stories that are clearly privileged over micro-histories that involved relatively smaller groups of the population. Stories of displacement which were accompanied by bloody and violent events in the form of deaths and rapes were clearly privileged over those where violence was perceived to be either absent or of low-intensity. The dominant Partition narrative was also restricted largely to the Hindu-Muslim binary and there was barely any reflection on how a large section of the refugee communities became the victims of internal ethno-linguistic politics within the Indian State. Some scholars have attributed the erasure of such events from public memory to the attitude of the Indian State, which deliberately chose to put the traumas of Partition behind as it went about building a new nation. The failure of the Indian State in preserving some of these micro-histories becomes glaring when one compares the ways in which the Holocaust has been memorialised across the world. A variety of Holocaust memorials and museums have been built across 45 countries across the globe. Germany alone has more than 20 memorials, while Israel has 15. Whether it is the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe in Berlin or the Victory Monument in Israel, or the Iron Shoes on the Danube Bank, these serve to continuously remind us about the horrors of that Shoah. Many of these memorials have not only preserved names of places, people, events, concentration camps, important dates, letters, memoirs and photographs, but also relics like hair, clothes, shoes, nails and bones of those impacted by this horrific genocide. Several countries have passed laws that make it mandatory for school curricula to include information about the events of the Holocaust so that students are sensitised to the gross violation of human rights. In contrast, India’s first and only Partition memorial was built after 70 years of the country’s Independence in 2017 in the city of Amritsar in Punjab. This, too, was the outcome of civil society efforts and solely funded by the common public, mostly by those who had survived the event. Similar initiatives on the eastern side include the establishment of the Kolkata Partition Museum Project Trust in 2018, dedicated to memorialise the specificity of Bengal’s Partition. However, these are far and few and incomparable with the monumental edifices mentioned above. School textbooks pay lip-service to the history of Partition and deliberately refrain from narrating episodes of violence and trauma. The refrain of the Indian State has always been that engaging with the violent past is potentially dangerous as it may fragment an already fragile society even further. While this may be true, history has revealed that the suppression of pain has only exacerbated feelings of hatred and animosity between communities. Edyta Roszko suggests that commemorations are not always desirable as they tend to sanitise the messy history lived by actors and often help create, modify or legitimise “the public meanings attached to historical events deemed worthy of mass celebration”. And yet, commemorations have their own value; they help provide closure to unhealed wounds and help build the foundation for reconciliation and for more nuanced and creative modes of cultural memory to be recovered. In this context, while the recent announcement by the Prime Minister is a refreshing symbolic gesture that for the very first time manifests the Indian State’s willingness to acknowledge the pain of those who suffered due to Partition, one hopes that this is not a mere token symbol to garner the support of any one community and that it will spur a more serious engagement with an event that permanently altered the lives of millions in the subcontinent. (Malini Bhattacharjee is faculty at the School of Public Policy and Governance, Azim Premji University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/unforgetting-partition-overcoming-a-state-of-amnesia-1023239.html
25-08-2021||First Edit||Appoint judges to SC, HCs speedily||The recommendation made by the Supreme Court collegium of nine names for appointment as judges of the top court will hopefully end the long impasse that has existed over postings in the court. The collegium, headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana, has forwarded the names, including those of three women judges from High Courts, for approval by the government. It is for the first time that the names of three women judges have been proposed at a time for the Supreme Court, which has historically been dominated by male judges. The need for more women judges at all levels of the judiciary has been pointed out many times, and the Supreme Court will have three of them if the names are accepted. Importantly, Justice Nagarathna of the Karnataka High Court will also go on to become the first woman CJI in 2027, though her tenure will only be for a brief period of over a month. There has been a severe shortage of judges in the Supreme Court. If all the nine names are approved, the court will be only one short of its full strength of 34 judges. It was two years ago that the strength of the court was increased by Parliament through legislation but the court never had its full complement of judges. The shortage of judges has been more severe in the High Courts and in the lower judiciary. As many as 455 out of 1,098 posts of judges -- about 41% -- are vacant in 25 High Courts even as the number of pending cases is increasing. In some High Courts, more than 50% of the judge posts remain vacant. Once the Supreme Court appointments are done, appointments should be speedily made for the vacant positions in the High Courts and lower courts, too. There have been no appointments to the Supreme Court since September 2019. A stalemate developed in the collegium because Justice Rohinton Nariman, who was a member and who retired only recently, had insisted on the inclusion of two senior-most judges from the High Courts in the list. One of them is Justice Akil Kureshi, who is the Chief Justice of the Tripura High Court now and whose name the government had turned down for appointment as Chief Justice of the Madhya Pradesh High Court. His name is not in the recommended list now. The collegium system of appointment of judges has its deficiencies, but some judges used to get appointed. But a situation that is internal to the collegium created a stalemate where no appointments were made for a long time. When the recommendations have been made and their approval is likely, there is no good explanation why Justice Kureshi has been left out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/appoint-judges-to-sc-hcs-speedily-1023236.html
25-08-2021||In Perspective||‘Vaccine Passport’, the new unequaliser||Amid the global vaccination drive, a system of Covid immunisation certificates, such as the European Union’s Green Pass, the NHS Covid Pass in the UK, and Japan’s Vaccine Passport, is evolving to facilitate travel. Will such a vaccine passport become an essential travel-document for cross-border travel in the near future? The concept of a Vaccine Passport is quite old, though. As per the International Health Regulations of the World Health Organisation (WHO), certain high-risk countries require travellers to provide vaccination certificates for yellow fever. Historically, confirmation of having taken the vaccine for plague or smallpox was a prerequisite for pilgrims entering Pandharpur in British India or Mecca for the Hajj. A TIME magazine article of April described how the Vaccine Passport requirement for smallpox in America was maintained as early as  1885. A doctor boarded an America-bound train in Canada near the US border, and looked for a ‘fresh scar’ indicating a recent inoculation on the arm of every passenger. If no scar was available, the passenger had to get vaccinated on the spot or leave the train before it entered the US. In fact, around 1910, travellers to America needed to show one of three things: “A vaccination certificate, a properly scarred arm, or a pitted face” indicating that they had survived smallpox. Not only international travel, a Vaccine Passport might become the magical ‘open sesame’ mantra to access a wide range of social facilities within a country as well. Israel’s Vaccine Passport, for example, was released in February, to help the country emerge from lockdown. And France introduced the Pass Sanitaire in June, and this would be necessary for French people wishing to enjoy everyday activities. When Mumbai opened its local train network to all on August 15, travellers needed to get e-passes after getting their vaccine certificates verified. In fact, some states in India made both, or at least one vaccine dose, mandatory in some cities for people working in hotels, malls, schools, shops, salons and restaurants, or entry into restaurants, malls, cinema halls and theatres, and parks. Negative RT-PCR reports work in some cases, but for a very short period, of course. Some people think that a Vaccine Passport would infringe on individual liberties. In France, for example, the Pass Sanitaire has induced an avalanche of outrage. In America also, in an opinion piece in The Hill, Kentucky’s Republican Senator Rand Paul wrote that any required proof of inoculation would be “full-on vaccine fascism”. The Republican Governors of Florida and Texas have announced that no Vaccine Passport would be issued in their states. Not only Republicans, the Democrat-controlled White House has rejected any plans for a national vaccine credential. But different social facilities will invariably be available only with proof of vaccination, for sure. The agitation against vaccination in the US is again not new – it happened even a century ago. In his book Pox: An American History, historian Michael Willrich, however, pointed out that Americans began to conceive of liberty not only as freedom from government regulation but also as freedom to meaningfully and actively participate in public life. And all Vaccine Passports are not the same. As the Henle y Passport Index compares the visa-free access of different passports to different travel destinations, a Vaccine Passport Index might come up soon. For Vaccine Passports would bear different levels of power, according to the issuing country and the type of vaccine administered. Simultaneously, Vaccine Passports may even open the floodgates of chaos in the sphere of international relations. China has announced that it would expedite entry for foreign nationals who have received a China-made vaccine! And Hungary has announced that it would not accept the certificates of countries which do not accept those of Hungary. The World Health Organisation has maintained a stance against Covid Vaccine Passports: “In the context of unequal vaccine distribution, individuals who do not have access to an authorised Covid-19 vaccine would be unfairly impeded in their freedom of movement if proof of vaccination status became a condition for entry to or exit from a country.” While more than half of all Americans are fully vaccinated now, this proportion is 5-10% or less in many other countries. And around 2% in Africa! The inequality is sharp and it would worsen further. Vaccine inequality would invariably divide the world into two classes with respect to immunity and the power to access the world – the vaccine ‘haves’ and ‘have-nots’. That the citizens of the less privileged countries would invariably constitute the ‘have-nots’ is an inescapable reality. (The writer is a Professor of Statistics, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/vaccine-passport-the-new-unequaliser-1023240.html
25-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gun misfire: FIR against cop in Davangere||Speaking to DH, Superintendent of Police CB Rishyanth said it is part of routine activity when such incidents take place. The officials would probe into the incident. The department would initiate action against the staff in charge of armory if he is proved guilty. He also made it clear that the staff would not be kept under suspension during the probe. A case has been registered under IPC section 304. (Causing death by negligence).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gun-misfire-fir-against-cop-in-davangere-1023204.html
25-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Over 150 fall ill after consuming sweet dish in Jagalur||More than 150 people fell sick after having 'holige' and banana 'rasayana' at Bennehalli village in the taluk on Monday night in a private programme. They are undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the taluk.  Speaking to DH, former gram panchayat member Nijalingappa said those who had banana rasayana fell sick and not those who had only holige. People complained of stomach ache and fever since Monday night. Following the instructions by MLA S V Ramachandrappa, health officers rushed to the village. The team of officials led by taluk health officer Nagaraj is examining each villager. All are out of danger as they got treatment in time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/over-150-fall-ill-after-consuming-sweet-dish-in-jagalur-1023205.html
25-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||12-year-old boy dies after water tank collapses in Hunsur||A 12-year-old boy died after a water tank collapsed on him, while his elder brother sustained injuries at Manuganahalli, under Bilikere hobli, Hunsur taluk, Mysuru district, on Tuesday evening. The brothers, sons of one Manjunath of the same village, were seated under the tank in Kaveri Enclave, a private residential layout, in Manuganahalli, when the mishap occurred. They had come with their parents, who were harvesting groundnuts, on nearby farmland. While Sudeep came under the debris of the tank, his elder brother Pradeep sustained injuries. The villagers staged a protest and demanded that the developers of the enclave Suresh and Mohan should come to the spot. Police personnel retrieved the body of Sudeep, with the help of Fire and Emergency Services personnel. MLA H P Manjunath and Devagalli Somashekar of the JD(S) visited the spot and consoled the family members. Bilikere Police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/12-year-old-boy-dies-after-water-tank-collapses-in-hunsur-1023242.html
25-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||BJP's Sunanda Palanetra becomes Mysuru Mayor||Sunanda Palanetra of BJP has been elected as Mayor of Mysuru. She is the 24th Mayor of Mysuru. BJP came to power for the first time in the history of MCC. Palanetra, a corporator of Ward 59 of MCC, is a close relative of former chief minister B S Yediyurappa. It is to be noted that Palanetra had decided to resign from her corporatorship when she was defeated in previous Mayor election held in January. Palanetra had written to then chief minister B S Yediyurappa and the party leaders expressing her desire to resign for the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjps-sunanda-palanetra-becomes-mysuru-mayor-1023310.html
25-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Energy Minister Sunil Kumar visits Mysuru||Energy, Kannada and Culture Minister V Sunil Kumar visited Chamundeshwari temple atop the hill and offered prayers, during his visit to Mysuru, on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters later, the Minister explained that privatisation of Escoms and the New Electricity Bill are the decisions of the Union government. Revision of power tariffs is also one among them, he said. Commenting on the restrictions laid down by the government on celebrating Ganesha festival in public, the minister said that the government had taken measures to prevent the spread of pandemic. It is important for the public to cooperate, he said. He will also be visiting Chamarajendra Academy of Visual Arts and Rangayana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/energy-minister-sunil-kumar-visits-mysuru-1023312.html
25-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three Mysuru youths meet watery grave||Three youths from Mysuru drowned and passed away after they had gone for a swim at Hemavathy Leftbank canal, near Bandihole village, in K R Pet taluk, Mandya district, on Tuesday evening. The deceased have been identified as Manju (20), of Kumbarakoppal, Ravi (22) of Lokanayakanagar and Ravi (27) of Mogarahalli Manti, all from Mysuru. According to sources, a group of eight friends had gone to Chandagolamma temple, near Bandihole village in the taluk. After lunch, the three youths went to the canal for a swim. When they did not return till evening, the others searched for them. When they could not find them, they informed the authorities. The Fire and Emergency personnel searched for the bodies on Tuesday evening and could retrieve them on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-mysuru-youths-meet-watery-grave-1023394.html
25-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru gets first BJP mayor in Sunanda Palanetra||BJP Corporator Sunanda Palanetra has been elected as Mayor of Mysuru. It is for the first time that a BJP corporator is elected as mayor in the history of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). Palanetra, corporator of Ward 59 of MCC, is a close relative of former chief minister B S Yediyurappa. She was defeated in the previous Mayor election, held on February 24. She will be the Mayor until February 2022. As JD(S) broke alliance with the Congress, BJP came to power in the civic body. Until the last minute, Congress leaders made all efforts to gain JD(S) support. But, the JD(S) decided to remain neutral, which resulted in the BJP’s victory. The alliance discontinued as neither Congress nor JD(S) was ready to give up the Mayor’s post. Both Congress and JD(S) fielded candidates. While Sunanda Palanetra obtained 26 votes, Ashwini Ananthu of JD(S) and H M Shantakumari polled 22 votes each. However, Congress corporators walked out of the election once the BJP candidate obtained the majority votes. The corporators also raised slogans against the JD(S). The mayor’s election was necessitated following the disqualification of the membership of previous Mayor Rukmini Madegowda, also a JD(S) worker. The membership of Rukmini was cancelled as Rajani Annaiah of the Congress had filed a petition for filing false assets in the election affidavit in 2018, before a court in Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-gets-first-bjp-mayor-in-sunanda-palanetra-1023498.html
25-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Davangere lad returns home safely from crisis-hit Afghanistan||Parents of Vinay from Sultanipura village in Davangere taluk heaved a sigh of relief after their son returned safely to Bengaluru from crisis-hit Afghanistan where he was employed. Kumaraswamy S K, Vinay’s father told DH that Vinay returned to Bengaluru on Tuesday after witnessing the terrible incidents in Afghanistan. “We are glad that he returned to the motherland safely. We are feeling as if we have won a huge prize.” The father said his son was serving as an automation engineer in Afghanistan since 2013. He used to tell that he would not face any problem there as it was an American-based company. But fear gripped the family after the Taliban took over Afghanistan and violent incidents were reported there, he said. Kumaraswamy said after knowing that the Taliban had arrived near Kabul, capital of Afghanistan, on August 14, Vinay and different nationals working there appealed to their employers to provide protection to carry on the work. Following the promise of protection by the employer, Vinay carried on with his work. But the situation worsened when the security staff of the apartment in which he was staying was killed by Taliban forces. Vinay, who witnessed the terrible incident was very terrified. So he decided to return to India. With the help of Turkish armed forces, he boarded a plane at Hamid Karzai International Airport near Kabul and returned to India, his father said. It may be mentioned here that Vinay did his BE in Instrumental Technology at Bapuji Institute of Engineering & Technology in the City in 2010-11. Later, he worked in a private company in Bengaluru for about one year. Later, he worked in many countries and obtained employment in Afghanistan in 2013 through a company based in Dubai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/davangere-lad-returns-home-safely-from-crisis-hit-afghanistan-1023511.html
25-08-2021||Mysuru||College student allegedly gang-raped in Mysuru||A college student, hailing from Uttar Pradesh, was allegedly gang-raped in Mysuru, late on Tuesday and the incident came to light on Wednesday. The survivor and her male friend are undergoing treatment at a hospital. According to the police, the survivor was allegedly gang-raped by a gang of four to five persons, near Thippayana Lake, at the foot of Chamundi Hill, after her male friend was assaulted. The incident took place at 7 pm. The girl was returning home along with her friend when the gang waylaid them. A police officer said, the gang assaulted the friend with a boulder and sexually assaulted the girl. All the miscreants were allegedly in an inebriated condition when they allegedly committed the crime. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Dr Pradeep Gunti, ACP Shashidhar visited the crime scene. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/college-student-allegedly-gang-raped-in-mysuru-1023415.html
25-08-2021||National||India committed to work with US on clean energy: Environment minister||India stands committed to working with the US on clean energy, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said on Tuesday after a telephonic conversation with US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate (SPEC) John Kerry. During the conversation with Kerry, the minister discussed the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD) Track under the India-US Climate, Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership, and other related issues, the environment ministry said in a statement. "Had a telephonic conversation with US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate Mr @JohnKerry and discussed at length how the largest and oldest democracies can set examples for other countries on climate action. India stands committed to working with the US on Clean Energy," Yadav tweeted. Kerry is likely to visit India in September to further India-US partnership on clean energy, the ministry said. "Both sides agreed that India and the US, will engage for a constructive engagement under the India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership. The environment minister stated that these platforms provide greater opportunities for working together for climate actions and emphasised that India stands committed to working with the US on Clean Energy," it said. During the call, Kerry mentioned about the launch of the CAFMD to enhance actions in the current decade to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-committed-to-work-with-us-on-clean-energy-environment-minister-1023196.html
25-08-2021||National||DH Toon | On a monetising spree||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced a Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-on-a-monetising-spree-1023220.html
25-08-2021||National||Pakistan, India issue diplomatic visas to each other after 28-month gap||Islamabad and New Delhi have issued assignment visas to each other's diplomats after a gap of around 28 months as both sides are seeking to normalise ties that have been on ice since 2019. Pakistan and India have issued a large number of assignment visas to each other's diplomatic staff in recent weeks, the Express Tribune reported. Both countries have issued visas on all applications submitted by March 15 this year. Pakistan issued visas to 33 Indian officials, while seven Pakistani diplomats received assignment visas from India. Sources said there was a possibility of an agreement between Pakistan and India to issue visas on assignment applications by June 15. The two countries are likely to issue more visas to each other's diplomats after that. All countries issue assignment visas to diplomats and embassy staff from other countries. In January this year, top intelligence officers from the two countries held secret talks in Dubai, reopening a back channel of diplomacy aimed at a modest roadmap to normalising ties over the next several months, the report said. Later in February, the two countries' militaries announced an unexpected joint ceasefire. The UAE's envoy to Washington confirmed in April that the Gulf state was mediating between India and Pakistan to help the nuclear-armed rivals reach a "healthy and functional" relationship. Ambassador Yousef Al Otaiba said in a virtual discussion with Stanford University's Hoover Institution that the UAE had played a role "in bringing Kashmir escalation down and created a ceasefire, hopefully ultimately leading to restoring diplomats and getting the relationship back to a healthy level". "They might not sort of become best friends but at least we want to get it to a level where it's functional, where it's operational, where they are speaking to each other," he added. In March this year, Chief of Amy Staff Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa called on India and Pakistan to "bury the past" and move towards cooperation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-india-issue-diplomatic-visas-to-each-other-after-28-month-gap-1023244.html
25-08-2021||National||2 in 3 Indian adults addicted to being online due to Covid: Report||Nearly two in three Indians (66 per cent) have become addicted to being online as a result of the Covid pandemic, a report released on Tuesday said. The 2021 Norton Cyber Safety Insights report by consumer security company NortonLifeLock is based on an online survey of more than 1,000 Indian adults conducted by the Harris Poll. The survey found that on average, adults in India spend 4.4 hours a day in front of screens, outside of work or educational time. About eight in 10 (82 per cent) said that the amount of time they spent on screens, aside from educational or work purposes, has increased significantly during the Covid-19 pandemic. Smartphones by far are the most common device Indian adults surveyed feel they are spending too much time on (84 per cent). The majority of Indian adults (74 per cent) agree that the amount of time they spend in front of a screen negatively impacts their physical health, while more than half (55 per cent) say it negatively impacts their mental health. "It is understandable that the pandemic has increased our dependence on screens for activities that could otherwise have been done offline. It is important for every individual, however, to find a healthy balance between their on-screen and off-screen time so that their health and, more importantly, their children's health is not adversely impacted," NortonLifeLock's Director, Sales and Field Marketing, India & SAARC Countries Ritesh Chopra said in a statement. The survey also showed a lack of trust among Indian adults in smart home devices and/ or the companies that manufacture them. Nearly half of adults decided against purchasing a smart home device due to security concerns or because of privacy concerns (40 per cent). People also cited a lack of information about smart home devices (40 per cent) and a lack of transparency from smart home device manufacturers about how they use consumer data (35 per cent) as reasons for not purchasing a smart home device. "The online landscape has seen an increase in the numbers and types of cyber threats. Users must take great care of how and where they use their connected devices. Convenience should not come at the cost of security," Chopra said. "Today, the loss of personal or confidential information can have very serious repercussions indeed. It is important for parents to be aware of this fact and to educate their children on the need for cyber safety," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-in-3-indian-adults-addicted-to-being-online-due-to-covid-report-1023245.html
25-08-2021||National||Influential lawmakers from G-7 want India to be invited to the bloc's meetings on Afghan crisis||Influential lawmakers from the G-7 countries have urged that India should be invited to attend the bloc's meetings that seeks to develop a common and united front for global security and regional stability in the aftermath of the Taliban taking control over Afghanistan. US Senator Bob Menendez, who is also the Chairman of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and his counterparts from Italy, France, Germany, Japan, the UK and the European Parliament in a joint statement also said African Union should be invited to attend individual G-7 meetings when appropriate. “The withdrawal of US and allied forces from Afghanistan should not be misinterpreted by the global community as any weakening of resolve from G7 governments in taking all necessary measures to combat cross-border terrorism, to support regional cooperation or advance democratic values,” Menendez and his counterparts from G-7 countries said in the joint statement. “With the spillover of terrorism possible, we would like to see India invited to attend this G-7 meeting. As other terror groups are beginning to muster in the Horn of Africa and reawaken movements elsewhere, we believe the African Union should be invited to attend individual G-7 meetings when appropriate,” the lawmakers said. “This would promote a regional shift for governments and ensure that the spillover effects of Afghanistan which could destabilise neighbouring countries are constantly monitored by those closest to the likely areas of threat," they said. The export of terror, whether in South Asia, the Middle East, East Africa, or any other part of the world, should be met with swift and decisive action,” the statement said. The G-7 is an intergovernmental political grouping of seven countries comprising the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan. US President Joe Biden on Tuesday addressed an emergency meeting of the G-7 and other world leaders amid the withdrawal of America’s troops by August 31. Besides Menendez, the joint statement was issued by David McAllister, MEP, Chair, European Parliament; Jean-Louis Bourlanges, Chair, French National Assembly; Dr Norbert Rottgen MdB, Chair, German Bundestag; Piero Fassino, MP, Chair, Italian Chamber of Deputies; ABE Toshiko, Chair, Japanese House of Representatives; and Tom Tugendhat, MP, Chair, UK Parliament. The Canadian Parliament is dissolved for the forthcoming election. The lawmakers demanded that no member of the international community of states should unilaterally recognise the Taliban regime. There must be a coordinated process, ideally through a resolution of the United Nations Security Council to ensure commitments entered into by the Taliban are seen as binding. “The key criteria for recognition should include, but not be limited to: repudiation of all cross-border terrorism, including Al Qaeda and associated groups; equality of rights for girls and women; protection of minority ethnic and religious groups; commitment to democratic elections; and ending all narcotics-related activity,” the statement said. “It is the actions that will count. A monitoring and enforcement mechanism should form part of any framework agreed with the Taliban to ensure compliance with its commitments,” it said. There is little indication from its past or present behaviour that the Taliban is committed to any of these principles, so the G-7 countries should be prepared to isolate the Taliban and impose robust sanctions should violations reach an agreed threshold, the lawmakers said. They said in order to implement an orderly evacuation of those most vulnerable within Afghanistan, the G-7 governments should avoid arbitrary dates for ending military support to the evacuation or imposing artificial caps on the number of evacuees. Instead, these decisions should be driven by the steps required for an orderly process with the primary objective of protecting of the most vulnerable and assisting those in most need. “As well as evacuation, the G-7 governments should call on the UN to coordinate the international community in responding to the likely refugee and humanitarian crisis. Afghans will be in need of emergency support, whether inside Afghanistan or out, and the role of the World Food Programme and the UNHCR will be essential to supporting those in critical need,” the lawmakers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/influential-lawmakers-from-g-7-want-india-to-be-invited-to-the-blocs-meetings-on-afghan-crisis-1023247.html
25-08-2021||National||One-third of Indians suffer from hypertension, says study; more women get treatment||Nearly one-third of Indian men and women suffer from hypertension but surprisingly more women get treatment for their high blood pressure compared to men, says a new study published in The Lancet on Tuesday. Quoting 2019 data, the study shows that an estimated 30 per cent of women and 32 per cent of men suffer from elevated blood pressure that can lead to heart diseases. But when it comes to the treatment of hypertension, 35 per cent of women get it as compared to 25 per cent of men. "This is a surprise as in India the menfolk generally get more medical care. A difference of 10 per cent in treatment between the two genders is significant,” said Avula Laxmaiah, co-author of the Lancet study and a scientist at the National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad. The Lancet study analysed blood pressure measurements from more than 10 crore people taken over three decades in 184 countries. Hypertension was defined as having systolic blood pressure of 140 mm Hg or greater, diastolic blood pressure of 90 mm Hg or greater, or taking medication for high blood pressure. The probable reason behind more women getting the hypertension treatment is that a large number of them are checked for their blood pressure during the pregnancy and are treated in case doctors or health workers find an elevation, explains K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India, not associated with the study. "Also, hypertension is the predominant reason for stroke in elderly women. Globally, women are more prone to stroke because of which they may (of their family members) be checking their blood pressure. Moreover, women with high blood pressure are more prone to auto-immune diseases,” Reddy, a former professor of cardiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi told DH. The prevalence of hypertension in India has marginally increased over a period of 30 years, from 28 per cent in women and 29 per cent in men in 1990 to 32 per cent in women and 30 per cent in men in 2019. But a significant improvement in the diagnosis was observed from 12 and 19 per cent in 1990 to 32 and 42 per cent among men and women, respectively, said Laxmaiah. Globally, the number of adults (aged 30-79 years) living with hypertension has doubled — rising from an estimated 33 crore women and nearly 32 crore men in 1990 to 62.6 crore women and 65 crore men in 2019, with most of such increase occurring in low- and middle-income countries. Despite being straightforward to diagnose and relatively easy to treat with low-cost drugs, nearly half of people (41 per cent of women and 51 per cent of men) with hypertension worldwide in 2019 were unaware of their condition; and more than half of women (53 per cent) and men (62 per cent) with the condition weren’t treated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-third-of-indians-suffer-from-hypertension-says-study-more-women-get-treatment-1023250.html
25-08-2021||National||16 of 78 Afghanistan evacuees, who landed yesterday, test positive for Covid-19||A total of sixteen out of 78 evacuees who landed at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport from Kabul on Tuesday has tested positive for Covid-19. The infected evacuees also include the three Sikhs who brought back with them Guru Granth Sahib from Afghanistan Gurdwaras. Union Ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and V. Muraleedharan received the Guru Granth sahib brought from Afghanistan at the Delhi airport from the Sikhs and came in contact of the infected people. However, Union Ministers coming into contact with infected people have not been officially confirmed yet. All the positive people have been admitted to LNJP Hospital and the rest are quarantined at an Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) camp in south-west Delhi's Chhawla. All the evacuees coming from Afghanistan will have to undergo quarantine for 14 days at the ITBP quarantine centre at Chhawla in southwest Delhi, according to the guidelines of the Health Ministry. "As the Covid-19 immunisation status of these individuals is unknown, and the exact extent of COVID-19 transmission (including circulation of variants) in Afghanistan is unclear at present, so as a matter of abundant precaution, it has been decided that the arriving persons shall undergo a mandatory minimum 14 days' institutional quarantine at Sector Headquarters Logistic and Communications, Indo Tibetan Border Police, Chhawla Camp," the Union Health Ministry's office memorandum said. Earlier on Tuesday, 78 people, including 46 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, flew into Delhi from Kabul via Dushanbe on an Air India flight along with three copies of Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-of-78-afghanistan-evacuees-who-landed-yesterday-test-positive-for-covid-19-1023255.html
25-08-2021||National||Explained: What is the endemicity stage Covid-19 is entering in India?||After infecting over 3 crore and killing over 4.3 lakh people in India, the coronavirus has now reached some stage of endemicity where there is a low or moderate level of transmission going on, according to WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan. The endemic stage is when a population learns to live with a virus and it differs from the epidemic stage when a population is overwhelmed by a virus. Does this mean the coronavirus will always exist and people will just have to adjust to this new normal? Let’s take a look at the terminology. What is endemicity or an endemic? When a disease is consistently present but limited to a particular geographical area, it is called an endemic disease. In this stage, the transmission and rate of illness is much more predictable. It can be compared to the seasonal flu in the US. How is this different from a pandemic? According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), a pandemic is a worldwide spread of a new disease. A pandemic is defined as a disease outbreak that spreads across countries or continents. Covid-19 was declared a pandemic in March 2020 when it became clear that the illness was severe and that it was spreading quickly over a wide area. Coronavirus has now affected over 200 million people worldwide. Will Covid-19 exist consistently and become an endemic? Health experts have opined that the coronavirus could be the next endemic and that it will develop and change over the years. The initial aim with regard to the virus was that if enough vaccination numbers were achieved, a state of herd immunity could be reached. But new, more infectious strains of the virus have made it difficult. Many countries including China and Australia are trying to rid themselves of the virus with stringent lockdown measures and curbs. But the Delta variant continues to scare nations, including and especially, the US. Where does vaccines fit into the equation? Vaccination will continue and it is effective but the medical community in India is currently debating the need for booster shots of vaccines. According to an Israel study, a third dose of Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine has significantly improved protection from infection and serious illness among people aged 60 and older as compared with those who received two shots. While the United States has decided to provide booster shots to most of its citizens, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria said that India does not have enough data as of now on the need for a third Covid-19 vaccine dose or a booster shot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-what-is-the-endemicity-stage-covid-19-is-entering-in-india-1023266.html
25-08-2021||National||Shiv Sena likens Narayan Rane to 'balloon with holes', says he behaves like 'roadside gangster'||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday claimed Union minister Narayan Rane has made the central government hang its head in shame, a day after the BJP leader was arrested over his controversial remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah must take Rane's remarks against CM Thackeray seriously, an editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said. On Monday, during his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in adjoining Raigad district, Rane said, “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap." The Union MSME minister was arrested on Tuesday over his comments which triggered a political row and protests across Maharashtra. He was granted bail by a court at Mahad in Raigad late Tuesday night. In a scathing attack on Rane over his remarks, the editorial in 'Saamana' likened him to a "balloon with holes", which, it said, will never go up no matter how much the BJP tries to put fill it with air. Despite being given the post of a Union minister, Rane has been behaving like a "roadside gangster", it alleged. "Rane has made the central government hang its head in shame. Given Rane's past record, Modi-Shah should take his comments against Thackeray seriously. If anybody had spoken in this manner about the prime Minister, he would have been booked under sedition charges. Rane's crime is similar," the editorial said. It said Maharashtra is a state which runs as per law and such acts will "not be tolerated after a certain point". The prime minister will not tolerate such acts, the Marathi daily said, adding that the BJP "will have to pay for this heavily". "The hand that threatens to attack a chief minister should be pulled out legally. The previous Devendra Fadnavis government in Maharashtra has made a few intellectuals languish in jail on allegations that they conspired to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi," the editorial said. It said threatening to physically assault the chief minister is like hurting the sentiments of 105 martyrs of the 'Samyukta (united) Maharashtra movement. Rane has hurt Maharashtra, and (state BJP leaders) Devendra Fadnavis and Chandrakant Patil have been supporting him, the Sena said. "Any cultured leader would have apologised and ended the matter, as nobody is above the state. But, for the BJP, Maharashtra's pride and prestige of the chief minister are immaterial," it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shiv-sena-likens-narayan-rane-to-balloon-with-holes-says-he-behaves-like-roadside-gangster-1023273.html
25-08-2021||National||All Afghans must travel to India only on e-visa: MHA||India on Wednesday cancelled all visas issued to Afghan nationals who are presently not in India. The Ministry of Home Affairs said that all Afghan nationals willing to travel to India must do so only on e-visa. “Keeping in view some reports that certain passports of Afghan nationals have been misplaced, previously issued visas to all Afghan nationals, who are presently not in India, stand invalidated with immediate effect,” a Home Ministry spokesperson said. He asked Afghan nationals wishing to travel to India to apply for e-visa at www.indianvisaonline.gov.in. Last week, India had introduced a new category of e-Visa for Afghan nationals to fast track their applications for travel to India. The e-Emergency X-Misc visa, introduced on August 17, will be valid for six months and will be granted only after security clearance. “Owing to the prevailing security situation in Afghanistan and streamlining of the visa process by introduction of the e-Emergency X-Misc visa, it has been decided that all Afghan nationals henceforth must travel to India only on e-Visa,” the Home Ministry spokesperson said. Earlier, India granted long-duration visas to Afghan nationals facing persecution in that country. A large number of Afghans who left the country during the first Taliban takeover and during the two decades of war after that continue to live in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-afghans-must-travel-to-india-only-on-e-visa-mha-1023294.html
25-08-2021||National||Narayan Rane's arrest justified, but custodial interrogation not necessary: Maharashtra court||A court at Mahad in Maharashtra while granting bail to Union Minister Narayan Rane said his arrest over his controversial remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was “justified”, but his custodial interrogation was not necessary. The order was passed by the court late Tuesday night and a detailed copy of it was made available on Wednesday. “Considering the reason for arrest and other reasons, I found that the arrest is justified,” magistrate S S Patil said in the order. The court noted that while a few sections under which Rane was booked were non-bailable, they were not punishable with life or death. “Considering these factors, no prejudice would be caused to the prosecution if the accused is released on bail,” the court said, adding that "the accused shall not commit a similar type of offence". Rane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon from Ratnagiri district in Maharashtra following his remarks that he would have slapped Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. The Union minister was produced before magistrate Patil at Mahad in Raigad on Tuesday night. The police sought his custody for seven days, which the court refused and remanded him to judicial custody till September 4. Rane's advocates then moved a bail application. The plea was heard and Rane was granted bail on a surety of Rs 15,000. He was directed to appear at the office of Superintendent of Police in Alibaug (Raigad) on August 30 and September 13. Rane's advocate Rajendra Shirodkar argued that the police had not followed the mandate of law laid down under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), which says in cases where arrest is not warranted, the police ought to first issue a notice/summons to the accused for questioning. However, the court in its order noted that in this particular section there are grounds given when the police officer can arrest a person without notice/summons. The magistrate, while refusing to grant Rane's custody to the police, noted that the alleged statement of the accused (Rane) was made before the media. “The informant (complainant in the case) himself alleged in the FIR that the accused made the statement before the media and it was viral on social media. Considering the nature of the offence, I do not find it necessary to hand over the accused in police custody,” the magistrate said in the order. While arguing on Rane's bail plea, Shirodkar told the court that the accused was a senior citizen with roots in the society and hence, would not abscond. He further told the court that he had advised his client (Rane) not to make such statements in public in future, but Rane did not concede to such an undertaking quoting his liberty. The police opposed the bail plea, arguing that the accused was a Union cabinet minister and was making such irresponsible statements which would create disharmony in the society. The court in its order directed Rane to cooperate with the probe into the case and if police want a voice sample of the minister, then he (Rane) shall assist. “The only rider is that the police shall give seven-day prior notice to the accused,” it said. The court also noted that the police had not followed directions given by the Bombay High Court with regard to maintaining a proper case diary. “Admittedly, the case diary produced before me are two papers which are not paginated,” the magistrate said. Rane faces four FIRs in Maharashtra over his remarks, which triggered a political row and protests across the state on Tuesday. The FIR at Mahad was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 504 (intentional insult to provoke break of public peace) and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narayan-ranes-arrest-justified-but-custodial-interrogation-not-necessary-maharashtra-court-1023306.html
25-08-2021||National||US-born Indian author-activist Gail Omvedt passes away||United States-born Indian scholar, activist and writer Dr Gail Omvedt passed away at Kasegaon in Sangli district on Wednesday. The Dalit-Bahujan, Adivasis, women and human rights champion was 81. She is survived by her husband Dr Bharat Patankar, daughter Prachi, son-in-law Tejaswi and granddaughter Nia, who have settled in the US. Omvedt had been associated with the Shramik Mukti Dal, which follows an ideology not simply based on Marxism but on Marx-Phule-Ambedkarism.  Omvedt's dissertation was titled "Cultural Revolt in a Colonial Society: The Non-Brahman Movement in Western India, 1873-1930". Besides having undertaken many research projects, Dr Omvedt has been a consultant for FAO, UNDP and NOVIB and has served as a Dr Ambedkar Chair Professor at NISWASS in Odisha, a professor of sociology at the Savitribai Phule Pune University and an Asian guest professor at the Nordic Institute of Asian Studies, Copenhagen. She was a senior fellow at the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library and research director of the Krantivir Trust.  An Indian citizen since 1983, Dr Omvedt was born in Minneapolis and studied at Carleton College and at UC Berkeley where she earned her PhD in sociology in 1973.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-born-indian-author-activist-gail-omvedt-passes-away-1023311.html
25-08-2021||National||Vanniyar quota: Entry subject to result of PILs challenging 10.5% reservation, says Madras HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday declined to grant a total stay against the 10.5 per cent Vanniyar quota but held that admission in higher educational institutions and appointment in government services will be subject to the outcome of the batch of petitions challenging the same. Declining the interim plea of the petitioners to grant a total stay on the operation of the GO, providing 10.5 per cent exclusive reservation to Vanniyars in Tamil Nadu, the second bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Kannammal said the admissions and appointments shall be subject to the final orders to be passed later. The bench was passing interim orders on a batch of writ and PIL petitions from individuals and caste-outfits challenging the reservation of 10.5 per cent to Vanniyars within the 20 per cent reservation for the BCs, MBCs and other DNCs. Earlier, Advocate-General R Shanmugasundaram vehemently opposed grant of any interim orders and justified the enactment. The batch of PIL petitions from individuals and some caste-based outfits challenged the legislation passed by the then AIADMK government, headed by K Palaniswami, just before the model code of conduct came into force in February this year ahead of the April 6 polls. The petitioners alleged that if the reservation was allowed to be implemented, Vanniyars and other sub-castes coming under "Vanniyakula Kshatriya" community would enjoy 10.5 per cent exclusive reservation in admission to higher education and government services while other 25 castes under MBC and 68 castes under DNC will have to share a meagre seven per cent of the remaining reservation. In its counter, the government had submitted that the internal reservation of 10.5 per cent to Vanniyars would not affect the prospects of other communities falling under the most backward class communities. The Tamil Nadu Act 8 of 2021 was enacted in compliance with the Constitution and other applicable laws and on the basis of adequate data disclosed by the reports of the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Commission. As such, implementation of the impugned Act was not barred in any manner, the counter-affidavit filed by the State Chief Secretary, Law Secretary and the secretary of the BC, MBC Welfare department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vanniyar-quota-entry-subject-to-result-of-pils-challenging-105-reservation-says-madras-hc-1023314.html
25-08-2021||National||EuroSchool launches 'Centre of Excellence' initiative||Leading school network EuroSchool has launched a 'Centre of Excellence for Enrichment'. This is part of an ambitious initiative to bring on board world-class partners and experts to deliver skills and competencies across the school network. The school has partnered with the world's renowned institutions such as Dale Carnegie, Trinity College London, Cambridge English Assessments (Test Centre), National Stock Exchange Academy, Pro Grad Junior, LogIQids, Bloom & Grow, Model United Nations (Preparatory Centre) among several others, to provide professions courses to students. The purpose of this initiative is to catalyse Learning and Skill Enhancement among the students of EuroSchool by offering the best-in-class professional programmes. Commenting on the initiative, Rahul Deshpande, CEO EuroSchool India said, "Our goal has always been to provide meaningful learning environments for our children. The Centre of Excellence is a one-of-a-kind initiative that empowers our children in their journey with EuroSchool. Students will have the opportunity to equip themselves with 21st-century skills from world-class institutions at a reasonable cost.” The programmes will be conducted twice a week in 60 minute capsules and the overall duration of each course will be around six months. The main objective of this initiative is to help students gain a competitive edge and benefit from collaborations that have been made by the school management. Under CoE, students will be offered professional programmes during after-school hours. "Under this initiative, high-quality professional programmes will be offered through a single virtual platform. We understand that for parents, the future of their children is paramount. Keeping this in mind the CoE programs are designed from Junior KG to Grade 12 at approximately Rs 1000-1,500 per month,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/euroschool-launches-centre-of-excellence-initiative-1023318.html
25-08-2021||National||Indian Idol winner Pawandeep Rajan made Uttarakhand's brand ambassador for art, tourism, culture||Indian Idol winner Pawandeep Rajan was on Wednesday made Uttarakhand's brand ambassador for art, tourism, and culture. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami made the announcement after Rajan met him at his official residence here. "Despite his humble background, Pawandeep has made a mark in the world of music with his talent. He has made Uttarakhand famous across the country and abroad," Dhami said. Twenty-three-year-old Rajan, who won the 12th edition of music reality show Indian Idol on August 15, is a resident of Champawat in Kumaon region of Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-idol-winner-pawandeep-rajan-made-uttarakhands-brand-ambassador-for-art-tourism-culture-1023320.html
25-08-2021||National||PM Modi says India remains firmly committed to move forward with goal of clean, modern mobility||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said holistic steps are being taken for the value chain associated with automobile manufacturing so that the industry becomes more productive and sustainable. In a message to the auto industry body Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) on its 61st Annual Convention, the Prime Minister also stated that India remained firmly committed to moving forward with the goal of clean and modern mobility while lauding the role of the industry in the country's progress. "The role of the automobile industry in India's economy and progress has been remarkable. From contributing significantly towards manufacturing to furthering exports, from creating numerous employment opportunities to adding to the ease of living for people, the sector has been a partner in India's growth story," Modi wrote in his message which was read out by SIAM President Kenichi Ayukawa. He further said, "Even during the nation's fight against Covid-19, the sensitive and active effort of the sector is deeply valued." Stating that modernity in mobility brings about a positive impact in almost every industry and every sector of the country, Modi said, "The 21st century India remains firmly committed to move forward with the goal of clean and modern mobility. Holistic steps are being taken for the value chain associated with auto manufacturing so that the industry becomes more productive and sustainable." He also reassured the auto industry that "all the stakeholders have an important role in our government's steadfast efforts to transform India into a global manufacturing hub". Presence of manufacturing units of global automobile manufacturers in India is reflective of a thriving ecosystem, Modi added. Reiterating that there are rapid changes taking place in technology, lifestyle and economy and old approaches and old practices have to be changed, he said "It is also crucial to protect our environment, resources and raw materials." For this reason, Modi said, "India is not only emphasizing on exploring new possibilities but also encouraging a circular economy. Recently launched National Automobile Scrappage Policy exemplifies this vision." The Prime Minister said as India celebrates the 75 years of Independence, the next 25 years are very important for the country. "We have to work together for the next generation infrastructure, world class manufacturing and new age technology. India is committed to providing its citizens with global standards in terms of quality and safety," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-india-remains-firmly-committed-to-move-forward-with-goal-of-clean-modern-mobility-1023321.html
25-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Study predicts 6 lakh cases a day if vaccinations sluggish||However, by tabulating deaths on the day they happened, DH has found that the city has already recorded several zero-death days. Strikingly, the state Covid-19 bulletin has not declared any deaths in the city since August 20. The indigenous vaccine uses the same messenger RNA-technology based platform that has been tested successfully by Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech to come out with the world’s two most successful vaccines with around 95 per cent efficacy against the Covid-19 disease. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation approved the trials on the basis of recommendations by a Subject Expert Committee which perused the interim phase-1 data and found that the vaccine candidate was safe, tolerable and immunogenic. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-study-predicts-6-lakh-cases-a-day-if-vaccinations-sluggish-1023330.html
25-08-2021||National||Govt giving assets to private sector at throwaway prices: Pilot on asset monetisation programme||Congress leader Sachin Pilot lashed out at the Centre on Wednesday over its asset monetisation programme, saying the central government should help the poor and the middle class instead of giving away the assets created in the past 70 years to the private sector at throwaway prices. The former Rajasthan deputy chief minister also accused the BJP of misleading people and doing divisive politics. "The government should help poor and middle-class people instead of handing over the assets of the country to select people," he told reporters in Dausa. He claimed that the Centre wants to give the assets, be it railways, airports or big institutions, to its acquaintances at throwaway prices. Pilot said despite the rise in fuel prices and unemployment, Union ministers are taking out 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra'. "The price of petrol is above Rs 105, a gas cylinder is for Rs 900, there are no jobs, lakhs of people have died due to coronavirus. There was an oxygen shortage during the second wave of the pandemic but still the ministers are seeking blessings," he said. During his Dausa visit, the Congress leader exuded confidence that the Congress would win the Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti elections. The elections will be held in Bharatpur, Dausa, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Sawai Madhopur and Sirohi districts. Polling will be held in three phases on August 26, 29 and September 1, and counting of votes will take place on September 4 at the district headquarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-giving-assets-to-private-sector-at-throwaway-prices-pilot-on-asset-monetisation-programme-1023332.html
25-08-2021||National||Sena members who protested outside Rane's Mumbai home meet CM Thackeray||Yuva Sena members, who protested outside Union minister Narayan Rane's residence in Mumbai over his remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, met the CM here, a leader from the party's youth wing said on Wednesday. The meeting took place on Tuesday night at Thackeray's official residence 'Varsha', said Yuva Sena leader Varun Sardesai, who led the team during the protest. State cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is the CM's son and heads the Yuva Sena, was present in the meeting. Sardesai, who is the nephew of CM Thackeray, had on Tuesday asked whether senior BJP leaders approved of the language used by Rane against the chief minister. Activists of the Shiv Sena's youth wing and the BJP clashed with each other near Rane's residence on Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz (West) on Tuesday in the wake of his comments against the CM, police earlier said. Stones were pelted from both sides, following which police used cane-charge to disperse the agitators, an official had said. The clash took place during a protest organised by activists of the Yuva Sena against Rane, he had said. Later, additional police force was deployed in the area. Rane, during his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' at Raigad in Maharashtra on Monday, sparked off a row over his remarks about slapping Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter’s ignorance of the year of India’s independence. He was arrested on Tuesday in Ratnagiri district and later granted bail by a court at Mahad in Raigad.  Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sena-members-who-protested-outside-ranes-mumbai-home-meet-cm-thackeray-1023334.html
25-08-2021||National||Not opposed to the withdrawal of 'malicious' cases but govt must seek approval of HCs: SC||The Supreme Court Wednesday said state governments have the power under law to withdraw “malicious” criminal cases and it is not against the withdrawal of such cases but they should be examined by the high courts concerned. The top court also expressed concern over inordinate delays in investigation and conclusion of trial in cases lodged by Enforcement Directorate and Central Bureau of Investigation against Members of Parliament and MLAs/MLCs and asked the Centre to provide necessary manpower and infrastructure. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant said it will pass a detailed order on the issue and pointed out that it was not saying anything or expressing any opinion on the investigating agencies like ED or CBI as it will lower their morale but they should ensure that trials are completed expeditiously. “We don’t want to say anything about investigating agencies as we don’t want to lower their morale. Else, their report speaks volumes. There are over 200 cases in these courts. Sorry to say Mr Tushar Mehta these reports are inconclusive. No reasons have been given for not filing charge sheets for 10 to 15 years. Simply, attaching properties worth crores of rupees does not serve any purpose,” the bench said. The top court is hearing a PIL filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay seeking life ban on lawmakers convicted in heinous criminal cases and speedy disposal of cases against them. At the outset, senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, appointed as amicus curiae in the matter, told the bench that the status reports of CBI and ED on cases against lawmakers is “disturbing” and “shocking” which needs “surgical treatment” for expediting the trial. CJI Ramana said the court has gone through the ED and CBI reports but “it’s easy for us to say, expedite the trial, etc. but we are also aware that there are several issues involved with this. There is a shortage of judges, courts and infrastructure. I’ve also summarised and have prepared some notes. Total 76 cases of ED are pending from 2012 onwards. 58 cases of CBI are of life imprisonment and the oldest case is from 2000”. The bench said that it has already expressed its displeasure and reservation to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta over the issue and has asked him to do something. “You have to do something on this issue Mr Mehta. Don’t keep us hanging like this,” the bench said, adding that he will have to give some explanation, especially for ED and CBI. Hansaria pointed out that cases are being withdrawn by many state governments by simply saying that these are malicious cases, instituted by previous political dispensation and for no other reasons. The bench said, “We are not opposing withdrawal of cases by the state governments. They have power to do so, if they have been maliciously instituted but what we are saying that they have should be examined by a judicial officer or the High Court. The governments must move high courts for withdrawal of cases. We will examine this point and issue necessary directions”. During the hearing, Mehta said that the top court may issue directions to the investigating agencies to complete the probe within six months and the trial court may be directed to complete the trial in a time-bound manner. Hansaria told the bench that in cases where investigations are pending before the ED and the CBI, a Monitoring Committee may be constituted comprising --Former Judge of the apex court or the former Chief Justice of a high court, Director, ED (or his nominee), Director, CBI (or his nominee), Home Secretary to the Government of India (or his nominee) and a judicial officer not below the rank of District Judge to be nominated by this Court. The bench asked Mehta to file his response to the suggestion of constituting the committee. Mehta submitted that in money laundering cases money is mostly parked abroad and it takes time to ascertain the trail of funds and the agency has to send letters rogatory to different countries and wait for their responses due to which enough time is consumed. Hansaria said that 50-60 per cent of cases registered by the ED and CBI are pending investigation for 10-12 years and this should be expedited. The bench told Hansaria that like the judiciary, investigating agencies are also facing manpower crunch and it has to take practical view on these issues and the Solicitor General can apprise it about the shortage.   “We understand manpower is the real issue. We have to take a practical stand. Just like us, investigating agencies are also suffering due to shortage of manpower. You see, nowadays everyone wants a CBI investigation,” the CJI observed, adding, “Mr Mehta we want your cooperation on the issue. You apprise us about the shortage of manpower in investigating agencies”. The bench said it would also clarify in its order that after conviction of a sitting or former lawmaker, his appeal in the high court should not be heard on priority but in normal course. The top court said it will pass orders by evening. The top court was informed that over 120 lawmakers including 51 sitting and former MPs are accused of money laundering and being probed by the Enforcement Directorate while 121 others have been booked by the CBI for various criminal offences. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-opposed-to-the-withdrawal-of-malicious-cases-but-govt-must-seek-approval-of-hcs-sc-1023335.html
25-08-2021||National||My family living in fear: Grandfather of woman who died after immolation bid outside SC||His family is under threat and living in fear but determined to fight on, says the grieving grandfather of the woman who had accused a BSP MP of rape and died in Delhi days after she set herself on fire outside the Supreme Court. Mourning the untimely death of his 24-year-old granddaughter, who breathed her last in a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, the elderly gentleman alleged that BSP MP Atul Rai’s men had threatened to kill his family. "Henchmen of the MP used to come to our place and threaten to kill us. We are living in fear," he told reporters. Rai has been in jail since 2019, when the rape allegations were first made. The woman and a friend had immolated themselves outside the apex court on August 16 when they were barred from entering the premises. The man, 27, suffered 65 per cent burns and died on Saturday. The woman had 85 per cent burns. "A lot of pressure was mounted on my granddaughter. She faced it all and continued her fight (against the MP). We are economically weak but we will continue the fight. We  never thought that we have to see such days," her grandfather said. The woman's father had died following a cardiac arrest four years ago, he said. "The MP fielded my granddaughter in student politics in Varanasi and later ruined her life. We will decide our future course of action when her mother and brother return from Delhi," he said. The woman's grandparents live in a village here. Her body was handed over to her family after a post-mortem following which they cremated her at Nigambodh Ghat in the national capital, Delhi Police officials said. Rajkaran Naiyar, Superintendent of Police, Ballia, said the family will be provided security. The woman had been summoned by a Allahabad court on charges of forgery and other charges. Allegations were also levelled against her for forging her birth papers by Rai's brother. In August, a local court in Varanasi issued a non-bailable warrant against her in the forgery case based on the complaint.         According to Delhi Police officials, before attempting suicide, the woman, along with her male friend, had recorded a Facebook Live video. She disclosed her identity in it and said she had filed the rape case against Rai in 2019. She also alleged in the video that a few senior Uttar Pradesh police officers were supporting the accused. Earlier, a senior police officer had said the man and the woman took the extreme step as a court had issued a non-bailable warrant against them in the case of forgery for allegedly submitting wrong proof of age in the rape case. In her Facebook video, the woman had mentioned the warrant and said she had been summoned by the judge, police said. The woman had filed a plea in the Supreme Court in March, seeking transfer of her case from the Allahabad court to Delhi for a fair trial, claiming that she faced a threat to her life. Two Varanasi policemen -- Varanasi Cantt SHO Rakesh Singh and investigation officer Girija Shankar -- who were probing the case of forgery were suspended and an inquiry was initiated into the matter after she attempted suicide on August 16, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/my-family-living-in-fear-grandfather-of-woman-who-died-after-immolation-bid-outside-sc-1023339.html
25-08-2021||National||Anticipated Taliban takeover of Afghanistan but timelines surprised us: Bipin Rawat||Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat on Wednesday asserted that any possible terrorist activity flowing out of Taliban-controlled Afghanistan and finding its way into India will be firmly dealt with, and suggested that the Quad nations should boost cooperation in the global war on terrorism. Gen Rawat said India was anticipating a Taliban takeover of Afghanistan but the timelines of the latest developments have surprised it, noting that the outfit has not changed over the past 20 years. He along with Commander of the US Indo-Pacific Command Admiral John Aquilino was speaking at an interactive session organised by the Observer Research Foundation (ORF). In his remarks, Admiral Aquilino referred to challenges that India has been facing, specifically with regard to "sovereignty on the Line of Actual Control" as well as the "foundational security concerns" in the South China Sea region, in a clear reference to China's aggressive behaviour. The Chief of Defence Staff said India is committed to ensuring a terrorist-free environment in the region. "As far as Afghanistan is concerned, we will make sure that any activity likely to flow out of Afghanistan and then find its way into India will be dealt with in the manner in which we have been dealing with terrorism in our country," Gen Rawat said. "I think if any other support can be forthcoming from the Quad nations, in at least identifying the terrorists and getting some intelligence input to fight this global war on terrorism, I think that will be welcomed," he said. The Quad comprises India, the US, Japan and Australia. Gen Rawat said New Delhi was concerned about the possibility of terrorist activities from Afghanistan impacting India and contingency plans were put into place to deal with such a challenge. "From India's perspective, we were anticipating a Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. We were concerned about how the terrorist activities from Afghanistan could overflow into India," he said. "And to that extent, our contingency planning had been ongoing and we are prepared for it. Yes, the timelines certainly surprised us. We were anticipating this thing happening maybe a couple of months down the line," he added. Gen Rawat said the Taliban has not changed in the last 20 years and only its partners have changed. "It is pretty much the same; it is the same Taliban that was there 20 years ago. News reports and reports from the expats who have come from there are all telling us the kind of activities the Taliban is into. All that has happened is that the partners have now changed. It is the same Taliban with different partners," Gen Rawat observed. His comments came in the backdrop of mounting concerns over the possibility of rise in activities of various terror groups including the Lashkar-e-Toiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed from Taliban-controlled Afghanistan. Admiral Aquilino largely talked about challenges facing the Indo-Pacific, noting that it is the most consequential region for the future. "The attack on the rules-based international order that allows freedom of navigation for all is certainly one of the most critical challenges," he said "That freedom of navigation allows two-thirds of the world's economy to flow through the South China Sea. One-quarter of the world's liquid natural gas flows through the area. It is critical for the prosperity of all the nations and when it is challenged and potentially confronted, that will negatively impact all the nations in the region," Admiral Aquilino said. He described the challenges as the "foundational security concern". "There are many more. There is economic coercion, there is corruption. There are challenges that the Indians, specifically with regard to sovereignty on the Line of Actual Control...There are rules against the people of Hong Kong," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anticipated-taliban-takeover-of-afghanistan-but-timelines-surprised-us-bipin-rawat-1023341.html
25-08-2021||National||One more held for raising anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar||The Delhi Police has arrested one more person for allegedly raising anti-Muslim slogans during a protest near Jantar Mantar here on August 8, officials said on Wednesday. The accused, identified as Uttam Upadhyay, was arrested from Ghaziabad on Sunday, police said. In a video that surfaced on social media, the police said he was the main person who was seen raising slogans. Seven people, including advocate and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay, have already been arrested in the case. The slogans, the police said, were raised during the August 8 protest organised by the Bharat Jodo Andolan held near Jantar Mantar. The earlier arrests were made after an FIR was registered at the Connaught Place Police Station. It pertained to provocative sloganeering at the programme, the police said. Apart from Ashwini Upadhyay, Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma, Vinit Bajpai and Sushil Tiwari were arrested, they said. Preet Singh is the director of 'Save India Foundation' while Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar and Vinod Sharma are associated with different right-wing organisations. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by Bharat Jodo Andolan. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of Bharat Jodo Aandolan, had said that the protest was held under the leadership of Ashwini Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. Ashwini Upadhyay too had denied any involvement in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-more-held-for-raising-anti-muslim-slogans-at-jantar-mantar-1023345.html
25-08-2021||National||SC agrees to hear pleas challenging HC verdicts upholding disqualification of 3 MLAs||The Supreme Court Wednesday agreed to hear the petitions filed by three former Congress MLAs who have challenged the Manipur High Court verdicts upholding the order of the Assembly Speaker disqualifying them from being members of the House. The apex court issued notices and sought responses from the office of Assembly Speaker and others on three separate petitions filed by the disqualified MLAs who have challenged the June 2, 2021 verdicts of the high court which had said there was enough material before the Speaker to draw inference that they had voluntarily given up their membership of Indian National Congress (INC). The three MLAs were disqualified by the Speaker on June 18 last year after disqualification petitions were filed alleging that they had voluntarily given up their membership of the INC and given their support to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). It was also alleged in the disqualification petition that they had participated in political works and programmes hosted by the BJP. A bench comprising justices U U Lalit and Ajay Rastogi, while asking the respondents to file their affidavits within two weeks, posted the matter for hearing on September 29. The top court was hearing three separate petitions filed by Kshetrimayum Biren Singh, Yengkhom Surchandra Singh and Sanasam Bira Singh who were elected as MLAs as Congress candidates in the March 2017 Assembly election. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the petitioners, told the bench that the high court order be stayed. The bench said it was issuing notice on the petitions and the matter would be heard on September 29. Rohatgi told the bench that petitioners have approached the apex court as the high court had upheld their disqualification and the alleged ground of disqualification is that they have voluntarily given up the membership of the Congress party. He argued there were procedural as well as substantial flaws in the disqualification proceedings and the case has been built allegedly on the basis of media reports and photographs that these MLAs were seen with BJP leaders. The MLAs have completely denied the allegations and have said they are still with the INC, he said. In one of the verdicts passed on the petition filed by Kshetrimayum Biren Singh, the high court had said, "On examining the photographs/videos and newspaper reports filed in connection with the disqualification cases, the existence of which was never denied by the writ petitioner, we are of the considered view that there were enough materials before the Speaker to draw an inference that the writ petitioner had voluntarily given up his membership of the Indian National Congress (INC)". "In view of the ongoing discussion and findings, we are of the opinion that the orders of the Speaker are in accordance with the provisions of Tenth Schedule of the Constitution of India and do not call for any interference by this court in exercise of the power of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. The writ petition, therefore, fails and is accordingly dismissed," the high court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-agrees-to-hear-pleas-challenging-hc-verdicts-upholding-disqualification-of-3-mlas-1023346.html
25-08-2021||National||SC asks WB govt to maintain restraint on Pegasus Inquiry Commission||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the West Bengal government, which formed Justice M B Lokur-headed Commission of Inquiry to probe Pegasus snooping case, to observe some restraint as the matter with pan-India effect was being examined by it. The West Bengal government, for its part, assured the top court that the two-member Inquiry Commission would not go ahead with the probe till the court heard a clutch of pleas on the issue. A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana tagged the PIL, filed by Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust, challenging the formation of the Commission of Inquiry by the West Bengal government, with other petitions pending before the top court on the controversy. The court said all the matters would be taken up together next week. "Please maintain restraint as we are already hearing the Pegasus matter", the bench told senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi appearing for the West Bengal government. "At present, this issue is connected to other issues, in all fairness we expect you can wait. We will hear it with the matter sometime next week. Those matters (pleas seeking inquiry on alleged use of Pegasus spyware by the government) are likely to have pan India impact," the bench also comprising Justice Surya Kant told Singhvi. The bench further said, "next week we will pass a comprehensive order, in the meantime, if you start an enquiry, we will have to pass an order." Singhvi said he will convey the court's views to the government and the Commission and in one week or two weeks, nothing will happen. "Nothing will happen in the meantime. Please don't make an observation, that is all," Singhvi said. Senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for petitioner NGO Global Village Foundation Public Charitable Trust submitted that there can't be two parallel inquiries. In its response to the top court's notice issued on August 18, Mamata Banerjee justified the setting up of a two-member Commission of Inquiry as the Union government “non-committal and evasive”. The West Bengal said that the Commission, constituted by it, would “put into place effective countermeasures against any rogue foreign spyware”. The West Bengal government also questioned the motive behind the instant plea, claiming that the trustee and chairman of the NGO had close links with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and its affiliate, Swadeshi Jagran Manch. "The Pegasus controversy is indeed a matter of public importance affecting public order and therefore, the state government had the jurisdiction to constitute the Commission to restore public confidence in the people of West Bengal and to ensure that no unauthorised interception through a rogue foreign spyware can occur in the state," the affidavit filed by the WB government said. Earlier on August 18, the top court had refused to stay the proceedings of the Inquiry Commission, also comprising former Acting Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court, Justice (retired) Jyotirmay Bhattacharya. The NGO, in its plea, sought a direction to disband the two-member Commission. The top court was already seized of pleas seeking court-monitored probe into the reports of government allegedly using Israeli software Pegasus to spy on politicians, activists, court staffs, and journalists. The Centre has offered to constitute a Committee of Experts to examine all the issues relating to the alleged Pegasus snooping issue. On August 17, the court had told the Centre that it would not like to compromise with the security of the nation but wanted the competent authority to apprise it on charges related to illegal hacking of phones through Israeli's Pegasus spyware. "We will discuss what needs to be done, if Committee of Experts needs to be made, or some other Committee," the bench had said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-wb-govt-to-maintain-restraint-on-pegasus-inquiry-commission-1023349.html
25-08-2021||National||Breast milk of vaccinated mothers contains antibodies that fight Covid-19: Study||The breast milk of lactating mothers who have received the Covid-19 vaccine contains a significant supply of antibodies that may help protect nursing infants from the illness, according to a study. The research, published in the journal Breastfeeding Medicine, strongly suggests that vaccines can help protect both mother and baby, another compelling reason for pregnant or lactating women to get immunised. "Our findings show that vaccination results in a significant increase in antibodies against SARS-CoV-2 in breast milk, suggesting that vaccinated mothers can pass on this immunity to their babies," said Joseph Larkin, a senior study author, and an associate professor at the University of Florida, US. The researchers noted that when babies are born, their immune systems are underdeveloped, making it hard for them to fight infections on their own. They are also often too young to respond adequately to certain types of vaccines, they said. "During this vulnerable period, breast milk allows nursing mothers to provide infants with 'passive immunity'," said Josef Neu, study's co-author and a professor at the University of Florida. "Think of breast milk as a toolbox full of all the different tools that help prepare the infant for life. Vaccination adds another tool to the toolbox, one that has the potential to be especially good at preventing Covid-19 illness," Neu explained. The study was conducted between December 2020 and March 2021, when the Pfizer and Moderna Covid-19 vaccines first became available to health care workers in the US. The researchers recruited 21 lactating health care workers who had never contracted Covid-19. They sampled the mothers' breast milk and blood three times: before vaccination, after the first dose and after the second dose. "We saw a robust antibody response in blood and breast milk after the second dose -- about a hundred-fold increase compared with levels before vaccination," said Lauren Stafford, a doctoral student in Larkin's lab. "These levels are also higher than those observed after natural infection with the virus," added Vivian Valcarce, from the University of Florida. Vaccinating mothers to protect babies is nothing new, Valcarce said. "Typically, expectant mothers are vaccinated against whooping cough and flu because these can be serious illnesses for infants. Babies can also catch Covid-19, so routine vaccination of mothers against the virus could be something we see in the future," he said. The team is continuing to explore how breast milk containing Covid-19 antibodies gained through vaccination protects babies who consume it. "We would like to know if infants who consume breast milk containing these antibodies develop their own protection against Covid-19," Larkin said. The researchers said many other simultaneous studies conducted around the world also show antibodies in the breastmilk of vaccinated mothers. "That means our study validates a growing body of evidence," Neu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/breast-milk-of-vaccinated-mothers-contains-antibodies-that-fight-covid-19-study-1023350.html
25-08-2021||National||BJP plans to carpet bomb UP ahead of assembly polls||BJP plans to carpet bomb Uttar Pradesh ahead of the assembly polls scheduled to be held in March next year and has lined up a series of programs to be attended by its top leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The party apparently doesn't want to leave anything to chance in the wake of the Opposition's relentless campaign to 'expose' its government's alleged failure to handle the second wave of Covid 19 and the 'anti-farmer' policies, According to sources in the UP BJP, the saffron party has planned to hold public meetings in different parts of the state from the next month and organise mass contact programs at village and booth levels. Sources said that the state government also plans to inaugurate several developmental projects, which would be attended by Modi and other senior party leaders. ''Modiji will be visiting UP regularly in the months leading to the next assembly polls...several developmental projects launched by the state government and the Centre are nearing completion or are complete.....the prime minister will be dedicating them to the nation,'' said a senior state BJP leader while speaking to DH on Wednesday. The leader said that Poorvanchal Expressway was almost complete and was likely to be opened for the public next month. Similarly, several medical colleges were also nearing completion in different parts of the state. ''We would like the prime minister to dedicate them to the nation before the polls,'' the leader added. Besides Modi, Union Ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh, BJP national president J P Nadda and the newly inducted ministers in the Union Cabinet from the state would also be addressing public rallies across the state. ''We have planned dozens of small and big public meetings.....they will be addressed by our top leaders,'' the BJP leader said. Sources said that CM Yogi Adityanath has instructed the officials to complete the pending developmental projects before the model code of conduct came into force so that they could be dedicated to the nation before the polls. UP BJP leaders said that the party did not want to take any chance in the forthcoming assembly elections. ''We are ready to counter the opposition's propaganda regarding Covid-19 mismanagement,'' he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-plans-to-carpet-bomb-up-ahead-of-assembly-polls-1023352.html
25-08-2021||National||Couldn't even collect fistful of soil to remind me of home: Afghanistan's 1st non-Muslim woman MP||Afghanistan's first non-Muslim woman MP Anarkali Kaur Honaryar never thought she would have to leave her country. But as the Taliban swept into Kabul, she had to take flight not getting a chance to even collect a handful of the soil as a memory of her motherland. Honaryar, 36, a dentist, championed the cause of women in the highly patriarchal society of Afghanistan and led campaigns for the rights of the vulnerable communities. She dreamt of a life in a progressive and democratic Afghanistan. "My dream is now shattered." Honaryar still hopes that Afghanistan gets a government that protects the gains made in the last 20 years. "Maybe it's little, but we still have time." Hostilities in Afghanistan had earlier forced the Sikh MP's relatives to move to India, Europe and Canada. Honaryar and her family reached India in an Indian Air Force's C-17 transport aircraft on Sunday morning amid a deteriorating situation in her country after the return of the Taliban. She overcame with emotions at the airport thinking whether she will be able to return home, ever. "I didn't even get the time to take a fistful of my country's soil... a souvenir from my country. I could just touch the ground at the airport before boarding the flight," Honaryar told PTI as she broke into tears. Staying at a hotel in Delhi, her ailing mother wants to go back to Kabul. "I don't know what to tell her," Honaryar says. In May 2009, Honaryar was chosen by Radio Free Europe's Afghan chapter as their "Person of the Year". The recognition made her a household name in Kabul. A doctor by profession, the lawmaker recalls her days when she worked for the Afghan human rights commission and traversed the seemingly inaccessible mountains regions of the country. "Muslim women trusted me despite not being from the same religion," she says. Asked about her friends and co-workers who are still stuck in the conflict-torn nation, she says "We tried really hard to avoid a situation where we have to leave our country." "My colleagues and my friends have been calling me, sending me messages. But how do I respond? Every call, every message breaks my heart, makes me cry. They think I am safe and at ease in Delhi, but how do I tell them that I miss them a lot." Honaryar says the memories that she wants to keep are of the love she received in Afghanistan. "In Afghanistan, people would swarm around me and click selfies when I would come out from meetings. They loved me because I was their voice in the National Assembly. I fought for everyone. The issues I raised, all my speeches, are part of the records of the Assembly," she said. Among her recorded speeches is a vow that Honaryar took -- not to work for a Taliban government ever. "I said a lot of things against the Taliban. My ideas and principles are completely opposite. I'm alive and hopeful. I will continue to work for Afghanistan from Delhi," she says.  Honaryar feels that the future is unpredictable for the people of Afghanistan. "The people are so depressed that they are desperately clinging onto planes... as if those are buses that would take them to safety," she said gazing into a void. The one question that troubles her the most is the future of women under Taliban rule. "The Taliban said no one will be harmed. But peace does not mean non-violence. Peace means that they accept women as equals and recognize their rights," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/couldnt-even-collect-fistful-of-soil-to-remind-me-of-home-afghanistans-1st-non-muslim-woman-mp-1023357.html
25-08-2021||National||U-20 World Athletics Championship: Sports Minister Anurag Thakur interacts with athletes||Sports Minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday met the Indian athletes who returned from Nairobi after competing at the U-20 World Athletics Championships. The Indian contingent returned with a haul of three medals that included two silvers and a bronze. Thakur expressed confidence that the young athletes will excel in the future international competitions like Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and the Olympics. "It is a big moment for us to cherish. We see a hope in you," Thakur was quoted as saying in release. "Your performance is commendable in the backdrop of Covid-19. These were not easy times, these were not normal times," he added. While the Indian mixed 4x400m relay team, comprising the quartet of Bharat S, Priya Mohan, Summy and Kapil, bagged the bronze medal on the opening day of the competitions, race walker Amit Khatri and long jumper Shaili Singh clinched silver medals in their respective events. The minister said India currently has considerable bench strength, spanning various disciplines in sports and the government is focused on nurturing India's young athletes and handholding them towards podium finish. The government will ensure all facilities and best training for the athletes to excel in international competitions, and the TOPS as well as training of elite athletes have been taken up towards this end, he explained. Lauding the former athletes for coming up in the field of coaching, Thakur urged more such athletes to come forward to handhold young athletes and motivate them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/u-20-world-athletics-championship-sports-minister-anurag-thakur-interacts-with-athletes-1023365.html
25-08-2021||National||Cong govts did asset monetisations too, why didn't Rahul Gandhi tear off those proposals? asks Sitharaman||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Wednesday launched a scathing attack on those criticising the Rs 6 lakh crore monetisation plan, wondering if Congress leader Rahul Gandhi even understands what such a move entails. Speaking to reporters in the financial capital, Sitharaman said it is Congress that received “kickbacks” by selling resources such as land and mines. She reminded that the governments headed by the Congress raised Rs 8,000 crore by monetising the Mumbai-Pune expressway, and in 2008, it was the UPA government that floated the request for proposal to lease out New Delhi Railway Station. Recalling an incident where Gandhi tore off an ordinance he didn't agree with, Sitharaman questioned why he didn't tear off the RFP. “If he indeed is against monetisation, why was the RFP on the monetisation of NDLS torn to pieces by Rahul Gandhi? And if this is monetisation, did they sell off the New Delhi railway station? Is it owned by jijaji (brother in law) now? Does he understand what is monetisation?” Seeking to address concerns on cronyism and sell-offs of assets created over 70 years, Sitharaman reminded the Congress of the Commonwealth games. “… what did happen during CWG? Within one CWG, they finished all that which can be creamed out into the accounts of their cronies,” she said. Sitharaman reiterated that the asset monetisation plan does not involve selling off assets, and the assets will be handed back to the government. “They are brownfield assets which are completed but under-utilised. If the government has to utilise it better, it has to be through monetisation process wherein it will be put to effective use with a bit more addition to spruce it up to bring it up to utilisation,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-govts-did-asset-monetisations-too-why-didnt-rahul-gandhi-tear-off-those-proposals-asks-sitharaman-1023378.html
25-08-2021||National||IOC to use drones to check fuel thefts from pipelines||Indian Oil Corp (IOC) is deploying drones to monitor its vast network of pipelines across the country as it doubles down on the use of technology to thwart attempts to steal fuel, helping not just save the commodity but also avoid accidents. The country's top oil company already uses a combination of sophisticated technology and patrolling to detect any leakage from the pipeline network spanning over 15,000-kilometers. And now, it is adding drones to monitor the vast network, officials said. Use of technology helped throttle 34 attempts to pilfer fuel and arrest 53 persons in the 2020-21 fiscal year, they said adding the latest incident was in Sonipat, Haryana on August 17. IOC recently started drone monitoring of the 120-km long Delhi-Panipat section of the Mathura-Jalandhar pipeline. The live feed of the drones was monitored to detect leakages and attempts to pilfer fuel, they said. Pipelines are the lifeline of an economy and any attempt to disrupt flows through the underground energy highways has widespread ramifications. Pilferage from these pipelines, which carry highly inflammable petroleum products such as petrol and diesel at high pressure, can cause serious accidents that threaten lives and damage property besides interrupting energy supplies. "Any pilferage attempt on these pipelines is a grave offence under Sections 15 and 16 of The Petroleum and Mineral Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of Way) Act 1961. Such criminal acts are non-bailable offences, and intruders are punishable with rigorous imprisonment for ten years or more," an official explained. IOC has deployed a SCADA-based system to closely monitor the flow in the pipeline network and is using a leak detection system (LDS) to identify tentative vulnerable points, officials said. The firm, which operates over 15,000-km of cross-country pipeline network that carries fuel like petrol and diesel from oil refineries to consumption centres, has deployed a robust round-the-clock monitoring system to track pipeline pilferage or any other such disruptive attempts on its pipeline network. The firm closely monitors the pipeline flow, pressure parameters, and trends through an Instrumentation and Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. In addition to this, an LDS ensures 24X7 analysis to identify tentative vulnerable points, officials said. Also, a comprehensive system of physical inspection of the entire network on foot by line patrolmen and DGR guards are also in place. To further enhance the effectiveness of this constant vigil, the movement of line patrolmen and DGR guards are monitored through Global Positioning System (GPS) enabled devices. The existing Right of Way (ROW) of the pipelines is also mapped through Geo-Fencing. "Such GPS-tracked physical inspections also help spot and identify abnormalities like loose soil, the smell of leaked petroleum products or suspicious vehicle tyre marks in the vicinity of the pipelines," an official said. IOC teams, along with local Police, also undertake periodic joint patrolling of vulnerable locations to track any unauthorised activities. To further boost the security of its pipelines, IndianOil has undertaken focused digital initiatives like the optical fibre based Pipeline Intrusion Detection and Warning System (PIDWS). This system is presently under implementation in 5,474 KM of its pipeline length. The system is already functional for 997 KM of the pipeline network, and the remaining will be commissioned by 2022-23. Officials said IOC is also exploring several other innovative security protocols to enhance pipeline security further, like the 'Negative Pressure Wave Type Leak/Pilferage Detection System' and monitoring the vast network through Drones. Based on previous experience fighting this menace, IndianOil has also identified the most vulnerable sections of Pipelines to ensure better surveillance, they said adding such locations are monitored through CCTVs, and pipeline routes are shared with local administration for better supervision. Moreover, to ensure swift recourse, the issues related to pilferage are taken up at various levels of the State Government and Police Departments. "IOC's concerted efforts in fighting the menace of oil pipeline pilferage have resulted in swift tracking of miscreants indulging in such criminal activities across the country. During 2020-21, 53 arrests have been made against 34 pipeline pilferage attempts across the country," an official said. The surveillance system is further strengthened by garnering local support in enhancing the efficacy of the overall process. While the population along the pipeline route is being sensitised, reward schemes for informants have also been put in place to incentivise local monitoring, officials said adding the identity of the citizens informing such illegal intrusion will be kept confidential.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ioc-to-use-drones-to-check-fuel-thefts-from-pipelines-1023382.html
25-08-2021||National||NTAGI to devise roadmap for introducing Zydus Cadila Covid-19 vaccine to India's vaccination drive||The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) will soon hold a meeting to devise a roadmap for introducing Zydus Cadila's Covid vaccine in the inoculation drive and prioritising beneficiaries focusing on those aged 12-18 years with comorbidities. The indigenously developed world's first DNA-based needle-free Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D received Emergency Use Authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20 making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. NTAGI Chairman Dr N K Arora said it is estimated that there are around 12 crore adolescents in the age group of 12-18 years in India and less than 1 per cent of them may have comorbidities. "The NTAGI's meeting will be held soon to chalk out a roadmap for introducing the three-dose ZyCoV-D vaccine in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive. The meeting will also focus on prioritisation of beneficiaries as this vaccine is approved for both adolescents and adults," he said. "The aim is to develop a priority list with the focus being on adolescents aged 12-18 years with comorbidities," Dr Arora said. The NTAGI will provide the protocol and framework for the introduction of this vaccine in the Covid-19 immunisation drive. Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V vaccines are being given to only those above 18 years and unlike ZyCoV-D, which is three-dose, these are administered in two doses. The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) has said that ZyCoV-D is the world's first DNA-based vaccine against the coronavirus and when injected produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and elicits an immune response, which plays a vital role in protection from the disease as well as viral clearance. It said that interim results from Phase-III clinical trials in over 28,000 volunteers showed primary efficacy of 66.6 per cent for symptomatic RT-PCR positive cases. This has been the largest vaccine trial so far in India for Covid-19, the DBT said. The vaccine had already exhibited robust immunogenicity and tolerability and safety profile in the adaptive Phase one and two clinical trials. Both Phase one/two and Phase three clinical trials have been monitored by an independent data safety monitoring board, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ntagi-to-devise-roadmap-for-introducing-zydus-cadila-covid-19-vaccine-to-indias-vaccination-drive-1023389.html
25-08-2021||National||Elderly man jumps into wife’s funeral pyre, burns to death||Overpowered by emotions, an elderly man jumped into the burning pyre of his wife and was instantly charred to death in Odisha’s Kalahandi district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Tuesday at Sialjodi village in Golamunda block of the district. Nilamani Sabar (65) suddenly jumped into the funeral pyre of wife Raibari (60), after his four sons and relatives had gone to take a bath in a nearby waterbody as per tradition, a police officer said. Sabar, who was a former samiti member of his gram panchayat, died on the spot, he said. “We have registered a case of unnatural death based on the statement of the family members and villagers present at the spot,” Inspector-in-Charge of Kegaon Police Station Damu Paraja said. “Prima facie it appears that the man took the step due to extreme grief. Further investigation is underway,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elderly-man-jumps-into-wife-s-funeral-pyre-burns-to-death-1023397.html
25-08-2021||National||4 coaches of Guwahati-Howrah express derails in Assam; no casualty||Four coaches of the Guwahati-Howrah express train including the pantry car derailed near Chaygaon in Western Assam on Wednesday afternoon. There was, however, no casualty or injury to the passengers due to the derailment.  The train left Guwahati railway station at 12.20 pm but the four coaches derailed at 1.36 pm at Chaygaon in Kamrup district, about 40-km west of Guwahati. The incident took place in the Guwahati-Goalpara-New Bongaigaon section under the Rangiya railway division.  "The passengers of the affected coaches have been shifted to other coaches. On receiving the information, accident relief train and accident relief medical equipment train rushed to the site. Senior officials of the Rangiya division headquarters are already at the site and are providing all assistance to the passengers. Restoration work has also started," said Guneet Kaur, chief public relations officer of Northeast Frontier Railway, in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-coaches-of-guwahati-howrah-express-derails-in-assam-no-casualty-1023403.html
25-08-2021||National||SC expresses displeasure over delay in CBI, ED cases against MPs/MLAs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday expressed its displeasure over the inordinate delay by central agencies, CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED), in completing investigations in cases filed against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to have a discussion with directors of CBI and ED, to find out if they require additional manpower to complete the investigation in a time-bound manner. “We are sorry to say that the report is inconclusive. There is no reason for not filing charge sheet for 10-15 years, and also for not filing anything," the bench said while referring to a report filed by amicus curiae on the status of pending cases against MPs/MLAs by CBI and ED. The bench said in ED cases, properties worth crores are attached, but no charge sheet is filed. “Simply attaching the property does not serve the purpose," the bench added.   The bench expressed shock as a senior advocate and amicus curiae Vijay Hansaria, gave an example of a 2013 case registered under the NDPS Act in which the charge was framed in 2017 and was pending before Special Judge, NDPS FTC, Manipur, with an expected time for completion of the trial as 2030. "Don’t keep the sword hanging on somebody head. The trial should be completed on time, if somebody is guilty, he should be punished," the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. Mehta submitted that in many ED cases, a response from foreign countries is often required. Letters Rogatories are sent to various foreign countries seeking information. “Some send response early. Some late”, he said. Mehta suggested that the court may set an outer limit for trial to end. To this, the bench said, “It is easy for us to say expedite trial and all... but where are the judges?" Hansaria, for his part, submitted that data of pending criminal cases against MPs and MLAs was shocking and disturbing and emphasised expediting the trial proceedings. According to the amicus report, 51 MPs and 71 MLAs/MLCs are accused in cases arising out of offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. A total of 121 CBI cases against MPs/MLAs are pending before the court. “Cases range from 8 to 10 years. 58 cases are punishable with death or life imprisonment. The oldest case is from 2000. 37 cases of CBI are still under investigation," the report said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-expresses-displeasure-over-delay-in-cbi-ed-cases-against-mps/mlas-1023405.html
25-08-2021||National||Centre to provide two crore additional Covid-19 vaccine doses for teachers||With several states either planning to restart the schools or have done so already, the Centre on Wednesday said two crore additional doses of Covid-19 vaccines would be provided to the states to vaccinate the teachers on a priority basis. "This month more than two crore doses would be made available to the states. We have requested the states to try to vaccinate all school teachers on priority before the Teachers' Day, which is celebrated on September 5,” Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in a tweet. The two crore additional doses would be dispatched to the states between August 27-31 to vaccinate school teachers and non-teaching staff on a priority basis, said an official. India has nearly 97 lakh teachers. The states had been advised to use the Unified District Information System of Education data and coordinate with state education departments, Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan and Navodaya Vidyalaya Sangathan to provide the necessary fillip to such a targeted vaccination programme, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. The announcement comes at a time when states have begun to recommence offline schooling after a hiatus of one and half years as the second surge of the epidemic is ebbing. However, experts cautioned that a necessary precondition for school reopening would be “ring vaccination” to ensure that every adult staff in a school was fully vaccinated. Education departments in the states are in the process of collecting vaccination data on teachers and staff in schools. At a review meeting, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan also alerted the states on the upcoming festival season taking the example of Kerala where the Covid-19 cases and test positivity rate shot up following the Onam celebrations last week. Referring to Kerala where a visible rise of cases has been registered over the past week post-Onam, Bhushan advised the states to undertake all possible public health measures to curb such a rise. India on Wednesday also reached the milestone of 60 core Covid-19 vaccination with the Union Health Minister observing that the journey from 50 crore to 60 crore was completed in 19 days, which was the fastest since the beginning of the Covid-19 vaccination in India. In comparison, the first 10 crore vaccination mark was achieved in 85 days and it took another 45 days to reach 20 crore. Subsequently, the pace of vaccination accelerated with the 30 crore milestone being reached in 29 days; 40 crore in 24 days and 50 crore in 20 days. With the vaccination rate picking up, India is set to complete the inoculation of 50% of the target population of 94.47 crore in another two days. Nearly 73 lakh shots have been administered on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-provide-two-crore-additional-covid-19-vaccine-doses-for-teachers-1023409.html
25-08-2021||National||Nothing wrong in withdrawing malicious prosecution, but get HC's nod first: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that there is nothing wrong in withdrawing cases of malicious prosecution against MPs and MLAs, but the High Court must examine such matters. It said state governments should take approval of the respective High Court before withdrawing criminal cases filed against sitting or former lawmakers.  "We are not against the withdrawal of cases if there is a malicious prosecution. But this needs to be examined by the High Court. If the High Court agrees then the cases can be withdrawn," a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said.  On August 10, hearing the PIL by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, the top court ordered no criminal case against sitting and former MPs and MLAs can be withdrawn without an approval of the High Court concerned. Acting as amicus curiae, senior advocate Vijay Hansaria, along with advocate Sneha Kalita referred to the Uttar Pradesh government's decision to withdraw 77 cases related to the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. He said each case must be examined by the High Court in revisional jurisdiction under Section 401 of CrPC, in light of the law laid down by the top court in the case of State of Kerala vs K Ajith (2021). A report filed by Hansaria in the 2016 petition on fast-tracking of criminal trials against sitting and former MPs/MLAs, stated that 510 cases relating to the 2013 riots were registered in five districts of Meerut zone against 6,869 accused. Out of these, the charge sheet was filed in 175 cases, final reports were submitted in 165 cases, and 170 cases were expunged. "Thereafter 77 cases were withdrawn by the state government under Section 321 of CrPC. The government orders do not give any reasons for withdrawal of the case. It merely states that the administration, after full consideration, has taken a decision to withdraw the particular case," the report said. As Hansaria submitted that each case should be dealt with a reasoned order, the bench, also comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant, said it cannot examine all the cases, and let them go to the High Court. The counsel then submitted that the High Court may be directed to issue administrative instructions to expedite the trial of pending cases on a day-to-day basis in terms of Section 309 CrPC. During the hearing, the Chief Justice highlighted the problems faced by the judiciary and probe agencies like the CBI and the ED.  Just like us, probe agencies are suffering from a lack of manpower, infrastructure, he said. "We don't want to say anything about these agencies because we don't want to demoralise them, they are overburdened. Same with judges," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nothing-wrong-in-withdrawing-malicious-prosecution-but-get-hcs-nod-first-sc-1023417.html
25-08-2021||National||Govt launches schemes to support 300 startups to create 100 unicorns||Aimed at helping growing startups in India, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), on Wednesday, announced the Startup Accelerator for Product Innovation, Development & Growth (SAMRIDH) programme. The concept of the SAMRIDH has been developed on the lines of silicon valley based accelerator YCombinator, Ministry of Electronics and IT special secretary Jyoti Arora said. The government plans to support 300 IT start-ups under which it will provide seed funding, mentorship and market access with a view to creating 100 unicorns out of the selected start-ups. Under the programme, Meity will provide seed funds of up to Rs 40 lakh for the selected start-ups and mentorship for six months. IT and Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said that he has mentored over 20 start-ups earlier and understands the need of mentoring them during the most important part of their journey when their idea is getting converted into products. "Lack of funds for start-ups is not a big issue. Lack of getting the idea into a real product or lack of collecting the skill sets which are needed to convert an idea into an enterprise is a bigger challenge for most of the start-ups,"  Vaishnaw said. "As we all know more than 50% of startups are not able to cross this bridge due to various reasons," said the Minister. The minister also said that the government wants to scale up the networks of incubators and startups to 10x, 20x and more. Accelerators who have been in the incubation business for at least 3-years and supported more than 50 startups, with at least 10 having a non-public business will be able to apply for the scheme. They must also have operations in India and the necessary space and infrastructure to be eligible. (With inputs from PTI) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-schemes-to-support-300-startups-to-create-100-unicorns-1023432.html
25-08-2021||National||Health ministry advises states not to insist on negative Covid test report for those fully vaccinated||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday asked states not to insist on a negative RTPCR report for entry if asymptomatic persons are vaccinated with both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine and 15 days have lapsed from the date of the second dose. “Asymptomatic persons who have been vaccinated with both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine and 15 days have lapsed, should be exempted from mandatory requirement of possessing a negative RTPCR report or RAT test on their entry into a state,” the ministry said in a new guideline. The vaccinated individuals must have their final vaccination certificate issued through the Co-WIN portal. There shall also be no restrictions on interstate travel by air, rail, water or road. The fresh advisory comes at a time when states like Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Tripura are continuing with the travel restriction rules seeking mandatory RTPCR reports while West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka impose partial restrictions on the basis of a traveller’s origin and destination.  For instance, Karnataka needs test results 72 hours prior to the entry only if a person is coming from Kerala and Maharashtra whereas West Bengal needs such a certificate if a person is coming from Pune, Mumbai and Chennai. In Uttar Pradesh, if someone travels to Kanpur from Delhi or to Agra from anywhere in the country, the person is tested on arrival. However, there is no such test in one land at Varanasi. Also, there is no requirement of testing for travelling to Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Telangana. In its new guidelines on domestic travel, the ministry said because of a declining trajectory of Covid-19 cases following a peak seen in mid-May, the protocol for domestic travel has been revised. In case of any unusual surge in any state, the local administration is free to impose travel restrictions. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-advises-states-not-to-insist-on-negative-covid-test-report-for-those-fully-vaccinated-1023461.html
25-08-2021||National||'Taliban a Pakistani project, not going to be a permanent phenomenon in Afghanistan'||The Embassy of India in Kabul was shut down soon after the Taliban had marched into the capital of Afghanistan in September 1996. After the Taliban was ousted from power in Afghanistan in October 2001, New Delhi sent one of its ace diplomats, Gautam Mukhopadhaya, to Kabul to reopen the embassy. He later served as India’s ambassador to Afghanistan from 2010 to 2013. The Taliban is now again set to return to power in Kabul. Mukhopadhaya, now retired from the Indian Foreign Service, tells DH’s Anirban Bhaumik in an interview that the Taliban does not have an organic presence and is not going to be a permanent phenomenon in Afghanistan. What did go wrong in Afghanistan? You had predicted way back in February 2019 that the peace process between the US and the Taliban will lead to another chapter in Afghan quagmire and make things worse. In retrospect, was the February 19, 2020 deal between the Taliban and the United States skewed in favour of the Taliban? Do the concessions given to the Taliban in the deal, without making it to commit very little in return, made the basic premise of the negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan Government and civil society, represented by the High Council for National Reconciliation, flawed? Yes. Absolutely. In fact, the so-called ‘deal’ the US clinched with the Taliban on February 29, 2020 was so flawed and so overwhelmingly stacked in favour of the Taliban, both on the negotiating table and in the battlefield, as to virtually hand over Afghanistan to the Taliban and Pakistan on a platter. Even its counterterrorism component, which was important for the US, was very weak, almost non-existent. The process was conducted behind the backs of the people and the government of Afghanistan, with the help of Pakistan. It delegitimised the already weak, fractured and increasingly discredited Government of Afghanistan and instead legitimised the Taliban. It placed Pakistan as the major enabler giving it undue influence in the process. We have seen heart-rending pictures and videos from Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport, where hundreds of people have been desperately trying to fly out as Afghanistan now appears to be going back under the rule of the Taliban. Why was this desperation not reflected in the resistance put up by the Afghan Government and the Afghan National Army in the weeks before the Taliban finally marched into Kabul on August 15? I have never seen such a mismatch between the fear and loathing for the Taliban and lack of resistance to them. At one level, this is inexplicable. At another, it was predictable. It involves both the US as the lead country in the post 2001 reconstruction effort and Pakistan, as much as it does the weaknesses of the Afghan Government. The US came to Afghanistan to avenge the September 11, 2001 attacks and to eliminate the Al Qaeda as a threat to itself and the world. It did not come on a nation building mission in Afghanistan. Initially, it came with a light footprint, mostly the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), but all it required was its presence for the Northern Alliance to take over Kabul and for the Taliban to disappear. The Bonn Conference installed Hamid Karzai as an interim President and a new Constitution was drafted. However, the US soon found that the war against Al Qaeda could not be separated from the war against the Taliban. So, it brought in a heavy military and political footprint that resulted in a lot of collateral damage and little else. The US spent money that lined the pockets of contractors, middlemen, power brokers and opportunists through a ‘gravy train’. But it did not invest in the Afghanistan or its economy or its people. It made much of the US-NATO ‘training and equipping’ mission, but it did not really invest in the Afghan National Army (ANA) to make it capable of defending itself. The US investment in the ANA was limited to honing its counterterrorism skill, partly because that was how it defined its war, partly because it did not cost much, but, mostly of all, because it did not want to hurt the sensitivity of Pakistan. Islamabad had the leverage over the successive administrations in Washington D.C. through the US dependence on ground lines of communication through Pakistan. So, the US invested mostly in the ANA’s special forces units, who acquitted themselves admirably in repelling or retaking targets of terrorist attacks, but were not equipped to defend Afghanistan’s boundaries or hold territory or retake provinces. Its NATO standards made the ANA wholly dependent on the US and the US contractors. In the end, it was a few units that had to fight all over the country without adequate mobility. Some, like the 215 Corps still put up a great fight. The US knew that Afghanistan sat on an estimated $3 trillion worth of minerals, but it did not invest or encourage others to invest in it to generate revenues that could have helped the Afghan Government stand on its own feet. India organised the first and only Afghanistan Investment Summit in 2013 as the US troops were drawing down, but there was no follow up by the Afghan or Indian governments. The US did not invest, nor encourage others to invest in the real economy and livelihoods of the people that lay in agriculture, horticulture and cottage industries. The US dictated what the Afghan Government should do, but, despite what it says and what it is believed to stand for, did not invest even in democracy and institution building other than media, civil society NGOs, etc. It said that it could not do more than ‘nation-building lite’. The US did not regard Afghanistan as strategic enough for it to prioritise the country over Pakistan or to invest more heavily in Afghanistan. Its 20-year presence provided net security to its greatest strategic rivals, China, Russia and in the region, Iran. In the end, it threw the ball at the region and left, sowing the seeds of destabilisation which will rock the region for years. Pakistan patiently worked on a multi-pronged strategy to trick the US right from the beginning, preparing for the return of the Taliban once the US would inevitably tire and leave. It fooled the US again and again. It prevented the US from building a national army that could have faced Afghanistan’s primary threat. It enabled the training, financing and equipping of the Taliban with the help of opium cultivation and drug trade; used its leverage as a transit country for US equipment to keep Afghanistan weak; deployed information and psychological warfare on a massive scale; embedded the Taliban in Afghanistan for years in a shadow government away from Kabul’s eyes and wait for the right moment to launch its offensive; coordinated various regional extremist outfits working together with the Taliban from Central to South Asia to strengthen the Taliban militarily; and planned the strategy and execution of the sophisticated final push from the north and west to the south and centre. Pakistan used terrorism as a technique of attrition to wear out the people already fatigued from 40 years of conflict to accept peace at any cost. In the end, faced with the Taliban, the Afghans chose discretion over valour, perhaps to fight another day. What happened in Afghanistan was effectively an invasion of Afghanistan with an Afghan face and Pakistani brains and hands in an extraordinary unconventional war strategy. The military strategists all over the world, certainly in India, are likely to study it for years to come. The UK too played an insidious role, initially behind-the-scene, and of late openly, in keeping Pakistan in the game and confusing the Americans whenever they realised that the source of the problem lay in Pakistan, by bringing India into the picture. What was always a product of a super power rivalry and still is in a new form, was projected as a regional proxy war with India portrayed as a mirror image of Pakistan absolving the former of responsibility. The UK’s role has been in the shadows, and needs to be investigated much more. Finally, the Afghan government was also to blame. Afghan leaders failed to provide the leadership to discern the motives, actions and limits of international presence, build institutions, devise strategies to overcome foreign tutelage, connect with the people, and join hands in rebuilding a united, independent and strong Afghanistan. It was a collective failure. How did the Taliban remain such a potent force and why did the Afghan National Army (ANA) fail to resist it after the withdrawal of the troops by the US and its NATO allies?  The Taliban became such a potent force with the help of Pakistan, as a result of the mistakes of the US, guidance by the UK and the failures of the Afghan Government and leadership. While the US flip-flopped from one strategy to another, Pakistan had a steady, consistent strategy of supporting the Taliban and waiting for the US to leave. For those in India looking at the Afghan war from the lenses of western colonialism and US imperialism, the Taliban victory is sometimes seen as a victory of Afghan nationalism over US occupation. This is a serious mischaracterisation. It was a war by Pakistan against Afghanistan using Afghans all along, which successive US presidents from George Bush to Barack Obama to Donald Trump realised, but failed to follow through using coercive diplomacy. It was a war by Afghans groomed in the refugee camps and madrasas of Pakistan brainwashed into erasing the Afghan and Pashtun identity and submerging it in a larger radical Islamic identity with blurred boundaries, against fellow Afghans. That is why in the final analysis, the Taliban did not join the peace talks in good faith. They chose the Emirate over Afghanistan. But it was also strengthened by discontents within Afghanistan with US domination and use of military force, and the predatory and parasitic governance of the Afghan state and leadership. It left the people with a sense of profound powerlessness and lack of identification with the government, a feeling that their fate was being decided by foreign powers and their leaders with utter disregard for them. It is there that the Taliban seemed to provide an alternative, but one that will come with a cost. The Afghan people want freedom and peace. The post-Bonn government gave them greater freedom but at the cost of peace, partly on account of Pakistan and Taliban and lately IS terrorism. Now, in resigning themselves to the Taliban, they are opting for temporary peace.   Why do you think President Ashraf Ghani chose to leave Kabul so hurriedly?  The charitable explanation is that he left as he claimed, to avoid more bloodshed. Despite this self-serving explanation, there is some merit to it. Had he remained, the probability of violence would have been higher. As the Taliban closed in, it was evident that he was trying to work out some ‘deal’ with the Taliban. In anticipation of that, whispered instructions were issued to Governors and Army units in many places not to fight. In the end, it appears he was deceived into thinking that a deal was possible. Once he realised that, he left. But he also broke what resistance was still possible. The image of President Ghani as the captain of a sinking ship or a later day Najibullah is misleading. President Ghani was never the captain of the ship. Nor was he a Najibullah. In the end, he stood for a handful of Afghans with foreign passports who were his associates, two of whom he left with. Despite his intellectual brilliance, he had no connect with the people of Afghanistan. But it is not only his fault. We should not forget that there were people, both Afghan and foreign, that imposed him on the Afghan people especially, after the questionable second round in the 2014 elections. President Joe Biden recently said that the US had given Afghans every chance to determine their own future, but what it could not provide them was the will to fight for that future. Is this observation correct?  That is not true. For all its investment in blood and treasure, it did not invest in Afghanistan enough. It was not a strategic priority for the US. And whatever it gave in assistance, it took back through contractors, but also by emasculating the Afghan government. The Afghan government could not move a step without US concurrence. For a lot of ordinary people, the government did look like the puppet government that the Taliban claimed that it was. They had no reason to fight for that government. You had also observed that despite the huge investment of the international community in governance, security, human rights and development in Afghanistan, the Afghans too have not quite stepped up to the plate. Why? As I have said, those investments were large, but poorly directed and insufficient to create a state and society that would act as a bulwark against terrorism. They did not invest enough in eliminating the relationship between extremism, society, state and governance, and between Pakistan and the Taliban. At the end of a 20-year war on terror, state-sponsored terrorism has triumphed, and regional and international terrorism receive a boost regionally and internationally. The Afghans have not stepped up to the plate because they were deprived of agency. Ethnic fault-lines, political ambitions and a failure of leadership also played a part. We heard Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan hailing the Taliban’s imminent return to power in Kabul, referring to it as people of Afghanistan breaking “shackles of slavery”.  Unfortunately, a lot of well-thinking and well-meaning people in India too have fallen for the narrative that the Afghan people have broken the ‘shackles of slavery’, and that they are patriots and freedom fighters, under the mistaken impression that this was a war by Afghans against the US. It was not. It was a war by Pakistan against Afghanistan using radicalised Afghans and victims of predatory, parasitic governance. Far from freeing Afghanistan from the ‘shackles of slavery’, it is actually a subjugation of Afghanistan to Pakistan, a new slavery as it was from 1996-2001, when Afghanistan saw no reconstruction or development, and was pushed back in time, in terms of rights and freedom and economic opportunities. This time, Pakistan is speaking the language of ‘geo-economics’ trying to bring in China to reinforce its subjugation with China’s strategic heft and economic muscle. The Chinese are tempted to step in to take advantage to the US departure. But it will be a risky venture. How should the world take the Taliban’s claim that it has changed from what it was 20 years ago?  The Taliban has changed as it has understood the value of international legitimacy, recognition and diplomacy. It has learnt to use information and communication technology and language very well. It has used deception to great effect, including making President Ashraf Ghani believe at the last stages of the military takeover that a deal was in the making and lulling the US into believing that it would not push for Kabul before complete withdrawal of the NATO troops. Their rank and file may be amenable for some tactical discipline, but they have not changed. Their true colours are bound to come out, sooner or later. What should India brace for after the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan and how should it respond to it? The change of regime in Afghanistan does pose a long term challenge for India. The alignment of power and influence that has existed in Afghanistan since 2001 will now be replaced with the informal alliance of Taliban, Pakistan and China with Russia and Iran too aligned against the US. We still have our ties with Russia and Iran, but our only allies left in Afghanistan are the ones who will resist the Taliban. Some leaders of Afghanistan are holding talks with the Taliban to form what they call an ‘inclusive’ government. We should wait and see what they actually do. Most likely even the appearance of some ethnic leaders will not change the reality of a total monopoly of power by the Taliban. With Pakistan in control, India will have no say in the new government in Afghanistan. We should let that process play out until the contradictions emerge. There is also some resistance beginning in different parts of the country. The Taliban has no organic presence in Afghanistan. Its presence is a result of failures of the international community and the Afghans. It is difficult to believe it is a permanent phenomenon. We should be wary of legitimising them or their military takeover, or recognising them until they clarify their relationship with Pakistan and more importantly, the Afghan people who do not share their alien ideology. How could Pakistan manage to get away with the charade of helping the United States in its war on terror in Afghanistan and, at the same time, helping the Taliban survive and regroup and now return to power? Why did the US and the rest of the international community choose to turn a blind eye to what Pakistan was doing in Afghanistan?  This is the single most difficult question to answer. Successive US presidents have diagnosed Pakistan to be the problem. Bush sent Richard Armitage to convey a message that Pakistan would be bombed back to the stone age if it did not cooperate with the US in the war of terror in Afghanistan. During his campaign trail, President Obama once remarked to the effect that ‘Iraq is a war of choice; Afghanistan is a war of necessity. In Afghanistan, the theatre of the war is Afghanistan, but the locus of the war is in Pakistan’. That was the logic of his appointment of Richard Holbrooke as Special Envoy to Af-Pak. President Trump too, in his South Asia strategy of August 2017 clearly identified Pakistan as the source of the problem and authorised a more muscular use of force by the ANA backed by the US against the Taliban. But eventually, they all fell back on Pakistan to help them out of Afghanistan. None of them followed the logic of their diagnosis, of targeting Pakistan through coercive diplomacy. In my view, elements in the Anglo-Saxon world persuaded the US that the Afghan conundrum could not be resolved without linking it to India and Jammu & Kashmir in effect justifying Pakistani logic that one country, Pakistan, could externalise its bilateral issue with India, to a third country, Afghanistan, and use of terrorism to achieve it. The Afghan people have paid a heavy and bitter price for this. The smell of betrayal hangs heavy over them. In the final analysis, the desire to dispose of the Afghan ‘headache’ prevailed over any desire to address the problem seriously. The Taliban is trying to tell the world that it has changed from what it has been 20 years ago. How should the world take that claim? Even if the Taliban leadership, or a section of it, may wish to take a less radical approach this time, does the organisation have enough internal control and discipline to implement such policy changes and make local recruits come out of fanaticism that primarily motivated them to join it? The Taliban is trying to project a more polished image than before, and in this they have been helped not only by Pakistan, but also by elements in the West including those close to their governments. A good example of that was the obviously ghost written article by Sirajuddin Haqqani in the New York Times around the time of the US-Taliban deal presenting a ‘reasonable’ image of Pakistan clearly with the intention of preparing the Haqqani Network for a leadership position and role in a future Taliban-led government. Remember, a top US general had once described the Haqqani Network as a ‘veritable extension of the ISI’. More recently, we saw the spectacle of the UK Chief of Defence Staff accompanying Pakistan Army chief Gen Bajwa for negotiations with President Ghani. The Taliban has changed in three ways, but not necessarily the way we think. They have understood the value of international legitimacy, recognition and diplomacy. They have learnt to use information and communication technology and language very effectively. Even influential circles in India have fallen victim to it. And they have used deception to great effect including making President Ghani believe at the last stages of the military takeover, that a deal was in the making, and lulling the US into believing that the Taliban would not push for Kabul before their complete departure. Their rank and file may be amenable for some tactical discipline, but they have not changed. Except that being ‘rewarded’ for its use of terrorism and its military takeover of Afghanistan by legitimacy by an influential section of the international community as it is likely to be, it will no longer need to practice externally sponsored terrorism. It will now use state power against its citizens to make them conform to the values of Pakistan’s Islamic Emirate for Afghanistan What should India brace for after the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan? Do you think that apart from the security threats posed by a possible spurt in radicalism and extremism and return of Taliban’s support to anti-India terrorist outfits based in Pakistan, does the change of regime in Kabul also pose a long-term strategic challenge for India, given China’s renewed focus on Afghanistan? What are your views? How can India deal with this emerging security threat and strategic challenges posed by Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan? This is a very new situation. The Taliban have made some promises. Pakistan as well as parts of the Afghan leadership have been trying to form what they call an ‘inclusive’ government. While the Taliban’s past record is not encouraging, we should wait and see what they actually do. Most likely even the accommodation of some ethnic or other political leaders will not change the reality of a total monopoly of power by the Taliban. With Pakistan in control, we will have no say in the new government. We should let that process play out until the contradictions emerge. There is also some resistance beginning in different parts of the country. There are reports of popular uprisings taking back some districts in the north. Saleh and Ahmad Massoud have dug themselves for a fight in the Panjshir Valley. They have asserted that the Republic is not dead. The change of regime does pose a long term challenge for India. The entire alignment of power and influence in Afghanistan since 2001 has been standing on its head. Instead of the US, a flawed but democratic Afghanistan, Europe, the West and the democratic world as a whole, including India, the new alignment that will take over is Pakistan, Taliban and China in an informal alliance, with Russia and Iran too aligned against the US. While we still have our ties with Russia and Iran, the only allies left in Afghanistan is those who will resist the Taliban. Even if we pry out some Taliban factions away from this alignment, which is a big if, they can never substitute the post-2001 generation as our strategic allies in Afghanistan. They are down in the ropes now, but they will return. We should stick to our investment in them, not only for sentimental reasons, but for strategic reasons. There is a tendency to think that we are powerless in this situation. That is not true. We should stand by the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, wherever it may be. Even if there is nothing we can do, we should keep alive the alternative to the Taliban, the idea of a free Afghanistan with political and civil and human rights and opportunities. There are hundreds of ways we can support the Afghan people, whether it is through education or health or space for the independent media, civil society, think tanks, political activists to function. We should not close our borders to temporary asylum seekers who wish to keep this idea alive. Rather, we should welcome them. We should not rule out the option of a resistance should a credible one arise from within or outside Afghanistan and we have allies that we can work with. There will be a price to pay. We should be willing to pay it. The Taliban have no organic presence in Afghanistan. There presence is a result of Afghan and international failures. The last time, they lasted 5 years. It is difficult to believe they are a permanent phenomenon. We may have to make some accommodation with the Taliban to maintain a people-to-people relationship. We will need to negotiate that. In time, we may be able to expand that. There are reports about informal contacts between the Government of India and the Taliban. But with elements like the Haqqani Network being a prominent part of the Taliban, which is guided by Islamabad and Rawalpindi, do you think such contacts (between India and the Taliban) could eventually lead to New Delhi recognising a Taliban or a Taliban-dominated Government in Kabul? The informal contacts with the Taliban that the Government of India has not publicly acknowledged, had rattled the Pakistanis and paid us some dividends in the evacuation of Indian and other personnel from Afghanistan. We should acknowledge and appreciate that. We should keep a space for dialogue and build upon that depending on the situation. We should judge them not only on their past, and their words now, but also on their actions. Until then, we should we wary of legitimising their military takeover or them, or recognising them until they clarify their relationship with Pakistan and more importantly the Afghan people. There is no guarantee that even if we strike an understanding with one or other faction of the Taliban, even on something as basic as security, we can actually depend on it as the ISI can set anyone of its preferred groups or agencies against us. That is one reason why I think we had to close our consulates in time and withdraw our India-based personnel from Kabul. Where do you see the discussion on the formation of the next government in Afghanistan going? Is an “inclusive government” really possible? And, if not, is Afghanistan again going to another round of civil war? Is a resistance from Panjshir Valley by Amrullah Saleh and Ahmad Massoud really possible? What role do you think Russia and Iran will play? Is a Northern Alliance 2.0 still a possibility? In Kabul, political leaders like Dr. Abdullah Abdullah and ex-President Hamid Karzai are trying to work out some arrangement. Pakistan has flown several ethnic leaders to Islamabad to cobble together a transitional arrangement that has the appearance of including them. I am sure both are mindful of the risks of accommodating them as ‘faces’ without real power, but they may not have many options. It is unlikely that the Taliban will share power after avoiding it in Doha and taking over by force as they always intended. They will continue to call the shots. The danger is that in the process, those leaders who join a transitional or more permanent arrangement later, may get discredited by their own communities and constituencies. This would pave the way for the radicalisation of their own communities, which is what Pakistan wants. The ‘Emirate’ will expand its footprint. They will have to enter it with eyes wide open. This is the pessimistic view. There could be a more optimistic outcome. At this time, it would be best to see what comes out. But more importantly, why are the Pakistan and the Taliban monopolising this process? Is there not a role for the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan which still represents Afghanistan in the UN, and its resistance in the Panjshir in this? Or are we already legitimising the military takeover of power by the Pakistan-backed Taliban? Building on the public positions of virtually every country that has influence in Afghanistan that they would not legitimise a takeover of Afghanistan by force or countenance an ‘Emirate’, should not the UN Security Council take the initiative to use its authority to convey to the Taliban the red-lines for legitimacy and lifting of remaining sanctions against the Taliban? Is there a role here for India? Does the way it is withdrawing from Afghanistan diminish the reliability and credibility of the United States as a partner and an advocate of democracy, human rights and women’s rights? Is there a lesson for India, which has of late been increasingly drifting towards the United States to contain China in the Indo-Pacific region? The withdrawal of the Soviet troops from Afghanistan led to the collapse of the Soviet Union damaging its international standing for decades. The chaotic final moments of the withdrawal of US troops will also badly affect US standing in the world. In Afghanistan, not only has the US abandoned Afghanistan to the Taliban and Pakistan once again, but it has also betrayed democracy, human rights, especially, women’s rights for a repressive, backward looking theocracy in its narrow self interest. While we are supposed to have a strategic relationship in the Indo-Pacific and in relation to China, democratic Afghanistan, the Central Asian Republics and India are simply collateral damage of US priorities in Central Asia. I do not think Indian leaders are not aware of US self interest, limitations and motivations. They are. But the view is that our relations with the US are much wider and cannot be defined by Afghanistan alone. While Afghanistan is far away from the US and ‘collateral’ to it, we should not make the mistake of treating it as just a collateral in our larger relationship with the US. Afghanistan is strategically important for India, though, there are important voices who think otherwise. Put simply, historically it has been a passage for military campaigns and invaders. Today it will provide strategic depth for Pakistan. India should pursue its own independent policy towards Afghanistan together with those other regional powers who will experience the downside of a Talibanised Afghanistan in due course. Iran, Central Asian Republics and even Russia too are likely to feel the bite of extremism emanating and being exported from Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-a-pakistani-project-not-going-to-be-a-permanent-phenomenon-in-afghanistan-1023462.html
25-08-2021||National||Padma Shri awardee agriculture scientist B V Nimbkar passes away||Noted agricultural scientist and recipient of Padma Shri award, B V Nimbkar, died at Phaltan in Maharashtra's Satara district on Wednesday due to his age-related ailments, sources close to his family said. He was 90. Born in 1931, Nimbkar was the founder of Nimbkar Agricultural Research Institute and worked in the research and development of animal husbandry and agriculture. He was awarded with Padma Shri Award in 2006 for his contribution in the field of agriculture. He was also the recipient of prestigious Jamnalal Bajaj award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/padma-shri-awardee-agriculture-scientist-b-v-nimbkar-passes-away-1023463.html
25-08-2021||National||Kolkata teacher surprised with Taliban’s 'polite' behaviour; doesn’t want to return to Kabul||Everything was going well for Tamal Bhattacharya when he joined as a teacher at a school in Kabul in March. But within months he saw the situation changing with the rapid advance of Taliban fighters towards Kabul and locals telling him to return home before it was too late. He grew more anxious when he saw thousands of people running around in the streets in a desperate attempt to flee the country while returning from school. However, Bhattacharya, a resident of Nimta on the northern fringes of Kolkata, was in for a surprise when one day a group of Taliban fighters visited the temporary accommodation where he was living with some other teachers. Bhattacharya said that when he saw the Taliban men arrive with firearms such as the AK 47 and rocket launchers he feared for his life. However, after speaking to the school authorities, the fighters assured them of safety and said that they posed no threat to their lives. "Surprisingly, the Taliban fighters were rather mild-mannered. I don’t know what their real intention was but one of them asked me not to worry and urged him to continue to teach at the school,” said Bhattacharya. He also said that not only did the Taliban provide protection to him and other teachers but also urged them to continue to teach the students of the country addressing them as “bhaijaan.” "Even when I declined to continue with the job at the school, the Taliban fighters did not turn hostile and continued to behave politely with me. But I don’t trust them,” said Bhattacharya. With his parents in Kolkata worrying, Bhattacharya finally resigned on August 14. But his return home turned out to be an uphill task. He tried thrice to enter Kabul Airport but failed. Finally, he contacted the Centre and the West Bengal government to ensure his return to India. He landed in Kolkata on an Indian Air Force plane on Sunday. "As of now I have no intention of going to Kabul again," said Bhattacharya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-teacher-surprised-with-taliban-s-polite-behaviour-doesn-t-want-to-return-to-kabul-1023467.html
25-08-2021||National||Government aims to raise auto sector's contribution to GDP, job creation: Gadkari||The government looks to increase the contribution of the automobile sector to India's GDP to 12 per cent from the present 7.1 per cent and grow employment generation to 50 million from the current 37 million, Union minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday. Addressing the SIAM's annual convention virtually, Gadkari further said the automobile industry is a vital player in India's vision to become a $5 trillion economy. "The Automotive Mission Plan of the Government of India is to set a goal to raise the contribution of the automobile sector towards nation GDP to 12 per cent and generate about 50 million new jobs," he said. The road transport and highways minister said the Indian automotive industry is a key driver of economic growth in the country. The contribution of the automobile sector to the overall GDP of India stands at 7.1 per cent and 49 per cent of the manufacturing GDP, with an annual turnover of Rs 7.5 lakh crores and export of Rs 3.5 lakh crores. According to Gadkari, it is estimated that 37 million jobs, directly and indirectly, are supported by the industry. The minister said the government is working towards making the country the Number 1 global automobile manufacturing hub in the coming years. He mentioned that many multinational automotive brands are now available in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-aims-to-raise-auto-sectors-contribution-to-gdp-job-creation-gadkari-1023471.html
25-08-2021||National||Pankaj Kumar Singh appointed new BSF DG||Pankaj Kumar Singh, a 1988-batch Indian Police Service officer, was on Wednesday appointed as director-general of the country's largest border guarding force BSF. Singh is a Rajasthan cadre officer and is presently serving as the special director general (DG) of the force that guards over 6,300 km of the Indian fronts with Pakistan and Bangladesh. He will take charge on August 31 after the retirement of IPS officer and ITBP DG S S Deswal, who is holding additional charge of the BSF DG after the tenure of Gujarat cadre officer Rakesh Asthana ended in July. Singh's father and retired IPS officer Prakash Singh also headed the Border Security Force (BSF) as its DG in the past. The BSF is about 2.65 lakh personnel in strength. The government also appointed 1988-batch IPS officers Sanjay Arora (Tamil Nadu cadre) and Balaji Srivastav (AGMUT cadre) as the new heads of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), a government think tank on police subjects. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pankaj-kumar-singh-appointed-new-bsf-dg-1023488.html
25-08-2021||National||Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy's bail case verdict on September 15||A special CBI court in Hyderabad will deliver its verdict on a petition seeking cancellation of Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy's bail on September 15. Reddy, arrested in the disproportionate assets case by the CBI in May 2012 when he was the Kadapa MP, has been out on bail since September 2013. YSRCP rebel MP Raghu Rama Krishnam Raju had petitioned the CBI court in April asking for cancellation of the bail, claiming bail condition violations, and apprehending that Reddy was using his position to influence the persons connected with the case, seating them in plum positions. The DA case pertains to the alleged quid pro quo investments made by various firms in Reddy's companies, when his father late YS Rajasekhara Reddy was the chief minister of united Andhra Pradesh from 2004-09, in return for favours like allocation of land and other resources. Central agencies CBI and ED had investigated the claims of criminal conspiracy etc., against Reddy in the case involving several industrialists, ministers and top bureaucrats. Reddy is the prime accused in the 11 charge sheets filed. Though he was attending the trial when he was the opposition leader, he has been seeking exemptions from the weekly court appearances since he became the Chief Minister in May 2019. Apart from citing his official duties, Reddy also contended that his presence would incur huge public expenditure for travel from Amaravati with all the security protocol. Raju, a Lok Sabha MP from  Narsapuram, is alleging that Reddy's absence has affected the trial. On 15 September, the CBI court would also pass its orders on another petition filed by Raju for the cancellation of the bail of Rajya Sabha MP Vijayasai Reddy. Vijayasai, a close aide of Reddy and YSRCP Parliamentary party leader, is a co-accused in the cases. The court which had earlier heard the arguments in the Jagan bail case has on Wednesday completed the hearings in Vijayasai bail case. A month after his petition, Raju was arrested in May by the AP CID police on the charges of “indulging in hate speeches against certain communities and promoting disaffection against the government.” Raju was booked under sections 124A (sedition), 153 A (promoting enmity between groups), and 505 read with 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Raju who had then claimed that he was tormented by the police while in custody, is out on bail granted by the Supreme Court. Raju, also an industrialist, appears regularly on certain Telugu TV channels with a commentary seen as unfavorable of various policies of Reddy's government and actions of YSRCP leaders. The YSRCP had sought disqualification of Raju on the charges of anti-party activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-cm-jaganmohan-reddys-bail-case-verdict-on-september-15-1023492.html
25-08-2021||National||Aviation ministry signs MoU with Adani group for providing services at three airports||The Civil Aviation Ministry on Wednesday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Adani group for providing services, including customs, immigration and security, at the Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram airports, an official statement said. The Centre had in February 2019 privatised six major airports of the country — Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Mangaluru, Jaipur, Thiruvananthapuram and Guwahati — and through a competitive bidding process, the Adani group won the rights to run all of them for 50 years. The Adani group took charge of the Lucknow, Ahmedabad and Mangaluru airports in October and November last year. It is yet to take charge of the remaining airports. "An MoU for providing Reserved Services (customs, immigration, plant and animal quarantine services, health services, meteorological and security services) was signed between MoCA (Ministry of Civil Aviation) and Adani Enterprises Ltd for Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram airports," the MoCA said on Twitter. Moreover, an agreement for providing communication navigation surveillance-air traffic management (CNS-ATM) services at these three airports was also executed between Adani Enterprises and Centre-run Airports Authority of India on Wednesday, it said. "The MoU was signed by Rubina Ali, Joint Secretary, MoCA, and Parikshit Kaul, Senior Vice President, Adani Enterprises, while the CNS-ATM agreement was signed between S Swaminathan, GM (ATS), AAI and Parikshit Kaul in presence of AAI chairman, board members and senior officials," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-ministry-signs-mou-with-adani-group-for-providing-services-at-three-airports-1023503.html
25-08-2021||National||India expected to evacuate around 180 people from Kabul on Thursday||India is expected to bring back around 180 people from Kabul in a military aircraft on Thursday amid a scramble by various countries to evacuate their citizens before the August 31 deadline for the withdrawal of American troops from the war-ravaged country, people familiar with the developments said. Those being evacuated include Indians and a number of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, they said. The aircraft carrying around 180 people is likely to reach Delhi on Thursday morning, said one of the people cited above. Under its mission 'Operation Devi Shakti', India has already evacuated over 800 people in view of the rapidly deteriorating security situation in Kabul after it was captured by the Taliban on August 15. Thousands of Afghans have been crowding around the Kabul airport for over a week, in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality. On Wednesday, several G-7 leaders requested US President Joe Biden to extend the August 31 deadline for the withdrawal of American troops. However, Biden said the US is trying to stick to the timetable. "We are currently on a pace to finish by August the 31st.  The sooner we can finish, the better.  Each day of operations brings added risk to our troops," he said. In the last few days, India has stepped up efforts to evacuate its citizens as well as its Afghan partners from Kabul in view of the deteriorating security situation in the Afghan capital and other parts of the country. On Tuesday, 78 people, including 25 of its nationals and a number of Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, were airlifted to Delhi from Dushanbe, a day after they were evacuated from Kabul to the Tajik city. India evacuated 392 people including two Afghan lawmakers in three different flights on Sunday. The Taliban seized control of Kabul on August 15. Within two days, India evacuated 200 people, including the Indian envoy and other staffers of its embassy in the Afghan capital. The first evacuation flight brought back over 40 people, mostly staffers at the Indian embassy on August 16. The second aircraft evacuated around 150 people, including Indian diplomats, officials, security personnel and some stranded Indians, from Kabul on August 17. India has been carrying out evacuation missions in coordination with the US and several other friendly countries. Speaking at a think-tank, US Indo-Pacific Command Admiral John Aquilino said that there has been close cooperation between India and the US Central command in evacuating people from Afghanistan. He said the US is committed to ensuring the safe evacuation of all its citizens as well as those from its partner countries. Personnel from the US central command have been handling the security at the Hamid Karzai international airport in Kabul.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expected-to-evacuate-around-180-people-from-kabul-on-thursday-1023512.html
25-08-2021||National Politics||All you need to know about the Narayan Rane 'slap' remark case||Union Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises Minister and senior BJP leader Narayan Rane’s controversial remarks on Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray has sparked off a row. FIRs, clash, arrest and finally bail, a lot has happened following Rane’s comment. Here’s everything you need to know about it: Narayan Rane’s remark During his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in adjoining Raigad district, on Monday, Rane made this controversial remark about Thackeray. Rane said, “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap." Shiv Sena, BJP activists clash near Rane's residence Soon after Rane made the ‘slap remark’ about Shiv Sena President, activists of the Shiv Sena's youth wing organised a protest against him on Tuesday. The protest soon turned into a clash after BJP workers gathered outside Rane's residence to support their party leader. According to officials, activists from both sides shouted slogans and pelted stones at each other, following which police used lathi0-charge to disperse them. After the protests and clash, heavy police security was deployed outside Rane’s Mumbai residence. Reactions of political leaders “Rane has lost his mental balance,” said Shiv Sena MP from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg Vinayak Raut, adding, “The Jan Aashirwad Yatra was with a good motive and purpose…that purpose is now lost.” NCP leader Jayant Patil said, "The language used by Union minister Narayan Rane is condemnable. It also shows what kind of cabinet colleagues Prime Minister Narendra Modi has gathered around him.” Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil distanced himself from Rane’s comment and said, “I am not defending Rane's comments, but I will also not express regret. Supporting his cabinet colleague, Ramdas Athawale said, "Rane only meant that Thackeray is not doing anything for the development of Maharashtra and he seldom steps out of his residence 'Matoshree' in Mumbai to understand the problems faced by the people. Rane meant that such a chief minister does not have the right to occupy the chair. This was his feeling.” "Rane didn't mean to insult the chief minister. He will clear his stand on this issue,” Athawale noted. Demand to remove Rane from Union Ministry Shiv Sena MP from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg Vinayak Raut wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and demanded recently inducted Rane’s removal from the union council of ministers. In his letter, he wrote, “Such kind of language is an insult to the Prime Minister as well,” adding, "I believe a person like Rane, who forgets the post he is representing, has no right to continue on it. It is my humble request to you to seek his resignation and remove him from your cabinet.” Rane’s arrest followed by bail For his “tight slap” remark, Rane faced four FIRs against him from different parts of Maharashtra. The FIRs registered at Mahad police station were under IPC sections 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of public peace) and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief). Later in the afternoon of August 24, he was arrested by Ratnagiri police and taken to Mahad in Raigad district. On that day, Rane was produced before Judicial Magistrate Shaikhbabaso S Patil at 9.45 pm. The Court granted him bail on a surety of Rs 15,000. He has also been asked to present himself at the Mahad police station on August 30 and September 13. 'Arrest justified, custodial interrogation unnecessary' A court at Mahad in Maharashtra while granting bail to Rane said his arrest over his controversial remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was “justified”, but his custodial interrogation was not necessary. The order was passed by the court late Tuesday night and a detailed copy of it was made available on Wednesday. The court noted that while a few sections under which Rane was booked were non-bailable, they were not punishable with life or death. Nashik police summon Rane Nashik police have issued a notice to Union minister Narayan Rane, asking him to appear before them for questioning on September 2 in connection with an FIR registered against him over his remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, an official said on Wednesday. As per the notice, Rane has been directed to remain present before the investigation officer - police inspector Ananda Wagh - at 12 pm on September 2 at the Cyber police station in Nashik city. (With inputs from agencies) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-narayan-rane-slap-remark-case-1023279.html
25-08-2021||National Politics||Narayan Rane to resume 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in Maharashtra soon||Union minister Narayan Rane will resume his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' in Maharashtra in a couple of days, a close aide said on Wednesday, a day after the BJP leader was arrested over his remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and later granted bail. The route of Rane's tour will be the same and the date of its resumption will be conveyed soon, his aide Rajan Teli said in a statement. Rane is expected to address a press conference on Wednesday, BJP state spokesman Keshav Upadhye said. The BJP leader, who was recently inducted into the Union cabinet, began his yatra from Mumbai on August 19. The seven-day yatra was to conclude in Sindhudurg. On Monday, during his yatra in Raigad, Rane sparked off a row over his remarks about slapping Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter’s ignorance of the year of India’s independence. Four FIRs were registered against him in Maharashtra over his remarks, which triggered a political row and protests across the state on Tuesday. Rane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon from Ratnagiri district in the state and granted bail by a court at Mahad in Raigad late at night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narayan-rane-to-resume-jan-ashirwad-yatra-in-maharashtra-soon-1023342.html
25-08-2021||National Politics||Narayan Rane's MLA son seeks Prez rule after Yuva Sena meets CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra BJP MLA and Union minister Narayan Rane's son Nitesh Rane on Wednesday demanded the imposition of President's rule in the state after some Yuva Sena members, who had participated in a protest against the Rane senior, met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The Yuva Sena members met the CM on Tuesday night at his official residence 'Varsha', hours after they participated in a protest outside Narayan Rane's residence in Mumbai over his remarks against Thackeray, a leader of the Shiv Sena's youth wing had said. Nitesh Rane tweeted a photo shared by Yuva Sena leader Varun Sardesai stating that the core committee members of the Shiv Sena's youth wing (Yuva Sena) had met the chief minister. “So it was indeed state-sponsored violence just like West Bengal. As the head of the state, the CM should be ensuring safety but he is actually felicitating hooligans. State of affairs in Maharashtra. President's rule is the only way out to ensure safety from these thugs,” the Kankavli MLA tweeted. Activists of Yuva Sena and BJP clashed with each other near Rane's residence on Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz (West) on Tuesday in the wake of his "would have slapped" comments against CM Thackeray. Stones were pelted from both sides, following which police used cane-charge to disperse the agitators, an official had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narayan-ranes-mla-son-seeks-prez-rule-after-yuva-sena-meets-cm-uddhav-thackeray-1023347.html
25-08-2021||National Politics||Assets belong to country, BJP or PM Modi don't own them: Mamata on NMP||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday slammed the Centre over its National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) policy, claiming that it is a ploy to sell assets that belong to the country and not to Prime Minister Narendra Modi or the BJP. Terming the NMP as a "shocking and unfortunate decision", the Trinamool Congress supremo alleged that the money raised by selling those assets will be used during elections against opposition parties. "We condemn this shocking and unfortunate decision. These assets belong to the country. It is the property of neither Modi nor the BJP. They (central government) can't just sell a country's assets as per their whims and fancies," Banerjee told reporters at the state secretariat Nabanna. The entire country will stand together and oppose this "anti-people" decision, she said. "The BJP should be ashamed. No one has given them the right to sell our nation's assets," she said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced Rs 6 lakh crore National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) that will look to unlock value in infrastructure assets across sectors ranging from power to road and railways. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assets-belong-to-country-bjp-or-pm-modi-dont-own-them-mamata-on-nmp-1023401.html
25-08-2021||National Politics||Amarinder is the Captain for 2022 Punjab polls: Congress||The Congress crisis in the Punjab unit is back to square one a month after the party high command named Navjot Singh Sidhu as PCC chief and Captain Amarinder Singh as the party's face for 2022 Assembly polls to broker peace between the warring factions. With the Sidhu camp stoking a fresh rebellion against Singh and seeking his immediate replacement, a rattled party high command asserted to the dissenting leaders that as far 2022 Assembly polls in Punjab is concerned, Amarinder Singh will remain the face. "We will contest 2022 Punjab elections under the leadership of Captain Amrinder Singh," was the categorical response of AICC in-charge for Punjab Harish Rawat.  In the midst of the banner of revolt by around 30 MLAs against Singh, Rawat also asserted there is "no threat to the Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab" and the party's victory prospects for the upcoming Assembly elections. The remarks are being seen as a snub to the dissenters and a clear signal that the party wants the state Congress to put up a united front in the state polls, which is just eight months away. Rawat's remarks came after the four rebel Punjab ministers – Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi — who led the move — had a meeting with him in Dehradun. They are also trying to meet Sonia Gandhi in Delhi. Hitting out at Sidhu, the Chief Minister's wife and Lok Sabha MP MP Preneet Kaur blamed him for the current crisis a day after four ministers of Punjab government and around two dozen MLAs sought replacement of the chief minister, saying they have “lost faith in him” and accused him of not fulfilling poll promises. Slamming the disgruntled leaders over seeking the CM's removal, Kaur held Sidhu responsible for the current situation in the party's state unit and reminded how Captain had shown “largeness of heart” in accepting the party high command's decision of appointing the former as PPCC chief. “Once the decision had been taken by the high command, the CM said he would abide by it as the Congress president's decision," Kaur recalled as she talked at length about how Captain led Congress to victory in Punjab and the state on the path of development and battled Covid-19.  She also asked the party high command to take note of the fact “for four-and-half-years, it was ok" and "see what is actually going on on the ground and do what is best for the party.” “First ask them if they were happy during the last four-and-a-half years. This is not the time to say such things...it is damaging the party," she said when asked about the dissenters' dissatisfaction with the government's performance. She was addressing the media persons a day after the Punjab chief minister faced an open revolt with the four ministers and around two dozen legislators meeting at the residence of his known detractor Bajwa on Tuesday and calling for "drastic" steps including a change of guard in the state. Asked whether she holds Sidhu responsible for the current situation, she said, “Of course he is. He is the one who started (with) his advisers.” On Sunday, the Chief Minister had slammed the purported remarks of Pyare Lal Garg that Captain's criticism of Pakistan was not in the interest of Punjab and that of Malwinder Singh Mali who said if Kashmir was a part of India, then what was the need to have Articles 370 and 35A. Both Garg and Mali are advisers of Sidhu. Singh had told them that tersely not to speak on matters "of which they clearly had little or no knowledge and had no understanding of the implications of their comments". A day after he was asked by Captain to rein in his advisers, Sidhu on Monday hit out at the party-ruled government over prices of crops saying assured prices in Punjab are too low as compared to Haryana/UP /Uttarakhand (all three BJP-ruled states). On Tuesday, the rebellion broke out with the demand of the Chief Minister's ouster. Bajwa, Channi, Randhawa and some MLAs had on Tuesday also met Sidhu. The Congress high command, which feels that Captain is still the best bait for the party in 2022 polls, has not taken kindly to this open rebellion and is in a mood to consider the demand for "immediate change" there. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-is-the-captain-for-2022-punjab-polls-congress-1023455.html
25-08-2021||National Politics||Will quit Chhattisgarh CM post moment Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi ask me to do so: Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday said Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have entrusted him with the responsibility of running the state government and he will quit the moment they ask him to do so. On his return to Raipur, a day after meeting Rahul Gandhi in Delhi, he also said that those seeking rotation of the CM's post are creating political instability in the state. Baghel was accorded a rousing reception on his arrival at the Raipur airport by a large crowd of supporters who had gathered there, displaying a show of strength. Chief Minister Baghel and Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo on Wednesday morning separately met All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K C Venugopal amid an on ongoing power tussle between them. Sources said that Bhagel and Deo held consultations with Venugopal over the alleged differences between them, besides development issues in Chhattisgarh. The two Chhattisgarh Congress leaders are likely to hold further deliberations with the AICC leadership in the near future, they added. "I have said in the past that when the high command orders, I will quit the post. No one should have any doubt. Those who are talking about two and a half years, they are trying to bring political instability and they will never succeed," Bhagel told reporters at the airport. "As far as the incumbent state government is concerned, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have entrusted the responsibility to a farmer like me. I am happy about it. This government is of farmers, tribals, labourers and 2.8 crore people of the state. The government is functioning well," he said. Deo has claimed that according to an agreement made after the Congress came to power in Chhattisgarh in 2018, he should have got the the chief minister's post after 2.5 years. Bhagel has denied the claim. According to sources in the Congress, the differences between Baghel and his rival, Deo, would be soon resolved. Earlier at the aiport, slogans such as 'Chhattisgarh ada hua hai, CM Bhupesh Baghel ke sang khada hua hai' (Chhattisgarh is adamant, it is standing with Chief Minister Baghel) were raised by his supporters as he arrived. Bhagel said he met Rahul Gandhi, party general secretary Venugopal and Congress' Chhattisgarh in-charge P L Punia and held discussions on the "state government's schemes, development and political situation" and "they were apprised of the situation in Chhattisgarh". "Punia ji has already clarified (about the rumours of leadership change). After his statement, is there anything more left to be said?" the chief minister asked. After Rahul Gandhi's meetings with Baghel and Deo in Delhi on Tuesday, Punia had told reporters that they discussed development issues and not the leadership change. Asked about opposition BJP's demand for clarification on the issue of rotation of the chief minister's post, Baghel said it was worried because there was a "farmers' government" in Chhattisgarh. "The son of a farmer is the chief minister, whom they (BJP) consider as their biggest challenge.. The BJP has no answer to the culture of Chhattisgarh," he said. The BJP was in power from 2003 to 2018, but now it is reduced to 14 seats in the 90-member state assembly, he said. Asked about the slogans in his favour at the airport, Baghel said everyone was raising slogans in favour of "Sonia-ji, Rahul-ji and the Congress party". When the Congress opted for Baghel for the top post following its victory in the 2018 assembly polls, there was speculation that Deo, another contender in the fray, would be allowed to take over after half the term. Baghel completed two and a half years in office in June 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-quit-chhattisgarh-cm-post-moment-sonia-gandhi-rahul-gandhi-ask-me-to-do-so-bhupesh-baghel-1023468.html
25-08-2021||National Politics||Centre doesn't want probe into oxygen shortage deaths: Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday claimed that Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has dismissed the need to form a panel to probe oxygen shortage-related deaths in the national capital as the Supreme Court-appointed task force is there to look into the matter. He also said that the Centre was "running away from investigation because the public will clearly see their negligence and fraud if the deaths are investigated". Sisodia had written a letter to Mandaviya, reiterating that an investigation committee would be necessary to correctly present the number of deaths due to oxygen shortage. In the letter received from the Union health minister on Wednesday, he has claimed that a National Task Force was set up on May 6, after the directives of the Supreme Court, Sisodia said in an online briefing. "The National Task Force has 12 pertinent Terms of Reference out of which five are for oxygen and due to this reason, setting up an investigation committee by the Delhi government is not required," he said quoting the letter from the Union minister. "The Union health minister claims that the mandate given by the Supreme Court for the National Task Force is related to deaths occurring due to lack of oxygen, but the 12-point agenda as directed by the top court for the task force is related to supply of oxygen to hospitals and recommendations and management for the future," Sisodia said. "When it has not been mentioned anywhere in the mandate of the task force to investigate the deaths occurred due to oxygen shortage, the Union health minister is claiming that there is no need to set up an investigation committee to assess deaths due to oxygen shortage," he said. "This is a huge fraud by the central government. The second reason given by the Union health minister is that since the Supreme Court in this order has directed that a sub-group be made for Delhi under the task force, and that an interim report has already been released, hence forming an investigation committee is not important," the deputy chief minister said. Under the National Task Force of the Supreme Court, it is mentioned that the purpose of conducting audits is to ensure a measure of accountability for the proper distribution of oxygen supplies made available by the Centre for states and Union Territories, he said. "I want to ask the Union minister that if the Supreme Court only had to investigate the deaths that occurred due to oxygen shortage, then why did the central government in the first place ask states to declare the number of deaths? What sort of drama is the central government doing?," Sisodia asked. The reason behind so many deaths is the "gross mismanagement" of oxygen by the Centre, he alleged. "The reason behind such gross mismanagement is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s irresponsibility and his attention towards West Bengal elections, not our nation’s people," the deputy chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-doesnt-want-probe-into-oxygen-shortage-deaths-manish-sisodia-1023518.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||'Love' for Muslim vote stopped you from paying tributes to Kalyan, UP BJP chief asks Akhilesh||Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh on Tuesday attacked Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, asking if the "love" for the Muslim vote bank prevented him from paying tributes to former state CM Kalyan Singh, who died after prolonged illness. A Hindutva icon and an OBC Lodh caste leader, Kalyan Singh was the chief minister of the state when the Babri mosque in Ayodhya was demolished by "Kar Sevaks" in 1992. He had died on Saturday after prolonged illness at a Lucknow hospital, after which his body was kept here for some time before the BJP leader's cremation with full state honours at Bansi Ghat in Bulandshahr's Narora town on Monday. Attacking the Samajwadi Party (SP) chief, Swatantra Dev Singh in a Hindi tweet said Yadav could not come barely one kilometre from his residence to Mall Avenue in Lucknow to pay tributes to Kalyan Singh. "Has the love for the Muslim vote bank stopped him from paying tributes to the biggest leader of the backward class," he asked taking a swipe at Yadav. On the night of Kalyan Singh's death, Akhilesh Yadav had condoled his death in a tweet but neither he nor any other SP leaders went personally to pay respects to the former UP CM like some other opposition leaders. BSP chief Mayawati had gone to pay homage to Kalyan Singh. Kalyan Singh had earlier allied with SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav after quitting the BJP and launching his own outfit. The bonhomie, however, lasted for a brief period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/love-for-muslim-vote-stopped-you-from-paying-tributes-to-kalyan-up-bjp-chief-asks-akhilesh-1023188.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||Filmmakers welcome new J&K film policy; advocate some changes to promote regional cinema||A group of artists and filmmakers from the Jammu region on Tuesday welcomed the new film policy but advocated some amendments in consultation with stakeholders to promote regional cinema. Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha had launched the new film policy at a star-studded event in Srinagar on August 5 in the presence of actor Amir Khan and filmmaker Rajkumar Hirani. The policy, officials said, has been worked out to facilitate the overall growth of the film industry in the region, including setting up of a film development council and revival of closed cinema halls. “We welcome the new film policy launched by the government even as we feel it needs certain amendments in consultation with local stakeholders for the promotion of the regional art industry and local talent,” said actor Tanveer Dar of Geetiyan fame. Geetiyan was the biggest movie of Dogri cinema which was released in 2014. Dar along with filmmakers Mohit Mattoo and Atul Vinod Duggal, director producer Shiv Kumar and cinematographer Bharat Arora were talking to reporters after a panel discussion on the new film policy. He said local talent have suffered over the past two decades and need a platform and hand-holding to demonstrate their skill. “This policy is very good which is bound to promote tourism and related sectors. However, the policy is bereft of the benefits to the local artists and the regional art industry,” actor-turned filmmaker Mattoo said. He added that he has been working in Maharashtra where local artists are provided various concessions by the state government to encourage and help them in the production and screening of regional movies. Mattoo said there is nothing in the policy for the production of short films and music videos. “We have a super hit Dogri movie (Geetiyan) but it only lasted for a few weeks in cinema halls. How come we think of making a film when we know we will not be able to promote and screen it for a longer duration to safeguard our investment,” cinematographer Arora said. Duggal, who runs a production house, said that “a policy which is framed inside a closed door has no relevance. “After going through the policy, I felt that it is meant to attract outside film makers with sops and has nothing for us. The policy wants us to get international awards for our production first and then the government will recognise our talent and lend a helping hand,” he said. Director producer Shiv Kumar said the policy is a very good initiative but requires certain changes to promote the regional cinema. “Jammu art industry is evolving and there have been some efforts by the filmmakers in the past but there was no response due to lack of government support,” he said. Kumar added, “If there is no response, there will be no motivation. Filmmaking is a very costly affair and we do not have investors here.” Requesting the people to love regional movies like they did with Bollywood productions, he said the government should also include exhibition policy for the promotion of the regional movies. “The government should include certain clauses in the new policy to make it necessary for exhibition of local production for a certain period at cinema halls,” he said, adding the government should also consider promotion of the regional films as “promotion and selling is the most difficult part of the films.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/filmmakers-welcome-new-jk-film-policy-advocate-some-changes-to-promote-regional-cinema-1023202.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||Engage local youth as SPOs to tackle infiltration in Rajouri: BJP||Expressing concern over increasing incidents of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri, the BJP on Tuesday batted for involving the local youth as special police officers to strengthen the “second line of defence”. The border district of Rajouri witnessed a spurt in terror incidents, including encounters, grenade attacks and recovery of weapons and explosives in July and August. "There is concern about increasing activities of terrorists in the border district. We want to strengthen the second line of defence in the Pahari-speaking areas by involving the local youth as special police officers (SPOs)," said Kuldeep Raj Gupta, former minister and a member of the advisory board for the development of Pahari-speaking people. He said the Pahari population always stood for national interests despite all odds. Gupta said the Pahari belt has large area and while the armed forces are doing their job diligently, it is highly recommended that the local youth from this region be involved more actively and engaged as SPOs to check infiltration. Gupta also thanked the Union government for addressing issues faced by people living in the area and reaffirmed belief that more such stringent steps will be taken to address other concerns. Gupta also appealed to the Centre to grant Scheduled Tribes (ST) status to the Pahari-speaking people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/engage-local-youth-as-spos-to-tackle-infiltration-in-rajouri-bjp-1023207.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||Mahasweta Devi’s short story ‘Draupadi’ dropped from DU’s BA (Hons) English course||The Delhi University Academic Council on Tuesday dropped a celebrated short story of Mahasweta Devi from BA (Hons) English course while approving changes in its syllabus. The implementation of the NEP from 2022-23 had been approved by the Standing Committee on Academic Matters in its meeting on Monday. Some members said despite opposition from a section of the council, the syllabus of the fifth semester of BA (Hons) English and the New Education Policy was approved. The matter will now be discussed by the varsity Executive Council. DU sources said at least 14 members of the Academic Council gave a dissent note on the changes in the syllabus of BA (Hons) English that dropped Mahasweta Devi’s short story. The Oversight Committee on courses had suggested some changes in the syllabus earlier which were opposed in the meeting Mithuraaj Dhusiya, an AC member, said, "We strongly protest against the overreach of the Oversight Committee which arbitrarily changed texts in the new undergraduate Learning Outcomes based Curriculum Framework (LOCF) syllabi of the fifth semester, bypassing the statutory bodies like Faculties, Committee of Courses and Standing Committee." He said two Dalit authors Bama and Sukirtharini were arbitrarily removed. "Then, Mahasweta Devi's "Draupadi" - a story about a tribal woman was also removed. It is shocking to note that this Oversight Committee did not have any experts from the concerned departments whose syllabus was changed. There is no logic behind such removals," he said. He added that "no substantial discussion" was allowed in the Academic Council on the matter of four-year undergraduate programmes (FYUP) with MEES or on other agenda items. "No voting was allowed and the elected members were asked to deposit dissent notes. This is subversion of statutory processes. Discussion in the Standing Committee, with 27 members, is not the same as discussion in the Academic Council with over 100 members," he said. This shows that DU administration lacks confidence in the FYUP model and is avoiding addressing important issues," he said. Out of 26 elected members, 16 dissented on the implementation of NEP - FYUP with MEES. In a dissent note on the National Education Policy, the members said the university has not asked for detailed feedback of the report of the NEP implementation from all stakeholders including members of all relevant statutory bodies. "Even though, DU uploaded the report on DU website on February 20 February 2021, it did not specifically ask for submission of feedback on this report,” the note read. “Standing Committee, and thereafter the Academic Council, must deliberate upon the recommendations of the NEP Implementation Committee only and along with feedback from stakeholders,” it added. “The report must be sent for discussion to all statutory bodies, like the Committees of Courses, Staff Councils, Faculties, etc. before taking it to the Academic Council," the note further added. It also stated that the fixing of the academic year 2022-23 as the year of implementation of NEP 2020 is "baseless" as there needs to be a detailed discussion and wider consultation first on NEP 2020 among all stakeholders. "The implementation of NEP 2020 will see a massive reduction of the current workload. It is clearly stated that Multiple Entry and Exit Schemes (MEES) and Academic Bank of Credit (ABC) will be implemented in DU in such a manner that only core course will be left untouched and students can earn credits for all other (non-core courses) from other universities," it said. It stated that in the proposed Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in Discipline with Research, a student will have to get total credits of 196 in four years. Core Courses comprise total credits of 84, which mean 42.86 per cent of the entire four years. "So, technically then DU will be allowing 57.14 per cent of total credits to be earned in four years from other universities. This will have a direct negative impact on the workload and potentially, we can straightaway see loss of around 57 per cent of the current workload," it said. It is stated that students who exit at the end of the first year after successful completion of academic requirements will be awarded with a certificate and those exiting at the end of the second year will be awarded with Diploma. "The relevance of such awards on the job prospects of a student remains unclear. This is an extremely ill-prepared structure which if implemented can actually end up damaging the career progression of generations of students to come," it read. The note also cited how the four-year undergraduate programme was introduced in 2013 but was withdrawn in 2014 after huge protests. Students had rejected the FYUP mainly because of the additional expenditure for the fourth year, it said. A survey carried out amongst students in 2013 showed that they were spending closed to Rs 1.5 to 2 lakh per year in staying in Delhi to receive education, it added. "Students also rejected the FYUP because of the severe dilution of the first two years of the course. The new model falls into the same trap by offering inconsequential courses in the first two semesters," it read. The Multiple Entry and Exit Options Scheme (MEES) along with the burden of extra expenditure will encourage dropouts. This will hit women students as well as others from marginalised and underprivileged sections, it said. "The addition of the fourth year will put additional burden on infrastructure in terms of classrooms, labs, etc. Most colleges do not have any space or scope for further expansion. Neither is there any promise of additional grants for creating infrastructure nor has any study been done of the current state in the institution," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mahasweta-devi-s-short-story-draupadi-dropped-from-du-s-ba-hons-english-course-1023208.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||India reports 37,593 new Covid-19 cases, 648 deaths||India logged 37,593 new coronavirus infections, while the active cases increased marginally to 3,22,327, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The total tally of Covid-19 cases increased to 3,25,12,366 and the death toll climbed to 4,35,758 with 648 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 0.99 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.67 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 2,776 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,92,755 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 51,11,84,547. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.10 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 30 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.92 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 61 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,17,54,281, while the case fatality rate  stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 59.55 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Wednesday morning.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 648 new fatalities include 288 from Maharashtra and 173 from Kerala. A total of 4,35,758 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,36,355 from Maharashtra, 37,184 from Karnataka, 34,761 from Tamil Nadu, 25,079 from Delhi, 22,794 from Uttar Pradesh, 19,757 from Kerala and 18,383 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-reports-37593-new-covid-19-cases-648-deaths-1023258.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||Amid Punjab's power tussle, four rebel ministers to meet Harish Rawat in Dehradun||A day after raising a banner of revolt against Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, four cabinet ministers on Wednesday are set to hold a meeting with AICC general secretary Harish Rawat in Dehradun. The four ministers-- Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Charanjit Singh Channi -- are on way to Dehradun in Uttarakhand to meet the All India Congress Committee general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge, sources said. After meeting Rawat, they are expected to go to Delhi, the sources said.  These ministers, known detractors of Amarinder Singh, and around two dozen legislators on Tuesday had held a meeting and sought replacement of the chief minister, saying they have “lost faith in him” over the issue of unfulfilled promises. They had questioned the ability of the CM in honouring the unfulfilled poll promises such as delay in justice in desecration of a religious text in 2015, arrest of "big fish" involved in drug rackets and scrapping power purchase agreements. They also said that they would meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi to apprise her of the sentiments prevailing in the party. They had held a meeting amid severe criticism of two advisers of Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for making controversial remarks on sensitive issues like Kashmir and Pakistan. The demand for seeking replacement of the CM has pushed the Punjab Congress into a fresh crisis. It also indicated that the party's recent efforts to quell dissent in the state unit with Sidhu's appointment have come a cropper. Bajwa, who is leading the disgruntled group of leaders, on Tuesday, had said they would seek time to meet the Congress president and apprise her of the political situation.               He had also said "drastic" steps need to be taken and if there is a need to change the chief minister, then it should be done.        When asked if an attempt was being made to oust the chief minister, Bajwa had told reporters it's not an attempt but the demand of people.         Bajwa had alleged that a perception has gained ground in Punjab that Amarinder Singh and the Shiromani Akali Dal have "colluded" with each other. Bajwa, Channi, Randhawa and a few legislators on Tuesday had also met Sidhu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-punjabs-power-tussle-four-rebel-ministers-to-meet-harish-rawat-in-dehradun-1023275.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||Rakesh Asthana's appointment: Supreme Court asks Delhi High Court to decide on plea in 2 weeks||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Delhi High Court to decide within two weeks a plea challenging the appointment of Gujarat-cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi Police Commissioner, just four days before his retirement as chief of the Border Security Force (BSF). A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant said since a plea has already been filed in the High Court, let it give its judgement on the subject. The top court said it would prefer to await final judgment on the subject by the High Court while deciding to keep a PIL filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of NGO CPIL pending before it. At the outset, the CJI said there were two issues, one was about his participation and formation of views on Asthana on the selection of CBI director and second, the High Court was seized of a petition about Asthana's appointment as Delhi police commissioner. The CJI had then objected to Asthana's name to the post of CBI head. Advocate Bhushan, for his part, said the CJI could still hear the matter. He said, "Every rule was thrown to the vents just to accommodate this person. It is an egregious case. I have never seen such a case where Government shows such a brazen violation of rule of law. He is given an extension in violation of each and every rule. Just four days before retirement, he was appointed police chief," he said. With regard to the petition before the High Court, he said it was an ambush plea filed in collusion with the government to get a genuine petition dismissed. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta asked what fundamental right of the petitioner has been taken away with the appointment.  So far as the allegation of petitions in collusion was concerned, he submitted that the less said is better, as there are professional PIL litigants who filed such surrogate pleas at the behest of people who lost out in the race. On Tuesday, the High Court had adjourned a hearing on a plea by Sadre Alam against July 27 order allowing inter-cadre deputation and extension of service of Asthana. The High Court had noted a similar plea has already been filed before the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rakesh-asthanas-appointment-supreme-court-asks-delhi-high-court-to-decide-on-plea-in-2-weeks-1023295.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||Caste-based Uttar Pradesh parties bargaining hard with major parties for larger slice of poll pie||Having a considerable sway over various castes, over a dozen smaller parties in Uttar Pradesh are bargaining hard with mainline parties like the BJP and Samajwadi Party ahead of the crucial state polls early next year. These caste-centric parties add heft to the bigger parties like the BJP, SP, BSP and Congress in the election as even a few thousand votes can make or mar chances of candidates.   In the 2017 state polls, as many as eight candidates of different parties had triumphed by a margin of less than 1000 votes, according to the Election Commission data. The lowest victory margin was of 171 votes in Doomariyaganj, where the BJP's Raghvendra Singh defeated BSP candidate Saiyada Khooton.   While the Samajwadi Party has said that its doors are open for smaller parties, the BJP is also trying to keep its alliance intact with them. Congress leaders feel going it alone will help strengthen the party organisation. Besides the Apna Dal (Sonelal), the BJP is eyeing the Nishad Party, JD (U), RPI and others including Bihar's Vikasheel Insaan Party (VIP) for an alliance. However, seat-sharing has not been finalised. While the Nishad Party has a considerable following among the 'nishad' (fishermen) community members, who are in sizeable numbers in around six Lok Sabha constituencies in the state, the Apna Dal (S) of Anupriya Patel has influence among the OBC Kurmi community. In 2018, the SP had fielded Sanjay Nishad's son Praveen as its candidate from the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat and stunned the BJP in bypolls after Yogi Adityanath, a five-term MP from the seat, vacated it on becoming an MLC in keeping with the constitutional obligation after being named the chief minister. Subsequently, the BJP won the Nishad party over to its side in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, fielding Praveen Nishad on its symbol from Sant Kabir Nagar. He won and is currently a BJP MP. In 2017, the BJP had tied up with Apna Dal (S) and Shuheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by Om Prakash Rajbhar keeping in mind their clout among Kurmis and extremely backward classes respectively. The SBSP won four seats in the 2017 UP assembly elections when it contested an an ally of the BJP. Rajbhar, who was a cabinet minister resigned before the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 and had also fielded its candidate on some seats. The Rajbhars constitute 20 per cent of the Purvanchal population and are regarded as the second-most politically dominant community after the Yadavs in eastern UP. Rajbhar has recently formed the Bhagadari Sankalp Morcha in which the AIMIM of Asaduddin Owaisi is also a part and announced to contest the 2022 assembly polls, saying the doors of the Morcha are open for the SP, BSP and Congress.   The AIMIM had recently announced that it would contest 100 seats in the state in alliance with the Rajbhar-led SBSP and the Morcha, a front of 10 smaller parties. In the 2017 assembly elections, the SP and BSP had polled 21.82 per cent and 22.23 per cent votes respectively.      Together, both the parties had netted 44.05 per cent votes, higher than the BJP's 39.67 per cent. However, the BJP walked away with 312 of the total 403 seats of the state assembly.   The SP, which had contested the polls in alliance with the Congress, could win 47 seats, while the BSP had managed to bag 19 seats. The Congress ended with a decimated tally of seven seats out of the 105 it had contested. In the 2012 assembly polls, over 200 registered parties had fielded their candidates, while in 2017 as many as 290 parties had jumped into the electoral battle in the country's most populous state.   Going by the figures of 2017, the SBSP had contested on eight seats and won in four constituencies. It got 34.14 per cent votes on seats contested and 0.70 per cent on total seats.       Similarly the Apna Dal (S) contested on 11 seats and got 39.21 per cent on the contested seats and 0.98 per cent in total.       The Peace Party contested on 68 seats but did not register a win. It got 1.56 per cent votes on contested seats and 0.26 per cent on total seats.       The Samajwadi Party already has Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Mahan Dal and Janwadi Socialist party and some other smaller parties by its side.       The Mahan Dal, which has a support base among the Shakya, Saini, Maurya and Kushwaha communities, is expected to bring in votes of some of the most backward castes that constitute about 14 per cent of the overall OBC category, which itself makes for over 40 per cent of the state's population.       The Janwadi Socialist party of Sanjay Singh Chauhan also draws strength from members of the Bind and Kashyap communities that area in sizeable numbers in over a dozen districts. Both the Mahan Dal and Janwadi Socialist Party have taken out separate yatras in the state from Ballia and Pilibhit respectively with a vow to make Akhilesh Yadav as the next state chief minister. Shivpal Yadav's Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) is also in trying to form a non-BJP alliance in the state. "We are all geared up to contest the assembly polls," the party's spokesperson Deepak Mishra told PTI.   "We cannot disclose it now as things are in the pipeline. For alliance a lot including seat-sharing has to be decided.You can hear something from our side soon," he said, adding talks are on with many parties. When asked about the chances of aligning with the SP, Mishra said that it (SP) has not said no to us.       "We will bank on 'gair-bhajpawad' (non-BJP) stand," he said. Besides them, Chandra Shekhar Azad's Azad Samaj Party (Kanshiram) is also entering the poll arena and is in talks with many smaller parties.   In 2017, there were 32 minor parties that secured votes between 5,000 and 50,000. There were six minor parties that secured above 50,000 votes, and six others secured above 1,00,000 votes. The cumulative impact of these parties had spoiled the winning chances of mainstream parties in 56, seven and 231 constituencies in the 2017 Assembly polls, 2014 Lok Sabha elections and 2012 Assembly elections, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/caste-based-uttar-pradesh-parties-bargaining-hard-with-major-parties-for-larger-slice-of-poll-pie-1023309.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||FM Nirmala Sitharaman hikes PSBs' pension contribution for employees to 14%||In a bid to provide relief to families of bank employees, the Centre has okayed the Indian Banking Association’s (IBA) proposal to increase the family pension to 30% of the last salary drawn.   This move would make family pension go up to as much as Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000 per family of bank employees.   This was announced by the Department of Financial Services Secretary Debasish Panda at a press meet addressed by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Mumbai on Wednesday. According to him, in continuation of the 11th bi-partite settlement on wage revision of public sector bank employees, which was signed by the IBA with the unions on November 11 last year, there was a proposal for enhancement of family pension and also the employers' contribution under the National Pension Scheme.   "This has been approved by the Finance Minister," he said.    Panda further said that earlier the scheme had slabs of 15, 20 and 30 per cent of the pay that a pensioner drew at that point of time. It was capped subject to a maximum of Rs 9,284.  “That was a very paltry sum and the Finance Minister was concerned and wanted that to be revised so that family members of bank employees get a decent amount to survive and sustain,” he noted.  The Government has also approved the proposal to increase employers contribution under the New Pension Scheme to 14% from the existing 10%.  Thousands of families of PSU bank employees will be benefited from the enhanced Family Pension, while increase in employers contribution will provide increased financial security to the bank employees under the New Pension Scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-hikes-psbs-pension-contribution-for-employees-to-14-1023316.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||34 MLAs of Punjab Congress want Amarinder out: Report||The turmoil and infighting in Punjab Congress do not seem to be settling anytime soon.  However, Sidhu and the four working presidents appointed by him were not present for the meeting held at Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s official residence. But it was reported that some of the MLA's went and met Sidhu at Congress headquarters. A day after raising a banner of revolt against Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, four cabinet ministers on Wednesday are also set to hold a meeting with AICC general secretary Harish Rawat in Dehradun. The CMO also released a statement regarding this stating that "seven of the 20-odd Punjab Congress MLAs and ex-MLAs” present at the meeting had distanced themselves from claims of a “festering revolt” and vowed support to Amarinder — including, MLAs Kuldeep Vaid, Dalvir Singh Goldy, Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, Angad Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli, and former MLA Ajit Singh Mofar. Raja Warring told the publication, “I was a part of the meeting but neither do I want to say I was a part of the resolution seeking the CM’s ouster, nor that I was not a part of that resolution. Also, I do not want to say whether I am in favour of the demand, or I am not in favour of that demand.” Bajwa, however, claimed that they had the support of not 34 MLAs but 46. “We got calls from many MLAs today, but they were stuck… The DGP is Captain’s man… Some people do not want any action against them for being seen with us,” he told the daily.  “There is a quid pro quo between the Chief Minister and the Akalis. No work is being done, no promises fulfilled. We have no option but to seek his replacement. We will bring to the notice of the high command that the CM has lost our trust,” he added.  Another minister, Channi, said, “The MLAs have lost confidence in the CM and his working. We are going to seek his replacement.” (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/34-mlas-of-punjab-congress-want-amarinder-out-report-1023317.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||Reopen schools for all classes phase-wise, Delhi Disaster Management Authority recommends||An expert committee set up by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has recommended phase-wise reopening of schools in the national capital, according to sources. In its report submitted on Wednesday, the panel has recommended that schools be reopened for all classes but senior wing students be called in the first phase followed by middle class students and ultimately primary classes, they said. "The panel has submitted its report today. The recommendations include reopening of schools for all classes but in a phase-wise manner. The report will be studied in detail and a final decision will be taken soon in this regard," a source said. Currently, students of classes 10, 11 and 12 can visit schools for admission and board-exam related activities, with consent of parents. Noting that there is no harm now in reopening schools in the national capital, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal had on August 6 asked officials to set up an expert committee to chalk out a detailed plan. The committee was set up after Deputy CM Manish Sisodia told the DDMA in a meeting chaired by Baijal that at least 90 per cent of the parents, who attended the mega parent-teacher meeting (PTM) at government schools that was held between July 19 and 31, had voted in favour of reopening the schools. Sisodia had also noted in the meeting that school closures for over a year has led to a major loss of learning. The committee was tasked with finalising a detailed SOP, assessing preparedness of schools, vaccination of teaching and non teaching staff and addressing concerns of parents. Schools in the national capital were ordered shut last year in March ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. While several states started partial reopening of schools in October last year, the Delhi government allowed physical classes only for grades 9-12 in January this year, which were again suspended following the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases during the aggressive second wave. The Delhi government had also allowed auditoriums and assembly halls in schools to be used for training and meeting purposes, but physical teaching and learning remain suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/reopen-schools-for-all-classes-phase-wise-delhi-disaster-management-authority-recommends-1023322.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||Mega event to be held from August 26 to 28 to boost tourism in Ladakh||Keen to jumpstart tourism in Ladakh after the coronavirus crisis, the Ministry of Tourism has organised a mega event to showcase the region. Ladakh Lieutenant Governor Radha Krishna Mathur and Union Minister of Tourism, Culture and Development of North Eastern Region (DoNER) G Kishan Reddy will address the event "Ladakh: New Start, New Goals" being organised in Leh from August 26 to 28. "The objective of the event is to promote Ladakh as a tourist destination with focus on aspects of adventure, culture and responsible tourism. The event aims to provide indigenous product knowledge to the industry stakeholders and also a platform to local stakeholders for interaction with the tour operators/buyers from the rest of the country," the ministry said in a statement. The event will include activities like exhibition, panel discussions, B2B meetings, technical tours, cultural evening to showcase tourism facilities in Ladakh. Reddy will grace the event virtually. During the event, 'Tourism Vision for Ladakh' would be unveiled which focuses on overall development of the Ladakh region. The document envisions promoting tourism in the backdrop of sustainable ecological practices, building on local material and human resources, ministry officials said. The ministry has aggressively started tourism promotions with the participation of the industry stakeholders after the coronavirus pandemic virtually shut down any tourism opportunities. The ministry has been promoting Ladakh in domestic as well as in international markets through various campaigns and initiatives such as ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ wherein a dedicated webinar on Ladakh was conducted. Promotion of Ladakh has also been undertaken through Incredible India Website, social media platforms of the ministry, etc. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mega-event-to-be-held-from-august-26-to-28-to-boost-tourism-in-ladakh-1023337.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||HC asks Delhi government to respond to plea seeking ban on sex-selective surgeries on same-sex infants||The Delhi High Court Wednesday sought response of the Delhi government and the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on a plea seeking to declare a ban on medically unnecessary sex-selective surgeries on intersex infants and children except in cases of life threatening situations here. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Delhi government and DCPCR and asked them to respond to the petition. The bench listed the matter for further hearing in October. The petition filed by NGO, Srishti Madurai Educational Research Foundation, said the DCPCR gave a considered opinion that the Delhi government and its Health Department should declare a ban on medically unnecessary, sex-selective surgeries on intersex infants and children except in cases of life threatening situations but no decision has been taken on the opinion till date. "The issue of sex-selective surgeries or medically unnecessary normalising surgeries has a long-lasting drastic psychological impact on the minds of intersex people and deters them from even seeking medical attention in future. This aspect is proved by recent news reports that examine the reasons behind the reluctance to seek medical help despite having symptoms of Covid-19 among a significant number of intersex people," the plea, filed through advocates Robin Raju, Yash Prakash and Deepa Joseph, said. The petitioner sought direction to the government to implement the DCPCR’s opinion and also frame a detailed policy or guidelines specifying the conditions when medical surgery on intersex infants and children can be performed. The plea said the issue of such surgeries may not be trending news or an issue that gains prominence in front pages of newspapers but it is indeed an issue that exists and is prevalent in the society. It said the cases of intersex human rights violations in India used to go unnoticed in the past, but nowadays due to the strong influence of social media, such news are being highlighted in the public domain. It also referred to a judgement of the Supreme Court which had stated that no one shall be forced to undergo medical procedures, including sex reassignment surgeries, sterilisation or hormonal therapy, as a requirement for legal recognition of their gender identity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-asks-delhi-government-to-respond-to-plea-seeking-ban-on-sex-selective-surgeries-on-same-sex-infants-1023363.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||J&K wouldn’t have been part of India without Congress: Mehbooba Mufti||Regional PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday said that Jammu and Kashmir had acceded to India of Gandhi and Nehru and if Congress would not have been there “the erstwhile state would not have been part of the country.” “J&K had acceded with the secular India of (Mahatma) Gandhiji, Pandit Nehru and Indira Gandhi, where there was brotherhood. Congress had a big role in making J&K part of India. If there would have been no Congress and secular culture, which is being eroded gradually now, J&K wouldn’t have been part of India,” she said while addressing party workers in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. The firebrand president of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) advised the people of J&K to not have any regrets about the BJP government. “They are arresting politicians, activists and students who dare to speak against them across the country and arresting Hurriyat leaders is no big deal for them,” she said. The PDP chief said she told Prime Minister Narendra Modi in their June 24 meeting in New Delhi that if the policy of “suppression and oppression” continues in Kashmir, “its consequences won’t be good.” Mehbooba, whose PDP was in alliance with the BJP from 2015-2018, continued praising the Congress leadership and criticizing the saffron party. “Whatever had been created by the leadership of the country, especially Congress, in the last 70 years, is being sold out by the present regime. They are selling roads, bridges, petrol pumps, airports, railway stations and power projects,” she claimed. On Saturday, the former CM had asked New Delhi to draw lessons on how the Taliban threw out the powerful USA from Afghanistan and asked the Modi government to restore Article 370 and resolve Kashmir through dialogue. This evoked a sharp reaction from the BJP who sought an apology from Mehbooba and demanded an investigation to ascertain whether she has any links with the Taliban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-wouldn-t-have-been-part-of-india-without-congress-mehbooba-mufti-1023369.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||Cloudburst in Uttarakhand village, flood water enters houses||A cloudburst occurred near Satla Devi temple in Khabadwala village on the outskirts of the city in Uttarakhand, flooding rivers and streams. The floodwater entered houses, electric poles and trees fell down at places, and two-wheelers were swept away after the cloudburst late Tuesday night, state disaster management officials said on Wednesday. However, no casualty was reported anywhere, they said. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami visited the area along with cabinet minister Ganesh Joshi on Wednesday to assess the damage and distributed relief material among affected people. He also asked the district magistrate to prepare an action plan to prevent damage by natural disasters in the area in future. Heavy rains lashed Dehradun Tuesday night which flooded the Rispana and Bindal rivers besides causing heavy waterlogging in many areas. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cloudburst-in-uttarakhand-village-flood-water-enters-houses-1023384.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||MiG-21 aircraft belonging to IAF crashes in Barmer, pilot ejects||A MiG-21 fighter aircraft of the Indian Air Force crashed in Rajathan's Barmer district on Wednesday evening but the pilot ejected safely, a defence spokesperson said. "The aircraft was on a routine sortie when it crashed, " the spokesperson said. The incident occurred near Bhurtiya village under Sadar police station area, Superintendent of Police, Barmer, Anand Sharma said . "There is no civilian casualty due to the crash of the fighter plane. Policemen have reached the spot," he said. The pilot had safely ejected, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mig-21-aircraft-belonging-to-iaf-crashes-in-barmer-pilot-ejects-1023437.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||SC asks UP government to consider releasing convicts incarcerated for 10 years due to pending appeals||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to consider releasing convicts in appropriate cases as 7,214 of them remained incarcerated for the last 10 years in view of pendency of their appeals in the Allahabad High Court. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy asked the state government to take some actions to ensure the release of the convicts as there was inordinate delay in hearing appeals at the High Court. The court issued notice to Allahabad High Court in a batch of pleas seeking bail, for setting out broad guidelines to expedite hearing in such matters. The top court had earlier decided to lay down broad parameters that could be considered by Allahabad High Court while granting bail where the convicts were in jail, pending consideration of their appeals. It suggested considering factors like the period undergone, the heinousness of the crime, the age of the convicts, the period taken in the trial, and whether the appellants were diligently pursuing the appeals. The UP government, for its part, said as many as 1,71,491 criminal appeals since 2000 have been filed in the High Court, which disposed of 31,044 cases. It also pointed out that the High Court was functioning with 93 judges out of a sanctioned strength of 160 judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-up-government-to-consider-releasing-convicts-incarcerated-for-10-years-due-to-pending-appeals-1023465.html
25-08-2021||North and Central||SAD wins crucial election to Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee; clinches 27 of 46 seats||Ahead of the Punjab assembly polls, the Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday won the crucial elections to the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), clinching 27 out of the total 46 seats. Buoyed by the win, the third on the trot in the DSGMC elections, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said it is the beginning of a "storm which will sweep the Congress and the AAP aside" in the Punjab assembly polls next year. DSGMC president and SAD leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa lost to Harvinder Singh Sarna of the Akali Dal (Delhi) in Punjabi Bagh by 469 votes. However, he is likely to become the Sikh body’s president again as the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) nominated him as a member of the DSGMC on Wednesday evening. Manjit Singh GK-led Jago party won in three wards, while Akali Dali (Delhi) headed by Paramjit Singh Sarna got 14 seats, the Directorate of Gurdwara Elections said. Independent candidate Tarvinder Singh Marwah won the Jangpura ward. SAD got 40.27 per cent of the total votes polled, Akali Dali (Delhi) 27.79 per cent and JAGO Party 15.72 per cent votes, according to data issued by the directorate. Addressing the media in Delhi, SAD president Badal said, “This is just the beginning of the storm which will sweep the Congress and the AAP aside in the 2022 Punjab assembly elections.” Sirsa will be nominated as a member of the DSGMC on behalf of the SGPC, a statement quoted Badal as saying. “Sirsa stood by the Sangat, including Covid victims, farmers and Sikh refugees from Afghanistan, and has won the hearts of devout Sikh masses,” he said. Sirsa posted on Twitter: "We feel humbled and blessed to win 27 seats out of 46 in DSGMC elections. This win is the victory of Delhi’s Sangat. We bow our heads to the honour bestowed upon Shiromani Akali Dal by the Sangat of Delhi." The SAD president claimed that the Congress deputed police officers from Punjab to help Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s religious advisor Paramjit Sarna. “Our booth managers were intimidated and raids were conducted against them. A large number of votes polled in favour of SAD were rejected resulting in the loss of nearly eight seats,” he claimed. “While the Akali Dal (Delhi) received help from the Punjab government, the Jago party was supported by the BJP which even held meetings of its councillors and booth level leaders to help the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa – Manjit GK led front,” Badal said. The DSGMC which controls historic shrines in the city including Rakabganj and Bangla Sahib Gurudwaras as well as various academic institutions and hospitals, goes to polls every four years. A total of 312 candidates including 132 independents fought the elections conducted on Sunday. The voting had witnessed a low turnout of 37.27 per cent, officials said. The Punjab Bagh ward had recorded the highest percentage of voting of 54.10 per cent, while it was lowest (25.18 per cent) in Sham Nagar, as per the directorate figures. In the previous elections held in 2017, SAD came to control the DSGMC by winning 35 wards. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-wins-crucial-election-to-delhi-sikh-gurdwara-management-committee-clinches-27-of-46-seats-1023486.html
25-08-2021||Opinion||This is what Afghan evacuation looks like on the inside||By Arash Azizzada The day our lives fell apart, Sunday, August 15, I received a call from a close friend in Kabul. Usually cool and confident, vital skills for a community leader in a complex, conflict-ridden place like Afghanistan, my friend now whispered in desperation. “I need to get out,” he said. “Help me.” In the background, I could hear the city bustling nervously as millions of people absorbed the fact of the Taliban’s conquest. My friend, a vocal activist who has spoken out against the Taliban’s oppressive rule, is one of the thousands of Afghans currently fighting to find a way to escape the country. For the past week, I’ve been working from Los Angeles, where I live, to support and coordinate their efforts. Together with a coalition of Afghan American organizations, many community members and I have been trying our hardest to evacuate our friends and family. It’s fiendishly difficult. A network of veterans, private sector workers, human rights activists and other volunteers, we’re coordinating on different platforms and languages, often all at once. We’re figuring out what Taliban checkpoints to avoid and what gate at the airport is the most accessible, if any are. We’re raising money, millions of dollars overnight, to charter planes. We’re endlessly compiling spreadsheets with information about Afghans who are under threat from the Taliban. We’re doing this because the American government isn’t. United States officials claim they’re presiding over an orderly exit, but the chaos on the ground suggests otherwise. Those evacuated in the past 10 days — approximately 58,700 people, according to American officials — appear to be mostly American citizens and the situation, fluid and frenzied, is far from under control. Friends and family we’ve tried to evacuate have been shot and beaten up by the Taliban, despite American promises of security at the airport. In the absence of guidance, it has fallen to us, using our phones and laptops, to figure out how to rescue Afghans scrambling for their lives. When Afghans speak to me now, they all whisper like my friend, hoping desperately to avoid detection. Their workplaces and homes are being raided by armed men, as the Taliban search for journalists, activists, prominent figures — anyone who has spoken out against their brutality. It goes far beyond critics: In some areas of Kabul, the Taliban are reportedly compiling a list of the houses belonging to members of the Hazara and Shia minority communities, whom they consider heretics. While in front of international TV cameras, the Taliban speak of “amnesty” for all who fought against them, the reality for Afghans on the ground is completely different. The people I’m talking to sometimes go silent. All of a sudden, their Twitter and Instagram accounts stop: no posts, no stories, no tweets. Some have switched to encrypted messaging, their communication ever more frantic. For those who venture outside — bravely pouring onto the streets, for example, to celebrate Afghanistan’s Independence Day last week, waving now banned Afghan flags — bullets await. The attempt to flee is perilous: Many, including American citizens, have reached the airport only to be stopped, beaten and turned away. Their homes are now marked by the Taliban. The Afghan people have been all but abandoned to their fate. Despite its promises to evacuate thousands of at-risk Afghans who assisted the United States, the Biden administration has effectively left the job to Afghan-American community organizers, operating from overseas with minimal resources. That must change immediately. The Biden administration needs to establish security in and around the airport, beyond the Aug. 31 deadline for final withdrawal, and make certain that everyone who needs to can actually make it onto an evacuation flight. The administration must drop its onerous immigration regulations — for example, asking Afghans to present threat letters or insisting they first travel to a third country before their cases are processed — and provide family reunification applications, which should be expedited and prioritized. It should go further still. In the aftermath of American intervention in Cuba and Vietnam, refugees from both countries were granted refuge: The same should happen now. The United States has a clear role in causing the humanitarian disaster slowly unfolding in Afghanistan today. For those millions of Afghans whose lives have been turned upside down by two decades of American military action, ending in a poorly organized withdrawal, nothing less than a complete humanitarian parole— offered to any Afghan whose life is in danger — will do. My friend, along with his family, is now in hiding. They live minute to minute, hour to hour, fearing the knock on the door. “I’m so exhausted,” he said when we last spoke after yet another failed attempt to enter the airport. “I am losing hope.” His life, and countless others, is at stake. Mr. Biden must act, before it’s too late.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/this-is-what-afghan-evacuation-looks-like-on-the-inside-1023218.html
25-08-2021||Opinion||Partition Horrors Remembrance: Restorative vs retributive justice||Seventy-five years is a long time in the life of a nation. Yet, the memory of Partition remains fraught and vulnerable to political manipulation. The tragedy is that the communal politics which split the country over seven decades ago continues to define India. A day ahead of India's 75th Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that August 14 would henceforth be observed as the day of "remembrance of Partition horrors." August 14 is also the day Pakistan celebrates its independence. It's an important fact to keep in mind in this context. The announcement sparked conflicting but expected responses. While the prime minister's cabinet and party colleagues enthusiastically and predictably greeted the decision, projecting it as yet another warning against politics of appeasement, others saw in the declaration a reinforcement of the BJP's divisive politics, an endorsement of the party's core agenda, expected to come into play in next year's elections in Uttar Pradesh. Underneath the pedestrian spat, however, deep, unresolved issues simmer - issues that have a bearing on the present and future of the country beyond immediate electoral compulsions and tactics. Politicians will continue to spar with each other, leveraging historical events to settle petty scores. In this context, the prime minister's declaration of remembrance day left a great deal unsaid and open to fractious interpretation. It's important to underline that remembrance of traumatic events is not imbued with simplistic, linear meaning. The institutionalisation of trauma is a double-edged sword. Memories can have a transformative healing effect. Conversely, they can foster and deepen existing instincts for further retributive violence. History is replete with such cycles of violence and retaliatory measures that continue to foster violence in the name of memorialisation. In such circumstances, a lot depends on who is asking a community or a nation to remember past "horrors;" who is urging them to keep alive the pain of trauma. Are words intended to heal wounds also capable of keeping them festering? If they heighten divisive ideology and fan the flames of a fractious political culture, then dredging up images of violence to memorialise them adds to existing brittleness about peoples' relationships to traumatic history. Given the long and bloody road that led to the Partition, the prime minister's call to remember its horrors evokes unsettling thoughts. The disquiet can be attributed to the country's prevailing atmosphere, laden with communal hostility. In recent years, the culture of stigmatising Muslims has assumed an increasingly virulent edge. Virtually not a day passes that we do not hear of all manner of attacks on Muslims, from the forced chanting of slogans to more blatant acts of violence and aggression. An array of intimidatory and humiliating tactics targeting Muslims is on display in the public sphere. Regardless of erratic, conciliatory statements that come from Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leaders—for example, asking Muslims not to get "trapped in the cycle of fear"—the community finds itself increasingly hemmed in by the rising tide of majoritarian politics. To understand Partition, it's important to keep in mind its complicated history. The two states most affected by the dislocation and violence of 1947 were Bengal and Punjab. Bengal, in fact, was partitioned twice, first in 1905 (subsequently revoked in 1911), then in 1947—the reverberations of which were felt in 1964-65 and 1971. It's disturbing that large sections of the majority community, despite the rich historical research that has been in the public sphere for long, continues to hold Muslims singularly responsible for demanding Partition and organising violence to achieve that objective. Large sections of Hindus continue to see themselves as Partition's sole victims, and Muslims as its sole perpetrators. History, however, tells us otherwise. It was not just the Muslim League or large sections of Muslims who advocated a separated homeland for themselves. Large numbers of Hindus and Hindu organisations too backed the idea. In her book, Bengal Divided: Hindu Communalism and Partition, 1932-1947, historian Joya Chatterji argues that although "Partition is generally believed to have been a consequence of the separatist politics of Muslim minorities, but in case of Bengal, Hindus evolved a parallel separatism of their own." Chatterji explains how the split impacted long-term relations between Hindus and Muslims. The violence and dislocation spawned Muslim ghettos, widening spatial and social distance between the two communities. In many ways and on many levels, even after the passage of seven decades, schisms riven by the event continue to define contemporary India and our existing culture of violent intolerance. Traumatic events like Partition need to be remembered as a warning against communal violence and not as what the Bharatiya Janata Party describes as "politics of appeasement." In all this, there are perhaps lessons to be learnt from efforts like South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission established at the end of apartheid. The Commission brought victims and perpetrators face-to-face with each other, hoping that an acknowledgement of historical injustice and violence could end cycles of inter-racial violence. There is, of course, no consensus that the initiative was a success—and, indeed, many convincingly argue it was not. However, regardless of its success, versions of the Commission have been implemented in over 40 countries, including Canada, Chile, Ecuador, Ghana, Rwanda, and Sierra Leone. The idea of reckoning with past trauma in a manner that does not beget more trauma is a powerful one. It privileges restorative over retributive justice. This is an idea whose time has come in India, where the use of violence to settle real or perceived injustice has gained alarming acceptance from vast sections of society. (Monobina Gupta is the author of Left Politics in Bengal and Didi: A Political Biography) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/partition-horrors-remembrance-restorative-vs-retributive-justice-1023356.html
25-08-2021||Panorama||NEP: A transformative approach to education||India’s education system has been longing for a makeover for decades. In 2020, the government took a bold step of introducing a New Education Policy (NEP) which today has revolutionised the education system. The scope of this new policy spans a broad spectrum from elementary to university level. NEP is expected to create a profound impact on the career of students and experts are hopeful that the new policy will make the education system more flexible, advanced, and scientific.  This revamped structure was the need of the hour for Indian students to be recognised at a  global level. Be it the admission for higher studies in our country or to foreign universities. Our existing education system focuses more on theoretical knowledge rather than practical implementation. The lack of flexibility in opting for a particular mix of subjects is another concern. To change all these, a new system was essential. However, we cannot draw any conclusion about the policy at this crucial stage. Though NEP promises several changes, it can be measured only after the implementation at the school level.  NEP was framed to break the shackles and reform education for Indian students to leverage their true potential. As per the policy, every student is trained with concepts from different walks of life. This holistic approach will certainly cover every aspect focused on improving the quality of education. In the opinion of the NEP panel, at every stage, a child should be able to connect the studies he did earlier. This interconnection forms a big part of a flexible system.  In India, many students are expected to memorise the content rather than focus on understanding the concept. Therefore, even at a younger age, students face difficulties when they are shifted from playschools to formal education. A strong foundational education is required to conceptualise as a child grows older and starts learning new topics.  Almost 85% of a child’s cumulative brain development and growth occurs before the age of 6. Therefore, Early child care education is crucial which is possible through the 5+3+3+4 model by the government. In this model, the pedagogical system was divided to include children in the age group of 3-5 informal education as well as incorporate this stage of education into the school curriculum following global standards, which was not present earlier.  Introducing coding lessons early, teaching in their mother tongue as a medium of instruction in the early days of education will help open up opportunities for our children and make them realise the concepts better.  Schools can implement NEP by changing the pedagogical structure they follow and also upskilling the teachers to address the gaps in the education system.  Private schools are already focusing on early child care education. Many schools have introduced flexible curriculum to the students which help in their holistic development. Each child is given special focus and activities like book reading, participation in the special events are given more prominence to encourage the talent. This has to be nurtured in every child to bring out the best in them.  Instead of only depending on the board curriculum, schools need to be proactive in taking a new approach in the pedagogical structure like building an in-house curriculum that will help in the overall development of a child. Education should always help in the physical, motor, and cognitive development of children.   The major factor in bringing transformation in pedagogy are teachers. Upskilling teachers, different training programs will help them adapt to the new methods.  Experiential learning has to be given more prominence and teachers need to imbibe creative thinking in students. This will develop curiosity among students and also increases the passion for practical knowledge. The focus should be on core subjects through programs like STEM education. Innovative teaching should be introduced using new technologies. Preference should be given to conceptual understanding rather than rote learning. Incorporating courses, streams, and technology to provide students with a holistic learning experience is crucial.  India is trying to incorporate the global culture into its traditional educational system. The NEP will ensure that learning will be enjoyable rather than mere routine. As a result, the school dropout ratio will decrease and the quality of students will increase.  To sum it up, we can say that NEP speaks about flexibility in every step of education. It is the first and primary initiative to forgo rigid practices. ( The writer is the founder and managing director,Ekya Schools)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nep-a-transformative-approach-to-education-1023232.html
25-08-2021||Panorama||Chip shortage set to worsen as Covid rampages through Malaysia||The number of Covid-19 infections is surging in Malaysia, threatening to aggravate shortages of semiconductors and other components that have hammered automakers for months. The Southeast Asian country hasn’t historically had the kind of importance to technology supply chains that Taiwan, South Korea or Japan do. But in recent years, Malaysia emerged as a major centre for chip testing and packaging, with Infineon Technologies AG, NXP Semiconductors NV and STMicroelectronics NV among the key suppliers operating plants there. Now Covid-19 infections are soaring in the country, jeopardising plans to lift lockdowns and restore full production capacity. The seven-day average for reported daily infections has pushed past 20,000, up from just over 5,000 in late June. Ford Motor Co. said last week it would temporarily suspend production of its popular F-150 pickup truck at one US plant because of “a semiconductor-related part shortage as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic in Malaysia.” The country’s authorities are racing to address the outbreak and have granted exemptions to certain manufacturers in an effort to keep the economy on track. Companies were allowed to keep operating with 60% of their workforces during June lockdowns and they’ll be able to move back to 100% when more than 80% of their workers are fully vaccinated. On August 23, the number of reported infections dropped to 17,672. But the situation on the ground remains volatile. Factories have to shut down completely for as long as two weeks for sanitation if more than three workers contract Covid-19 under unofficial guidelines. The delta variant is proving particularly infectious and difficult to stop. “This could be very disruptive for Infineon and other companies that have plants of a few thousand workers,” said Samuel Tan, a semiconductor analyst with Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. Local firms are reporting such closures through exchange filings. STMicro and Infineon, both key auto suppliers, had to close facilities. The situation could aggravate semiconductor shortages, already at crisis levels. Chip lead times, the gap between ordering a semiconductor and taking delivery, increased by more than eight days to 20.2 weeks in July from the previous month, according to research by Susquehanna Financial Group. That gap was already the longest wait time since the firm began tracking the data in 2017. Automakers have lost sales after a series of unexpected blows in the past year, including a cold snap in Texas that hobbled factories there and a fire in Japan at a critical auto chip plant. Toyota Motor Corp. said last week it would suspend production at 14 plants because suppliers, particularly in Southeast Asia, have been hit by new Covid infections and lockdowns. It has partners clustered in Thailand, Vietnam and Malaysia. Thailand and Vietnam are also seeing sharp increases in reported infections, as the delta variant spreads. Malaysia’s position as a prime base for testing and packaging chips is critical because those are the last steps of semiconductor production. Electronics and electrical products account for 39% of the country’s total exports, according to data from the Ministry of Trade and Industry. “Malaysia is a key player in the global semiconductor trade,” Wong Siew Hai, president of the Malaysia Semiconductor Industry Association, said in an interview. “Thus, any disruption anywhere along the supply chain will have knock-on effects elsewhere in the ecosystem.” Vaccinations are critical to ensuring the country can play its part in the technology supply chain, he said. About 57% of the total population has received at least one dose, according to the health ministry. The government has ploughed ahead with its battle against the outbreak through a transition in the prime minister. Officials are working with large companies to prioritise the vaccination of the entire staff as soon as possible. And because this is the third major lockdown in Malaysia, companies in the country are maintaining certain emergency inventory to cushion the impact of factory shutdowns, Tan said. Still, Infineon said in an earnings call in August that manufacturing bottlenecks in Malaysia are likely to continue to weigh on sales in the current quarter. Before the disruptions in Malaysia and other parts of Southeast Asia, it was already forecast that the chip shortage will cost car firms more than $100 billion in lost production this year alone. The extent of the damage may ultimately be determined by how effective governments like Malaysia’s are able to fight against further outbreaks.  IHS analysts Mark Fulthorpe and Phil Amsrud said that packaging and testing operations are particularly vulnerable to the virus because they need more people than chip manufacturing, a largely automated process.   “As this is more labour-intensive than the wafer fabrication processes, activity is more easily affected by public health measures that impact workforce participation,” they wrote in a recent report. Bloomberg||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/chip-shortage-set-to-worsen-as-covid-rampages-through-malaysia-1023238.html
25-08-2021||Panorama||In shift, Israel quietly allows Jewish prayer on Temple Mount||By Patrick Kingsley and Adam Rasgon The Israeli government has long forbidden Jews to pray on the Temple Mount, a site sacred to Jews and Muslims, yet Rabbi Yehudah Glick made little effort to hide his prayers. In fact, he was livestreaming them. “Oh Lord!” prayed Rabbi Glick, as he filmed himself on his phone on a recent morning. “Save my soul from false lips and deceitful tongues!” Since Israel captured the Old City of Jerusalem from Jordan in 1967, it has maintained a fragile religious balance at the Temple Mount, the most divisive site in Jerusalem: Only Muslims can worship there, while Jews can pray at the Western Wall below. But recently the government has quietly allowed increasing numbers of Jews to pray there, a shift that could aggravate the instability in East Jerusalem and potentially lead to religious conflict. “It’s a sensitive place,” said Ehud Olmert, a former Israeli prime minister. “And sensitive places such as this, which have an enormous potential for explosion, need to be treated with care.” Rabbi Glick, an American-born, right-wing former lawmaker, has been leading efforts to change the status quo for decades. He characterizes his effort as a matter of religious freedom: If Muslims can pray there, why not Jews? “God is the master of all humanity,” he said. “And he wants every one of us to be here to worship, everyone in his own style.” But the prohibition of Jewish prayer on the 37-acre plateau that once held two ancient Jewish temples was part of a longstanding compromise to avoid conflict at a site that has been a frequent flashpoint in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Under the arrangement, the Jordanian government has retained administrative oversight of the Temple Mount, known to Arabs as the Noble Sanctuary or the Aqsa compound. The Aqsa Mosque and the golden Dome of the Rock, a shrine that Muslim tradition considers to be the spot where the Prophet Muhammad ascended to heaven, are situated on its limestone plaza. Israel has overall security authority and maintains a small police station there. The government officially allows non-Muslims to visit the site for several hours each morning on the condition that they not pray there. Though no Israeli law explicitly bars Jewish prayer there, Jewish visitors who attempt to pray there have historically been removed or reprimanded by the police. When this balance of power has appeared to teeter, it has often led to violence. When Ariel Sharon, a former Israeli prime minister, toured the mount in 2000, surrounded by hundreds of police officers, the provocation led to the second Palestinian intifada, or uprising. When Israel briefly installed metal detectors at the mount’s gates in 2017, it led to unrest that left several people dead and briefly threatened to unleash another major uprising. And when the Israeli police raided the compound several times last spring, it contributed to tensions that led to an 11-day war with Hamas, the militant Islamist group in the Gaza Strip, as well as days of unrest within Israel. The policy began to change during the tenure of Benjamin Netanyahu, Israel’s longest-serving prime minister, who led coalitions of right-wing and religious parties. Rabbi Glick said that the police began to allow him and his allies to pray on the mount more openly five years ago. The numbers have quietly increased, but to avoid a backlash, the policy was not widely publicised. That changed last month, after Netanyahu was replaced by Naftali Bennett. Suddenly, Israeli news outlets published images and footage of dozens of Jews praying openly on the mount, including a lawmaker from Bennett’s party, forcing Bennett to address the issue publicly. Bennett initially appeared to confirm a formal change in policy, saying that all religions would have “freedom of worship” on Temple Mount, to the delight of some members of his own hard-right party. A day later, after criticism from Jordan and leftist and Arab members of his governing coalition, he backtracked, issuing a statement that the status quo ante remained in place. His office repeated that claim after a recent inquiry from The New York Times, providing a six-word comment: “No change in the status quo.” But in reality, dozens of Jews now openly pray every day in a secluded part of the eastern flank of the site, and their Israeli police escorts no longer attempt to stop them. On two recent mornings, Times reporters witnessed Israeli officers standing between Jewish worshipers and officials from the Waqf, the Jordanian-led body that manages the mount, preventing the latter from intervening. To many Palestinians, the shift is provocative and unfair. They feel that Muslims have already made a big concession at the Western Wall, which is now used mostly by Jewish worshipers despite its also being important to Muslims. In 1967, Israel even razed an Arab neighbourhood beside the wall to create more space for Jewish prayer. Sheikh Omar al-Kiswani, the director of the mosque, said that the Aqsa compound should be reserved for Muslim prayer, in recognition of its importance to Muslims. Many Palestinians consider the Aqsa compound the embodiment of Palestinian identity, the animating force behind the aspiration for a Palestinian capital in East Jerusalem. “It has been named Al Aqsa since the Prophet Muhammad rose to heaven there,” Sheikh Omar said. The de facto change in policy is just part of a larger pattern of slights against Palestinian dignity across the occupied territories, he said. “This is the prevalent reality, not only at the Aqsa Mosque, but also at checkpoints and other places in Palestine,” he said. “We face constant racist discrimination and infringement on our human rights.” To many Orthodox Jews, the shift is also problematic. The mount was once the site of two Jewish temples where tradition holds that God’s presence was revealed. Jews ascending the Mount risk treading on a site too sacred for human footfall, they argue, since the temples’ exact locations are unknown. For this reason, many rabbis, including the senior rabbinical authorities of the Israeli state, prohibit Jews from entry. But to some Jews, like Rabbi Glick, there is a great virtue to praying as close as possible to the location of the ruined temples. Rabbi Glick says he is not there to provoke. But as he crossed the mount, guarded by six armed police officers, mosque officials and passers-by filmed him. The videos were soon circulated on Twitter, captioned with angry commentary. “The extremists never used to come this far inside,” said Azzam Khatib, the deputy chairman of the Waqf council. “Now they’re taking over the whole plaza, with the protection of the police.” Part of the resistance to allowing Jewish prayer on Temple Mount stems from the fact that some activists like Rabbi Glick want to do more than just pray there. Ultimately, they seek to build a third Jewish temple on the site of the Dome of the Rock, the third-holiest place in Islam. Rabbi Glick says this temple would be open to all religions, and would be made possible through dialogue with Muslims. But to Muslims, it is an offensive non-starter. “It will lead to a religious war,” said Khatib. “But if everyone stays in their own places of worship, we’ll have peace.” Some Jewish activists have even prepared a stone altar nearby, ready for installation on the mount as soon as it becomes politically feasible to move it there. Their group, the Temple Institute, has also worked with architects to design the floor plan of a new Jewish temple there. While many see the group as marginal, the organisation claims its ideas are gradually growing in currency. “Twenty or 30 years ago there was no public discourse about this,” said Rabbi Israel Arieli, the president of the institute’s board, who as a young paratrooper helped capture the mount in 1967. “Temple Mount was forgotten.” But the controversy over the prime minister’s recent comments about “freedom to worship” brought the issue to wider consciousness, he said. “This was a very beneficial debate,” said Rabbi Arieli. “It’s bringing a lot more people to the Temple Mount.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-shift-israel-quietly-allows-jewish-prayer-on-temple-mount-1023241.html
25-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Passing on the phone calls||The phenomenon of passing on the ‘engaged phone’ to someone else is pretty common. The possible reason could be, post picking up the phone, suddenly they perceive they aren’t in a proper position for a prolonged chat. So, the phone gets shuffled off to a ‘standby’— this sounds like a predator waiting to pounce upon unsuspecting prey. And, if you happen to be that ‘prey’, heaven help. Recently, on muggy noon, nudged by nagging ennui, I thought of having a nice natter with a naval friend. So, when I called, compulsively she picked up the phone. But soon, realised she was at a crucial stage of churning out carrot halwa, and that it’d culminate in a culinary debacle of charred concoction if her concentration line got careened. “Hey, chat with my aunt, who is here presently”. Even before I could react, her aunt was on the line. Possibly, I wasn’t prepared for this chat. Even more unprepared was for unsolicited Gyan, proffered on perfect halwa preparation by her uber perky aunt. How carrots are to be sluiced, swiftly skinned, skilfully kibbled, sautéed on super-low flame, in sugar-syrup of specific consistency, to see it neither gets soppy nor seared at the lower surface. Well, all details were dished out, with dollops of zest. Until my zest to chatter with my buddy had blown out. Yet another time, when a collegemate had called me to have cosy confab, her courier guy was the culprit in corroding our fun. Not wanting to cut the call, she handed her phone to her father-in-law, who was around. Indeed, it was a bolt from blue, to have got badly buttonholed, by this bubbly old fella, who began blitzing me with bountiful info, right from his BP and blood-sugar levels to his busy fitness-regimes, which had buttressed and buffered his body against a blizzard of ailments. Still worse, you have relatives, who in midst of serious chats, suddenly shuffle off their cell phone onto their grand/kids. Now, what you hear, depends entirely upon the age of kids. If it is an infant, you hear incoherent gurgles. If the child is around three summers, you hear rhymes like “tinkle tinkle litt-tal tar...” or numbers, “one, choo, chee, foh...” (And, more inane prattle if the child is even bigger). On hearing which you helplessly chuckle. And it sounds like a nice combo of a nettling hiccup and nasty burp. Yes, you attribute the above “dreary drivels” to your previous birth karmas. Well, as I’m penning this piece, I hear the phone ring, flashing an unidentified number. What if it’s a family friend? I dither to pick up or not. I smile as I see my ‘spouse’ bustling around. So, if disinclined to chat, don’t I have this deadly option?—  “Hey, isn’t it eons, since you spoke to ‘him’. He is right here, wanna catch up?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/passing-on-the-phone-calls-1023231.html
25-08-2021||Second Edit||NDA exam: Logical step towards gender parity||The opening of the doors of the defence academies for pre-commissioned training for women is another step forward in the cause of gender parity in the armed forces. The Supreme Court’s interim order, which allowed women to take the National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy examinations on September 5, now rescheduled for November 14, is a reaffirmation of the need for gender parity. The order is subject to a final decision, following a final hearing to take place on September 8, but it is difficult to find any circumstance that would overturn the order. Women can now join the forces after clearing the exam to study at the NDA and then go on to the Indian Military Academy (IMA) or other academies to become commissioned officers. This is the normal course for male candidates, and there is no reason to deny it to women.  The court was unhappy with the unhelpful sentiment in the forces, especially in the Army, about giving equal opportunities to women. It noted that the Army did not change its mindset even when the court issued orders that helped women. The government also contended that the restriction against women training at the Pune-based NDA was a policy decision. But the court dismissed it as a “policy decision based on gender discrimination’’ and wanted both the Army and the government to take a more constructive view of the matter. The government even invoked national security in the matter of framing policies regarding training institutes. The court again clearly said that it should accept the broad principles of gender equality, though it can implement them as situations demand. The court also told the government not to make the judiciary intervene “every time’’. All this shows that the hurdles that work against women in the defence services are still there. The Prime Minister announced in his Independence Day speech that girls would be granted admission in Sainik Schools. But as the court observed, most of the opportunities that women have got till now are the result of judicial orders. Gender parity and justice should become part of the thinking and culture in the armed forces. Every decision, like in the case of the NDA exam, should lead to the building of that culture. It has been noted that implementing the order on the NDA exam will require administrative and infrastructure changes. New accommodation facilities will have to be built and training modules altered. The changes will have to be made not just in the academy but at all levels in the services after the cadets join them on completion of their training. Preparations for these changes should start now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/nda-exam-logical-step-towards-gender-parity-1023237.html
25-08-2021||South||Kerala HC to examine whether weddings under SMA can be solemnised online||A larger bench of the Kerala High Court will examine whether a wedding under the Special Marriage Act (SMA) can be solemnised online via video conferencing. Justice P B Suresh Kumar, who had heard arguments on the issue, referred it to a larger bench for consideration. The order came on the pleas by several petitioners who have contended that personal physical presence of the bride and groom is not necessary for solemnisation of nuptials under the law. The state government, on the other hand, is not in favour of online solemnisation of marriages under the Act. It has contended that solemnization of marriage was mandatory prior to registering it under the SMA and therefore, presence of the two sides and the witnesses is required before the Marriage Officer. It has also said that if online mode of solemnisation was permitted, it would mandate maintaining of an electronic register of marriages and setting up an online mode of payment both of which are not in place presently. It has further contended that another requirement for solemnisation of the marriage was that at least one of the two parties has to be resident of the area within the territorial limits of the Marriage Officer for minimum 30 days prior to issuing the notice of the intended nuptials. Therefore, two persons living abroad cannot have their marriage solemnised online if they do not satisfy the residence requirement. The petitioners, represented by advocates A Ahzar, Jawahar Jose and V Ajith Narayanan have contended that when marriages under SMA can be registered online, therefore, solemnisation too does not need physical presence of the parties involved. They have claimed that there are various judgments which say that appearing via video conferencing is akin to being present in person with the sole difference that parties cannot be touched. They said that under SMA the marriage can be solemnised by any means, like exchange of garlands or shaking of hands, as long as both parties make the declaration that they take each other as the lawfully wedded husband and wife. They also said that signatures can be submitted via digital format and the same was recognised under the Information Technology Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-to-examine-whether-weddings-under-sma-can-be-solemnised-online-1023372.html
25-08-2021||South||Sleaze video fallout: Tamil Nadu BJP removes YouTuber, associate for anti-party activities||The Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP on Wednesday removed a YouTuber, who uploaded a sleaze video of a senior state leader, and his associate from the party for expressing views against the party. Announcing the expulsion of Madan Ravichandran and his associate Venba from the BJP, party state general secretary Karu Nagarajan said both were removed from the primary membership. He appealed to the party workers not to have any ties with them. Ravichandran had uploaded a video, purportedly showing former state general secretary KT Raghavan in an explicit video call with a woman, following which the latter quit his post. "Youtuber Madan Ravichandran and his associate Venba, who had expressed views contrary to the BJP's ideologies, have been removed from the party's primary membership," Nagarajan said in a statement here. Both of them called on BJP state president K Annamalai and assured to extend their cooperation to a committee constituted by him to probe allegations of sexual harassment against the party members, Nagarajan said. On Tuesday, Madan had released a controversial video in social media, purportedly showing Raghavan in an explicit video call with a woman. Raghavan, who announced his resignation on Twitter, denied his involvement in the video and claimed it was meant to tarnish his image and also that of the party. Claiming that he could not take arbitrary action on Raghavan without Ravichandran furnishing him complete details, Annamalai had announced the constitution of a panel under BJP state secretary Malarkody to probe allegations of sexual harassment against party members. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sleaze-video-fallout-tamil-nadu-bjp-removes-youtuber-associate-for-anti-party-activities-1023411.html
25-08-2021||South||Post-Onam, Kerala sees over 30,000 Covid-19 cases in a day||The Covid scenario of Kerala worsened further on Wednesday as the daily number of fresh cases crossed the 30,000-mark and the TPR crossed the 19% mark after a gap of around three months. The daily Covid deaths reported on Wednesday also remained comparatively high with 215. As many as 31,445 fresh cases were reported on Wednesday and the TPR was 19.03% when 1.65 lakh samples were tested during the past 24 hours. The number of active cases reached 1.7 lakh. The present surge was anticipated as the social distancing norms were literally thrown to the winds in the state during the just concluded Onam festival season. After the lockdown restrictions were eased earlier this month, commercial streets and shops in the state were witnessing a heavy rush. Even as it was anticipated that lockdown restrictions would be again imposed in the state, a review meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday decided to maintain the status quo for the time being. A lockdown was imposed in Kerala for nearly three months from May after the state witnessed a second wave. But as the lockdown prolonged, the state witnessed widespread protest from various quarters, mainly traders. Many traders were also reported to have ended life owing to financial stress caused by the lockdown. This compelled the state to ease the lockdown. The state health authorities have decided to intensify Covid testing and vaccination to contain the surge. Low seroprevalence and targeted testing strategy of testing those who are prone to infection were also cited as reasons for a high number of cases in Kerala still remaining high. With over 50% of the state's population getting vaccinated at least partially, most of the infected were not having many medical issues. Of the 1.7 active cases, only 26,582 are in hospital care. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/post-onam-kerala-sees-over-30000-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-1023425.html
25-08-2021||South||Clean chit likely for Kerala Minister accused of trying to 'amicably settle' molestation complaint||Kerala Forest Minister and NCP leader A K Saseendran, who was accused of trying to settle a molestation complaint, was learnt to be given a clean chit by the police. Saseendran was accused of asking the father of a woman, who alleged that another NCP local leader of Kollam district tried to molest her, to settle the case amicably. After a telephone conversation of the minister with the woman's father, who is also an NCP worker, came out last month the police received complaints against the minister. According to the sources, the police received a legal opinion that the minister's conversation with the woman's father could not be considered as an attempt to scuttle the case. The legal advice had even cited dictionary meanings of the words used by the minister in the telephone conversation to justify that the minister did not press the woman's father to withdraw the complaint or settle the case. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had earlier backed the minister. He said in the Assembly that Saseendran, being an NCP leader, only enquired about the matter as he thought that it was an issue between two NCP workers -- the father of the complainant woman and the accused. The minister did nothing wrong in this, the chief minister had held. The Opposition Congress and the BJP had earlier demanded the resignation of Saseendran in view of the allegations that came up last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/clean-chit-likely-for-kerala-minister-accused-of-trying-to-amicably-settle-molestation-complaint-1023433.html
25-08-2021||South||Karunanidhi’s memorial library not coming up at Pennycuick’s house: Stalin||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Wednesday rejected as “baseless” claims by AIADMK that a building in Madurai where British Colonel John Pennycuick lived was being razed down to build a world-class library in memory of late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi. In reply to the issue raised by AIADMK MLA from Madurai Sellur K Raju, Stalin said there was no evidence to show that John Pennycuick, a revered figure in southern Tamil Nadu for his pivotal role in the construction of the Mullaperiyar Dam in Kerala’s Idukki district, lived in the British-era building, which is now a staff quarters of the Public Works Department (PWD).  The DMK government has decided to raze down the staff quarters to construct a world-class library in honour of Karunanidhi at a cost of Rs 70 crore. AIADMK and other opposition parties had raised the issue in early August, but the PWD said there was no evidence to establish that Pennycuick lived in the building. “This issue has been spoken outside the Assembly. The PWD minister has given a detailed explanation. If there is any proof (to establish Pennycuick lived there), we will certainly look into it. If there is proof, we are ready to shift the location. But there is no proof whatsoever,” Stalin said in his intervention in the Assembly.  The Chief Minister said he was intervening in the issue and making a clarification only because “wrong propaganda” should not be recorded in the House proceedings. Earlier, Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan, who also hails from Madurai, told Raju in the Assembly that his claims were “wrong.” “That house does not belong to John Pennycuick. It is evident that Pennycuick passed away in 1911. The house was built between 1912 and 1915. Hence this house could not have belonged to Pennycuick,” Thiaga Rajan said in his reply, adding that he had to clarify because the legislator is trying to “record false information”. John Pennycuick was behind the construction of the Mullaperiyar Dam, maintained by Tamil Nadu despite being in Kerala, is the lifeline of lakhs of farmers in Theni, Madurai and other districts in the region. The library to be constructed at a cost of Rs 70 crore will have eight floors and a collection of over six lakh books.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karunanidhi-s-memorial-library-not-coming-up-at-pennycuick-s-house-stalin-1023444.html
25-08-2021||South||Chennai to hold mass vaccination drive on August 26||This is the first time that the civic body is organising a special drive at this scale. The move also comes close on the heels of the GCC launching a drive to administer Covid-19 vaccines to those above 80 years of age at their residence. “We have arranged for 400 vaccination centres across the city at community centres, and other places. We plan to achieve our target of giving jabs to 1 lakh people on Thursday. Based on the response, we will arrange another such drive-by requesting additional supplies from the Health Department,” Dr Manish S Narnaware, Deputy Commissioner (Health), Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), told DH. Chennai currently has around 50 vaccination centres and the special drive was planned to give further impetus to the vaccination drive, officials said. “We have been administering around 25,000 doses in Chennai in a day and we are taking all steps to increase the coverage. Thursday’s special drive is just one step towards increasing the coverage. More such steps will be taken in the coming weeks,” a senior official said. The city has so far administered 36.80 lakh vaccine doses of which 25.72 persons have received their first dose and 11.07 lakh have got both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. And the GCC in association with the Rotary organization has also administered over 2,700 doses in three days to those above 80 years of age. Chennai is also the first city in the state to take vaccination to the doorsteps of differently-abled people. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chennai-to-hold-mass-vaccination-drive-on-august-26-1023447.html
25-08-2021||South||SC stays proceedings against TRS MLA in vote-for-note scam||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the criminal proceedings against Telangana Rashtra Samiti MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah in a vote-for-note case related to offering a bribe of Rs 5 crore to a nominated member in the biennial MLC polls in the state in 2015. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari also issued notice to the Telangana government on a petition filed by Veeraiah, against the High Court's order of December 8, 2020. Senior advocate Kavin Gulati and advocate Devina Sehgal, representing the petitioner, challenged the validity of the HC's order dismissing his revision petition against the Hyderabad court's decision to dismiss the discharge application. The plea contended the High Court failed to appreciate that the trial court primarily relied upon alleged call recordings between the petitioner and the other accused, Bishop Harry Sebastian. Such electronic evidence can be admissible only when it is accompanied with a certificate of authenticity by the user of the device and other accused cannot be compelled to disclose documents which are self-incriminatory and based upon his knowledge under Article 20(3) of the Constitution, the plea said. It also contended that the complainant was a nominated MLA and was not bound by any party whip to cast his vote. Secondly, the petitioner and other accused were TDP MLAs at that time. Two SMSs sent to the de facto complainant, Elvis Stephenson by the other accused cannot make the petitioner a party to any conspiracy. According to the prosecution, Sandra and Udayasimha along with other accused persons A Revanth Reddy, Congress MP and TPCC chief, Harry Sebastian and Mathias Jerusalem, were liable for the offences punishable under the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code. Senior advocates Sidharth Luthra and Siddharth Aggarwal along with advocate Kumar Vaibhav, appearing for Reddy, MP from Malkajgiri constituency questioned before the top court dismissal of his plea challenging the jurisdiction of the special court Hyderabad. The apex court put his plea for consideration on September September 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-stays-proceedings-against-trs-mla-in-vote-for-note-scam-1023460.html
25-08-2021||South||Madras High Court says no to EWS reservation in all-India quota medical seats||The Madras High Court on Wednesday ruled as “impermissible” the Union Government providing 10 per cent reservation for economically weaker sections (EWS) in the All India Quota (AIQ) medical seats, maintaining that such a decision would require the approval of the Supreme Court. The court, while turning down DMK’s plea seeking 50 per cent reservation for OBCs in the seats surrendered by the state government for AIQ, also approved the 27 per cent OBC reservation in the AIQ quota medical seats for admission to medical colleges. Though the discussion in this judgment pertains to Tamil Nadu, the court said, but it must be noticed that reservation in AIQ seats for admission to the undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical and dental courses across the States must be uniform. Logically, if the AIQ seats are thrown open to candidates across the country, there cannot be reservation to one extent in one state and reservation to another extent in another state, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice P D Audikesavalu observed. “However, the inclusion of a further 10 per cent by way of vertical reservation for economically weaker sections would require the approval of the Supreme Court and, to such extent, the reservation for economically weaker sections as indicated in the notification of July 29, 2021, has to be regarded as impermissible till such approval is obtained,” the bench added. The Centre had in July decided to provide 27 per cent reservation for OBCs and 10 per cent reservation for EWS under AIQ for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses. The bench said the Centre’s July 29, 2021 notification appears to be in order insofar as it provides for reservation for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and OBC categories. The horizontal reservation provided in such notification for persons with disabilities also appears to be in accordance with the law, it added. “The additional reservation provided for economically weaker sections in the notification of July 29, 2021, cannot be permitted, except with the approval of the Supreme Court in such regard,” the bench said, dismissing a contempt petition against Centre filed by the DMK. The judges also observed as a “footnote” that the entire concept of reservation that appears to have been addressed by the Constituent Assembly while framing the Constitution may have been “turned on its head by repeated amendments and the veritable reinvigoration of the caste system”. The caste system is being reinvigorated instead of empowering citizens so that merit may ultimately decide matters as to admission, appointment and promotion, the judges noted. “Rather than the caste system being wiped away, the present trend seems to perpetuate it by endlessly extending a measure that was to remain only for a short duration to cover the infancy and, possibly, the adolescence of the Republic. Though the life of a nation-state may not be relatable to the human process of ageing, but at over-70, it ought, probably, to be more mature,” the bench said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-says-no-to-ews-reservation-in-all-india-quota-medical-seats-1023464.html
25-08-2021||State||New road project threatens Bandipur tiger reserve||The Bandipur Tiger Reserve is facing a new threat, with the state's National Highway department proposing to expand a 12-km stretch of the National Highway 181 (Mysuru-Ooty Road) in the ecologically sensitive park. The move, one of the many dangers being faced by the tiger reserve in the name of development, is in violation of the rule that stipulates 'status quo' on roads inside protected areas. The proposal comes two years after the row over night traffic ban and the Union Ministry of Road Transport's idea of building an elevated corridor for NH 766, another road which passes through Bandipur and connects Kerala. The Public Works Department's (PWD) NH division has now approached the Forest Department seeking clearance to widen a 12.8-km stretch of NH 181 that spans from the checkpost to the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border into a two-lane road. Wildlife activist Guruprasad Timmapur said the existing roads have been wreaking havoc on the wildlife, with tigers, leopards, chital, sambar, langur becoming roadkills in their own territory. He further said that the officials were not following due process while submitting the proposal. "It's category ‘A’ project as per the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification of 2006 as it falls within the national park," said Guruprasad. "In addition, the eco-sensitive zone notification for Bandipur Tiger Reserve mandates that an EIA is required for widening of the roads. However, the application falsely claims that no EIA is required. This is a blatant violation of the law."  Conservation biologist Sanjay Gubbi noted that Bandipur holds "our national animal (tiger) as well as our national heritage animal (elephant)" in high densities. "Such areas form only 1 per cent of the country's geographical area and need to be well-protected. In addition, Bandipur is an important watershed for Kabini and Moyar rivers and for Kabini and Nugu reservoirs on which thousands of people depend for irrigation, drinking water and other purposes," he added. Though the 2012 notification on Bandipur allows widening of roads under strict regulations, the subcommittee of the National Board of Wildlife in 2014 had recommended "status quo" on roads inside national parks and critical tiger habitats. Guruprasad also called out NH officials for splitting the project work, adding that they have intentionally avoided proposing the entire stretch for widening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-road-project-threatens-bandipur-tiger-reserve-1023192.html
25-08-2021||State||Cong MLA Tanveer Sait expresses hopes on continuing alliance with JD(S)||With a few hours left, Congress MLA Tanveer Sait is confident of continuing alliance with JD(S) in the Mayor election. JD(S) and Congress will continue the alliance in the civic body, said Sait. However, it is yet to be decided who will be the Mayor. Both Congress and JD(S) members have filed nomination papers for the Mayor post. It is inevitable for the Congress party to join hands with JD(S) to keep BJP away from power.  BJP is the single largest party in the 65 members council. The party has a total of 24 members and it will win the election without any difficultly if both, Congress and JD(S), field candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cong-mla-tanveer-sait-expresses-hopes-on-continuing-alliance-with-jds-1023327.html
25-08-2021||State||Change incorrect names in Google Maps: KDA||The Kannada Development Authority (KDA) has written to Google India to correct names of various towns and villages in the state, which are displayed incorrectly on Google Maps. In a letter, KDA chairman T S Nagabharana said that displaying correct names was essential, especially to benefit tourists. “Therefore, I urge you to correct names of such towns and villages which are wrong,” the letter read. KDA has extended any required support to Google for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/change-incorrect-names-in-google-maps-kda-1023497.html
25-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Our dreams are shattered': Afghan woman in Bengaluru fears for her family back home||Diana Farzan’s dreams for a future in her country, where she enjoyed 20 years of freedom, were crushed the day the Taliban took over Afghanistan. She has no hopes left to be part of the nation-building process. To be a free and empowered woman in Afghanistan has turned into a mirage under the Taliban. The 28-year-old came to India seven months back to do her post-graduation in Journalism and Public Relations at Bengaluru University. Like any other Afghan woman, she lives in a state of fear now, concerned for her family back home. “I am worried that my family back in Herat province will be harmed by Taliban as I taught Public Relations at Herat University in Afghanistan,” she says. “Even while I was working there, our faculty at the Herat University used to receive threats from the Taliban because there were women faculty and women students,” Diana recollects. Taliban knocking doors in search of those who worked with the US and NATO, and the former Afghan government has magnified Diana’s concerns. Her brothers are working in companies, which were run by the US and the UK, and her sister also has graduated from Herat University. “Two weeks back, the Taliban had destroyed all the network and I couldn’t communicate with my family,” she says. But the network has been restored now and she is at least able to check on the safety of her family. With the new regime saying that all foreign evacuations from the country must be completed by August 31, Diana hopes for an exit for her family from Afghanistan. “I want to take my family out of my country,” she says. Taliban’s stifling of freedom and education for women and girls has been leaving women of Afghanistan choked. “These days when I speak with women back home, they tell me that life is not going to be the same anymore,” she said All their motivation for their future -- for women to work and girls to study -- has gone after the taking over of the country by the Taliban. “My friends who were working at the university don’t want to be in Afghanistan anymore,” she said. The escape to freedom has been hazardous, to say the least. “People of Afghanistan does not feel it is a country to be living in anymore,” she said. “Many people have been waiting for days together to reach the airport from their homes.” As the threat of a humanitarian crisis looms large, she says, “we need support from other countries.” As 20 years of development in Afghanistan falls, Diana’s ambitions have taken a deep dive. “Their return has shattered our dreams. We don’t want to make the mistake of living under them anymore.” Diana recollects how has been through a lot to reach where she is today, but the way forward looks blurred. “I overcame a whole lot of obstacles to be a lecturer, to be where I am now. I do not want to go back to Afghanistan, where I will have to sit at home without working," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/our-dreams-are-shattered-afghan-woman-in-bengaluru-fears-for-her-family-back-home-1023298.html
25-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka aims to be first state to double farmers' income by 2023-24: CM||Aiming at becoming the first state to double farmers' income by 2023-24, Karnataka will constitute a committee to prepare a report on the matter, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. The government has also decided to set up a 'secondary agriculture directorate' which will focus on food processing and agro products. Bommai spoke to reporters following a presentation on the Government of India's strategy for doubling farmers income (DFI) by Ashok Dalwai, CEO, National Rainfed Area Authority and chairman of the empowered body on DFI under the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare. "We had a detailed discussion on the report submitted by the Centre. Karnataka has taken a keen interest in doubling the farmers' income," Bommai said, adding that the government was working to ensure that Karnataka becomes the first state to double farmers' income by 2023-24. The committee will consist of farmers from the state, who will be in touch with the Central government officials to prepare a comprehensive Karnataka specific report on farmers' income. The report will be implemented by the state, Bommai said. The CM added that another committee was being constituted under Agriculture Minister BC Patil to focus on seeds, pest and fertiliser management, and improving the fertility of the soil with the help from Agriculture Universities. The second agriculture directorate will be a task force constituted to improve food processing and the agriculture products sector. The directorate will also focus on agriculture allied activities such as sericulture, animal husbandry, dairy farming, pisciculture and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-aims-to-be-first-state-to-double-farmers-income-by-2023-24-cm-1023338.html
25-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||1,224 Covid-19 cases, 22 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Wednesday logged 1,224 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 29.42 lakh, while 22 deaths pushed the toll to 37,206. The day also saw 1,668 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,85,700. Active cases stood at 19,318, a health department bulletin said. Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 309 cases and three fatalities, it said. Dakshina Kannada district bordering Kerala remained a major Covid-19 hotspot with 217 fresh infections and six fatalities. Other districts too reported fresh cases, including Udupi 130, Mysuru 102, Hassan 95 and Tumakuru 52. Gadag district reported zero infections and zero deaths. Twenty districts reported zero fatalities, the bulletin said. A total of 1,95,966 samples were tested in the state on Wednesday, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 4.25 crore. The number of vaccinations done so far in the state rose to 3.83 crore, with 3,36,984 people being inoculated on Wednesday, it said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/1224-covid-19-cases-22-deaths-in-karnataka-1023436.html
25-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Pay rent or vacate, landlords in Karnataka tell Afghan students||As the Taliban mayhem continues in Afghanistan, students from the war-torn country who have come to Bengaluru to study are facing challenges on multiple fronts. Most will be out of accommodation facilities by next month and they have no clue on whether they will get financial support from their parents. Those who are giving their final semester exams are worrying that they will have backlogs, while juniors are concerned about paying exams fees. Meanwhile, the landlords in Bengaluru have started asking for rents and the young Afghans do not know where to go. The Afghan students are struggling to pay an exam fee of Rs 800 to Rs 3,000. Many landlords have warned them if they are not giving rent they will have to vacate. Most of them who have come on self-financing and scholarships are facing the challenge of survival. The worrying factor has been they will have to survive without any support from their homes. The Federation of International Students Association (FISAB) has been writing to universities in Bengaluru and the government to address the problem, but they are yet to respond. Sudanese national Montaser Mohamaden, the President of FISAB and also an MBA student in Krupanidhi College of Management in Bengaluru, explained that there are about 250 students from Afghanistan studying in the city. Most of them used to get $300 (Rs 16,000 to Rs 18,000) per month from their families. They would spend it on paying rents, food, education fee and other basic necessities, he said. Since then, the nation has sunk into a crisis; the parents who are facing the challenge of survival back at home will not be able to send their children money. Unfortunately, Afghan students are not in a position to return to their country, Montaser says. The Afghan students are starting to worry about expenses on food and the owners have already started asking them for rents. "Now, they don't know where to go. As an organisation we are looking forward to help from organisations and individuals who can support them at this juncture," Mohamaden added. "We are requesting universities to sympathise with Afghanistan students. They are fearful that they will have backlogs which will compel them to study one more year. At least final semester students must be helped." Afghan students are getting scholarships from Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), a wing of the External Affairs Ministry. Many students who are under this programme will get scholarships until they are studying the course. But the ones who will complete their courses next month will stop getting the scholarships. "We request the government to extend their study programmes by providing an opportunity to take up internship programmes or supporting them to take up higher studies," Mohamaden said. Atifa Omid, a student from Afghanistan and Joint Secretary of Federation of International Students Association, explained that after examinations hostels don't allow students to stay. Back in Afghanistan everything is closed and the student community is not able to pay their rents, examination fees, she noted. "They are finding it difficult to pay an examination fee of Rs 800 to Rs 3,000. The Afghan students will be out of accommodation from next month. Our friends are meeting philanthropists and politicians seeking help. Hope it is coming. "It is very hard for us to prepare for exams and attend. The education department should consider giving grace marks on humanitarian grounds, as many are living in uncertain conditions. They don't know what is going to happen to their parents and families," she said. Mysuru University has announced that it will act as a caretaker of Afghan students and discuss visa problems with the government for them to stay back in India until things settle down in Afghanistan. Congress President D K Shivakumar has stated that Afghanistan students must be taken care of and supported. Mohamaden has made an appeal to help them. Donors can contact him and get in touch with the Afghan student community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pay-rent-or-vacate-landlords-in-karnataka-tell-afghan-students-1023450.html
25-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||70% textbooks ready, says Karnataka's department of public instruction||Just a day after the Karnataka High Court expressed dissatisfaction over the state government’s submission that the textbooks would be supplied in a phased manner by September-end, the Department of Public Instruction said that the textbooks will reach all the schools by September 15. In a statement released to the media, Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said, “About 70% of printing has been completed and all the printed textbooks will reach the schools by next week. By September 15 we are aiming to supply textbooks to all schools.” The minister added “The contents were uploaded for the benefit of students during the online mode of teaching and a majority of students and parents have downloaded the textbooks online.” The minister has also mentioned that the headmasters of the schools have been told to distribute the textbooks among the students. As per the data provided by the department, the total number of textbooks required are 5,34,76,336, of which 3,78,73,594 textbooks have already been printed and 2,92,73,822 textbooks have reached the schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/70-textbooks-ready-says-karnatakas-department-of-public-instruction-1023499.html
25-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NAFED to procure green, black grams from Karnataka||The Centre on Wednesday issued an order asking the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (NAFED) to procure green gram and black gram grown during the Kharif 2020-2021 season in Karnataka. Total 30,000 tonne of green gram and 10,000 tonne of black gram should be procured under the price support scheme. The State Government will decide the state of procurement, said the order issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar issued the order following a request from the state government, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. The procurement will help a large number of farmers in the state who have grown green and black gram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nafed-to-procure-green-black-grams-from-karnataka-1023500.html
25-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru gang-rape: CM Bommai directs DGP to take steps to arrest culprits||Directions have been issued to police to take quick action to arrest culprits in connection with the gang-rape incident in Mysuru, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Wednesday. The Chief Minister, who is in New Delhi on a two-day tour, told reporters that he spoke to the Director-General of Police about the incident and took details from him. “I have directed him to take appropriate action immediately to arrest culprits,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-gang-rape-cm-bommai-directs-dgp-to-take-steps-to-arrest-culprits-1023504.html
25-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Union minister Shekhawat has promised early approval for Mekedatu: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has assured him of including Mekedatu’s Detail Project Report proposal in the agenda of the next Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) meeting. The CM, who held a two-hour-long meeting with Shekhawat on the issue, told reporters that, “I have appraised the Union minister of need for the drinking water project and sought an early approval for the DPR. The minister gave a positive response to the state’s plea.” “I hope the Centre will approve the project soon to enable the state to take it up at the earliest,” he said. The state government has already submitted the Mekedatu DPR to the Jal Shakti Ministry. Shekhawat in his reply to a question in the Parliament recently had said that since the project falls under the inter-state river category, the CWMA’s permission is required and consensus among the CWMA member-states must for final approval of the DPR. The CM said that he raised objections to Tamil Nadu’s proposal on Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link project for drawing the surplus 45 tmcft water annually from Cauvery river. Shekhawat also promised to address the long-pending demand for national project status to Upper Bhadra. After getting the approval from the Union Ministry of Finance, it will go to the Union Cabinet for final approval, CM said quoting the Union minister. On the state’s request to include Yettinahole project as an externally-aided scheme and include the same in the centrally sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission, the Union Minister asked the CM to submit a detailed proposal. Bommai also said that the Union Minister assured early notification of the Krishna Water Dispute Tribunal Final award. On the Kalasa-Banduri project the Union minister assured to approve the detailed project report at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/union-minister-shekhawat-has-promised-early-approval-for-mekedatu-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-bommai-1023508.html
25-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai meets Amit Shah, says it is 'non political' meeting||With new entrants and former ministers Ramesh Jarkiholi and Shrimanth Patil mounting pressure to induct them to the cabinet, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday met Union Home Minister Amit Shah here. The CM, along with Irrigation Minister Govid Karjol, held an hour-long meeting with Shah at the latter's North Block Office. Emerging out of the meeting, Bommai told reporters that he had a cordial meeting with Shah and it was non-political. Shah discussed only developmental issues and gave some suggestions about the developmental projects in the state, according to the CM. "Shah will be visiting Hubballi on September 2 and I have requested him to attend a few state governmental developmental programmes during his stay in Karnataka. He also responded positively to this," the CM said. “On political development in the state and party affairs issues, Shah told me to discuss with BJP national president J P Nadda. Since Nadda was occupied with some other important issues, I could not meet him today. Maybe during my next visit to Delhi, I will meet him." CM said. On the demand from left out new entrants to induct into the cabinet, the CM said, “there is nothing wrong in their demand. Many leaders have made several demands. I will discuss with Nadda and take a call. However the CM said he can't assure when will be next cabinet expansion to fill slots.” Former Ministers Ramesh Jarkiholi and Shrimanth Patil and MLA Mahesh Kumatalli, who came to the national capital also met the CM here and demanded to be inducted to the cabinet. KMF chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi, who is also the brother of Ramesh Jarkiholi, also with them during the meeting with the CM. Prior to that, these leaders also held discussions with Health and Family Welfare Minister K Sudhakar and Mining Minister Murugesh Nirani here. “With four slots vacant in the cabinet, we have demanded the CM to induct new entrants,”he said, adding that we have also planned to meet the party leaders in Delhi to press our demands, he said. With Ramesh Jarkiholi embroiled in sex scandal, the party high command earlier told him to wait till he gets clean chit. On unhappiness over portfolio allocation, the CM said except Anand Singh no body expressed unhappiness. "Singh also took charge after I spoke to him. All issues will be sorted out amicably," he said. Panchamashali protest To a separate question on Lingayat Panchamasali community leaders threatening to revive their protest demanding backward 2A status for the community, the CM said, "Several religious leaders have discussed the issue with me earlier. I have clearly told them that before taking any decision we have to discuss its pros and cons. Within the legal purview, we can take the decision after taking all community leaders into confidence.”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-meets-amit-shah-says-it-is-non-political-meeting-1023509.html
25-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Travellers from UK, Europe, West Asia can leave airports after giving RT-PCR samples||Following a steady decline in daily Covid cases and circulation of variants both in the state and the country, the state government on Tuesday relaxed rules for passengers arriving in Bengaluru from the UK, European countries and West Asian countries.  According to the order issued by the state government on Tuesday, passengers from these countries need not wait at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in Bengaluru or any other airports in the state after giving their RT-PCR samples. "They shall provide the sample and leave the airport for further compliance as per the standard operating procedure," the circular said.  However, passengers coming to Karnataka from countries such as Brazil and South Africa shall continue to provide samples at all airports and wait at the airport until the results are announced. "On testing negative, they shall leave the airport," the circular added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/travellers-from-uk-europe-west-asia-can-leave-airports-after-giving-rt-pcr-samples-1023510.html
25-08-2021||West||Gujarat relaxes night curfew time during Janmashtami, Ganesh festivals||The Gujarat government on Tuesday announced relaxation in night curfew time in eight metros and other concessions from coronavirus-induced restrictions during the coming Janmashtami and Ganesh festivals. Instead of the usual 11 pm, the night curfew will be in force from 1 am on August 30 to facilitate the celebration of Janmashtami, and from 12 midnight during September 9 to 19 for the Ganesh festival in the cities of Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot, Surat, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Gandhinagar and Junagadh. The decision was taken after a meeting of the state's core committee on the Covid-19 pandemic situation chaired by chief minister Vijay Rupani, an official release said. Besides, traditional Janmashtami processions will be allowed with a limited number of participants on August 30, officials said. But the “matki fod” events (during which clay pots filled with curd are broken) and local fairs organized on the occasion of Janmashtami would not be allowed. Installation of up to four feet tall Ganesh idols in public pandals and up to two feet tall idols at home will be allowed. Social distancing norms will have to be followed both at Janmashtami and Ganesh celebration venues, and devotees will have to move in circles for darshan to ensure a distance of two feet with the total number of participants at any given moment not exceeding 200, the official release said. “Only the rituals of prayer-aarti and distribution of prasad are allowed at public Ganeshotsav places. No other religious and cultural programs can be organized,” said the release. On immersion days, not more than 15 people will be allowed in a vehicle carrying idols to water bodies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-relaxes-night-curfew-time-during-janmashtami-ganesh-festivals-1023198.html
25-08-2021||West||Soda water bottles hurled at Sena MP Vinayak Raut's bungalow in Maharashtra||Unidentified persons hurled soda water bottles at Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut's bungalow at Malvan in Maharashtra's Sindhudurg district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place around 8 pm on Tuesday in the coastal Rautwadi area of Talgaon in Malvan, located around 500 km from the state capital Mumbai, they said. Notably, Raut on Tuesday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding sacking of Union minister Narayan Rane over his remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Rane had sparked off a row over his remarks during his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' on Monday about slapping Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter’s ignorance of the year of India’s independence. According to a police official, four unidentified persons came and hurled soda water bottles at Raut's bungalow and then fled from the spot. Following a complaint by the bungalow's care-taker, the Malvan police registered an FIR against unidentified persons under Indian Penal Code Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 37 (1) (intentionally co-operating in the commission of offence) and 135 (abetment of desertion), he said, adding that search was on for the culprits. After the incident, security around the house was heightened, the official said. On Tuesday, Shiv Sena and BJP supporters clashed with each other in various districts of Maharashtra in the wake of Rane's remarks against the CM. Last week, before Rane started his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra', Raut said the BJP leader had no moral right to visit the memorial of late Bal Thackeray as Rane's actions of "breaking the Shiv Sena" caused a lot of pain to the party founder. However, Rane had later visited the memorial located in Mumbai's Shivaji Park area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/soda-water-bottles-hurled-at-sena-mp-vinayak-rauts-bungalow-in-maharashtra-1023276.html
25-08-2021||West||Narayan Rane summoned by Nashik Police over his 'slap' remark against Uddhav Thackeray||The Nashik police have issued a notice to Union minister Narayan Rane, asking him to appear before them for questioning on September 2 in connection with an FIR registered against him over his remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, an official said on Wednesday. As per the notice, Rane has been directed to remain present before the investigation officer - police inspector Ananda Wagh - at 12 pm on September 2 at Cyber police station in Nashik city, located about 160 km from here, he said. Earlier, an FIR was registered against Rane for his remarks against CM Thackeray under Indian Penal Code Sections 500 (defamation), 505(2), (public mischief) and 153(B) (1) (c) (remarks likely to cause disharmony, or feeling of enmity or hatred or ill-will), he said. "It is revealed that there are reasonable grounds to question you to ascertain the facts and circumstances from you, in relation to the present investigation," the notice stated. The notice was issued under Section 41 of the CrPC, the official said. As per the notice, Rane has been directed not to commit any offence in future and not tamper with the evidence (in the case) in any manner whatsoever. Rane also has been directed to join the investigation as and when required and cooperate in probe into the case, he said. Nashik Police Commissioner Deepak Pandey told reporters that the Union minister has acknowledged the notice seeking to record his statement in connection with the case. He said Rane was cooperating in the investigation and gave in writing that he will not repeat such an offence in future, so there was no need to arrest him and the police only served him the notice. Pandey also defended his orders issued on Tuesday for arresting Rane. "As per my opinion, my orders were fair and just," he said, adding that he stood by his order. Rane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon from Ratnagiri district in Maharashtra following his remarks that he would have slapped Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. The Union minister was granted bail by a court at Mahad in Raigad district on Tuesday night. Though a team of Nashik police was on Tuesday said to have left to take Rane in custody, a senior police official later said that they would not arrest the BJP leader for now in view of the Mahad court's bail order. Rane faces four FIRs in Maharashtra over his remarks, which triggered a political row and protests across the state on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/narayan-rane-summoned-by-nashik-police-over-his-slap-remark-against-uddhav-thackeray-1023282.html
25-08-2021||West||After Narayan Rane's arrest, son Nitesh tweets video hinting at 'strong reply'||Shortly after Union minister Narayan Rane got bail following arrest over his remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the BJP leader's MLA son Nitesh Rane tweeted a video from a Bollywood movie, hinting at retribution. Nitesh Rane posted a clip on his Twitter handle from the film "Rajneeti", where a character played by actor Manoj Bajpayee says, "Those who spit up in the air should know that it would fall on their face only. There will be a strong reply." Narayan Rane was arrested on Tuesday following his remarks that he would have slapped Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. He was granted bail by a court at Mahad in Raigad district late Tuesday night. "Satyamev Jayate" (truth always prevails), the Union MSME minister had tweeted after getting bail. He faces four FIRs in Maharashtra over his remarks, which triggered a political row and protests across the state on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-narayan-ranes-arrest-son-nitesh-tweets-video-hinting-at-strong-reply-1023286.html
25-08-2021||West||Malaria cases reducing but there are challenges ahead||While cases of Malaria are reducing, there are still challenges as we head towards the last leg of elimination of the mosquito-borne infectious disease, according to experts. There has been an 85 per cent reduction in total Malaria cases between 2017-2020. As far as children are concerned, there has been an 81 per cent reduction of Malaria cases during the same period. Following the launch of a report titled ‘India’s March Towards Malaria Elimination’, Malaria No More hosted its second-panel discussion ‘Exploring the true burden of Malaria in India’, during which the issue involving the mosquito-borne disease was discussed threadbare. Lack of technologies to reliably diagnose Plasmodium vivax malaria, the limited ability of antimalarials in the radical cure, growing concern over increasing drug resistance-favoring polymorphism, and increasing insecticide resistance threatens to thwart success against malaria in the near future. The panel discussion was chaired by bureaucrat-turned-politician K J Alphons. “We are in the last leg and need to reach zero Malaria cases by 2027 to reach our goal of Malaria elimination by 2030. However, today we are faced with the inherent problem of under-reporting. Our focus needs to be on getting our numbers right and bringing together the needed resources to accelerate the entire process of malaria elimination. Along with elimination of poverty, we need to eliminate fundamental health issues like Malaria,” he said. Dr Kaushik Sarkar, Interim India Country Director, Malaria No More, says, “Policy level decisions are made based on experiences, there is a need to support policymakers with tools such as dashboards and algorithms. The path of malaria elimination lacks data support and tools. We need to focus on existing technology and that which is in the pipeline for maximum efficient outcomes as we enter the end game. There is a need to involve the private sector to overcome technology gaps and challenges.” Dr Rajiv Tandon, Director, Health, RTI International, while speaking about the efficient implementation of Malaria elimination strategies says, “India is focussing on Covid-19, however, the fight against pandemic has an abundance of resources at this moment. We need to ensure that we do not remove focus from other important health issues as well, for fear of receding the progress that we have achieved in addressing such issues. In order to realise complete Malaria elimination, we have an imminent need to adopt a formalised system, like was done in the case of Polio eradication, to ensure an organised and systematic approach.” In 2015, India laid out a 15-years roadmap to achieve Malaria elimination in a phased approach in its National Framework for Malaria Elimination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/malaria-cases-reducing-but-there-are-challenges-ahead-1023287.html
25-08-2021||West||Shiv Sena gets a booster dose but Narayan Rane will hit back||The Uddhav Thackeray versus Narayan Rane issue has kickstarted the political tussle ahead of the elections to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), one of the richest and biggest civic bodies of India.  The Shiv Sena has been controlling the BMC for over a quarter of a century.  The episode involving the arrest of Rane, the Union MSMEs Minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member, for his “tight-slap slur” against Thackeray, the Shiv Sena President, has lightened up the Mumbai politics.  “It is a sort of booster dose for Shiv Sena. While Rane’s remark was not at all proper, Thackeray took his allies NCP and Congress into confidence and took the extreme step of arresting his number one political rival,” says Prakash Akolkar, a veteran Mumbai-based political analyst and an authority on Shiv Sena.  According to him, after a long gap, Shiv Sainiks took to the streets to protest. “Though nothing is impossible in politics, it appears that the talks of a possible Shiv Sena-BJP rapprochement are out of the question with Rane in the BJP,” he said. It may be recalled after the 2019 Vidhan Sabha polls, Thackeray broke ties with its 30-year-old ally and joined hands with Opposition parties - Congress and NCP - to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and keep BJP out of power.  It needs to be mentioned that NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, who is the chief architect of MVA, was a personal friend of late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray. “We should not be surprised if we see such a tussle in future. Shiv Sena is back to basics while it needs to be noted that Rane’s upbringing was in Shiv Sena, the party where he spent four decades. He is a fighter to the core and would not sit back,” said Dinesh Sadh, a veteran political observer of Mumbai.  After the 2019 break-up - despite a pre-poll alliance - the BJP is all out to extract a revenge and the BMC, which is “heart and soul” of Shiv Sena, is perhaps the best option for them. The Shiv Sena will now have to face BJP’s skills and tactics of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah.  Spread across 227-wards , the BMC has a budget of Rs 39,083 crore (in 2021-22) and has fixed deposits of over Rs 75,000 crore.  The Shiv Sena, who will stonewall every attempt of the BJP to grab BMC, has even indicated an alliance with the NCP and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who calls the shots, has agreed in principle. The concern is that the Congress is not on board on the issue of going together and have launched preparations independently.  "BMC polls apart, the way the NCP and Congress stood by the Shiv Sena on the tight-slap slur issue reflects that the MVA is intact," added Akolkar.  As of now, the BJP could not defend Rane on his outburst against Thackeray, but they surely will plan out something with the Shiv Sainik-turned-Congressmen-turned-BJP leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-gets-a-booster-dose-but-narayan-rane-will-hit-back-1023307.html
25-08-2021||West||Bombay HC dismisses woman's plea alleging harassment by Sena MP Sanjay Raut||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday dismissed a 39-year-old woman's plea alleging that she was harassed and stalked by some people at the behest of Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut and her husband. The petitioner, who is a resident of the city, had urged the High Court to direct the police to investigate three complaints lodged by her in 2013 and 2018 against unknown persons, and initiate action against the deputy police commissioner (DCP) of Zone VIII in the city. A division bench of Justice S S Shinde and Justice N J Jamadar had reserved its verdict on her plea on July 22. The bench on Wednesday directed the petitioner to "follow the process of law and approach the appropriate subordinate court" to raise her grievances pertaining to the 'A-summary' report filed by the police in two cases and a chargesheet in the third complaint. An 'A-summary' report is one where the police seek to close a probe in a case, where they find that although an offence is made out, there isn't enough evidence against the accused persons. The woman, through her counsel, Abha Singh, had told the court that the DCP of Zone VIII, where she had lodged her complaint, had failed to follow the directions of the National Commission for Women while registering such complaint. The petitioner had told the court that the people who "stalked and harassed" her had done so in connivance with Raut. On June 22, the High Court had directed the Mumbai police commissioner to look into the grievances raised by the woman and submit a report on the matter. Chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai had submitted on behalf of the police that a chargesheet had been filed in one of the complaints, and A-summary reports had been filed in the other two matters. Hence, further investigation was not required. Pai further argued that the woman's pleas in the High Court were not maintainable. A detailed order of the High Court in the matter is awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-dismisses-womans-plea-alleging-harassment-by-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-1023343.html
25-08-2021||West||Rajkot royal clan's property dispute out in the open as family member moves court||A bitter dispute has broken out in the Rajkot royal family of Gujarat over the ancestral property worth hundreds of crores with one of the members moving court. Ambalika Devi, the sister of Mandhatasinh Jadeja, who is the 17th king of the over 400-year-old erstwhile princely state of Rajkot in Gujarat, has filed a suit in the city civil court against the release deed and the will of her father Manoharsinh Jadeja, her lawyer Ketan Sindhava said on Wednesday. She has challenged the release deed which construed that she had relinquished her right on inheritance property. Ambalika Devi, who lives in Jhansi, has claimed she was made to sign a release deed by her brother Mandhatasinh Jadeja in 2019 when she visited Rajkot following her father's death, "by keeping her in the dark and ill-informed", he said. She has challenged the 2013 will of her father, that her brother produced before deputy collector in 2019 to allegedly mutate the entry in revenue records, and has sought a direction from the court to declare the release deed as null and void, Sindhava said. Based on the will and the release deed, which are under challenge, the petitioner's brother had allegedly initiated mutation entry in the revenue department to make him the sole owner of the property, the lawyer said. “The will of her father Manoharsinh Jadeja, the former finance minister (of Gujarat), is unregistered. The opposing party even tried to tamper with the will," he claimed. "A year after Manoharsinh passed away in 2018, his son duped my client by making her sign a release deed in the name of an ancestral temple. We have challenged this as well,” the lawyer said. On Tuesday, Rajkot Deputy Collector Charansinh Gohil rejected the mutation entry on the basis of the objection raised by Ambalika Devi. As per her lawyer, the deputy collector said the order of the civil court will be binding on both the parties. However, Mandhatasinh Jadeja's advocate Nirav Doshi claimed his client's sister was paid Rs 1.5 crore as per the will which she had accepted in the presence of her husband and two sons. She had signed a registered release deed that she will have no right on the ancestral property which was duly signed by her, Doshi said. Her husband and two sons are also witnesses to the deed that she signed in 2019, he claimed. “We have produced all the documentary evidence in the court, and the matter is next likely to come up for hearing in the court of additional senior civil judge L D Wagh on August 31," he said. Mandhatasinh Jadeja was last year crowned as the 17th king of the erstwhile princely state of Rajkot. He runs a chain of heritage hotels. Manoharsinh Jadeja, the previous king, was a five-time Congress MLA and had served as Gujarat finance minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajkot-royal-clans-property-dispute-out-in-the-open-as-family-member-moves-court-1023344.html
25-08-2021||West||Won't take coercive action against Narayan Rane on Nashik FIR till Sept 17: Maharashtra govt to Bombay HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that it would not take any coercive action against Union minister Narayan Rane in an FIR registered in Nashik over his controversial remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar was hearing a petition filed by Rane, seeking to quash the FIR lodged in Nashik and all other cases that may be lodged in future. Rane in his plea, submitted before the HC on Tuesday, also sought interim protection from arrest. Senior counsel Amit Desai, appearing for the state government, said no coercive action will be taken against Rane in the FIR registered in Nashik till September 17, when the plea would be heard. Rane's advocate Satish Maneshinde sought protection in all cases that may arise out of the alleged statement. Desai, however, said a blanket statement of protection cannot be made as the petition only mentions the Nashik FIR. The court agreed and posted the matter for further hearing on September 17. Rane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon from Ratnagiri district in Maharashtra following his remarks that he would have slapped Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. He was later granted bail by a court at Mahad in Raigad district. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/wont-take-coercive-action-against-narayan-rane-on-nashik-fir-till-sept-17-maharashtra-govt-to-bombay-hc-1023367.html
25-08-2021||West||Corruption allegations against Anil Deshmukh 'vindictive act' of Param Bir Singh, builder claims||The allegations of corruption levelled against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh are "baseless" and a "vindictive act" of senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh, a Mumbai-based builder claimed in his affidavit submitted before an inquiry commission on Wednesday. The builder, Bimal Agarwal, who had filed an extortion case against Singh and dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze, submitted a 26-page affidavit before the one-member commission of Justice (retd) Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal. The Maharashtra government in March this year formed the commission to conduct a probe into corruption allegations levelled by Singh against the then state home minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. In his affidavit, the builder described the manner in which Vaze extorted money from him, allegedly at the behest of Singh. "The entire episode of writing a letter with baseless allegations and attacking Deshmukh as well as the state government is the vindictive act of Singh and Waze," Agarwal said in the affidavit. He also urged the commission to dismiss all the allegations made in the letter (written by Param Bir Singh to the state chief minister) "in the interest of justice", and recommend relevant action against Singh, Waze and others. The next hearing into the matter before the inquiry commission will be on August 30. Based on a complaint filed by the 48-year-old builder, the Goregaon police here last week registered an FIR against Param Bir Singh. This is the fourth such case against Singh and second in Mumbai. Two other cases were filed in Thane city. All these FIRs were registered within a span of one month. In this case, Waze and four others - Sumit Singh alias Chintu, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh alias Babloo and Riyaz Bhati - have also been named as accused, according to police. As per Agarwal's complaint, the accused extorted Rs 9 lakh from him for not conducting a raid on two bars and restaurants, which he ran in partnership, and also forced him to buy two smartphones worth around Rs 2.92 lakh for them. The incident occurred between January 2020 and March 2021. Accordingly, the case was filed under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 384 and 385 (both pertaining to extortion) 34 (common intention) against the six accused and a probe into the case is on. Singh is currently posted as DG Home Guards and he has not been attending office since May as he is on sick leave. He was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner in March this year after the arrest of Sachin Waze in the case of an explosives-laden vehicle found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in Mumbai. Later, Singh claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Deshmukh used to ask police officers to collect money from restaurant and bar owners in Mumbai. Deshmukh, who resigned from the post of state home minister in April this year, has repeatedly denied the allegations levelled against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/corruption-allegations-against-anil-deshmukh-vindictive-act-of-param-bir-singh-builder-claims-1023386.html
25-08-2021||West||Uddhav said Yogi should be beaten up with sandals, called Shah 'shameless': Narayan Rane||A day after Narayan Rane was arrested for unpalatable remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the BJP continued to mount pressure on Shiv Sena with the Union MSMEs Minister and Rajya Sabha member saying that he was not afraid of anyone.  Rane and his son Nitesh Rane, who is a BJP MLA, indicated that they would hit back politically.  “You can't do anything to me and I don't fear anyone,” the senior Rane said, adding that he has been in politics for over five decades and spent around four decades in Shiv Sena. “I have contributed to the growth and expansion of Shiv Sena,” said Rane, a former Chief Minister and ex-Leader of Opposition.  The junior Rane posted part of a scene from the film Rajneeti that shows actor Manoj Bajpayee warning "karara jawab milega” (strong answer will be given). Without repeating the “tight-slap slur”, Rane maintained that he had not spoken anything wrong.  "I am not backing out in any way... my statement was an expression of anger (against the Chief Minister) who forgot the year of India's independence... how can it be a crime," he said. He also alleged that Thackeray had used unpalatable words while referring to senior BJP leaders -- Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Uddhav Thackeray himself had in the past ordered his party workers to "break the jaws" of people attacking the Sena's headquarters, said that Adityanath should be beaten up with sandals, and called Union home minister Amit Shah "shameless", Rane alleged. “If I was a gangster according to the Sena, that party made me the chief minister. Was it OK with the party then?” asked the BJP leader, who quit the Thackeray-led party in 2005. Rane and other senior BJP leaders including state President Chandrakant Patil and Ashish Shelar said that the Jan Ashirwad Yatra will resume from Friday.  “Two courts, the Raigad Court and the Bombay High Court have ruled in my favour,” said Rane. Hours after he got bail from the court in Mahad, the Bombay High Court on Wednesday granted protection to him till September 17 and asked police not to take any coercive action.  Rane pleaded to quash the Nashik FIR and all other cases that may be lodged in future, and interim protection from arrest. The matter was heard by a division bench comprising Justice SS Shinde and Justice NJ Jamdar.  Rane’s counsel Satish Maneshinde and lawyer Aniket Nikam sought protection from all the cases related to Rane’s statement against the Chief Minister. Maharashtra government’s senior counsel Amit Desai said that no coercive actions will be initiated against Rane in the Nashik FIR till the next hearing. “His immediate concern is this FIR, I am willing to make this statement,” Desai submitted. Rane takes a dig at Fadnavis Rane also took a dig at Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis. “I have not said anything wrong. But if Devendra Fadvanis says it is wrong, then I will accept it, as he is our ‘margdarshak’,” said Rane.  Probe Anil Parab, demands BJP The BJP demanded a CBI probe into the alleged complicity of the state’s Transport Minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab, who is a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. A video clip of Parab ordering Rane’s arrest went viral on social media platforms. BJP MLA and former minister Ashish Shelar said Parab was heard telling someone on the phone that Rane’s bail plea would be rejected hours before it actually happened. “That was before noon when he was chairing a meeting of Ratnagiri District Planning and Development Council,” he said. “We demand a CBI enquiry as Parab exerted pressure and heard telling somebody that the Rane's bail appeal would be rejected. How did he know about something before the process started in the sessions court? All the phone calls of Parab and IPS officials should also be exposed,” Shelar demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-said-yogi-should-be-beaten-up-with-sandals-called-shah-shameless-narayan-rane-1023406.html
25-08-2021||West||Rane is dog kept by BJP to attack others, but will bite his own party: Shiv Sena MLA||Amid a row over Union minister Narayan Rane's remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, a Shiv Sena MLA has attacked the former, saying that he is a "dog" kept by the BJP to attack others, but would ultimately bite his own party. Sena MLA Santosh Bangar, who represents Kalamnuri Assembly constituency in Hingoli district of Maharashtra, made the remarks in his home district on Tuesday night while speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a protest against Rane. The legislator also called Rane a dog of "pug" breed. "Narayan Rane is not a human being, he is a dog. He is an offspring of pug dog. He was rejected by the people of Konkan and Mumbai. Now 'Beimaan Janata Party' (referring to the Bharatiya Janata Party) has domesticated this dog to attack others. But I want to tell the BJP that it should beware of this dog as it will bite you...He could never belong to anyone, so how can he be yours?" Bangar, who is also Sena's district president, alleged. He also criticised Rane saying, "Even if you spit on the sun, it won't reach there. The sun can't be covered with two hands. The world has seen that our CM (Uddhav Thackeray) is the best." Bangar warned Rane saying, "We have the strength to come and bash you at your house. Keep your police protection aside. I will come alone and make you bite the dust..." Talking to PTI, the Sena MLA said if someone speaks wrong things against CM Uddhav Thackeray, it would not be tolerated. Rane had said during the 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' of his party on Monday that he would have slapped Thackeray over the latter’s "ignorance" of the year of India’s independence. His remarks kicked up a row and Rane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon and taken to Mahad in Raigad district, 165 km from Mumbai, where an FIR was registered against him over the remark. However, he was granted bail by a court at Mahad late night. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rane-is-dog-kept-by-bjp-to-attack-others-but-will-bite-his-own-party-shiv-sena-mla-1023423.html
