26-08-2021||First Edit||Monetise for efficiency, not revenue||The National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, provides a roadmap for raising resources to build infrastructure. It is a major programme, aimed at raising Rs 6 lakh crore in the next four years by monetising government assets through contractual partnerships with private players for a limited period. These assets are in areas like the railways, roadways and power and would include highways, transmission lines, hydro, solar and other power projects and trains and stations. They cover 20 asset classes and 12 ministries. The ownership of the assets will remain with the government, and so the programme is different from disinvestment or outright sale. The projects are only being leased for four years. Family silver is not being sold, but is being pawned for a productive purpose. There are concerns about the extent of the programme, how it will be executed and whether the funds gained from it will be productively deployed. There are also fears that important assets will go into the hands of a few favoured private players, creating monopolies and attendant problems. The government has promised transparency in the implementation of the programme, but government structures are generally not known for transparency. The money raised through the plan is supposed to be used for infrastructure-building but it may also be taken as revenue, which can be used for any purpose. It is claimed that the programme is not meant to raise revenues alone but also intended for efficient management of public infrastructure. This will be tested. The experiences of countries such as Australia and Singapore that have gone down this path have not been happy. There will be questions about the valuation of the assets. Undervaluation will lead to charges of corruption; overvaluation may result in the deal not going through at all. Generally, the government’s handling of disinvestment has not been efficient. The asset monetisation process has similarities with disinvestment and hence these concerns. No major disinvestment has taken place in the last five months. So, the question whether the bureaucracy will be able to push through the asset monetisation plan in time is not an idle one. This year’s target is Rs 88,000 crore. There are major fund-raising plans in the market this year and so some doubts have been expressed over whether the market will have the appetite and the ability to fully participate in it. Timing will be key, as the current availability of global liquidity may not last. The monetisation programme is not new and has been tried with success in the past, as in the case of the Mumbai-Pune highway. Importantly, however, the government will have to give confidence to all stakeholders that this is not a plan to merely fill its revenue shortfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/monetise-for-efficiency-not-revenue-1023558.html
26-08-2021||In Perspective||Hailing Taliban is condemnable||The Taliban’s return to controlling Afghanistan has come as a nightmare to the people of that country, especially its working women and college and school-going girls. The Taliban is not just a threat to the peace and freedom of the people of Afghanistan, it is a threat to the West and to the neighbouring countries, including India, as terrorist groups like the Haqqani Network, Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed will once again find a cozy and safe haven in Afghanistan to regroup for their nefarious activities. The statements by a member of the All-India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) and by a Member of Parliament from Uttar Pradesh hailing the Taliban’s return are most disappointing and have not only embarrassed and upset the majority of Muslims in India, but have done much harm to Islam. It is sad that these two persons have sought to glorify the understanding and application of the Sharia law as misinterpreted by the Taliban to justify their barbaric actions against women and girls. The Taliban’s interpretation of Sharia is devious. None of their barbaric actions and their oppression of women have any parallel from the times of the Prophet, nor any sanction in Islam. The Prophet advocated education for all, even telling his followers that they should seek and acquire knowledge even if they had to go all the way to China to be able to do so. He never ever said that education was only for men and not for women. He sought to liberate women from inequality, allowed them a say in all decision-making at home and outside, gave them property rights, and an equal right as the man to stay in a marriage or seek separation. The world’s oldest existing and continually functioning university — the Al-Qarawiyyin University at Fez, Morocco -- was established in a mosque by a woman, Fathima Al-Fihri. It is still awarding degrees in certain social science and theology subjects. Islam only advocates modesty of dress to women, more specifically covering of the head and hands and legs, which is not new to many Indian women from almost all faiths. But there is no record of any parallel to what the Taliban did to women and girls when it was in power in the 1990s, nor to actions that it is said to be indulging in today. In this age of science and technology, every man and woman should have access to higher education and the freedom to choose their future and profession. The statements of one or two fanatic persons in India glorifying the Taliban is not only condemnable but it needs to be checked as they would otherwise embolden more such people with a medieval mindset who have been discouraging women’s education in this country. I am strongly of the view that in the best interest of Indian Muslims and better understanding of true Sharia law, not only must Muslim scholars speak out, but all Muslims of India must condemn the oppression of women in Afghanistan by the Taliban in the name of its misinterpreted and misplaced Sharia law. (The writer is a former vice chancellor of Kashmir University, Pondicherry University and BS Abdur Rahman University, Chennai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/hailing-taliban-is-condemnable-1023566.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Overnight showers wreak havoc in Chikkaballapur, Kolar districts||Heavy rain on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday has wreaked havoc in the twin districts of Chikkaballapur and Kolar. Jakkalamadagu reservoir has been breached while Chitravathi reservoir has been witnessing heavy inflow owing to torrential showers in the region. The non-perennial river - Uttara Pinakini (Gauribidanur taluk) and Dakshina Pinakini (Shidlaghatta taluk) have come of life. Uttara Pinakini reservoir has been breached as water from the dam has reached Kindi Anekatt (a minor dam). on the outskirts of Gauribidanur town. Most of the water bodies in the twin districts are full to the brim. Tondebhavi in Gauribidanur taluk recorded a staggering 13 cm of rain in just over 12 hours. The story is no different in Kolar, where horticultural crops on vast tracts have been damaged in the Tuesday night downpour, leaving the hapless farmers in distress. “I had availed loans from private individuals and agencies to grow tomato. I was expecting a good harvest. But sharp spell of rain shattered all my hopes. Don’t know what to do,” Krishnappa, a marginal farmer from Hosamatnahalli in Kolar taluk, poured out his woes to DH. The farmers in the twin districts are worried lot as the region is expected to receive more rain in the next two to three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/overnight-showers-wreak-havoc-in-chikkaballapur-kolar-districts-1023536.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Panchamasali Lingayat Samaj launches 'Pratigna Panchayat' campaign atop M M Hills||The Panchamasali Lingayat Samaja launched the month-long campaign 'Pratigna Panchayat', urging 2A category reservation, from M M Hills, Hanur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Thursday. The samaja has been urging the government to announce 2A category reservation for Panchamasali Lingayats, Maalegowda Lingayat and Deeksha Lingayat communities. MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal, former Harihara MLA Shivashankar, Koodalasangama Panchamasali Mutt seer Sri Basava Jayamrutyunjaya Swami, and others participated in the programme to launch the campaign. Around 400 to 500 people had gathered atop the hill to be a part of the programme. The Pratigna Panchayat will pass through Chamarajanagar, Shivamogga, Mysuru, Mandya, Kodagu, Hassan and also districts in the Kalyana Karnataka region, and will culminate at Bengaluru on September 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/panchamasali-lingayat-samaj-launches-pratigna-panchayat-campaign-atop-m-m-hills-1023755.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Road widening in Bandipur will not be allowed: Katti||Food and Civil Supplies and Forest Minister Umesh Katti said he would neither allow road widening nor night traffic in the Bandipur Tiger Reserve "for any reason." "We will now allow road widening or night traffic in the tiger reserve for any reason," he said. He was speaking to reporters during his visit to Bandipur, in Gundlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Thursday. Reacting to the proposal submitted by National Highway Authorities of India on road widening from Melukamanahalli to Kekkanahalla check post, at Bandipur Tiger Reserve, he clarified that a letter has been written to the authorities concerned opposing the same. PDS supply Commenting on Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah's promise of up to 10 kg of free rice if Congress comes to power, Katti said the statements were made for political gains. "Five kilo rice is sufficient for each person per month. The government is distributing rice sufficient for one person" Katti also said that the ration has been distributed to 4.1 crore people under the Food Security Scheme. The e-KYC of the ration card holders is 70 per cent complete, and work has been taken up to drop the ineligible names from the list. The surplus amount of ration saved will be known after the e-KYC is totally completed, he replied to a query. CM aspirant The minister said that he is a permanent aspirant for the post of CM. "I am 60 years now and I have an opportunity for 15 more years. Let us see what happens in future," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/road-widening-in-bandipur-will-not-be-allowed-katti-1023778.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Women's Equality Day celebrated at Ramakrishna Hospital||VKS Foundation and National Hindu Committee celebrated International Women's Equality Day by creating awareness about women's equality at Ramakrishna Hospital recently. They greeted women staff of house-keeping and security with roses and posters on women’s equality. Vikas Shastri, youth wing leader, said, “Women are subjected to exploitation everyday which should end. Women are assets of the nation and they should be protected. The police should pay special attention to prevent incidents like gang-rapes in the future”. Satish Gowda, a member of Rajya Vokkaliga Sangha, said, “God chose women to be powerful.” Pradeep, secretary of the committee and Tejas Gagan, city president were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/womens-equality-day-celebrated-at-ramakrishna-hospital-1023792.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Active Covid-19 cases below 1,000 mark in Mysuru region||The number of active cases has come down below 1,000 mark in Mysuru district. Active cases have declined in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts also. The number of positive cases on August 25 was 102 in Mysuru, while the number of active cases was 996. While one death was reported on the same day, positivity rate was 1.37%. The health department officials are confident that the situation may ease further. Mysuru city has 581 cases, HD Kote has 35 active cases, Hunsur 154, KR Nagar 40, Nanjangud 29, Periyapatna 83, T Narsipur 15 and Mysuru taluk 59. Except for Mysuru and Hunsur, the number of positive cases reported in the last 24 hours is in single digits. Mysuru city confirmed 48 new cases and Hunsur 28. While zero deaths were reported in all the taluks, only one death was reported in Mysuru city. In all, 1,75,541 positive cases have been reported so far. The number of people recovered are 1,72,192. In all, 2,353 deaths have been reported in Mysuru district. The active cases in Hassan district fluctuates around the 1,000 mark. The highest number of active cases in the region is from Hassan district over the last few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/active-covid-19-cases-below-1000-mark-in-mysuru-region-1023795.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Some officials deliberately targeting me, claims JLR chairperson M Appanna||Jungle Lodges and Resort (JLR) chairperson M Appanna has claimed that a few officials deliberately levelled allegations that he misused provisions and availed facilities free of cost for his friends and supporters at the government run lodges. "A dignitary and his family members stayed at the lodge. There is a bill for it. Safari is not for a single person. The remaining 25 persons in the vehicle are not from my side. A few officials have been intentionally levelling allegations. The District in-Charge Minister once stayed at Lalith Mahal and Kabini. Is it possible to ask him for money?" he asked while reacting to reports that around 25 people stayed at Kabini River Lodge in H D Kote taluk on August 24 and enjoyed all facilities including the safari. A staff member said that the bookings were done from the chairman's office, but no payment was done after availing the facilities. Appanna made similar arrangements for his supporters to stay at government lodges earlier. Bills were not cleared. The bills for the recent stay by the District in-Charge Minister was also not settled. The charge ranged between Rs 8,000 and Rs 15,000 per person per day at the resorts. It was free for the JLR chairperson for official events, but not for supporters and other politicians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/some-officials-deliberately-targeting-me-claims-jlr-chairperson-m-appanna-1023806.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two held for possessing ganja in Hassan||The Excise sleuths nabbed two people for allegedly selling ganja in Arsikere in Hassan district and recovered ganja worth Rs 65,000. The arrested are Prithviraj of Bidare village in Kadur taluk and Ranganatha of Kurubara Boodihal village of Chikkamagaluru taluk. "The sleuths found the duo moving on a two-wheeler in a suspicious manner near Banavara railway station on August 23. Upon inquiry, they confessed to the crime," said Excise Inspector M C Shankar. A case was registered and the duo were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-held-for-possessing-ganja-in-hassan-1023809.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||M-TRAC signboards: Lack of maintenance mislead road users||Most of the traffic signboards in the City have faded away. They were installed under the multi-crore Mysore Traffic Improvement Project (M-TRAC-1) by the city police between 2014 and 2019. Road users claim that the signs are not clearly visible and hence they were misled. The then chief minister Siddaramaiah announced Rs 40 crore for M-TRAC, a five-year project. The objective was to regulate and manage traffic as Mysuru was witnessing a drastic increase in vehicular traffic. C M Subramanian, a retired deputy chief traffic warden said, "The implementation of M-TRAC project on signboards was a game changer, but it's continuation has become difficult. Lack of funds from the government and public vandalism affected the signboards. Allocation of funds for maintenence by the government and steps to arrest vandals may improve the M-TRAC project". M V Govind Bharath, an advocate, said, “Traffic signboards should be maintained properly so as to notify the drivers of vehicles about approaching events”. "No person should remove or alter the signboards. Accidental damage to such signboard should be reported with proper explanation without undue delay. Citizens should abide by the rules as ignorance of law is not pardonable,” he said. "It is the duty of the appropriate government agency to monitor. It is also the duty of the citizens to protect public property,” he added. "It is a meticulous task to notice and understand the signboards. The present condition of the boards may lead to mishaps,” warned Akshay Sidharth, an entrepreneur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/m-trac-signboards-lack-of-maintenance-mislead-road-users-1023819.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Road widening won't be allowed in Bandipur: Umesh Katti||Food and Civil Supplies and Forest Minister Umesh Katti on Thursday said that the government would not allow road widening or night traffic in the Bandipur tiger reserve at any cost. He was speaking to reporters during his visit to Bandipur in Gundlupet taluk Chamarajanagar district. Reacting to the proposal submitted by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on road widening from Melukamanahalli to Kekkanahalla checkpost in the Bandipur Tiger Reserve, he clarified that it would not be allowed and a letter had been written to the NHAI opposing the same. On Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah's promise of 10 kg rice if Congress comes to power, Katti said, "The statements are only for political gains." "Five kg rice is sufficient for each person per month. The government is distributing sufficient rice under the public distribution system," he said. Katti said,"The ration is being distributed to 4.1 crore people under the Food Security Scheme. The e-KYC of 70% ration card holders is complete. Those who are not eligible will be dropped from the list. The surplus amount of ration saved will be known only after the e-KYC is completed." The minister reiterated his dream of becoming chief minister of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/road-widening-wont-be-allowed-in-bandipur-umesh-katti-1023822.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Women commissions condemn Mysuru gang-rape, seek immediate action||Karnataka State Commission for Women (KSCW) and National Commission for Women (NCW) condemned the alleged gang-rape of a college student near Chamundi Hill and demanded immediate arrest of the suspects. KSCW chairperson Prameela Naidu visited the spot. She termed the act as inhuman and sought action against the suspects. “I tried to visit the victim, but the doctors advised not to disturb her,” she said. "The KSCW and NCW have taken the issue seriously. The NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma contacted me and sought the details,” she said. The NCW has taken cognizance of the incident and the chairperson has written a letter to Director General of Police to ensure that all the suspects are arrested and charged under provisions of the law. "The Commission has asked to initiate the process to provide adequate compensation to the victim as per the rules of the Victim Compensation Scheme enumerated under Section 357A of Criminal Procedure Code, 1972. The NCW has also said that the survivor must be provided with medical and counseling support. The action taken in the matter must be communicated to the Commission at the earliest," Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/women-commissions-condemn-mysuru-gang-rape-seek-immediate-action-1023827.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Extensive jurisdiction and manpower shortages challenge Mysuru city police||The two recent incidents-gange-rape and a shootout by a gang of armed robbers have put the focus on the problems of the police department. The jurisdiction of Mysuru City police is extensive. The department lacks enough manpower. Just about two police stations function with 100% staff. The policemen are overburdened and are working under stress due to workload which has led to rise in crimes. The city has 23 police stations. The number of sanctioned posts of police sub-inspector is 64. About 45 are on duty and 15 are under training. There are no SIs in Lakshmipuram and an SI is on maternity leave, according to sources. The city has over 2,600 civil police, while the City Armed Reserve force has and 1,100 persons. Many policemen are unable to avail weekly offs regularly. In many cases, they are forced to cancel their leave even during emergency. Most stations are over burdened with extended jurisdiction due to high density of population, added the sources. "We are working under pressure. The crime rates are high due to shortage of staff. Mysuru is a busy city with movement of high profile persons, tourists and special occasions. A large number of foreigners stay in the city. The police department has extra responsibilities. We need more strength to maintain law and order,” a police constable said. The government has sanctioned three new stations for Mysuru city, but they are yet to be functional. An officer claimed that recruitment was under progress and the required staff would soon join the force. All stations would be strengthened with proper facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/extensive-jurisdiction-and-manpower-shortages-challenge-mysuru-city-police-1023831.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former KSCW chairperson targeted for statement on Mysuru gang-rape||A statement by Manjula Manasa, former chairperson of Karnataka State Commission for Women on alleged gang-rape victim has drawn flak. Speaking to reporters, she had sought stern action against the culprits. She had said that it was not right for anybody to go to a lonely place after dark as it was not safe. She was targeted for her statement. Some said that it was wrong on part of Manjula Manasa to make such statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-kscw-chairperson-targeted-for-statement-on-mysuru-gang-rape-1023835.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pratigna Panchayat launched atop MM Hill||The Panchamasali Lingayat community launched the month-long campaign 'Pratigna Panchayat' urging 2A category reservation from MM Hill in Hanur taluk in Chamarajanagar district on Thursday. The community is seeking facilities for Panchamasali lingayats, Maalegowda lingayats and Deeksha lingayats. The 'Pratigna Panchayat' will pass through Chamarajanagar, Shivamogga, Mysuru, Mandya, Kodagu, Hassan and also districts in the Kalyana Karnataka region and will culminate in Bengaluru on September 30. Addressing the gathering, Basava Jayamrutyunjaya Swami said that the campaign is meant to remind the government of its promise. "It will be held for 36 days. If there is no positive response from the government, it will be continued at Freedom Fighters Park in Bengaluru from October 1," he said. Around 400 to 500 people were a part of the programme. Former Harihara MLA Shivashankar and others participated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pratigna-panchayat-launched-atop-mm-hill-1023859.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru robbery, shootout case: 3 arrested||The city police have cracked the robbery and shootout case that claimed the life of a man at Vidyaranyapuram in the city recently. According to sources, the police have arrested three persons in Pune and Rajasthan. A gang had robbed the jewellery shop and opened fire on Chandrashekar of Dadadahalli. The miscreants barged into the shop, downed the shutters and looted jewellery after assaulting the shop owner Dharmendra. The robbers opened fire on Chandrashekar, who tried to stop them while escaping, the police said. The city police officials had formed several teams to nab the culprits. They suspect a personal enmity between two shop owners as the reason behind therobbery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-robbery-shootout-case-3-arrested-1023885.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Yettinahole: Don’t reduce storage capacity of Byragondlu reservoir, HDK tells Karnataka CM||The state government has proposed to change the project design of the long-pending Yettinahole project by reducing the storage capacity of the Byragondlu reservoir, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy has claimed in a letter to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, urging the government to scrap the proposal. Flaying the government for the decision, Kumaraswamy has demanded that the reservoir capacity be restored to 5.78 tmcft as per the earlier plan. The Byragondlu reservoir is a prominent component of the Yettinahole project, which envisages drinking water to Bengaluru Rural, Kolar and Chikkaballapur. Works related to this reservoir was stuck from three years owing to land acquisition issues, Kumaraswamy pointed out, adding, "Now, it has come to my attention that the Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam has approved a proposal to reduce the capacity of the reservoir to 2 tmcft." By changing the project plan time and again and by reducing the capacity of the reservoir, people have lost trust in the project. The state government has spent close to Rs 8,200 crore on Yettinahole project since its inception in 2012, Kumaraswamy said. He urged the chief minister to ensure that this proposal to reduce the reservoir capacity was dropped at the earliest. The government must instead ensure land acquisition by offering proper compensation and stick to the already approved plan, the JD(S) leader said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/yettinahole-don-t-reduce-storage-capacity-of-byragondlu-reservoir-hdk-tells-karnataka-cm-1023535.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress is trying to rape me: Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra landed in a controversy after saying that the "Congress was trying to rape" him over the Mysuru gang-rape incident. "The rape happened there. But Congress is trying to rape me, Congress is trying to rape the home minister. They are trying to reap political dividends," Jnanendra told reporters. It was in response to demands by the Opposition Congress that Jnanendra should resign by taking moral responsibility for the case. Jnanendra also came under fire for his remarks that the victims of the incident should not have visited the secluded spot in the evening. "She went there around 7-7.30 pm, which is a secluded spot. First of all, they shouldn't have gone there," he said. It is not possible to stop anyone from going to any place. "But, this place is secluded. Nobody goes there," Jnanendra said. The incident is inhumane. Opposition should demand that the culprits be nabbed at the earliest. "However, there are attempts to reap political mileage out of the incident," he said. Directions have been issued to all officials to ensure that such incidents do not repeat in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-is-trying-to-rape-me-karnataka-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-1023793.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mayor poll: Lost opportunity of Congress||The Congress party seems to have lost an opportunity as the BJP managed to get the Mysuru City Corporation mayor's post in the election on August 25. The saffron party is weak in the old Mysuru region. The JD(S) is the main rival for the Congress. The election did not look like a BJP-JD(S) alliance as the three parties fielded their candidates in the council which had 72 votes. This time, it is one vote less as ward 36 is vacant. The bypoll for the ward will be held on September 3. Of 65 wards, the BJP leads with 22 corporators, followed by the Congress 19 and the JD(S) 17. There are five Independents, one BSP Corporator and one vacancy. BJP's MP Prathap Simha, MLAs S A Ramadass and L Nagendra, Tanveer Sait of Congress and G T Devegowda of JD(S) and MLCs of the JD(S) Sandesh Nagaraj, K T Srikantegowda and Marithibbegowda had the right to vote. Devegowda and Sandesh Nagaraj did not participate. BJP's Sunanda Palanetra polled 26 votes, Ashwini Ananthu of JD(S) and H M Shantakumari 22 votes each. Barring Sait, no leader from the Congress, including Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, seemed to do anything to wrest the post. Siddaramaiah was unhappy with the way in which the Congress compromised for the deputy mayor’s post for Anwar Baig leaving the mayor’s post to Rukmini Madegowda of the JD(S) last February. As per the agreement, Pushpalatha Jaganath of the Congress was elected in the first term. Tasneem of the JD(S) got a second term in 2020. The Congress' candidate had to get the chance for the third in 2021, but Congress had to compromise as the JD(S) was in demand and the BJP wanted the power. Mahesh said, “The Congress would have had an upper hand if the JD(S) sacrificed the mayor’s post. The party wanted the Congress to support the JD(S) candidate. Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shivakumar did not contact former prime minister H D Deve Gowda and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy. The JD(S) fielded a candidate.” The development is likely to cost the Congress dear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mayor-poll-lost-opportunity-of-congress-1023813.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mysuru gang-rape: No lapses on part of Karnatraka government, says Shashikala Jolle||Minister for Muzrai, Haj and Waqf Shashikala Jolle on Thursday visited the spot of crime where a girl student was allegedly gang-raped. Jolle obtained details about the case from the police. Condemning the crime, Jolle said that she tried to speak to the survivor, but the girl was not in a position to speak. Defending the government Jolle said,"The state government is committed to ensure the safety of women. The government has no lapses in connection with the incident."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mysuru-gang-rape-no-lapses-on-part-of-karnatraka-government-says-shashikala-jolle-1023855.html
26-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Haven't discussed cabinet expansion issue with Arun Singh, says CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said he had not discussed any issues regarding a cabinet expansion or change of portfolio with BJP National General Secretary (Karnataka in-charge) Arun Singh during his visit to Delhi. Bommai, who met Singh here, told reporters that he discussed political developments in the state and party organisation issues only. To a question on whether he discussed an expansion of cabinet to fill four vacant slots and portfolio allocation problems, the CM said, "These issues were not discussed with Singh.  These issues will be discussed with BJP National president J P Nadda." The CM said he would come to Delhi again after some time to discuss cabinet expansion and other related issues with Nadda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/havent-discussed-cabinet-expansion-issue-with-arun-singh-says-cm-bommai-1023906.html
26-08-2021||Main Article||On tribunals, why has it become govt vs SC?||In a justifiable display of annoyance over the delay in filling up vacancies in the various tribunals, the Supreme Court has in its order of August 16 given the government 10 days to fill up those vacancies. Chief Justice N V Ramana has sternly observed that the fact of pendency of writ petitions before the court “shall not come in the way of the Union of India, and/or taking an excuse by them, for not processing/appointing members in various Tribunals.” The Supreme Court had in an earlier order expressed unhappiness about the delay in filling up vacancies in the GST Tribunal and had gone on to make a larger point – “It seems that the bureaucracy does not want these tribunals.” This was in the backdrop of the court’s observation that there is a serious problem of vacancies in at least 15 tribunals ranging from the Debt Recovery Tribunal to the Central Administrative Tribunal. Thus, there were as many as 221 vacancies of judicial and technical members in the various tribunals as on August 5. It may be recalled that the Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, had abolished nine Appellate Bodies and transferred their functions to High Courts. The Appellate Bodies abolished were those as established under the Cinematograph Act, 1952; Trademarks Act, 1999; Copyright Act, 1957; Patent Act, 1970; Advance Rulings under the Customs Act, 1962; Airport Appellate Tribunal under the Airports Authority of India Act, 1994; Control of National Highways (Land and Traffic) Act, 2002; Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers' Rights Act, 2001; and the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999. This was a process that had commenced with the Finance Bill 2017, when the tribunal system was sought to be rationalised and the number of tribunals reduced from 26 to 19. The Law Commission of India, in its Report No 272 (Assessment of Statutory Frameworks of Tribunals in India), while discussing the reasons for the delay in justice administration, had emphasised the need for establishing tribunals. These reasons have not changed. The Constitution also provides for the establishment of tribunals. There were as many as 69,476 cases pending at various stages in the Supreme Court as on August 2. The position in the High Courts is more alarming -- as many as 58,68,271 cases (both civil and criminal) are pending as on date. Out of this, more than 1,50,000 cases are more than 20 years old. Thus, there is no doubt that the courts are straining under the burden of the heavy pendency. The reasons given while presenting the Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Bill, 2021, (which later got implemented through the Ordinance) was that the tribunals do not contribute to a reduction in the workload for the courts, nor do they deliver faster justice, and that they come at the expense of the exchequer. This is a harsh and perhaps unfair indictment of the functioning of the tribunal system. But as Justice L Nageswara Rao observed in a Supreme Court decision, the “existence of large number of vacancies of Members and Chairpersons and the inordinate delay caused in filling them up has resulted in emasculation of the tribunals.” The latest decision arose out of the fourth time that the matter has come up before the apex court in the last three years. In 2019, the court had struck down the rules that were introduced by the government on the ground that they were in violation of the principles laid down by the apex court regarding the composition and security of tenure of the tribunals and the composition of the selection committee. New rules were notified in February 2020 which were again challenged and found to be vires of the apex court’s directions. Some provisions of the Ordinance and the Rules notified afresh in June 2021 again met the same fate. The apex court struck down provisions relating to the four-year tenure and the minimum age requirement of 50 years for members of tribunals – it has consistently held that the tenure should be five years and that the minimum age requirement of 50 would discourage younger talent. Despite the apex court’s observations, the government went ahead with introducing the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021, in the Lok Sabha on August 2, and it was passed by the House the next day and by the Rajya Sabha on August 9. Predictably, there was no debate in Parliament on the Bill. This fact did not escape the attention of the apex court which, while passing its latest order, lamented the lack of quality debates in Parliament saying that it is a “sorry state of affairs” that has resulted in passage of laws with a lot of ambiguity in their provisions. The court has also expressed concern over the “disturbing trend” of the government not complying with its directions. While a rationalisation of the functioning of tribunals may be necessary, the solution perhaps lies in ensuring that the vacancies are filled up in the various surviving tribunals. They need to be given adequate infrastructure and support. And yes, it should be appreciated by all concerned that these posts are much more than sinecure jobs. Tribunals fulfil a very important role in the speedy disposal of litigation and discharge of justice. Shutting down tribunals, or worse not filling the vacancies in the existing tribunals, only increases the burden of the already overburdened courts. What the government should be doing is to ensure a rigorous selection process so that the right persons are selected for these important roles. The matter is now listed before the Supreme Court for August 31. It will be interesting to see the government’s response. (The writer is a former chairman of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/on-tribunals-why-has-it-become-govt-vs-sc-1023561.html
26-08-2021||Mysuru||Police intensify investigation in Mysuru gang-rape case||The Mysuru Police has intensified its investigation into the alleged gang-rape of a college student reported on Tuesday. The police are trying to identify the culprits with the help of a mobile phone. They are checking the phone numbers that operated in the area at the time of the crime, an officer said. In addition, the police have also collected CCTV footage. An officer also informed that the police have received leads about the accused and the culprits will be arrested in a day or two.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/police-intensify-investigation-in-mysuru-gang-rape-case-1023683.html
26-08-2021||National||Govt supporting several programmes to tackle climate change: DST official||The government is supporting several programmes to tackle climate change, senior Department of Science and Technology (DST) official Akhilesh Gupta said on Wednesday during an online interaction with several young journalists from Manipur. He was speaking at a programme for 'Young State-Level Media Fellows on Climate Change Reporting' organised by the Manipur government. Gupta, who is senior advisor and head of the policy coordinator and programme management division in the DST, said developed countries are the root cause for the climate change problem. He said India is the worst affected and has supported several programmes to tackle the problem. The DST started the climate change programme in 2009-2010, and "we have come a long way supporting more than 200 programmes in the area", Gupta said. He referred to the recent intergovernmental panel on climate change report which talks about its grave consequences. Gupta cautioned that if corrective steps are not taken, all warnings will come true in the next two decades. Citing the major takeaway from the report, he informed that temperature is going to increase by 1.5 degrees centigrade. This, Gupta said, would lead to increase in heat waves, erratic monsoons, drought and floods. He added that the Indian Ocean will witness a rise in its level and the rate of increase of sea level has already enhanced in the last two decades. Gupta pointed out that there will be an increase in the number of cyclones too. Besides, an increase in carbon dioxide in the ocean and increased temperature will cause myriad problems, he said. The DST official underlined that journalists can play a crucial role in making people understanding climate change which is critical to combat the problem. They can play a very important role in highlighting it at the local level because the global challenge has local impacts and hence, requires action at the local level, Gupta said. "We have done a district-wise and sub-district wise vulnerability assessment for all the states and UTs in the Himalayan region and district-wise assessments for the rest of the country. All the nine districts of Manipur have been found to be vulnerable," he said. Given such warnings, future planning should be done with a synergy between development and climate, and the media has a huge role to play to bring about such a change in mindset. Trained media fellows could help orient this direction, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-supporting-several-programmes-to-tackle-climate-change-dst-official-1023532.html
26-08-2021||National||DH Toon | '10 days later, at the ramparts of Red Fort'||Outlining the roadmap for a new and assertive India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced a slew of development programmes, including a landmark Rs. 100 lakh crore "Gatishakti" initiative to boost infrastructure and employment opportunities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-10-days-later-at-the-ramparts-of-red-fort-1023562.html
26-08-2021||National||Speak Out: August 26, 2021||The Congress crisis in the Punjab unit is back to square one a month after the party high command named Navjot Singh Sidhu as PCC chief and Captain Amarinder Singh as the party's face for 2022 Assembly polls to broker peace between the warring factions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-august-26-2021-1023569.html
26-08-2021||National||Centre approves names of 9 judges recommended for Supreme Court elevation||The government has forwarded nine names recommended by the Supreme Court collegium for appointment of judges in the top court to the President for final approval and a call is expected to be taken "shortly", sources in the government said on Thursday. With a sanctioned strength of 34 judges, the Supreme Court as of now has ten vacancies. In a first, the Supreme Court Collegium had last week recommended for appointment to the apex court three women judges, including Justice B V Nagarathna who will be in line to be the first woman Chief Justice of India (CJI) in September 2027 if she gets the final nod. Besides Justice Nagarathna, the third senior-most judge of the Karnataka High Court, the other women judges whose names have been recommended are Justice Hima Kohli, the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court, and Justice Bela M Trivedi, the fifth senior-most judge of the Gujarat High Court. Justice Kohli retires on September 1. Asked what if her warrant of appointment could not be issued before that date, the sources said such a situation may not arise. While high court judges retire at the age of 62, the retirement age of Supreme Court judges is 65. They said a final call on the elevation of the nine names recommended would be taken "shortly". Once the names are cleared their warrants of appointment will be issued and the government will then issue a notification announcing the decision. Besides them, names of Justice C T Ravikumar of the Kerala High Court, and Justice M M Sundresh of the Madras High Court were recommended by the Collegium. Senior advocate and former Additional Solicitor General P S Narasimha, whose name if cleared, would became the sixth lawyer to be elevated to the apex court bench directly from the Bar. The chief justices of different high courts whose names have been recommended are Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka (Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court), Vikram Nath (Chief Justice of the Gujarat High Court) and Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari (Chief Justice of the Sikkim High Court).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-names-of-9-judges-recommended-for-supreme-court-elevation-1023610.html
26-08-2021||National||Kerala's Covid surge pushes India's single-day coronavirus tally to 46,164, highest in nearly 2 months||India on Thursday logged 46,164 new coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours while the active cases jumped to 3,33,725, according to the Union Health Ministry data. Of these, Kerala alone accounted for 31,445 Covid-19 cases and 215 deaths. The total tally of Covid-19 cases increased to 3,25,58,530 and the death toll climbed to 4,36,365 with 607 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.03 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.63 per cent, the ministry said.  The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.58 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 31 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.02 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 62 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,17,88,440, the data stated.  Cumulatively, 60.38 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Wednesday morning. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keralas-covid-surge-pushes-indias-single-day-coronavirus-tally-to-46164-highest-in-nearly-2-months-1023636.html
26-08-2021||National||'The war is over': Taliban urge India to support Afghan people, call on countries for help||The Taliban has urged India to side with the people of Afghanistan and acknowledge their "intention for the liberation" of their country, and not favour the former US-backed government. “What we were opposing was their siding with the former government. What we have wanted for the last 20 years is that countries, including India, should have a relation with the people of Afghanistan. It was our point and position and we have always said that no one should side with the puppet government,” Shaheen said. Refuting reports that some Indians were kidnapped and released later, the spokesperson said, “I do not align with the word kidnap. We had already issued a statement that we will provide proper arrangements for the functioning of embassies and diplomats. I know they had some problems with their documents and were stopped for a few hours.” Shaheen called on the international community to help the people of Afghanistan, saying that the war is over and that chapter has been closed. “It is also their humanitarian compulsion to come forward to help the people of Afghanistan as 70 per cent are below the poverty line. Also, we have 20 years of war and bloodshed. We will appreciate their help immensely.” Shaheen assured the international community that women’s rights will be protected and they will have access to education and work while following the rules of Islam. He also said the government will be formed soon. He dismissed reports of door-to-door searches for workers of the former Afghan government, adding that "Our soldiers are investigating everything. The culprits will be brought to justice. Our policy has not changed and we have given a message to all to abide by that policy and if anyone violates that policy will be brought to justice".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-war-is-over-taliban-urge-india-to-support-afghan-people-call-on-countries-for-help-1023658.html
26-08-2021||National||Delta variant sub-lineage AY.12, driving surge in Israel, found in India: Report||The sub-lineage has been attributed for a surge in Covid-19 cases in Israel, according to the latest report of Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium INSACOG. In Israel, the sub-lineage has caused a spike in Covid-19 cases giving rise to concerns as the country has fully vaccinated 60 per cent of its citizens. The surge has also raised doubts about the Pfizer vaccine’s effectiveness, which is significantly less in the country than what emerged over clinical trials. The consortium said that many cases that were earlier recorded as having been caused by the Delta variant are now being reclassified as AY.12 infections, which has all the characteristic Delta mutations except one. “The reclassification is primarily to assist micro-epidemiology and is not based on acquisition of significant mutations. Thus, it is not currently known whether AY.12 is clinically different from Delta,” the INSACOG report noted. “No new mutations of concern are noted in the spike protein (S). However, its rapid growth in Israel means that it should be examined further.” Anurag Agrawal, Director, CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology said that since the Delta variant has several sub-lineages it is necessary to reclassify them as not doing so would make naming them unwieldy. “A large number of cases in Israel have been linked to AY.12. In India, there are several micro-lineages and some of them are AY.12. We need to wait and watch to see how significant this micro-lineage is in driving infections in India. But as of now, it has exactly the same risk classification, no more and no less, than Delta,” he told the publication. A complete reclassification and estimating the prevalence of AY.12 in India may take some time. “Since the AY.12 definition is inconsistent, final numbers will take some time. AY.12 analysis will be added to the portal (a public website), along with other new lineages, once there is greater consensus,” their report noted. About 70,000 coronavirus samples have been sequenced for their genomic structure, of which 50,000 have been allotted to various lineages, according to INSACOG. About 60 per cent of these lineages consist of international variants of concern or interest (VoC or VoI) that are globally tracked and linked to outbreaks as well as instances of vaccine breakthrough and reinfections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delta-variant-sub-lineage-ay12-driving-surge-in-israel-found-in-india-report-1023666.html
26-08-2021||National||Aviation watchdog DGCA plans tough new drug abuse rules||India's air safety watchdog plans stringent new penalties to tackle drug abuse in the aviation industry, including cancellation of licences for third-time offenders, draft guidelines published this week show. The rules for airlines, air navigation service providers, maintenance firms and flight training schools, are expected to be finalised in a little over two months, Arun Kumar, the chief of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), told Reuters. "While India has some of the strictest rules on alcohol abuse, this is the first attempt to fight drug abuse," said Kumar, adding that it would target several psychoactive substances, such as cannabis, cocaine and opioids. Wednesday's draft rules require random drug tests of a flight crew and air traffic controllers, to ensure testing of at least 5 per cent of the total employees of airlines and others in a year. Positive tests will lead to an employee being "immediately removed from the safety-sensitive duty till a confirmatory report is received", the draft showed. First offenders will be referred to a de-addiction centre for rehabilitation, the watchdog said. Those who test positive a second time will have licences suspended for three years, with a third offence leading to cancellation, it added. The agency has allotted 30 days for public comment on the rules before they are finalised over the next 30, Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aviation-watchdog-dgca-plans-tough-new-drug-abuse-rules-1023669.html
26-08-2021||National||Govt briefs political leaders on Afghan situation||The government on Thursday briefed leaders of political parties on the situation in Afghanistan. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar briefed the leaders on the latest situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban captured power there last week. Besides Jaishankar, Union minister and Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi are also present during the briefing in Parliament House annexe. Apart from India's evacuation mission from Afghanistan, the ministers are also expected to share the government's assessment of the situation in the war-torn country. NCP leader Sharad Pawar, Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Congress party in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, DMK's T R Baalu, former rime minister H D Deve Gowda, Apna Dal's Anupriya Patel are some of the leaders attending the crucial meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-briefs-political-leaders-on-afghan-situation-1023674.html
26-08-2021||National||Filing of sedition cases when regimes change a disturbing trend: CJI Ramana||Filing of sedition cases when regimes change is a “disturbing trend”, the Supreme Court said on Thursday, granting protection from arrest to a suspended senior IPS officer against whom two criminal cases for offence of sedition and amassing disproportionate assets have been filed by the Chhattisgarh government. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana directed the state police not to arrest its own suspended senior IPS officer Gurjinder Pal Singh in the cases. It however directed Singh to cooperate with the agencies in the ongoing investigation. “This is a very disturbing trend in the country and the police department is also responsible for this... When a political party is in power, police officials take side of the particular (ruling) party. Then when another new party comes into power, the government initiates action against the police officials. This needs to be stopped,” the bench said. CJI Remarks on Police Officers charged under S. 124A: When police officers are working and siding with the party in power then NO SEDITION The bench, also comprising Justice Surya Kant, directed the state government to file its responses to the two separate petitions within four weeks during which the police officer will not be arrested. Senior lawyers F S Nariman and Vikas Singh appeared for the suspended police officer and the state government was represented by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Raeksh Dwivedi. Two cases pertaining to the offence of sedition and for amassing disproportionate assets respectively have been lodged against Singh by the Congress-led Chhattisgarh government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/filing-of-sedition-cases-when-regimes-change-a-disturbing-trend-cji-ramana-1023679.html
26-08-2021||National||Farmers' national convention to mark 9 months of protest begins at Singhu border||The national convention by farmers to mark the completion of nine months of their agitation against the three contentious farm laws began at the Singhu border on Thursday. The two-day event that will see participation from 1,500 delegates across organisations of farmers, women, youth, and labourers, is aimed at “intensification and expansion” of the ongoing movement against the Centre's farm laws. As part of the convention, three sessions will be organised on Thursday, including the inaugural session, and one each on industrial workers; agriculture labour, rural, poor and tribal people. Among the topics that the convention is expected to discuss are “repeal of all three pro-corporate farm laws, legal guarantee for MSP of all crops, repeal of Electricity Bill, 2021, and no prosecution of farmers under the Commission of Air Quality Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas Bill 2021”. Farmers have been agitating at the Delhi borders demanding the repeal of the three laws since November last year. They have repeatedly expressed fear over the laws doing away with the minimum support price (MSP), leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties. “It is sad that it's been nine months but the government is still not ready to talk. But we should not feel demotivated. During this convention we will reflect on what we have lost and what we have gained over the last nine months,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait while addressing the protesters at the Singhu border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-national-convention-to-mark-9-months-of-protest-begins-at-singhu-border-1023681.html
26-08-2021||National||Take care of yourself as government busy with sales: Rahul Gandhi to people as Covid-19 cases rise||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday voiced concern over the rise in coronavirus cases in the country, and said people should take care of themselves as the government is "busy in sales". Gandhi has been accusing the BJP government of selling out the country's assets built in the last 70 years, after it announced its asset monetisation pipeline plan. "Rising Covid numbers are worrying. Vaccination must pick up pace to avoid serious outcomes in the next wave," he said on Twitter. "Please take care of yourselves because GOI is busy with sales," he also said. India saw a single day rise of 46,164 Covid-19 infections with 607 fatalities in the last 24 hours, pushing the country's total number of cases so far to 3,25,58,530 and death toll to 4,36,365. The active Covid-19 cases in country have increased to 3,33,725.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-care-of-yourself-as-government-busy-with-sales-rahul-gandhi-to-people-as-covid-19-cases-rise-1023690.html
26-08-2021||National||Delhi HC asks authorities to consider plea alleging mislabelling of products as ORS||The Delhi High Court Thursday asked the authorities to consider as representation a PIL alleging the deliberate mis-labelling of products as Oral Rehydration Salt (ORS) by certain pharmaceutical companies. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh directed Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) and Delhi government to decide the representation in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the case and disposed of the petition. The court said that while deciding the representation, the authorities shall give adequate hearing to the other parties if any adverse order is likely to be passed against them. Petitioner Rupa Singh, an Assistant Professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University and the mother of an 8-year-old child, claimed that a local pharmacy sold her an ‘ORS Liquid’ in the name of ORS and the same deteriorated the minor’s health. “When the child’s health deteriorated, she consulted a pediatrician and was shocked when it was told to her that ‘ORSL’ is not ‘ORS’ and does not even have the composition as prescribed by WHO,” the petition said. The plea, filed through advocate Gurinder Pal Singh, said that based on guidelines of the World Health Organisation (WHO), an Indian expert body has recommended “a single universal ORS solution containing sodium 75 mmol/L and glucose 75 mmol/L, osmolarity 245 mosmol/L was acceptable for all ages and all types of diarrhea”. However, pharma firms were deliberately and intentionally mislabelling their other products as ORS to promote sales. “None of the aforesaid beverages being sold under the name ‘ORSL’ use the composition of the new ‘ORS’ formulation as prescribed by WHO... None of the beverages being sold under the name ‘ORSL’ have requisite licenses under the Drug and Cosmetics Act,” the plea alleged. In the petition, Singh has prayed for directions to not only ensure that the authorities publicise the distinction but also sought action against the pharma firms for causing health and monetary loss to the public and making unlawful gains to themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-authorities-to-consider-plea-alleging-mislabelling-of-products-as-ors-1023698.html
26-08-2021||National||SC gets 9 new judges, Justice Nagarathna could be first woman CJI in 2027||Nine new judges were appointed to the Supreme Court on Thursday, setting out a succession plan for three new Chief Justices of India, including a first woman judge to occupy the coveted post. With the Law Ministry issuing notifications on President signing warrants on their appointments, the country is likely to see the first woman Chief Justice of India in Justice BV Nagarathna, currently a judge of the Karnataka High Court, in 2027 for a brief period of one month. She is the daughter of former Chief Justice of India ES Venkataramiah, who occupied the coveted post in 1989. This would be the second instance of two generations of a family heading the judiciary as Justice DY Chandrachud is in the line to become the CJI in November 2022 while his father, YV Chandrachud, was the CJI between 1978 and 1985. Other new judges appointed to the top court included senior advocate and former Additional Solicitor General P S Narasimha, a ninth direct appointee from the Bar. He is likely to succeed Justice Nagarathna as the CJI over one year in October 2027. Narasimha would be the third person to hold the post of CJI after having been directly elevated from the Bar. Other judges from the Bar, Justice SM Sikri remained the CJI in the 1970s and Justice UU Lalit would hold the post between August 27, 2022, and November 8, 2022. Among new appointments, Gujarat High Court chief justice Vikram Nath, originally from Allahabad High Court, would also occupy the post of the CJI, taking the helm before Justice Nagarathna and would be in the chair for almost seven months between February and September 2027. Besides Justice Nagarathna, Telangana HC chief justice Hima Kohli and Gujarat High Court judge, Justice Bela Trivedi of the Gujarat High Court are the other two woman judges appointed to the top court. Other judges who were elevated to the Supreme Court are Karnataka High Court chief justice Abhay Kumar Oka, and Sikkim High Court chief justice JK Maheshwari. Justice CT Ravikumar, the second senior-most judge of the Kerala High Court, and Justice MM Sundaresh, the third senior-most judge of the Madras High Court, were also elevated to the Supreme Court. This is the largest number of judges appointed in the Supreme Court at once. The new appointments come after a hiatus of 21-month as consensus eluded Collegium, comprising five senior-most judges, in view of insistence by Justice RF Nariman (retired on August 12) for the elevation of Tripura High Court's chief justice Akil Kureshi, who sent current Home Minister Amit Shah to CBI custody in 2010 as a Gujarat High Court judge. The Supreme Court, which has a sanctioned strength of 34 judges, currently has only one woman judge, Justice Indira Banerjee, who is set to retire in September 2022. With the nine new appointments, the top could have a vacancy on just one post. The latest appointment of three women judges at one go can be seen as an important step in bridging the gender gap in the Supreme Court which has accommodated only eight women judges in the last 71 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-gets-9-new-judges-justice-nagarathna-could-be-first-woman-cji-in-2027-1023708.html
26-08-2021||National||Sexual act between husband and wife not rape even if by force or against her wish: Chhattisgarh HC||(Warning: Story contains some graphic details, reader discretion advised) The Chhattisgarh High Court has discharged a 37-year-old man in a rape case filed against him by his wife after observing that sexual intercourse or any sexual act with a legally wedded wife is not rape even if done by force or against her wish. However, the HC did not grant any relief to the man who was also charged under IPC section 377 (unnatural offences). Justice NK Chandravanshi delivered the judgement on August 23 in a criminal revision plea filed by the man and his two family members, seeking to quash rape charge (against him) and other offences framed against them, their lawyer YC Sharma said on Thursday. As per the order, the victim married the man, a native of Changorabhata in Raipur, in 2017. After a few days of marriage, the woman's husband and her two in-laws allegedly started harassing her for dowry. The woman later lodged a complaint at the Bemetara police station of Bemetara district against the three. After investigation, a charge-sheet under section 498-A (dowry harassment), 377 (unnatural offences), 376 (rape), 34 (common intention) of the IPC was filed against them. After providing opportunity of hearing to counsels of both the parties, a trial court had framed charges against the applicants under these sections, the order said. The trio, including the woman's husband, approached the High Court seeking to set aside the order of the trial court and discharge them from the charges, including that of rape against him. “Counsel for the applicants submits that the complainant and the applicant No. 1 (man) are legally wedded wife and husband, therefore, none of the ingredients to constitute the offence punishable under Sections 376 and 377 of the IPC are spelt out against him, because, in India, marital rape is not recognized and the same is not an offence in view of Exception II of Section 375 of the IPC,” the HC said. The counsel had prayed that the impugned order be set aside and the applicants be discharged from charges brought against them, it said. After hearing, the HC had reserved its order on August 13 and it was delivered on Monday (August 23). The order said, “Exception II of Section 375 of the IPC, referred to above, makes it clear that sexual intercourse or sexual act by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under eighteen years of age, is not rape." The judge said charge under IPC section 376 (rape) against the man was erroneous and illegal. “In this case, complainant is legally wedded wife of applicant No. 1, therefore, sexual intercourse or any sexual act with her by the husband would not constitute an offence of rape, even if it was by force or against her wish. Therefore, charge under Section 376 of the IPC framed against the husband is erroneous and illegal. Hence, he is entitled to be discharged from the charge under Section 376 of the IPC”, it said. “In the instant case, the complainant has reported that the husband has many times, without her consent, made unnatural physical relation with her. Therefore, I do not find any infirmity or illegality committed by learned trial court in framing the charge under Section 377 of the IPC against the husband,” the HC said. The HC said no illegality has been committed in framing other charges against the accused. “Consequently, the instant revision is partly allowed. The applicant No. 1 (husband) is discharged from the charge framed against him under Section 376 of the I.P.C. This Court finds that trial Court has not committed any illegality in framing the charge under Section 377 and 498-A/34 of the IPC against all the applicants, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sexual-act-between-husband-and-wife-not-rape-even-if-by-force-or-against-her-wish-chhattisgarh-hc-1023725.html
26-08-2021||National||CM Bhupesh Baghel should clarify who is trying to destabilise Chhattisgarh government: BJP||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel should clarify who was trying to destabilise his government, a senior BJP MLA said on Thursday, a day after Baghel said those talking about the rotation of CM's post were trying to bring political instability to the state. Baghel earlier this week went to New Delhi where he met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other senior party leaders over his power tussle with T S Singh Deo in the state. Ajay Chandrakar, the BJP legislator from Kurud, in a tweet on Thursday said, “Honourable Chief Minister (Chhattisgarh Congress), the post of 'Chief Minister' is not of an individual but it is an institution. Who is trying to destabilise the government of three-fourth majority. 'Delhi Darbar' or someone else..? You should clarify.” “Your (CM's) statement will affect the development of Chhattisgarh,” the MLA said in the tweet posted in Hindi, in which Baghel and AICC in-charge for the state P L Punia were tagged. Another senior BJP MLA and Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Dharamlal Kaushik said it seemed that fighting within the ruling Congress for the CM's chair was not over yet. “The way the CM said thar discussions were held about development (during meetings with senior leaders in Delhi), it seems the fight for the chair is not over yet. It is just the beginning, this fight is going to be long,” he said. Kaushik said Baghel, who calls himself a farmer's son, should tell why "injustice" was being meted out to farmers under his leadership. "Farmers have allegedly committed suicide. He cannot understand the pain of farmers as he focused on the chair for two-and-a-half years," the BJP leader claimed. Baghel and state Health Minister T S Singh Deo met Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday amid the ongoing power tussle between the two state leaders. After Rahul Gandhi's meetings with Baghel and Singh Deo, Punia had told reporters in Delhi that they discussed development issues and not leadership change. After arriving here on Wednesday, Baghel said those who are talking about two-and-a-half years (power sharing formula), they are trying to bring political instability and will never succeed. State Food Minister Amarjeet Bhagat had also tweeted pictures of Baghel's grand reception at the airport here and said, “Those who want to destabilise the government should understand that this is the government of farmers, tribals and common people." When the Congress opted for Baghel for the top post following its victory in the 2018 state Assembly polls, there was speculation that Singh Deo, another contender in the fray, would be allowed to take over after half the term. Baghel completed two-and-a-half years in office in June this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cm-bhupesh-baghel-should-clarify-who-is-trying-to-destabilise-chhattisgarh-government-bjp-1023731.html
26-08-2021||National||Boost localisation of automotive parts, reduce dependency on imports, says Amitabh Kant||The Indian automobile and components industry must eliminate its import dependence on China for a host of automotive parts and must focus on localisation of such items, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Thursday. Speaking at the 61st Annual Session of Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA), he said electric four-wheelers will also be considered for incentives under the FAME II scheme, once there is 100 per cent saturation of electric buses in the nine cities selected under the programme. "A wide array of disruptions, such as global supply chain rebalancing, government incentives to increase exports and technology disruptions are creating opportunities at all levels of the automotive value chain. These must be seen as opportunities. It is very important that industry participants see a clear highway and it is time for the industry to drive the machine at full throttle," Kant said. Asserting that the approach to Make in India is very clear, he said localisation has to be boosted. "... Reduce dependency on imports, and I would like to say imports from China," he said. Asking the automotive industry to focus on "low hanging fruits that could be localised in a short period", he said, the localising of mechanical parts, such as forged and machined components and lightweight polymer-based parts is critical. "It is also important that certain automatic components, which are being imported from China purely on the back of cost competitiveness and development capabilities, need to be manufactured here," he noted. Kant also told the industry that certain parts that are required to meet BS-VI emission regulations such as electronic fuel injection systems and catalytic converters which are sourced from China "will need to see increased localisation over the next two quarters". "Therefore, it is necessary that import dependence from China for electronics and electrical parts, semiconductor-based components, tooling and moulds and raw materials such as magnets, used in electronic and electric motors, should not merely be minimised but be eliminated," he asserted. Stating that transition to electric vehicles (EVs) is inevitable, he said it is imperative for the nation to indigenise the manufacturing of electric vehicles and its components in alignment with Make in India, and promote mass adoption of EVs in the domestic market. "We should not become a major importing nation in the electric vehicle components like we have done in the case of solar," Kant said. He further said, "recently in order to further fuel the demand and catapult the proliferation of EVs in the domestic market, we restrategised FAME II with the objective to reduce the upfront cost of two-wheelers, three-wheelers and electric buses." The revised FAME II scheme offers increased upfront incentives for electric two-wheelers, while an aggregation model for three-wheelers and electric buses in nine cities has been adopted. "In our view for both two-wheelers and three-wheelers the initial cost of electric vehicles is now cheaper, almost at par with combustion vehicles, and these nine cities that we have selected as 'Light House cities' will ensure that 100 per cent saturation of electric buses takes place. We will thereafter move towards four-wheelers, and we will ensure that the electric component moves fast and quickly in the four-wheeler segment also," Kant said. He asserted that India should be the global leader in the electric version of traditional micro mobility segments from day one and should capture the global market. "For PVs (passenger vehicles) such as cars and SUVs, and the light CVs (commercial vehicles) Indian players can win by following the frugal design requirements, essential for emerging markets," Kant added. Stating that industry disruptions also create a huge opportunity for automotive suppliers to "double down on creating a strong position in the global EV supply chain", he said it will help suppliers gain additional revenues. "A move into EV will also help suppliers diversify their portfolios or reduce risk related to market demand," Kant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boost-localisation-of-automotive-parts-reduce-dependency-on-imports-says-amitabh-kant-1023740.html
26-08-2021||National||Unitech founders operated 'secret underground office' from jail, ED tells Supreme Court||Making a startling revelation in the Supreme Court, the Enforcement Directorate on Thursday said it has unearthed a “secret underground office” here which was being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra when on parole or bail. The ED, which has been investigating money laundering charges against the Chandras’ and Unitech Ltd, said that both Sanjay and Ajay have rendered the entire judicial custody otiose as they have been freely communicating, instructing their officials and disposing of their properties from inside the jail. A bench of Justice D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah was told by Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, appearing for the ED, that Chandras’ have deputed their officials outside the jail to communicate their instructions to outside world. “During one of our search and seizure operations, we have unearthed a secret underground office, which is being used by Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons when they are out on parole or bail. "We have recovered hundreds of original sale deeds from that office, hundreds of digital signatures and several computers which contain sensitive data with regard to their properties in India and abroad,” Divan told the bench. She said the probe agency has submitted two status reports in sealed cover to the court and have provisionally attached Unitech Ltd properties worth Rs 600 crore both in India and abroad. Divan pointed out that the agency has found a very “intricate web of money trail” through shell companies and the properties are being disposed of in real time, which is creating problem in the probe. “They (Chandras’) have been operating from inside the jail premises. They have rendered the entire judicial custody otiose. They are freely communicating and passing on instructions with the help of people deputed outside the jail premises. ED has found that they have even tried to influence a “dummy director" when he was being interrogated by the agency”, Divan said. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the Chandras, said that nothing is done against the jail manual. The top court said it is not hearing the Chandras at present and would first hear the ED's submission. On June 4, the top court had granted 15-day interim bail to Sanjay Chandra to attend the last rites of his father-in-law after which he had surrendered.  On August 14 last year, the top court had dismissed the bail plea of Chandra, who was a month earlier granted interim bail for 30 days on "humanitarian grounds" as both his parents had tested positive for Covid-19, and asked him to surrender within three days. The apex court had also dismissed the bail application of Chandra’s brother Ajay Chandra, who is in jail since August 2017. Both Sanjay and Ajay are accused of allegedly siphoning home buyers' money. The top court in its October 2017 order had asked them to deposit Rs 750 crore with the apex court registry by December 31, 2017. The Chandras have claimed that they complied with the court’s conditions and they have deposited an amount in excess of Rs 750 crore and therefore they are granted regular bail. The top court had noted that since the October 2017 order, significant events have taken place and the apex court had directed a forensic audit to be conducted by Grant Thornton. It said that the court had earlier directed the Centre to ensure that all aspects, which were adverted to in the forensic report, should be investigated by the competent agencies, including with regard to the aspect of money laundering. The matter pertains to a criminal case that started initially by one complaint lodged in 2015 and later joined by 173 other home buyers of Unitech projects' -- 'Wild Flower Country' and 'Anthea Project' -- situated in Gurugram. On January 20 last year, in a respite to over 11,000 hassled home buyers of Unitech, the top court had allowed the Centre to take total management control of the realty firm and appoint a new board of nominee directors. The apex court had approved the name of retired Haryana cadre IAS officer Yudvir Singh Malik as chairman and managing director (CMD) of the new board and directed that the existing board of directors of the company would stand superseded. In 2018, the top court had directed a forensic audit of Unitech Ltd and its sister concerns and subsidiaries by Samir Paranjpe, Partner, Forensic and Investigation Services in Grant Thornton India. The forensic auditors had submitted their report which said that Unitech Ltd received around Rs 14,270 crore from 29,800 home buyers from 2006-2014 and around Rs 1,805 crore from six financial institutions for the construction of 74 projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unitech-founders-operated-secret-underground-office-from-jail-ed-tells-supreme-court-1023748.html
26-08-2021||National||India’s engagement with new regime in Afghanistan will depend on its nature, government tells political leaders||India will decide on its engagement with the new regime in Afghanistan after taking into account whether it will be born out of an inclusive and broad-based power-sharing arrangement or solely run by the Taliban, the government told the leaders of the political parties on Thursday. New Delhi’s “top-most priority” at present is the evacuation of Indian citizens from Afghanistan, despite many challenges, including deteriorating security scenario around the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul and the difficulty in securing overflight clearances for the Indian Air Force aircraft, which have to avoid the airspace of Pakistan. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla briefed the leaders of all the political parties on India’s response to the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban militants marched into the national capital on August 15 after occupying many provinces in a swift blitz across the war-torn country – taking advantage of the withdrawal of troops by the US and its NATO allies. India has a “strong national position” on Afghanistan, said Jaishankar, after he and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi had the meeting with the representatives of the 31 political parties. He added that the friendship with the people of Afghanistan was something that mattered to all in India. “We approached the situation very much in the spirit of national unity,” said the External Affairs Minister as he and Foreign Secretary told the leaders of the political parties that New Delhi was closely monitoring political and security developments in Afghanistan. They said that New Delhi would have to “wait and watch” and see how the new regime in Kabul would take shape – whether it would be solely a government of the Taliban or whether it would be born out of a power-sharing arrangement with leaders of Afghanistan. They said that the situation was quite fluid in Afghanistan and India was continuing consultations with important stakeholders and regional countries. “Our strong friendship with the people of Afghanistan is reflected in the more than 500 projects we have there. This friendship will continue to guide us,” Jaishankar later posted on Twitter, but added: “India’s footprint and activities naturally keep in mind the ongoing changes (in Afghanistan).” Ever since President Ashraf Ghani fled the country soon after the Taliban entered Kabul on August 15, his predecessor Hamid Karzai and the chief of the peace negotiation panel, Abdullah Abdullah, have been holding consultations with the leaders of the militant organization for forming an inclusive government. New Delhi earlier signalled that it might consider recognising a new regime in Kabul with participation from the Taliban if it was an “inclusive dispensation” with the representation of all communities of Afghanistan, vowed to respect the aspirations of the children and voices and rights of women and promised not to allow anyone to use the country to export terror to other countries in the region and beyond. Jaishankar and Shringla informed the leaders of the political parties that New Delhi so far evacuated 565 people from Afghanistan – including 175 personnel from the Embassy of India in Kabul, 263 other citizens of India, 15 citizens of other countries, 112 Afghans, including minority Hindus and Sikhs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-engagement-with-new-regime-in-afghanistan-will-depend-on-its-nature-government-tells-political-leaders-1023749.html
26-08-2021||National||SC orders shifting ex-Unitech bosses Sanjay, Ajay Chandra from Tihar jail to Mumbai prisons||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered immediate shifting of promoters of real estate company Unitech Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra from Tihar jail to Arthur road jail and Taloja jail in Mumbai respectively, expressing serious displeasure over the charge that they are operating from the prison. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah directed that both the accused would not be provided with any kind of additional facility in the Arthur road jail and Taloja jail. The court also pulled up the Tihar Jail authorities for "shamelessly" acting in connivance with Unitech Directors Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra in engaging in illegal activities by flouting the jail manual, rules and statute, "dissipating proceedings, and derailing the investigation in the case". The court also directed the Delhi Police Commissioner to start a detailed inquiry forthwith against the concerned Tihar jail officials, who connived with the two accused persons and sought a report within four weeks. The court passed its order after the Enforcement Directorate alleged two Unitech promoters were found allegedly operating from inside the Tihar jail and they were allegedly carrying out their work and various other transactions from there. The accused brothers were arrested by the Delhi Police's Economic Offices Wing (EOW) in March 2017 after receiving many complaints of cheating and duping homebuyers. The Patiala House Court had in 2015 passed the order of registering the FIR (First Information Report) against the Chandras. The FIR was registered after a complaint filed by a homebuyer in connection with the Anthea project in Gurugram. Several homebuyers approached the police after flats were not handed over to them within the stipulated deadline despite having paid money to the company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-shifting-ex-unitech-bosses-sanjay-ajay-chandra-from-tihar-jail-to-mumbai-prisons-1023750.html
26-08-2021||National||Shashi Tharoor picks three favourite viral memes featuring him||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has not just taken over Twitter with memes that are made from his Onam celebration photos, but also with his enthusiastic reaction to them. After Tharoor shared his Onam celebration photos a few days back, the micro-blogging site is flooded with memes where Tharoor features in a ‘Mundu’ with his hands raised to break the coconut he is holding. Meme masters have edited Tharoor’s photo and have placed him in various venues, starting from cricket ground to a dance floor. The memes are so well done that the Congress leader couldn’t help but pick his three favourites from the lot. Replying to a meme in which he is tagged on Twitter, Tharoor wrote, “There are many of these memes going around using the pic of me ritually smashing a coconut. I don’t know who dreams them up by they are often very funny. This one is one of my favourites:” Tharoor went ahead and two more to his list. Here are some more of those memes which were super hilarious but couldn't make it to Tharoor's favourites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoor-picks-three-favourite-viral-memes-featuring-him-1023754.html
26-08-2021||National||Don't use my name to further propaganda and dirty agenda: Neeraj Chopra||Olympic champion Neeraj Chopra on Thursday said he was pained by the controversy surrounding his comments on Pakistani Arshad Nadeem using his javelin during the Tokyo Games and called the entire furore "propaganda aimed at pushing a dirty agenda." The 23-year-old Army man, who won India's maiden Olympic medal in athletics -- a gold in Tokyo, said nobody should use his name to rake up any controversy. "I would request everyone to please not use me and my comments as a medium to further your vested interest and propaganda," Chopra, who became only the second Indian to win an individual Olympic gold, said on his Twitter handle. "Sports teaches us to be together and united. I'm extremely disappointed to see some of the reactions from the public on my recent comments. "There was nothing wrong with Arshad Nadeem using my javelin to prepare, it is within rules and please do not use my name to push a dirty agenda," he added. Chopra, in a recent interview, stated that he was searching for his personal javelin before his first throw during the Olympic final on August 7 and found Nedeem holding it. According to rules, any javelin submitted to the officials by a competitor for his use can also be used by any other participant. This rule applies in all field events except for pole vault. Chopra, who had used Valhalla version of Nordic brand during the final, made it clear that Nadeem, who had finished fifth, had not done anything wrong. "A controversy (mudda) has come up that I had talked about taking the javelin from Pakistani participant Arshad Nadeem before my first throw in the final (on August 7). It has been made into a big controversy," Chopra said in a video clip posted along with his tweet. "It's is a very simple thing, we keep our personal javelin (inside a holding rack) but it can be used by anybody. It is the rule and there is nothing wrong in that. He (Nadeem) was having the javelin and preparing for his throw. I asked him to give it to me for my throw. "I am very sad that a big controversy has been created taking my name. We javelin throwers share a good bond and speak to each other nicely." A former coach echoed Chopra's view. "There is no controversy. It is not that you brought your personal javelin and nobody can use it. When you submitted it, others can also use it. Any participant can use any javelin which is there (in the holding rack)," he told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-use-my-name-to-further-propaganda-and-dirty-agenda-neeraj-chopra-1023757.html
26-08-2021||National||Key takeaways from new Drone Rules, 2021||The government on Thursday unveiled new rules that provide for ease of using drones in India by abolishing certain approvals required earlier, bringing down the number of forms from 25 to five and reducing entry barriers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that it will open up "new possibilities" for innovation and business in the country. Here are the key takeaways from the new Drone Rules, 2021: * Approvals abolished: unique authorisation number, unique prototype identification number, certificate of conformance, certificate of maintenance, operator permit, authorisation of R&D organisation, student remote pilot licence, remote pilot instructor authorisation, drone port authorisation, import permission for drone components. * Coverage of drones increased from 300 kg to 500 kg to include heavy payload-carrying drones and drone taxis. * Number of forms/permissions reduced from 25 to 5. *No security clearance required before any registration or licence issuance. * Fees for permissions reduced to nominal levels. * Maximum penalty under Drone Rules, 2021 reduced to Rs one lakh. This shall, however, not apply to penalties in respect of violation of other laws. * Interactive airspace map with green, yellow, and red zones will be displayed on the digital sky platform. * Yellow zone reduced from 45 km to 12 km from the airport perimeter. * No permission required for operating a drone in green zones and upto 200 feet in the area between 8 and 12 km from the airport perimeter. * Online registration of all drones shall happen through the Digital Sky Platform. * Easy process prescribed for transfer and deregistration of drones. * No pilot licence required for operating nano drones and micro drones for non-commercial use. * Safety features like ‘No permission – no take-off’ (NPNT), real-time tracking beacon, geo-fencing etc. to be notified in future. A minimum six-month lead time will be provided for compliance. * All drone training and examination to be carried out by an authorised drone school. DGCA shall prescribe training requirements, oversee drone schools and provide pilot licences online. * Type Certification of drones delegated to Quality Council of India and certification entities authorised by it. * No requirement of type certificate, unique identification number, prior permission and remote pilot licence for R&D entities. * Import of drones to be regulated by Directorate General of Foreign Trade. * Drone corridors will be developed for cargo deliveries. * Unmanned Aircraft Systems Promotion Council to be set up to facilitate a business-friendly regulatory regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/key-takeaways-from-new-drone-rules-2021-1023758.html
26-08-2021||National||More than 3.77 crore balance, unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with states: Centre||Over 58.76 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and union territories so far, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. More than 1.03 crore doses are also in the pipeline, the ministry said in a statement. The ministry said that more than 3.77 crore balance and unutilized Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. The Union Government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid-19 vaccination throughout the country. The new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21. The vaccination drive has been ramped up through availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to states and UTs for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-377-crore-balance-unutilised-covid-19-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-centre-1023760.html
26-08-2021||National||Merck donates Rs 1.7 cr to IIT Bombay for Covid-19 research||Leading science and technology firm Merck on Thursday announced a donation of Rs 1.7 crore over two years to the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay to support the development of clinical tests for Covid-19 disease severity assessment. "With this donation, Merck is aiding IIT in the early identification of Covid-19 virus severity to facilitate appropriate healthcare management which will help to relieve the pressure that has been put on the healthcare system in the country,” Merck India, Life Science Business MD, Sunil Punjabi said. The funded project is an ongoing Covid-19 multi-omics research on the development of simple immunoassays based on Single Molecule Counting technology to identify low-levels of early disease severity markers, Merck said in a statement. "Validation using immunoassay platforms like single molecule counting technology will be highly beneficial for rapid clinical translation. Our partnership with Merck is a natural next step in this direction and we are grateful to them for supporting our mission," IIT Bombay Director Subhasis Chaudhuri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/merck-donates-rs-17-cr-to-iit-bombay-for-covid-19-research-1023762.html
26-08-2021||National||Rane undermined Maharashtra's pride and prestige, his days in Union cabinet numbered: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Thursday claimed Union minister Narayan Rane undermined the pride and prestige of Maharashtra and action against him was taken as per the law over his controversial remarks against Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' also claimed that "Rane's days in the Union cabinet were numbered". Earlier this week, Rane sparked off a row over his remarks about slapping Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter’s ignorance of the year of India’s independence. He was arrested from Ratnagiri in Maharashtra on Tuesday and later granted bail by a court at Mahad in Raigad. His remarks had led to protests across Maharashtra. The Shiv Sena and BJP activists also clashed with each other near his residence in Mumbai on Tuesday. On media reportage of his 'imminent arrest' in the case, Rane had said hours before his arrest that he was not a ‘normal’ (ordinary) man and cautioned the media against such reportage. The editorial in 'Saamana' said, "Since Rane is not a normal person, he undermines the pride and prestige of Maharashtra. The BJP should at least understand now." It claimed that Rane has said Maharashtra can't fight the Centre since there is a BJP government. "Even Maharashtra's enemies did not undermine the state like Rane did," the Marathi daily said. It said action against Rane over his remarks against the CM was done as per the law. "Law is same for everyone - be it a normal or an abnormal person. At least now the BJP should not ask if the rule of law prevails in the state," said the Sena, which shares power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra. It said a case was filed against Rane, like it would have been done in any other case. "Someone threatens a person, who then files a case under the IPC and then police act as per the procedure...nothing different happened in Rane's case. Hence, the opposition BJP's claim of a Talibani rule in the state is baseless," it said. Notably, Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said the BJP does not support Rane's comments, but the "party stands behind him 100 per cent". Alleging that the state police force was being used as a tool for "vendetta politics", the former chief minister had said there should be law and order and "not Taliban-like governance". The Marathi publication said Fadnavis supports Rane, but not his threat to the chief minister. "This wasn't expected from Fadnavis, who is a lawyer by profession," it said. "If Rane stops considering himself as great, a lot of problems in his life will be resolved without medication," it quipped. "If Rane thinks he is great because of his induction into the Union cabinet, then Prime Minister Narendra Modi will surely bring him down from the pedestal," the editorial claimed. It said Modi considers himself a "fakir", while Rane thinks he is great. "Surely, Rane's days in the Union cabinet are numbered and Fadnavis will have no doubt about this in mind," the Thackeray-led party said. It also said the Shiv Sena and the BJP differed earlier on several occasions, but the kind of clashes that took place following Rane's comments and arrest never happened before. "Rane and his supporters in the BJP are responsible for this," the edit claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rane-undermined-maharashtras-pride-and-prestige-his-days-in-union-cabinet-numbered-shiv-sena-1023766.html
26-08-2021||National||SC terms filing of sedition cases on regime change as disturbing trend, protects suspended IPS officer||Filing of sedition cases when regimes change is a “disturbing trend”, the Supreme Court said on Thursday while granting protection from arrest to the suspended Director of Chhattisgarh Police Academy against whom two criminal cases of sedition and amassing of disproportionate assets have been filed by the state government. "State of affairs in the country is sad," said a bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana. Gurjinder Pal Singh, the 1994-batch IPS officer who had served as the IG of Raipur, Durg and Bilaspur during the earlier BJP rule, was initially booked in the disproportionate assets case following raids at his premises by state's Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and Economic Offences Wing (EOW). Another case of sedition was invoked against him later on the grounds of his alleged involvement in promoting enmity and hatching a conspiracy against government. The bench expressed displeasure over the trend of filing of sedition cases just after senior advocate F S Nariman made opening submissions on behalf of Singh, saying “the gentleman has served as the Additional Director General of Police (ADGP) and was acting as the Director of the Police Academy and now the proceedings under section 124A (sedition) of the IPC have been initiated against him”. The bench, which also comprised Justice Surya Kant, directed the Congress-led state government not to arrest Singh for four weeks in either of the cases. It also directed Singh to cooperate with the agencies in the investigation. “This is a very disturbing trend in the country and the police department is also responsible for this... When a political party is in power, police officials take the side of the particular (ruling) party. “Then when another new party comes into power, the government initiates action against the police officials. This needs to be stopped,” the bench said. The top court issued the notice on two separate pleas of Singh to the state government, represented by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Rakesh Dwivedi and lawyer Sumeer Sodhi. At the outset, Nariman said the issue of custodial interrogation of the police officer does not arise as the charge sheet has already been filed. The officer was once called by the present Chief Minister and asked to help in taking action against the former Chief Minister, he said. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the state government, opposed Singh's plea saying that he had been the head of the police academy in the state and “look at his conduct, he has been absconding”. “No relief such as protection from arrest should be granted to him,” Rohatgi argued. “We will consider the sedition case. This is a very disturbing trend and the police department itself is responsible for this... Do not say this that your client (Singh) was fair, your client must have acted as per the directions of the government of the day...,” the bench observed. Dwivedi also opposed granting any relief to the suspended police officer saying that the probe agency has found disproportionate assets “nine times more than the known sources of his income”. Senior lawyer Vikas Singh, representing the suspended police officer in the assets case, sought protection against any possibility of the arrest. Recently, the Chhattisgarh High Court has refused to quash the sedition case against the officer who moved the top court against the order. Earlier, the Chhattisgarh government had moved the top court by filing caveats in the matter seeking hearing if any order is passed on his plea. According to the police, the documents recovered during the ACB/EOW raids revealed that Singh was allegedly involved in promoting enmity and hatching a conspiracy against the established government and public representatives and was booked under sedition charges. Singh was booked under IPC sections 124-A (sedition) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc) of the IPC at Raipur’s City Kotwali Police Station. He has sought the case be handed over to the CBI or other independent agencies to ensure a fair probe. The director of the state police academy was suspended on July 5 after the ACB/EOW, on June 29, registered an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act in connection with the disproportionate assets he had allegedly amassed. The ACB/EOW, which carried a three-day search at around 15 locations linked to Singh from July 1 to 3, claimed to have discovered movable and immovable assets worth around Rs 10 crore. During the raid at the official residence of Singh, torn pieces of paper were also found from the backyard of the house. When the pieces were rearranged, serious and sensitive contents were found to be written and typed on it, the FIR said. “These papers contained objectionable comments against leaders of reputed political parties along with detailed plans of conspiracy. Besides, secret assessments related to representatives and candidates of different assembly constituencies along with comments on serious issues of the concerned area were also written on it. The papers also contained critical comments on several government schemes, policies, social and religious issues”, it said. Similarly, the raid at Singh's associate Mani Bhushan's house unearthed a five-page document, in which comments were written in English against public representatives, officials, government schemes and policies, it added. The seized documents contain provocative content that can promote hatred and dissatisfaction against the government, the FIR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-terms-filing-of-sedition-cases-on-regime-change-as-disturbing-trend-protects-suspended-ips-officer-1023767.html
26-08-2021||National||SC asks Centre to respond to plea seeking CBI probe on iron ore export within two weeks||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave two weeks time to the Union government to file its response to a plea for a CBI probe into the alleged duty evasion by some companies in exporting iron ore to China since 2015.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to file a reply to the petition filed by advocate M L Sharma saying, "If it (the allegations) is true then it is a serious matter, which we need to look into."  As Mehta sought two weeks' time, the bench put the matter for consideration three weeks later. During the hearing, the bench asked the petitioner-cum-lawyer, Sharma, to show the extent of tax evasion, saying he has to make specific averments and not implead 65 parties to the petition. In his plea, Sharma sought the court's direction for prosecution of the companies for allegedly evading export duty by declaring a wrong tariff code to export the iron ore under the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992.   He alleged that iron ore “smuggling to China” has been taking place as these companies have been exporting them without paying the 30 per cent export duty.   He also claimed there was a violation of the Customs Act, the COFEPOSA, the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act and certain penal provisions relating to cheating and forgery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-respond-to-plea-seeking-cbi-probe-on-iron-ore-export-within-two-weeks-1023770.html
26-08-2021||National||Celebrate festivals with caution, second Covid-19 wave not yet over: Centre||The Central government on Thursday said the months of September and October will be crucial in pandemic management and cautioned that festivals should be celebrated in accordance with Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. Addressing a media briefing, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan reiterated that the country is still in the midst of the second wave. ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said vaccines are disease modifying and not disease preventing so it is very important to continue the use of masks even after vaccination. Bhushan said, "We are still in the midst of the second surge of Covid-19 in our country. The second surge has not yet concluded. It is not over and therefore, we have to maintain all necessary precautions, particularly in light of our experience that after every festival we see a spike." "The coming months of September and October are crucial for us because we would be celebrating a few festivals. Thus festivals have to be celebrated with Covid-appropriate behaviour," he added. The government said 41 districts in India were reporting a Covid-19 weekly positivity rate of more than 10 per cent. According to the government, 58.4 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases last week were reported from Kerala. "Kerala is the only state reporting over 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases, while four states have 10,000 to 1 lakh active cases and 31 states have less than 10,000 active cases," it said. The government said over 400 evacuees were brought back from Afghanistan so far and that some of them have tested positive for Covid-19. The infected people have been isolated and are being treated. With 46,164 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases has increased to 3,25,58,530, while the active cases rose to 3,33,725, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,36,365 with 607 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.03 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.63 per cent, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/celebrate-festivals-with-caution-second-covid-19-wave-not-yet-over-centre-1023775.html
26-08-2021||National||Air taxis will be possible in coming days under drone rules: Jyotiraditya Scindia||Air taxis that will traverse the airspace instead of roads will be very much possible in the coming days under the drone rules announced on Thursday, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said.  "Air taxis are being researched and invented globally and many startups are coming up," the minister said during a press conference here.  "That time is not far when taxis, like the ones of Uber etc that you see on roads, you will see in the air under the drone policy. I believe this is very much possible," he added. The minister said that the Defence Ministry, the Home Ministry and BCAS (Bureau of Civil Aviation Security) have been working together so that "counter rogue drone technology" can be developed and adopted quickly. In a notification dated August 25, the Ministry of Civil Aviation eased the rules regarding drone operations in the country by reducing the number of forms that need to be filled to operate them from 25 to 5 and decreasing the types of fees charged from the operator from 72 to 4.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-taxis-will-be-possible-in-coming-days-under-drone-rules-jyotiraditya-scindia-1023779.html
26-08-2021||National||DGCA lifts ban on Boeing 737 Max aircraft after more than two years||More than two years after grounding it, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Thursday lifted the ban on Boeing 737 Max planes' commercial flight operations. The ban was imposed on 13 March 2019 after the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines 737 Max plane on March 10 near Addis Ababa killed 157 people, including four Indians and another crash involving Lion Air flight in October 2018, which killed 180 people. The DGCA said in its order that the operation of Boeing 737 Max planes are permitted "only upon satisfaction of applicable requirements for return to service". Boeing has been modifying the 737 Max plane since March 2019 so that various countries' regulators, including the DGCA, permit its passenger flight operations again. At present, only SpiceJet airline in India has Boeing 737 Max aircraft in its fleet. In March 2019, SpiceJet had to ground 12 Max planes. In a related development, SpiceJet announced that it has entered into a settlement with Avolon, a major lessor of MAX aircraft, paving the way for the airline’s 737 MAX aircraft to start to return to service. The airline expects to start operations of MAX aircraft around the end of September 2021 subject to regulatory approvals, an airline statement said. Ajay Singh, Chairman and Managing Director, SpiceJet, said, "as India emerges from Covid and air traffic picks up again, the MAX aircraft will play a major role in our future expansion. With a better and a more efficient fleet back in operation we expect a significant reduction in our operating costs improving our bottom line."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-lifts-ban-on-boeing-737-max-aircraft-after-more-than-two-years-1023783.html
26-08-2021||National||SC voices concern over police officers aligning with party in power and being targetted when regime changes||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed its concern over a "disturbing trend" of police officials aligning with a political party in power, later getting targetted with criminal cases when another regime comes into office. "When a political party is in power, police officials side with it... then, when a new party comes into power, the government initiates action against those officials. This is a new trend, which needs to be stopped," a bench presided over by Chief Justice N V Ramana said. The bench, also comprising Justice Surya Kant, further pointed out that this was a very disturbing trend in the country and the police department was also responsible for it. The top court made these observations while granting protection from arrest to a suspended senior ADG rank-officer, Gurjinder Pal Singh, against whom two criminal cases -- sedition and amassing disproportionate assets -- have been filed by the Congress-led Chhattisgarh government. The top court directed the police not to arrest Singh in the cases for now. However, it directed Singh to cooperate with the agencies in the ongoing investigation. Senior advocate F S Nariman appeared for the suspended police officer and senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Rakesh Dwivedi appeared for the state government. The city police have registered a sedition case against Singh based on a written complaint filed by the anti-corruption bureau, which reportedly seized alleged documents from him, which indicated a conspiracy against the government. The top court directed the state government to file its reply to the two separate petitions within four weeks and asked the police not to arrest Singh in the meanwhile. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-voices-concern-over-police-officers-aligning-with-party-in-power-and-being-targetted-when-regime-changes-1023785.html
26-08-2021||National||US University Virtual Fair to be held on August 27 and September 3||Indian students and their parents will get an opportunity to interact with more than 100 accredited US universities and college representatives about university programs and admission criteria at the upcoming EducationUSA’s US University Virtual Fairs 2021. For students seeking Master’s or PhD degree programs in the United States, the EducationUSA US University Graduate Virtual Fair will be held on Friday, August 27, from 5:30 pm to 10:30 pm For high school students seeking Associate’s or Bachelor’s degree programs in the United States, the EducationUSA US University Undergraduate Virtual Fair will be held on Friday, September 3, from 5:30 pm to 10:30 pm.  The participating US higher education institutions represent a wide geographic area in the United States and offer a range of academic programs at the undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral levels.  “US universities truly value Indian students for their hard work, talent, and their cultural and intellectual contribution to the US classroom,” US Consul General in Chennai Judith Ravin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-university-virtual-fair-to-be-held-on-august-27-and-september-3-1023800.html
26-08-2021||National||Lyricist Manoj Muntashir centre of debate for hate post on Mughals||Hindi film lyricist Manoj Muntashir was at the centre of a growing Twitter storm on Thursday with several colleagues in the industry and others slamming him for “seeding hatred” in a video in which he compares Mughal emperors to “dacoits”. Muntashir, who has written lyrics for films such as Kesari and Bhuj: The Pride of India, had uploaded the controversial video titled Who are your ancestors on Twitter on August 24. Some people, including filmmaker Vivek Ranjan Agnihotri, also spoke in his support. The one-minute video has him on screen declaring that the country had been brainwashed and roads were named after “glorified dacoits” like Akbar, Humayun and Jehangir. "Cringe. Bad poetry, unwatchable. Should drop the pen name too. Why profit off of something you so hate," actor Richa Chadha said, referring to his pen name “muntashir”. The 45-year-old from Madhya Pradesh dropped Shukla from his name to take on “muntashir”, which means 'scattered' or 'dispersed', according to the Rekhta dictionary. Masaan director Neeraj Ghaywan criticised him for his poetry and said, “Bigotry laced with casteism!" Fellow lyricist and screenwriter Mayur Puri added that writers shouldn't act as enablers of hate with their work. "Why seed hatred, Manojbhai? No country has a perfectly rosy history. Par writers ko aag lagaane ka nahin, aag bujhane ka kaam karna chahiye. (But writers should try to put out the fire, not spread it) "Please don't mind, but I'm a bit disappointed that you are doing this kind of work," Puri wrote. As the outrage spread, 'Mughals' started trending on Twitter with more than 20,000 tweets on the topic. Husain Haidry, another lyricist writer, claimed this wasn't the first time Muntashir was "spreading hate or lies” and it won’t be the last. "Mask has been off since well over a year. This is not an out-of-the-blue video. Anyway, spewing anti-Muslim venom, instead of being punished, has now been incentivised by the government and the society...," the Mukkabaaz lyricist wrote. Lyricist-poet Puneet Sharma came up with a reply in the form of a Hindi poem, titled Dakshin ke naa vaam ke, na Allah ke naa Ram ke, netaji ke naukar sab, bhookhe hain inaam ke.(They don't belong to either right or left, Allah or Ram, they are the servants of the leader, and seek rewards). "Who taught this man history? What will he call the Maratha invasion of Bengal?" asked author Devdutt Pattanaik. Adding his voice to the debate, historian S Irfan Habib said it was disappointing to see a writer like Muntashir "spitting venom" and using "dubious and imaginary arguments as history". One Twitter user wrote that "mediocre artists" were participating in anti-Muslim "hate-mongering" to further their career. A section on Twitter came out in support of Muntashir and argued that the writer was merely reminding people of the "forgotten actual history" of the country and the Mughals. Filmmaker Agnihotri tweeted, "Manoj Muntashir has always been expressing his perspective fearlessly in his poetry and public discourse. If you are ignorant doesn’t mean he has changed suddenly. " In his video, Muntashir also refers to the name of gods being removed from history textbooks and askshow people can call Mughal emperors "noble kings" when they had "massacred people" in the name of religion. He said people should choose their heroes and villains without any caste bias.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lyricist-manoj-muntashir-centre-of-debate-for-hate-post-on-mughals-1023816.html
26-08-2021||National||Armed forces won't let political turmoil in any other country affect India: Birla on Afghan crisis||The armed forces would not let political turmoil in any other country affect India, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said on Thursday in a reference to the crisis in Afghanistan In an apparent reference to China, Birla, who is on a three-day visit to Ladakh, said the “expansionist approach” of a few countries results in border disputes and asserted that India always propagates peace and works for strengthening democratic setup in other nations. The Lok Sabha speaker is on a week-long trip to Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh as part of the 'parliamentary outreach programme for empowerment of panchayati raj institutions'. Birla said he is visiting the two Union Territories to strengthen the panchayati raj system and democratic institutions. Asked about recent political crisis in Afghanistan, Birla said India favours democratic system flourishing in all countries. "India has always propagated peace and worked for strengthening democracies across the world… We have full faith in our armed forces that they wouldn't let political turmoil in any other country (Afghanistan) affect India," Birla told PTI. On the recent tensions on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Birla said, Ladakh region is the land of Buddha who preached peace and harmony and that is what India also propagates. "Here from Leh, the land of Buddha, we only want to send the message of peace and harmony. India has always opposed cross-border terrorism and expansionism. But it is the expansionist approach of few countries which led to disputes at borders," Birla said. He further said India is capable of safeguarding its borders and people. Birla said in the current times, he hopes that all countries will come together and make an action plan to end terrorism by strengthening the democratic system. Talking about Ladakh, Birla said the region should be developed according to the expectations of the people and its geographical location. The region has the potential to emerge as one of the most sought-after international tourist destination, Birla said, adding Ladakh’s infrastructure is being developed at a very fast pace. Birla is scheduled to visit far-flung areas of Ladakh including Pangaong Lake and Nubra Valley. He will also visit Pahalgaon and Srinagar and interact with panchayat leaders from all these places. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armed-forces-wont-let-political-turmoil-in-any-other-country-affect-india-birla-on-afghan-crisis-1023823.html
26-08-2021||National||Exclusion of students from weaker sections can create digital divide: VP Naidu||Vice President M Venakaiah Naidu on Thursday cautioned that issues pertaining to access, quality and affordability might get accentuated with the Covid-19 pandemic and exclude many students in the process, and called for an inclusive approach to online and distance education. While terming the power of online education a "digital bridge" for people in remote areas, he stressed that care must be taken not to exclude students from socio-economically weaker sections and create a "digital divide". To improve the access and affordability of the internet, especially in rural areas, Naidu underscored the need for expeditious implementation of projects such as Bharat Net. The vice president wanted institutions that undertake corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities to prioritise providing electronic devices to school and college students from socially and economically weaker sections, according to an official statement. Naidu also noted the paucity of online courses in Indian languages and called upon private players in the educational technology sector to offer content in more regional languages. In this context, he recalled the tool developed by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) recently which translates English content online into 11 Indian languages and called for more such efforts. "Online education should not remain the privilege of the few, but rather become the ultimate tool for real democratisation of education in India," Naidu stressed. Virtually addressing the first foundation day celebrations of the Central University of Andhra Pradesh, Ananthapuramu, from his official residence here, the vice president noted how higher education can be a great economic catalyst for the community, bring development to a region and even spur growth of the country. Noting the positive externalities of higher education, Naidu called for pushing towards more "internationalisation" of the Indian universities. He gave the instance of top global universities which attract international talent every year and have been thriving as centres of excellence, delivering economic benefits to the host nation. In order to achieve internationalisation of the universities, Naidu stressed the need to promote diversity among faculty and students as also to collaborate proactively with reputed global universities. He suggested encouraging Indian universities to open global campuses, which will also improve the brand value of Indian education. Naidu also wanted universities to engage and work with local communities, utilising their area of expertise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exclusion-of-students-from-weaker-sections-can-create-digital-divide-vp-naidu-1023828.html
26-08-2021||National||Give shelter only to Hindu and Sikh refugees from Afghanistan: Togadia urges Centre||Antarrashtriya Hindu Parishad chief Pravin Togadia on Thursday urged the central government not to give shelter to any Muslim national from Afghanistan, but said it should open the borders for the Hindu and Sikh refugees from that country. Speaking to reporters on his arrival at the airport here ahead of his three-day visit to Nagpur-Wardha region, he claimed that India is facing the biggest threat as it is a "centre of Taliban ideology", and asked the government to put restrictions on three Islamic organisations to prevent "Talibanisation" of the country's future. "India should not open its borders for the Muslim nationals from Afghanistan. India should give shelter to all Hindu and Sikhs from that country," he said. "Taliban is an ideology and the centre of this ideology is in India...The government should put restrictions on Darul Uloom Deoband, Tablighi Jamaat and Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind. These are the centres of Taliban ideology. India is now facing the danger of terrorism and the country should work together to tackle this. The government should restrict these three outfits to avoid Talibanisation of India's future," he added. To a query on Ram temple in Ayodhya, Togadia praised former Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) chief Ashok Singhal, Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, saying that these late leaders were "three heroes of independent India".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/give-shelter-only-to-hindu-and-sikh-refugees-from-afghanistan-togadia-urges-centre-1023833.html
26-08-2021||National||RBI appoints Ajay Kumar as Executive Director||The Reserve Bank of India on Thursday said Ajay Kumar has been appointed as Executive Director (ED), who will look after the departments of currency management, foreign exchange, and premises. Before being promoted as ED, he was heading the New Delhi Regional Office of the RBI as Regional Director. For three decades, Kumar has served in foreign exchange, banking supervision, financial inclusion, currency management, and other areas in the Reserve Bank. As Executive Director, he will look after the Department of Currency Management, Foreign Exchange Department, and Premises Department, the RBI said in a statement. Kumar holds Masters in Economics from Patna University, an MS in Banking from ICFAI, and a Certified Bank Manager from the Institute of Bank Management and Research, Hyderabad. He has undertaken Executive Management Programme from Kellogg School of Management, Chicago, and holds other professional qualifications, including Certified Associate of Indian Institute of Banking and Finance (CAIIB).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-appoints-ajay-kumar-as-executive-director-1023841.html
26-08-2021||National||SC orders for setting up special CBI courts to expedite cases||The Supreme Court has directed for setting up special CBI courts, where over 100 cases were pending, to ensure easy accessibility to the witnesses and de-congestion of existing setups. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Surya Kant ordered the central as well as state governments to provide necessary infrastructural facilities to the High Courts for the purposes of establishment of additional CBI special courts. "There is an urgent need of rationalising the establishment of special CBI courts, as it may not be humanly possible for one or two courts in a state to expedite all the trials or take up the same on a day-to¬day basis in terms of Section 309 of the CrPC. The special CBI courts need to be set up in different parts of the state where more than 100 cases are pending," the bench said.   The top court passed this direction in a written order in a PIL filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for expediting the criminal cases filed against sitting and former MPs and MLAs. The bench said since the Chief Justices of the High Courts have been asked to constitute a special division bench to monitor the pending cases against lawmakers, each High Court should take necessary steps to expedite the trials and conclude those within the time frame. A report filed by amicus curiae senior advocate Vijay Hansaria stated there are 121 cases pending trial before different CBI courts involving sitting MPs and ex-MPs and 112 cases involving sitting MLAs and ex-MLAs. As many as 37 cases are still at the investigation stage, the oldest being registered on October 24, 2013.  "The details of cases pending trial unveil that there are several cases in which the charge sheet was filed as far back as the year 2000, but are still pending either for appearance of accused, framing of charges or prosecution evidence. Without going into minute details, we are deeply concerned with the current state of affairs with respect to these cases," the bench said in its order. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta assured the court that he will take up the matter with the Director, CBI, for providing adequate manpower and infrastructure to the agency so that pending investigations can be completed at the earliest. He also promised to take up the matter with NIA chief on similar issues of delay in investigation of cases and requirment of manpower and infrastructure. The court asked Mehta to respond to a suggestion by the amicus curiae particularly with respect to the constitution of a monitoring committee headed by a former judge of the top court or chief justice of a High Court, to evaluate the reasons for delay in investigations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-orders-for-setting-up-special-cbi-courts-to-expedite-cases-1023845.html
26-08-2021||National||New voters to get personalised letter from EC along with voter I card||The Election Commission on Thursday unveiled a new initiative to reach out to new voters by sending them a personalised letter along with their voter identity card. Chief Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar launched the initiative. The new voters will get a personalised letter from the Commission when they are sent their voter identity cards. The package would include a voter guide for new voters along with a congratulatory letter and a pledge for ethical voting, the Commission said in a statement. The initiative was launched during a two-day SVEEP (Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation) consultation workshop. The agenda of the workshop was to review state SVEEP plans and conduct extensive deliberations on the important aspects of SVEEP for a comprehensive strategy for the forthcoming assembly elections. Addressing the participants, Chandra observed that each voter interacts with the election machinery at two critical stages -- enrollment and polling day. He stressed that the field teams should ensure that the enrolment process is seamless and polling experience remains pleasant and hassle free for the voters. He said it is imperative that we evaluate our strategy and current interventions at regular intervals, identify critical gaps and address the challenges to devise deliverable action points. The CEC emphasised that implementation of the strategy at the ground level is important. Election Commissioner Kumar said the need for communication is self evident in today's world. He highlighted the role of social media and the new mediums of communication in outreach efforts. He felt partnering with district level local icons will help strengthen our messaging with our voters. Election Commissioner Anup Chandra Pandey, while interacting with the teams on the previous day, highlighted the importance of synergy between the use of social media and traditional forms of communication in the SVEEP strategy. Pandey said that the state teams should further conduct similar workshops and deliberations with district electoral officers and their teams in respective states. The two-day consultation workshop was attended by chief electoral officers and SVEEP nodal officers from Goa, Punjab, Manipur, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand which are ging to polls early next year. To broaden the idea and knowledge exchange, senior officers from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting were also invited for the workshop. Systematic Voters' Education and Electoral Participation programme is the flagship programme of the Election Commission for voter education and awareness, spreading voter awareness and promoting voter literacy in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-voters-to-get-personalised-letter-from-ec-along-with-voter-i-card-1023847.html
26-08-2021||National||Centre considering reduction of gap between two doses of Covishield||Reducing the gap between two doses of Covishield is being considered and it will be discussed in the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation in India (NTAGI), official sources said on Thursday. Chairman of India's Covid-19 Working Group of NTAGI, Dr N K Arora, however, said no such proposal for changing the dose interval for any Covid-19 vaccine is under consideration. "There are several studies and programmatic data collection processes are on to assess the vaccine effectiveness. NTAGI is reviewing the vaccine effectiveness data on a regular basis. Currently there is no proposal for change in the dose interval for Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V is under consideration," Arora said. The government in May had further extended the gap between the two doses of Covishield from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks and said the decision to increase the gap was based on scientific evidence. Based on emerging data, India would revisit the dosage interval for Covishield vaccine and take appropriate action, Arora had earlier said. On the decision to increase the gap between two doses of Covishield from four-six weeks to 12-16 weeks, he had said the move was based on scientific decision and there was no dissenting voice among members of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-considering-reduction-of-gap-between-two-doses-of-covishield-1023862.html
26-08-2021||National||Former CBI director U S Mishra no more||Former CBI director U S Mishra passed away at a private hospital here on Thursday, officials said. The CBI, in a statement, condoled the death of Mishra. "The officers and all ranks of Central Bureau of Investigation deeply mourn the sad demise of Shri U S Misra, former Director, CBI and pray to the Almighty to provide the family strength, succour & fortitude to bear with this tragedy," agency spokesperson R C Joshi said in the statement. Mishra took over reins of the agency as its 21st chief on December 6, 2003 during the NDA government under Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and completed his two-year tenure on December 6, 2005 under the UPA dispensation led by Manmohan Singh. A 1968-batch IPS officer from Odisha cadre, Mishra held important positions in the State Police as well as in the Government of India.  "He worked in various capacity including SP, DIG & Special Director in CBI and went on to become Chief of the Organisation," Joshi said. He was a highly decorated officer with true professional acumen, he said.  Mishra was also elected as the Vice President of Interpol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-cbi-director-u-s-mishra-no-more-1023876.html
26-08-2021||National||President Kovind hopes India will be discrimination-free by 2047||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday said he hoped that India would be free of discrimination and a developed nation by 2047 when it celebrates the centenary of independence. While speaking at the ninth convocation of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU) here, the President asked youths to become job creators and not job seekers. "Today half of the country's population is below 25 years of age. When in 2047, we celebrate centenary of independence, you youths will be leading the country," he said. "I hope by 2047, India is discrimination free and a developed country by efforts of your (present) generation In future India, we must have imbibed justice, equality and brotherhood in our personal and social life," he added. He asked youths to start working with "full determination" for making India "samtamulak" (egalitarian) and strong. Quoting Babasaheb Ambedkar, Kovind said if an educated person does not come forward for welfare of the society then education has no meaning. Now "our daughters are giving more fame to the country than our sons", he said. The President praised the BBAU for making a special contribution for the inclusive development of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes through education in accordance with the vision of Ambedkar. "The special provision of reservation of 50 percent seats in admissions and other facilities for students of SC and ST has given them opportunities of higher education," he said. The President also said that changes were taking place all over the world in almost all aspects of life at a fast pace. "In such times, students have to make their place in today's dynamic global scenario remaining alert and aware. They also have to contribute in building a better society and the country," he said. In Babasaheb's books, articles and speeches, students would find guidance and inspiring references helpful for them in their career and nation building, Kovind said. Stressing that India has a good start-up ecosystem today and is ranked third in the world on the basis of the total number of unicorns, the President said: “Had Babasaheb been alive today, he would have been very happy to see this”. "Babasaheb was in favour of hard work and self-employment. Most unicorns are set up by youngsters and the youth power is the biggest strength of our country. Students here should take inspiration from these young entrepreneurs and instead of being a job-seeker, think about becoming a job-creator," he added. Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath were also present on the occasion. On the occasion 1,424 students were given graduation, post graduation, PhD and MPhil degrees and gold medals were awarded to six of them. Earlier, the President laid foundation stone of Savitri Bai Phule hostel at the university.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-hopes-india-will-be-discrimination-free-by-2047-1023887.html
26-08-2021||National||FIITJEE announces scholarship to help students who lost parents due to Covid-19||FIITJEE has announced a new scholarship to help students, who had lost their only earning member of the family due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The institution has come up with the benefits of fee waiver/Covid scholarship to the students who have lost either one or both the parents due to the pandemic, said a statement. The new policy states that the already enrolled students who have lost one parent (the only earning member), but the other parent being still alive, will be given up to 100% fee waiver on all future payments of tuition fees, study material fees and test series fees, the statement said. The institution also said that the scheme will also benefit the new enrolments as the students who have lost both parents due to Covid-19 after March 2020 will be offered up to 100% fee waiver on all tuition fees, study material fees and test series fees. The policy is in length and includes all the possible conditions in which students may have been affected by the pandemic, said the statement. For more information on the Covid Policy, please reach out to your nearest FIITJEE Centre or visit the link www.fiitjee.com/Covidsupport.htm, the statement added. Even during the Covid-19 pandemic, the institute did not take a step back but walked extra miles to give students a seamless online learning experience through its effective & powerful online classes, the statement added. The institution has remained socially responsible and has been voluntarily undertaking various corporate social responsibility initiatives. The new scheme was announced to ensure that no student compromises with his/her ultimate academic goal due to the adverse circumstances in their personal lives, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fiitjee-announces-scholarship-to-help-students-who-lost-parents-due-to-covid-19-1023892.html
26-08-2021||National||Opposition question Modi's absence at all party meet, ask government to be proactive on Afghanistan||Opposition leaders on Thursday backed the Modi government's 'wait and watch' approach on the situation unfolding in Afghanistan, but wanted it to be “proactive” in engaging with other countries in responding to the crisis in the Taliban-controlled nation. At an all-party meeting convened by the government to brief floor leaders in Parliament on Afghanistan, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge questioned the absence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, contending that the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was present at similar briefings in 2001 when the US had attacked Afghanistan. Kharge also objected to the deportation of a woman lawmaker from Afghanistan to Turkey, an “error” regretted by External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, who assured the floor leaders of being “super conscious” in handling such matters in the future. A section of the opposition leaders claimed that India was “isolated” globally on the Afghanistan issue and despite its increasing dependence on the US, New Delhi was in the dark about the early pull out of troops by Washington from the strife-torn nation. Jaishankar rejected the opposition contention, saying India has been coordinating with its international partners bilaterally as well as through multilateral forums on the response to the Afghanistan situation. RSP member N K Premachandran cautioned the government over China riding piggyback on Pakistan and interfering in Afghanistan. P Natarajan (CPI-M), Binoy Viswam (CPI) and Sukhendu Shekhar Ray (Trinamool) sought to know the fate of nearly 500 India-funded projects, including the Parliament building, in Afghanistan. Almost all leaders, including Tiruchi Siva (DMK), Gajanan Kirtikar (Shiv Sena), were concerned about Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan and urged the government to accord top priority for their evacuation. Hasnain Masoodi (National Conference) said the Modi government's decision to scrap the special status of J&K and downgrade the state to a Union Territory had created a “fertile ground” for extremist forces to take root in the region. “I asked the government to reverse the August 5, 2019 decision,” Masoodi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-question-modis-absence-at-all-party-meet-ask-government-to-be-proactive-on-afghanistan-1023899.html
26-08-2021||National||Half of target population gets at least one Covid-19 vaccine dose||At 9:30 pm, the Co-WIN portal on vaccination showed 47,27,27,193 people receiving the first dose of the vaccine, which was 3,72,395 persons more than the 50% target. The halfway mark was reached seven and half months after the vaccination campaign began. "India achieves unprecedented milestone! 50% of the eligible population inoculated with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine," tweeted Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. Nearly 99% of healthcare workers and 100% of frontline workers received the first dose, added Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. The worrying point, however, is the 3.5 times gap between those receiving the first dose and those getting both with new scientific evidence increasingly demonstrating the inadequacy of a single dose to impart protection against the Delta variant, which is the dominant strain in India. A large hospital-based study in Delhi has recently found that a single dose of Covishield barely offers any protection from Covid-19 symptoms or severe disease, but having both doses offers good protection against the virus. This, however, contradicts previous research that found even a single dose can offer significant protection. “Recent publications on the vaccine effectiveness study from India have shown that the risk reduction is associated with being fully vaccinated,” said Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute of Global Health, here, who is not associated with any of the two studies. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/half-of-target-population-gets-at-least-one-covid-19-vaccine-dose-1023903.html
26-08-2021||National||Two Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists held in J&K's Kishtwar||Two terrorists belonging to the Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) were arrested in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district on Thursday, officials said. The arrests were made based on reliable information received at Chatroo police station that two youths -- Ashfaq qayoom Tak of Passerkot and Tousif Giri of Pochhal -- were in close contact of the terrorists of the proscribed outfit HM from Anantnag in Kashmir, they said. The two were providing information with regard to the security forces to the terrorists and were conspiring to carry out terror acts in areas falling under the Chatroo police station, they added. On the basis of the information, a case was registered at Chatroo police station. Subsequently, a search operation was launched in the forest area of Naidgam, Chatroo, and both the terrorists were arrested, they said. On their disclosure, a hideout was busted in the forest area of Pingnal in Chatroo and arms and ammunition were recovered. The recovered arms include one 9 mm pistol with magazine and 20 rounds, one grenade, one AK 47 magazine, two wireless sets and letter pad of HM outfit division of Doda, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-hizbul-mujahideen-terrorists-held-in-jks-kishtwar-1023908.html
26-08-2021||National||Focus on suppressing Covid-19 transmission: Centre to Kerala, Maharashtra||With Kerala witnessing a fresh spike in Covid-19 cases, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on Thursday asked the state government to impose night curfew in areas of high positivity and curb mass gatherings during the festive season. Bhalla reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Kerala and Maharashtra – the two states that continue to report high numbers of Covid-19 cases at a time when the pandemic appeared to have ebbed in other parts of the country. The Home Secretary, during a virtual meeting with top officers from the two states, asked them to make more efforts to arrest the increase in infections. Of the 46,164 fresh coronavirus cases recorded in the country on Thursday morning, 31,445 were in Kerala and 5,031 in Maharashtra. Bhalla suggested stepping up contact tracing, vaccination drives and Covid appropriate behavior in geographical areas having higher infection. He also suggested that the state governments should explore the possibility of placing night curfew in areas of high positivity. Bhalla assured the states that the Centre was ready to provide more vaccine doses to the states, if required. However, efforts must be made to consume the vaccine doses received. Bhalla advised that events with potential of having mass gatherings during the coming festive season must be avoided and testing must be ramped up in areas where positivity rates were on the higher side. “Focus should also be placed over the next few months to suppress the levels of transmission of the virus so that the chain of transmission can be controlled more effectively,” a Home Ministry spokesperson said. Besides Bhalla, V K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, Sujeet Singh, Director, National Centre for Communicable Disease and Chief Secretaries and Directors General of Police of Kerala and Maharashtra attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-on-suppressing-covid-19-transmission-centre-to-kerala-maharashtra-1023909.html
26-08-2021||National||India sends ships to participate in 4-nation Malabar-21 drill with Japan, Australia and US||India is participating in a naval exercise with the United States, Japan and Australia in the Western Pacific Ocean from Thursday to Sunday – the second such drill after the four democratic nations last year added a military heft to the Quad, a coalition they forged to contain communist China. The Indian Navy warships – INS Shivalik and INS Kadmatt – and P8I patrol aircraft are participating in the Malabar 2021 exercise, which the US Navy is hosting off the coast of Guam in the Western Pacific Ocean. The annual Malabar Naval Exercise started as a bilateral drill by Indian Navy and the US Navy in 1992. It turned into an India-US-Japan trilateral drill in 2015, when the Japan Maritime Self Defence Force first participated in it. The Royal Australian Navy joined it last year, turning it into a four-nation naval drill. The Malabar-21 from Thursday to Sunday will witness complex exercises, including anti-surface, anti-air and anti-submarine warfare drill as well as other manoeuvres and tactical exercises. “The exercise will provide an opportunity for participating navies to derive benefit from each other’s expertise and experiences,” the Ministry of Defence stated in New Delhi on Saturday. The first four-nation Malabar Naval Exercise took place in the Bay of Bengal and northern Arabian Sea last year after New Delhi, Canberra, Tokyo and Washington D.C. decided to add a military dimension to the Quad to counter growing belligerence of China – not only along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India in eastern Ladakh, but also in the South China Sea, East China Sea, Taiwan Strait and elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific region. The Indian Navy warships are led by Rear Admiral Tarun Sobti, Flag Officer Commanding of the Eastern Fleet. The US Navy will be represented by USS Barry, USNS Rappahannock, USNS Big Horn and P8A patrol aircraft. The Japanese Maritime Self Defence Force will be represented by JS Kaga, Murasame and Shiranui, in addition to a submarine and P1 patrol aircraft. The Royal Australian Navy will be represented by HMAS Warramunga, the Indian Navy stated. "The conduct of the exercise while observing health protocols during the Covid-19 global pandemic is a testimony to the synergy between the participating navies and our shared vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region," the Indian Navy stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sends-ships-to-participate-in-4-nation-malabar-21-drill-with-japan-australia-and-us-1023915.html
26-08-2021||National||Kabul suicide bombings: Those at Gurdwara Karte Parwan safe, claims DSGMC chief||Members of minority communities who have taken refuge in Kabul's Karte Parwan gurudwara are "safe", DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa claimed on Thursday following two suicide bombings outside the airport there. Many Hindus and Sikhs took refuge at the Karte Parwan gurdwara after Afghanistan fell into the hands of the Taliban, the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) chief had said on Monday. "All the minorities who have taken refuge in Gurdwara Karte Parwan are safe #Kabulairport #KabulBlast," Sirsa tweeted. Two suicide bombers and gunmen targeted crowds massing near the Kabul airport on Thursday, killing at least 13 people, according to reports. Sirsa, who had a telephonic conversation with the president of the Kabul Gurudwara Committee on Thursday, said he has been apprised about the situation. "I just had a phone call conversation with S Gurnam Singh, president of Kabul Gurdwara committee who apprised me that today’s #Kabulairport explosion has happened at exactly same place where they were standing yesterday. We thank almighty that such thing didn't happen yesterday," he said in another tweet. The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities including Kabul in the backdrop of the withdrawal of the US forces.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kabul-suicide-bombings-those-at-gurdwara-karte-parwan-safe-claims-dsgmc-chief-1023919.html
26-08-2021||National||Health Minister assured to give 5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine daily from Sept onwards: Karnataka CM||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Thursday said Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya promised to supply 5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine daily to the state from next month onwards. "I informed the Union Minister that the state has planned 5 lakh vaccinations a day from next month. And the Minister has assured support to meet the demand of the programme," Bommai told reporters after meeting the Health Minister. Mandaviya informed that the Centre will give more doses of vaccines from September-October onwards to all states, including Karnataka, he said, adding that the state will start preparing for the programme immediately. Earlier, the Centre had provided 3.5 lakh doses of vaccine a day. Last week, it was increased to 4-4.5 lakh doses a day. "Wednesday, we touched 5 lakh doses a day. In future, we plan 5 lakh doses daily," the CM said.   In the meeting, Bommai also updated the Union Minister on measures taken to control spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, the CM said. During his meeting with Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, new education policy proposals were discussed. The Union Minister agreed to officially launch the new education policy in the state. He said after full preparations, he will invite the Union Minister for the launch of primary and secondary level of education as per the new policy. Bommai further said he discussed state textile and industries related issues with Union Commerce and Textile Minister Piyush Goyal, who has assured full support to the state. "There is a plan for a mega textile programme. The Minister has asked us to send a proposal," he said. Bommai also called on BJP National General Secretary and in-charge of Karnataka affairs Arun Singh and discussed party-related issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-assured-to-give-5-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-daily-from-sept-onwards-karnataka-cm-1023922.html
26-08-2021||National Politics||Kerala government's carelessness behind rise in Covid-19 cases: Union Minister V Muraleedharan||The "carelessness" of the Kerala government, which is more focused on celebrating the anniversary of the Moplah riots, was the reason for the steep rise in Covid-19 cases and test positivity rate in the state, Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan said on Thursday. The southern state had on Wednesday logged 31,445 fresh coronavirus infections and the toll mounted to 19,972 with 215 new deaths and the TPR rose to 19.03 per cent. Kerala had reported more than 30,000 cases after a gap of three months. The last time it had crossed this mark was on May 20, in the midst of the second wave, when it recorded 30,491 cases. Addressing the media in New Delhi, the minister said the high number of fresh cases, rising test positivity rate (TPR) which was close to 20 per cent and the number of fatalities in Kerala, together indicate that the state was going through a very bad phase of the pandemic. "Carelessness of the state government was the reason for this," he said and added that the Left government was "more focused on celebrating the anniversary of the Moplah riots". "That is not the priority. Dealing with Covid-19 should be the priority," he said. A similar view was also expressed by Congress MLA Ramesh Chennithala who said the state government has failed to prevent spread of Covid-19 in the state and demanded that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan apologise to the people. He also said that the "carelessness" of the state was the reason behind the rise in Covid-19 cases in Kerala. The Congress MLA said that presently the state was accounting for around 70 per cent of the daily national total of fresh infections. At his press meet at New Delhi, Muraleedharan said even the central team which visited the southern state recently has pointed out shortcomings in the Covid prevention measures in Kerala. He alleged the Kerala government's home quarantine policy has failed to curb spread of the virus and as a result the hospital infrastructure was being burdened and normal beds were slowly running out. He further said that the chief minister who earlier used to regularly hold Covid press meets in the evening, was no longer doing so and he was "nowhere to be seen". He said that the state's claims of shortage of vaccines in the past have all been lies and its vaccination measures have also been found wanting as only 84 per cent of its health workers have received both doses of the vaccine till date when other states have achieved better results. Muraleedharan questioned whether the state had any data with regard to the expected increase in Covid-19 cases and TPR due to the relaxations granted during the recent Onam celebrations when crowds were seen in marketplaces across Kerala. He said that the state needs to take stringent steps to prevent further spread of Covid-19 in Kerala. After the Onam festivities, medical experts had predicted that the TPR would go beyond 20 per cent and the number of infections would rise further. Since July 27, after the Bakrid celebrations when restrictions were relaxed for a few days, Kerala has been logging more than or close to 20,000 cases almost every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-governments-carelessness-behind-rise-in-covid-19-cases-union-minister-v-muraleedharan-1023694.html
26-08-2021||National Politics||Explained | How far the rivalry between Narayan Rane and Uddhav Thackeray goes back||Union Minister Narayan Rane said that he would have slapped Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for "not knowing the year of India's Independence." In response to this the Shiv Sena has filed FIRs against Rane, meanwhile the Union Minister was even granted bail by a magistrate court on Tuesday. Rane is one of the four ministers from Modi's newly expanded Union Cabinet, who has been asked to hold a Jan Ashirwad Yatra in various regions of the state of Maharashtra which commenced from August 16. In a meeting at Mahad city in Raigad, Narayan Rane said, “It is shameful that the chief minister does not know the year of independence. He leaned back to enquire about the count of years of independence during his speech. Had I been there, I would have given (him) a tight slap.” This prompted a response from Shiv Sena, where they filed 3 FIRs against Rane for a 'personal attack' However, this animosity between Rane and Thackeray goes long back. Narayan Rane began his political career with Shiv Sena, and in 1999 became the first Maharashtra CM of the BJP-Sena led government for eight months. In 2003, the Shiv Sena announced Uddhav Thackeray as party’s “executive president” and Rane went ahead to challenge that. However, in 2005, he was expelled from the party for "anti-party activities." Soon after Rane moved to the Congress and even attempted to take some legislators in an attempt to split the Shiv Sena. But that did not work. In 2017, he quit the Congress, after claiming that he was offered the Chief Minister's post.He wnt and formed his own party, Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksh. This party was later merged with the BJP in 2019, and Rane was elected to the Narayan Rane. Rane has taken attacks on the Thackeray family including Uddhav's wife and son but has not attacked the family patriarch Balasaheb Thackeray. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/explained-how-far-the-rivalry-between-narayan-rane-and-uddhav-thackeray-goes-back-1023769.html
26-08-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut defends Maharashtra CM Uddhav's old 'slap Yogi with slipper' remark||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday claimed that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray made his now-controversial comment about Yogi Adityanath because the latter garlanded a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj while wearing footwear. "The remarks were made a couple of years ago because Yogi Adityanath garlanded the warrior king (at a function) while wearing footwear. It is not in line with Maharashtra's culture," Raut told reporters here when asked about Rane's allegation. "If the BJP feels it is okay to insult the legendary ruler....Is it okay?" he asked. "Was the BJP sleeping all these years? Don't they know how to respect people?" the Rajya Sabha member added. On Rane's statement that the BJP-led Union government will not allow Maharashtra to "become West Bengal," Raut asked who was Rane to say so. "A Union minister is not the Centre. If there is any communication to be had, we will have it with the PM," he said. BJP leader Rane was arrested on Tuesday from Maharashtra's Ratnagiri district following his remark that he would have slapped Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. His comments had set off protests by Shiv Sena workers. Subsequently, BJP leaders sought registration of a First Information Report (FIR) against chief minister Thackeray over his past remark about Adityanath.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-defends-maharashtra-cm-uddhavs-old-slap-yogi-with-slipper-remark-1023804.html
26-08-2021||National Politics||Will there be a change of guard in Chhattisgarh? Congress firefights power tussle between Baghel, Deo||A day after firefighting internal turmoil in the Punjab Congress, the party high command is now faced with resolving a serious crisis in another party-ruled state, Chhattisgarh. CM Bhuphesh Baghel is likely to meet Gandhis on Friday for the second time within three days as the party high command, after firefighting internal turmoil in Punjab, focussed its attention resolving the serious crisis in another party-ruled state, Chhattisgarh. While Baghel goes for a show of strength, a sulking T S Singh Deo has dug the heels amid indications that the party high command is keen to see its commitment of rotational Chief Ministership being fulfilled. While there has been no public announcement of the rotational Chief Ministership formulae, party insiders say such a promise was indeed made in 2018 when the AICC leadership was discussing making one of the three Chattisgarh leaders — Bhupesh Bhagel, T S Singh Deo and Tamradhwaj Sahu — as Chief Minister. While Sahu was a front runner initially, Baghel and Singh Deo had come together to stake the claim on the chair. Rotational Chief Minister was an idea floated then. In June, the Baghel government completed two and half years and it has since come under increasing pressure from Singh Deo. On Tuesday, Rahul Gandhi had a three-hour-long meeting with Baghel and Singh Deo to resolve the power tussle. Baghel is a powerful OBC leader and is now a key voice in the party, and one the high command is not keen on antagonising as Chhattisgarh is one of the only three party-ruled states after Punjab and Rajasthan. In Punjab, which goes to polls eight months from now, the party's efforts to resolve the tussle between Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu came a cropper this week with the Sidhu camp openly coming out against the CM and seeking his ouster. A rattled Congress later had to declare that Captain is the leader in Punjab, but making Sidhu PCC chief did not mean the party was handed over to him. In Rajasthan as well, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has so far had an upper hand in the running feud with former Deputy Chief Minister and former PCC chief Sachin Pilot. Divisions run deep in both states. Chhattisgarh, too, seems to be going the same way. "I have said in the past that when the high command orders, I will quit the post. No one should doubt it. Those who are talking about two and a half years, they are trying to bring political instability and they will never succeed," Baghel had said on Wednesday after arriving at the airport in Raipur, where he was welcomed to a large cheering crowd with supporting MLAs — which was seen as a show of strength by the Chief Minister in wake of the visible power tussle in the state. State Food Minister Amarjeet Bhagat tweeted, “Those who want to destabilise the government should understand that this is the government of farmers, tribals and common people." The BJP seized the opportunity to take a dig at this power tussle.   "Honourable Chief Minister (Chhattisgarh Congress), the post of 'Chief Minister' is not of an individual but it is an institution. Who is trying to destabilise the government of three-fourths majority. 'Delhi Darbar' or someone else..? You should clarify.” “Your (CM's) statement will affect the development of Chhattisgarh,” BJP MLA Ajay Chandrakar tweeted on Thursday. Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Dharamlal Kaushik said, "the CM said that discussions were held about development (during meetings with senior leaders in Delhi), it seems the fight for the chair is not over yet. It is just the beginning, this fight is going to be long”. Officially, the Congress has been downplaying the row. AICC in-charge Chhattisgarh P L Punia, who had earlier dismissed the talk of rotational Chief Ministership, on Tuesday, after Rahul Gandhi's meetings with Baghel and Singh Deo, said they discussed development issues and not leadership change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-there-be-a-change-of-guard-in-chhattisgarh-congress-firefights-power-tussle-between-baghel-deo-1023856.html
26-08-2021||National Politics||If we keep fighting among ourselves how will we fight RSS, BJP?: Khurshid to Congress leaders||Congress leaders should first fight the RSS and the BJP, and then sort out the their differences, senior party leader Salman Khurshid said on Thursday. His remarks come amid a demand in the party by a section of senior leaders for organisational overhaul. There is much debate about the issue of president in the Congress, Khurshid said and added that "when the time comes, we will tell who our (next) president is". "Currently, Sonia Gandhi is our president and if there is any change, it will be told to you," he said while addressing an event of the legal department of the Delhi Congress. Khurshid said that the party has to fight the RSS and the BJP. "If we keep on fighting among ourselves how will we fight the RSS and the BJP. Let us first fight the RSS and the BJP and then we will sort out ourselves whatever is to be done," he said. Senior party leader Kapil Sibal recently hit out at Rahul Gandhi on Monday over his reported remarks that leaders who have written to Sonia Gandhi for organisational overhaul were "colluding with the BJP", and said he has never made a statement in favour of the saffron party on any issue in the last 30 years. Sibal is among the 23 party leaders who have written to Sonia Gandhi seeking a "full-time" leadership that is active in the field and "visible" in party offices, devolution of powers to state units and revamping the Congress Working Committee (CWC) in line with the party constitution, among other changes. Khurshid termed Rahul Gandhi as a "daring" leader and a very crucial "capital" of the party. Referring to the BJP's attack on the Congress over leadership issues, he said, "You should be happy if you think that we do not have a president and because of it you are marching ahead fast. Why should you be bothered?" "Rahul Gandhi is a very crucial capital (sarmaya) of the party. You all will have a role in deciding how he is presented before the nation in the future," he said addressing the gathering of party leaders and members. Despite losing to the BJP twice in elections, Rahul Gandhi is still a leader second to none, Khurshid added. The event was attended by several Congress leaders including Delhi unit president Anil Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/if-we-keep-fighting-among-ourselves-how-will-we-fight-rss-bjp-khurshid-to-congress-leaders-1023858.html
26-08-2021||North and Central||Centre eases rules of using drones, slashes fees, number of approvals||Government on Thursday unveiled new rules that provide for ease of using drones in India by abolishing certain approvals required, bringing down the number of forms from 25 to five and reducing entry barriers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that it will open up "new possibilities" for innovation and business in the country. The Drone Rules 2021, notified in the Gazette, also eased the formalities in use of drones for research and development by abolishing certain approvals required for research and educational institutions, start-ups recognised by Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) and drone manufacturers. 'Drone corridors' for goods delivery and an Unmanned Aircraft Systems Promotion Council to to promote development of technology and business are also envisaged in the new rules, which replaces Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2021 notified in March this year. The coverage of drones under the new rules has been increased from 300 kg to 500 kg to include heavy payload-carrying drones and drone taxis. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the new rules usher in a landmark moment for this sector in India, as it will "open up new possibilities for innovation and business" and "help leverage  India’s strengths" in innovation, technology and engineering to make India a drone hub. "The rules are based on the premise of trust and self-certification. Approvals, compliance requirements and entry barriers have been significantly reduced. The new Drone Rules will tremendously help start-ups and our youth working in this sector," he tweeted.  The new Drone Rules will tremendously help start-ups and our youth working in this sector. It will open up new possibilities for innovation & business. It will help leverage India’s strengths in innovation, technology & engineering to make India a drone hub. The airspace for drone operations has been divided into green, yellow and red zones. Drones could be operated only with prior permission in yellow and red zones. No permission required for operating a drone in green zones and upto 200 feet in the area between 8 and 12 km from the airport perimeter. Yellow Zone has been reduced from 45 km to 12 km from the airport perimetre. The new rules have abolished the requirement of several approvals like the need for unique authorisation number, certificate of maintenance, import clearance, operator permit, student remote pilot licence and drone port authorisation. Types of fee have also been from 72 to four. The quantum of fee was reduced to nominal levels and delinked with size of drone -- for instance, the fee for a remote pilot license fee has been reduced from Rs 3000 (for large drone) to Rs 100 for all categories of drones and is valid for 10 years. The maximum penalty under the Drone Rules, 2021 has been reduced to Rs one lakh. However, it will not apply to penalties in respect of violation of other laws. While the Directorate General of Foreign Trade will regulate the import of drones, the new rules have done away with the permission from Directorate General of Civil Aviation for importing drones. All activities related to the management of drones will be through the 'Digital Sky Platform' developed and hosted by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) as a business-friendly single-window online system. The rules said the Centre would in the next two months publish a policy framework in respect of the Unmanned Aircraft System Traffic Management System on the digital sky platform. It is aimed at facilitating automated permissions as required under these rules and include the framework for developing corridors for safe and seamless transfer of goods by drones and provide clarity on the roles, powers and responsibilities of the state governments and Union Territory administrations. No pilot licence will be required for micro drones (for non-commercial use), nano drones and for research and development organisations. The rules also have abolished the requirement of several approvals like the need for unique authorisation number, certificate of maintenance, import permission, operator permit, student remote pilot licence and drone port authorisation.       Here are the key takeaways from Drone Rules, 2021: * Approvals for the following have been abolished: unique authorisation number, unique prototype identification number, certificate of conformance, certificate of maintenance, operator permit, authorisation of R&D organisation, student remote pilot licence, remote pilot instructor authorisation, drone port authorisation, import permission for drone components. * Coverage of drones have been increased from 300 kg to 500 kg to include heavy payload-carrying drones and drone taxis. * Number of forms/permissions have been reduced from 25 to five. *No security clearance will be required before any registration or licence issuance. * Fees for permissions have been reduced to nominal levels. * Maximum penalty under Drone Rules, 2021 has been reduced to Rs 1 lakh. This shall, however, not apply to penalties in respect of violation of other laws. * Interactive airspace map with green, yellow, and red zones will be displayed on the digital sky platform. * Yellow zone has been reduced from 45 km to 12 km from the airport perimeter. * No permission will be required for operating a drone in green zones and upto 200 feet in the area between 8 and 12 km from the airport perimeter. * Online registration of all drones shall happen through the Digital Sky Platform. * Easy process has been prescribed for transfer and deregistration of drones. * No pilot licence will be required for operating nano drones and micro drones for non-commercial use. * Safety features like ‘No permission – no take-off’ (NPNT), real-time tracking beacon, geo-fencing etc will be notified in future. A minimum six-month lead time will be provided for compliance. * All drone training and examination will be carried out by an authorised drone school. The DGCA shall prescribe training requirements, oversee drone schools and provide pilot licences online.  * Type Certification of drones has been delegated to the Quality Council of India and certification entities authorised by it.  * There will be no requirement of type certificate, unique identification number, prior permission and remote pilot licence for R&D entities. * Import of drones will be regulated by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade. * Drone corridors will be developed for cargo deliveries. * Unmanned Aircraft Systems Promotion Council will be set up to facilitate a business-friendly regulatory regime||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-eases-rules-of-using-drones-slashes-fees-number-of-approvals-1023682.html
26-08-2021||North and Central||Resettle Sikhs, Hindus from Afghanistan in Uttar Pradesh: Minister writes to Amit Shah||Uttar Pradesh minister Baldev Singh Aulakh has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah urging him to resettle Hindus and Sikhs displaced from Afghanistan in Rampur district of the state. "Hindu and Sikh families displaced from Afghanistan are being brought to India by the government. I sincerely request you to settle them in Rampur… there will be no inconvenience," Minister of State for Jal Shakti Aulakh said in his letter to Shah on Wednesday. "The residents of Bilaspur are ready to give land in Tehsil Bilaspur in Rampur district... Agricultural land will also be made available for the displaced Hindu and Sikh families," the minister, who is an MLA from Bilaspur, said. Hindus and Sikhs settled in Afghanistan have fled the country after its takeover by the Taliban. The government of India undertook a massive evacuation exercise to airlift Hindus, Sikhs and natives from the neighbouring country passing through a phase of volatile uncertainty for its people. India had on August 17 announced that it will issue an emergency e-visa to Afghan nationals who want to come to the country in view of the prevailing situation in Afghanistan. All Afghans, irrespective of their religion, can apply for the 'e-Emergency X-Misc Visa' online and the applications will be processed in New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/resettle-sikhs-hindus-from-afghanistan-in-uttar-pradesh-minister-writes-to-amit-shah-1023693.html
26-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi beats London, New York in surveillance with more CCTV cameras per square mile: Kejriwal||Citing a media report, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the national capital has surpassed megacities like New York, London and Shanghai in terms of most number of CCTV cameras installed per square mile and congratulated the officers and engineers concerned for achieving the milestone. "My compliments to our officers and engineers who worked in mission mode n achieved it in such a short time." Chennai secured third place with 609.9 CCTV cameras and Mumbai occupied the 18th position with 157.4 CCTV cameras per square mile, the Forbes India report said. In Delhi, CCTV cameras are being installed by the Public Works Department (PWD). The government is eyeing to install around 2.8 lakh CCTV cameras across the city in two phases. According to PWD officials, over 1,05,000 CCTV cameras were installed in the city by December 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-beats-london-new-york-in-surveillance-with-more-cctv-cameras-per-square-mile-kejriwal-1023719.html
26-08-2021||North and Central||Illegal conversion racket: Gujarat police reach Uttar Pradesh to arrest 2 accused||A team of Vadodara police from Gujarat has reached Uttar Pradesh to arrest two persons allegedly involved in diverting funds of a charitable trust for illegal religious conversions and to provide legal help to anti-CAA protestors and those arrested in Delhi communal riots, officials said on Thursday. Both the accused - Mohammad Umar Gautam and Salauddin Shaikh - are currently lodged in a Lucknow jail and the Vadodara police team has reached there with a production warrant issued by a local court, said a release from the Special Operations Group (SOG) of Vadodara police. Delhi resident Umar Gautam was held by the UP Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) in June on charges of fraudulently converting people to Islam. Shaikh was arrested by the UP ATS from Panigate area in Vadodara last month, after it was revealed that he had allegedly provided funds to Gautam and others to carry out illegal conversions. A parallel probe by Vadodara police had revealed that Shaikh, as the managing trustee of Afmi Charitable Trust in the Gujarat city, allegedly collected Rs 24.48 crore from different sources, including Dubai, to carry out activities which were in contravention to the purposes for which the trust was formed, the SOG said in the release. While the UP ATS was conducting a probe into the main case, the Vadodara police were also conducting an investigation from their side and registered an FIR on August 24 against Shaikh, Gautam and others. A five-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) was also formed by the Vadodara police to conduct further investigation into the matter. The Vadodara SOG on Tuesday registered the FIR against Shaikh, Gautam and others under Indian Penal Code Sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different communities), 465 (forgery) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy), the release said. It was revealed during the probe that Shaikh gave Rs 6 crore to Umar Gautam and others to carry out religious conversions and Rs 60 lakh as legal help to anti-CAA protestors and those arrested post the 2020 Delhi communal riots. Shaikh even diverted Rs 7.27 crore to his connections in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Assam to build over 100 mosques in those states, said the release, adding that police teams were also sent to those states to unearth the entire network.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/illegal-conversion-racket-gujarat-police-reach-uttar-pradesh-to-arrest-2-accused-1023727.html
26-08-2021||North and Central||Live telecast of Uttarakhand assembly proceedings disrupted deliberately, says Leader of Opposition||Leader of Opposition in the Uttarakhand Assembly Pritam Singh on Thursday alleged that live streaming of the House proceedings was deliberately disrupted frequently "as the government wants to hide its failures". The Assembly was adjourned during the Question Hour on Thursday when opposition members trooped into the well of the House protesting the state government's "failure" to build a medical college at Bhagwanpur in Haridwar district. "The first day of the Monsoon session dedicated to obituary references was telecast without any interruption. But live streaming and telecast of the proceedings have been either totally disrupted or frequently disrupted since then," Singh told reporters outside the Assembly.  "This is deliberate as the government wants to hide its failures. It does not want the facts to reach people or the media," he alleged.  The leader of the opposition in the Assembly said that it was strange that live streaming of the proceedings for the media in a tent on the precincts of the Vidhan Sabha was also interrupted every time there is trouble in the House.  "This is deliberate as the government does not want the truth to reach people," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/live-telecast-of-uttarakhand-assembly-proceedings-disrupted-deliberately-says-leader-of-opposition-1023744.html
26-08-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh to drop crop burning cases against farmers||Uttar Pradesh will drop legal proceedings against farmers accused of burning crop waste, a major source of pollution, as the Bharatiya Janata Party tries to placate growers ahead of elections next year to the state assembly. The action comes at a time when some states have stepped up punishments for crop residue burning to avert an expected spike in air pollution that brings smog every year during the low temperatures of winter. Uttar Pradesh is also considering waiving fines imposed on farmers, an influential voting bloc, for burning crop stubble. "The idea was not to punish farmers but to spread awareness about crop stubble burning and its effect on the environment," Navneet Sehgal, the top official in the state's information department, told Reuters. Shiv Kant Dixit, chief of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, or Indian Farmers' Federation affiliated to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's BJP, said it had urged the state to withdraw legal cases against farmers for crop residue burning. "About 10,000 farmers have been slapped with cases for stubble burning," Dixit said. The UP government is looking to mollify angry farmers ahead of the state assembly election, said Sudhir Panwar, the chief of a farmers' group, Kisan Jagriti Manch. For more than eight months, tens of thousands of farmers have camped on major highways to the capital, New Delhi to oppose new farm laws, in the longest-running growers' protest against Modi's government. The election in Uttar Pradesh, which sends 80 lawmakers, or more than any other state, to parliament in New Delhi, is often seen as a barometer of the popularity of the federal government. BJP is expected to pull out all the stops to hold on to the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-to-drop-crop-burning-cases-against-farmers-1023771.html
26-08-2021||North and Central||UP woman constable sent to lines for Instagram video with gun||A woman constable has been sent to lines for uploading her photograph with a firearm. Priyanka Mishra is a trainee constable and regularly posts her photographs on social media. Mishra, in the video on Instagram, is seen in full uniform with a revolver in her hand. In the audio that is playing along with the video, Haryana and Punjab are being compared with Uttar Pradesh on the issue of law and order. The constable is seen brandishing the firearm. Senior Superintendent of Police Muniraj G has also ordered a departmental probe into the incident. A senior police official in Lucknow said the police personnel in uniform must maintain dignity and decorum and the video is a clear violation of this. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-woman-constable-sent-to-lines-for-instagram-video-with-gun-1023780.html
26-08-2021||North and Central||UP minister Kapil Aggarwal surrenders in court, granted bail||Uttar Pradesh Minister Kapil Aggarwal, who is facing three criminal cases, on Thursday surrendered before a special court here and was granted bail. Aggarwal, the minister of state for vocational education and skill development, was booked in two cases of violation of prohibitory orders in New Mandi Police Station area and Kotwali Police Station area in 2016 and a case pertaining to disrupting rail services in 2012. However, charges were framed against the BJP MLA from Muzaffarnagar in one of the cases wherein he took out a roadshow in Kotwali Police Station area and violated prohibitory orders. Police had booked several BJP activists, including Aggarwal, under relevant sections of the law. Special judge Gopal Upadhyay granted bail to Aggarwal on furnishing two sureties of Rs 20,000 each and fixed September 8 as the next date for further hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-minister-kapil-aggarwal-surrenders-in-court-granted-bail-1023829.html
26-08-2021||Oasis||Self-help is the best help||For practically all our lives many of us have had the luxury of having some domestic help. The more privileged sections had an entire retinue waiting on them hand and foot. But now in the pandemic, we have learnt the hard way that self-help is the best help. Cleaning, washing, dusting and numerous mundane jobs have all fallen on the shoulders of those who were once employers. And has done everyone a lot of good. Family members might have protested initially when asked to pitch in— change is always resisted— but as the new reality sinks in, it has now become the order of the day they have had to fall in line— like it or not. Speaking for myself, I find the house, garden and dishes and all else cleaner than ever before and that does a lot for the energies of the place. The food tastes better because it is cooked with care, love and attention to detail. There is pride and satisfaction in doing our own jobs and cleaning up the mess. The dignity of work, personal responsibility are concepts that the younger generation must be exposed to and taught to live by. It is solid training for life and good for the spirit. No job is really infra dig or menial and doing it does not belittle anybody. Once that mental perception is set, the battle is half won. The drudgery of jobs can always be taken out by doing them mindfully, meditatively— all it takes is a little focus on your breathing, being aware of your posture which I learnt the hard way after my knees started to hurt from standing for long and adopting a joyful or even prayerful attitude— work is worship, remember or by using music or visualisation like picture the end result, for instance, a stack of freshly washed clothes or a clean sink as opposed to "I want to get this damn thing over with". The attitude towards the work on hand makes all the difference. Routine jobs can cut into one’s time but with planning and scheduling and division of responsibilities, this can be overcome. No man is an island. For tough, physically demanding and risky jobs like moving heavy furniture, cleaning out rubble (if there is some demolition) accessing the loft or ceiling fans reach out for help and you will find it. For all else, the best helping hand could well be at the end of your own arm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/self-help-is-the-best-help-1023554.html
26-08-2021||Opinion||Who will be the Taliban's whisperers this time: Pakistan or Qatar?||By Bobby Ghosh and Hussein Ibish, As the Taliban settle into their second stint as Afghanistan’s rulers, any hope of avoiding a reprise of their first period of rule may rest on a competition for influence in Kabul between Pakistan and Qatar. The outcome will determine what role the wider world, and especially the West, can play in the country after the withdrawal of American forces. Most Afghans — as well as foreign governments, aid agencies, donors and investors — will be rooting for Doha over Islamabad. Memories of how the previous Taliban administration performed under Pakistani tutelage allow for no optimism about how things will play out this time. The Qataris are a relatively unknown quantity in South Asia, but they could hardly do worse. Who wins will be determined in large part by another contest, within the Taliban. Although the group is headed by a supreme leader, Habitullah Akhundzada, it is not a monolith. Qatar is aligned with the political faction led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, while Pakistan is backing the military wing, marshalled by the likes of Mohammad Yaqoob, the son of former supreme leader, Mullah Omar, and Sirajuddin Haqqani, head of the dreaded Haqqani Network, designated a terrorist group by the US. On the surface, things are looking good for the Qataris. Baradar, who has lived in Doha for the past three years, has arrived in Kabul and is expected to head the new government. The Biden administration seems to have determined that it can do business with him: Central Intelligence Agency Director William Burns held secret talks with Baradar on Monday. This will alarm the Pakistanis, who are thought to be in bad odor with Baradar. They first gave him shelter after the US-led defeat of the Taliban, then arrested him in 2010. He was reportedly tortured in captivity. The Qataris, on the other hand, have been treating him as Afghanistan’s leader-in-waiting, and have built strong ties to others in his faction. But even if Baradar heads the government, the real power in the Taliban lies in Akhundzada’s “shura,” or council, where Yaqoob and Haqqani wield considerable sway. From 1996 to 2001, when the Taliban last ruled, decisions made in Kabul were routinely overruled by the high council in Kandahar, the group’s spiritual base and home of its supreme leader. If Pakistan’s proteges emerge as the dominant clique, Islamabad will likely be their principal go-between with the world. We’ve seen that movie before, and it ends badly. The last time around, rather than encourage the Taliban to develop a modern, inclusive state, Pakistan indulged their obscurantist ideology, defended their reactionary worldview and excused their atavistic domestic agenda. Western governments, and especially the US, paid handsomely for Pakistan’s services as the designated Taliban-whisperer, but this only enriched and empowered the military and intelligence establishment in Islamabad, and did nothing to alleviate the plight of the Afghan people or abate the terrorist threat emanating from their country. After the fall of the Taliban in 2001, Pakistan provided the safe havens for them to regroup, rearm and return to the fray. Over the past 20 years, governments in Islamabad have made little effort to ameliorate the attitude of their guests. Now that they’re back in power, it is hard to imagine Pakistan will temper their tendencies. Can Qatar do better? Over the past decade, the tiny emirate has emerged as an effective interlocutor between the West and the Taliban. By brokering peace negotiations in Doha, the Qataris paved the way for the American withdrawal and the insurgents’ return to power. Their bid for influence in Kabul will depend on Baradar being grateful for services rendered — and wanting still more. If the Taliban want international recognition for their government, the Qatari auspices will be more effective than that of Pakistan, which is itself regarded with suspicion by the West. And if they want money — aid or investment — Doha has much deeper pockets than Islamabad. This will be especially important in the first months of the new administration, when Western governments and donors will hold back funding while they take the measure of the new dispensation. Even if they remain suspicious of the Taliban, those inclined to keep assisting the Afghan population will feel more comfortable using Qatar as a conduit than relying on Pakistan. But don’t rule out the Taliban’s old patrons just yet. For one thing, the Pakistanis have a major advantage in proximity. The two countries share a 1,650-mile land border, whereas Qatar and Afghanistan are separated by the landmass of Iran and the Persian Gulf. Pakistanis and Afghans also share ethnic and cultural ties that the Qataris can’t hope to match. More important, the Pakistani state has a history with new rulers in Kabul that goes back to the Taliban’s birth, midwifed by Islamabad’s intelligence services, in the early 1990s. Some of those ties were frayed when the government of General Pervez Musharraf enabled the US-led 2001 invasion of Afghanistan, but the group could not have survived without continued, covert Pakistani backing. Baradar may have suffered at the hands of his jailors, but many in the military wing, leaders and fighters alike, will feel they owe their recent hosts a debt of gratitude. And finally, Pakistan also has much more at stake. For Doha, a friendly government in Kabul would be a very good outcome; for Islamabad, it is an existential imperative because Pakistani military doctrine has long held that Afghanistan provides the country with “strategic depth” in its rivalry with India. So, count on Pakistan to fight much harder than Qatar for influence in Afghanistan. This contest could yet get very dirty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/who-will-be-the-talibans-whisperers-this-time-pakistan-or-qatar-1023615.html
26-08-2021||Opinion||Afghan refugee crisis: The exodus of nation-builders ||An adolescent girl with green eyes, wearing a torn red headscarf looking intensely at the camera was an iconic image taken by photojournalist Steve McCurry for the June 1985 cover of the National Geographic. That timeless image of an Afghan refugee girl with striking eyes inspired millions of people worldwide to recognise the anguish and plight of one of the initial waves of refugees from Afghanistan. Years of violence have profoundly shaken the whole society and pushed a third of Afghanistan's population into exile. Generations of Afghans have witnessed only conflict because of the 40-years-old situation, watching it metamorphose into various forms of violence, from actual war to the ferocity of minefields, destruction of livelihoods and human rights abuses. The recent Taliban takeover of the country has caused a humanitarian catastrophe in Afghanistan. It has triggered a mass exodus of a new wave of Afghan refugees desperate to flee the clutches of the Taliban. It is important to see them within a broader context of Afghanistan's long-standing displacement crisis. Waves of Afghan Refugees Although numbers have fluctuated over the years and various waves identified, the UNHCR (The UN Refugee Agency) estimates about 2.5 million registered refugees from Afghanistan, making it the largest protracted refugee population in Asia and the second-largest in the world. Four broad waves of Afghan refugees can be identified. The 1979 Soviet intervention of Afghanistan in the aftermath of the 1978 Saur Revolution triggered the first wave of Afghan refugees to seek refuge in neighbouring Iran and Pakistan. The second wave of refugees primarily comprised the Soviet sympathisers who fled Afghanistan after the Soviet withdrawal in 1989. The third and fourth waves of refugees from Afghanistan took place between the early 1990s and 2001. It was first due to the conflict and civil war intensifying when various Mujahideen factions were fighting each other to grab power. And when the Taliban unleashed a brutal and repressive regime over roughly three-quarters of Afghanistan they controlled. Afghanistan returned to the centre of global attention after the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center and Pentagon by Al-Qaeda. Being the host of Osama bin Laden, the US launched a bombing campaign against the Taliban forces on October 7 in retaliation. The Taliban strongholds crumbled against the joint offensive launched by the coalition and Northern Alliance forces in the next few weeks. These developments generated a great sense of excitement and optimism among Afghans. Many wanted to seize the opportunity and possibilities that the new era was promising to offer. During the initial years after the US-led intervention, thousands of Afghan refugees and expatriates returned to Afghanistan. They took part in the country's nation-building initiatives and the international community, ushering in a pattern of reverse migration for the first time in Afghanistan's recent history. Many of these Afghans are fleeing today. The images of deadly chaos at the Kabul airport as security forces try to hold off thousands of Afghans desperate to escape the Taliban have regularly punctuated international headlines since the fall of Kabul on August 15, 2021. The Taliban's return to power has unleashed countless analyses, explanations and rushed post-mortem of the so-called "Global War on Terror" launched by the US twenty years ago. The discussions over the past two weeks have centred around the rationale and efficacy of a rushed withdrawal and the astonishing speed with which the Taliban managed to gain control over Afghanistan since May 2021. While the international media has been covering the mayhem at the Kabul airport and highlighting the desperation of Afghans to flee their country, the focus has been mainly on the refugee destinations. Primary triggers behind this exodus remain relatively unexplored. Triggers of flight Over the past 20 years, a generation of Afghans, particularly those from urban areas, have grown up amidst possibilities and opportunities; they are highly sceptical about their future under the Taliban. Today, Afghans are grappling with a sense of fear and despair and are acutely concerned about their shrinking hope of survival under the Taliban regime.  Afghan women, in particular, fear that the Taliban will deprive them of their fundamental rights and all that they have worked so hard for will be snatched away once the global attention shifts from Afghanistan. Despite all its flaws, the previous political order could ensure that young Afghans have access to modern values, democracy, rights and liberties and international exposure - Afghans fear that access will be substantially curbed under the Taliban. Although the Taliban have declared "general amnesty" for government officials, Afghans are unconvinced about their intent. Many fear Afghanistan will become a graveyard of educated people, journalists and human rights activists once the world looks away. The recent overtures by the Taliban may signal a departure from its previous hardline approaches to some but based on the experience of the Taliban's last stint in power between 1996-2001 and being aware of what is happening in the provinces where international media is absent; Afghans refuse to trust the Taliban. They are convinced that this is the same draconian Taliban, dressed up in a new PR machine, and they will show their true colours once the international media leaves Afghanistan. The question of sheer survival is foremost in the minds of Afghans, especially those who were beneficiaries of the US-led era. Thousands of young Afghans trained or educated in foreign countries, including India, are highly cynical about their future and are desperate to flee Afghanistan. The current wave of Afghan refugees should also be seen within the context of the earlier waves who tried to escape conflict, persecution and violence in their country. Population movement out of Afghanistan has been a consistent phenomenon of its history over the past forty years. Yet, many fleeing today are the ones who returned to Afghanistan post-2001, having trusted the international community and its commitment towards Afghans and Afghanistan. They, unlike their predecessors, feel betrayed. (The writer is a Research Fellow at New Delhi-based Indian Council of World Affairs. She is the author of Identity and Marginality in India: Settlement Experience of Afghan Migrants, Routledge UK, 2019)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/afghan-refugee-crisis-the-exodus-of-nation-builders-1023726.html
26-08-2021||Opinion||Social Stock Exchange should allow listing of producer companies||In her FY 2019-20 budget speech, the finance minister proposed establishing a Social Stock Exchange (SSE) in India. The stock exchange is intended to enable social enterprises with a clear social purpose to raise funds from multiple sources. These social enterprises can either be non-profit organisations or for-profit enterprises with a declared intent to create, measure and report social impact. According to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) 's Working Group and Technical Group reports released in June 2020 and May 2021, respectively, the SSE would offer multiple funding instruments and structures for social enterprises. These include, among others, equity and debt funds (individual or pooled) and pay-for-success structured products (such as Development Impact Bonds). The stock exchange is expected to attract impact investors (including international development finance institutions) who seek both commercial and social returns and philanthropies, foundations, CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds, retail and commercial investors. This is a welcome development as social enterprises struggle to raise funds, gain visibility and establish credibility with investors. Listing on SSE will enable social enterprises to gain access to new categories of investors, which they may not reach otherwise. However, there is one significant omission in SEBI reports, namely, of producer companies from the kinds of organisations considered for-profit social enterprises. The Government of India enabled registration of producer companies starting 2003, under the Producer Companies Act (under The Companies Act). The Companies Act defines producers companies as enterprises of producers engaged in agricultural and allied activities, handloom products and other handicraft industries. These companies engage in supporting production and enabling processing and marketing of their members' produce. They are expected to improve the livelihoods of small producers by providing a platform for collectivising small producers, aggregating their produce, enabling pooling of funds, and improving their bargaining power within markets. Over the past 6-7 years, the Centre has made a concerted effort to support these producer companies. In fact, in the same Union budget speech of FY 2019-20, the finance minister announced a scheme for "Formation and Promotion of 10,000 Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs)"; with an outlay of Rs 6,866 crore over nine years. While FPOs can be registered as cooperatives and societies, producer companies are the most popular form of registration. The NABARD (National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development), one of the nodal agencies for implementing the scheme, has promoted about 4000 producer companies. More than 85 per cent of shareholders are small and marginal producers. In addition, a large number of producer companies have been promoted by philanthropies and CSR organisations. As of March 2021, a study by the authors found approximately 16,000 producer companies registered with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. However, most producer companies face severe capital and credit shortages, which prevent them from starting or growing their business operations. Their median paid-up capital is only about Rs 1 lakh which is substantially lower than the desired level of Rs 15-20 lakh in equity and debt needed by early-stage producer companies to start their operations (per a NABARD estimate). While the government has introduced several schemes to address the equity and debt needs of producer companies, very few producer companies are able to avail the benefits of these schemes due to their inability to meet eligibility requirements. Also, many commercial banks and financial institutions are hesitant to lend to producer companies due to risks inherent in agricultural businesses. As enterprises that can only have primary producers as shareholders (mostly small and marginal farmers), producer companies are excellent examples of for-profit enterprises driven by commercial objectives with a clear social commitment. Therefore, it would be imperative to include them explicitly as a category of social enterprises allowed to list on the upcoming SSE. Producer companies already meet the eligibility requirements specified in Section 2 of SEBI Technical Group Report, including "promoting livelihoods for rural and urban poor, including enhancing income of small and marginal farmers and workers in the non-farm sector". They also meet the criteria of having more than 67 per cent of their revenues, expenditures and beneficiaries aligning to the specific social purpose and measurable impact. However, since they are not specifically mentioned as examples of social enterprises, they are likely to get excluded from listing on SSE due to ambiguity in the rules. Listing on the Social Stock Exchange would allow these companies to access additional sources of funds, which will somewhat level the playing field for these companies of small producers as they compete in markets with large, well-financed corporations. Therefore, the SEBI should explicitly include producer companies in the definition of for-profit enterprises that are allowed to list on the Social Stock Exchange. The SEBI should also consider modifying some eligibility criteria for small producer companies (e.g. reducing the minimum turnover requirement from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh) if all other criteria are met. In summary, producer companies are inherently for-profit enterprises with a social purpose, driven by both social and commercial imperatives. They are important vehicles for improving the incomes and livelihoods of small producers. Although the government has launched many schemes to support them, they continue to face capital and debt gaps. Allowing producer companies to list on the Social Stock Exchange will make it possible for them to raise funds from socially-minded investors and lenders and enable them to grow their business operations. (Annapurna Neti and Richa Govil are faculty members at Azim Premji University. This article is based on their ongoing study of producer companies in India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/social-stock-exchange-should-allow-listing-of-producer-companies-1023759.html
26-08-2021||Panorama||China eyes Afghanistan’s $1 trillion of minerals with risky bet on Taliban||When the US invaded Afghanistan in 2001, the global economy looked a lot different: Tesla Inc. wasn’t a company, the iPhone didn’t exist and artificial intelligence was best known as a Steven Spielberg film. Now all three are at the cutting edge of a modern economy driven by advancements in high-tech chips and large-capacity batteries that are made with a range of minerals, including rare earths. And Afghanistan is sitting on deposits estimated to be worth $1 trillion or more, including what may be the world’s largest lithium reserves— if anyone can get them out of the ground. Four decades of war— first with the Soviet Union, then between warring tribes, then with the US— prevented that from happening. That’s not expected to change anytime soon, with the Taliban already showing signs they want to reimpose a theocracy that turns back the clock on women’s rights and other basic freedoms rather than lead Afghanistan to a prosperous future. But there’s also an optimistic outlook, now being pushed by Beijing, that goes like this: The Taliban form an “inclusive” government with warlords of competing ethnic groups, allows a minimal level of basic human rights for women and minorities and fights terrorist elements that want to strike the US, China, India or any other country. “With the US withdrawal, Beijing can offer what Kabul needs most: Political impartiality and economic investment,” Zhou Bo, who was a senior colonel in the People’s Liberation Army from 2003 to 2020, wrote in an op-ed in the New York Times over the weekend. “Afghanistan in-turn has what China most prizes: Opportunities in infrastructure and industry building— areas in which China’s capabilities are arguably unmatched— and access to $1 trillion in untapped mineral deposits.” For that scenario to have even a remote possibility, much depends on what happens in the next few weeks. Although the US is racing to evacuate thousands of Americans and vulnerable Afghans after a rushed troop withdrawal ending 20 years of war, President Joe Biden still has the power to isolate any new Taliban-led government on the world stage and stop most companies from doing business in the country.  In a statement on Tuesday, the Group of Seven nations said the legitimacy of any Afghan government hinges on its adherence to international obligations including ensuring human rights for women and minorities. “We will judge the Afghan parties by their actions, not words,” the group said after a virtual leaders meeting. The US maintains sanctions on the Taliban as an entity, and it can veto any moves by China and Russia to ease United Nations Security Council restrictions on the militant group. Washington has already frozen nearly $9.5 billion in Afghanistan’s reserves and the International Monetary Fund has cut off financing for Afghanistan, including nearly $500 million that was scheduled to be disbursed around when the Taliban took control. To have any hope of accessing those funds, it will be crucial for the Taliban to facilitate a smooth evacuation of foreigners and vulnerable Afghans, negotiate with warlords to prevent another civil war and halt a range of human-rights abuses. Already tensions are growing over an August 31 deadline for troops to withdraw, with the Taliban warning the US not to cross what it called a “red line.”  Still, the Taliban have several reasons to exercise restraint. Kabul faces a growing economic crisis, with prices of staples like flour and oil surging, pharmacies running short on drugs and ATMs depleted of cash. The militant group this week appointed a new central bank chief to address those problems, just as his exiled predecessor warned of shocks that could lead to a weaker currency, faster inflation and capital controls. The Taliban also want sanctions lifted, with spokesman Suhail Shahee telling China’s state-owned broadcaster CGTN this week that financial penalties would hurt efforts to rebuild the economy. “The push for more sanctions will be a biased decision,” he said. “It will be against the will of the people of Afghanistan.”  Leaders of the militant group have said they want good international relations, particularly with China. Late on Tuesday, a Taliban spokesman tweeted that a senior official from the group met with the Chinese ambassador in Kabul and “discussed the security of the Chinese embassy and diplomats, the current situation in Afghanistan, bilateral relations and China’s humanitarian assistance.”  Officials and state-run media in Beijing have softened the ground for closer ties, with the Communist Party-backed Global Times reporting that Chinese investment is likely to be “widely accepted” in Afghanistan. Another report argued the “the US is in no position to meddle with any potential cooperation between China and Afghanistan, including on rare earths.” “Some people stress their distrust for the Afghan Taliban— we want to say that nothing is unchanged forever,” Hua Chunying, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, said last week. “We need to see the past and present. We need to listen to words and watch actions.” For China, Afghanistan holds economic and strategic value. Leaders in Beijing have repeatedly called on the Taliban to prevent terrorists from plotting attacks against China, and view strong economic ties as key to ensuring stability. They also see an opportunity to invest in the country’s mineral sector, which can then be transported back on Chinese-financed infrastructure that includes about $60 billion of projects in neighbouring Pakistan. US officials estimated in 2010 that Afghanistan had $1 trillion of unexplored mineral deposits, and the Afghan government has said they’re worth three times as much. They include vast reserves of lithium, rare earths and copper— materials critical to the global green-energy transition. But flimsy infrastructure in the landlocked country, along with poor security, have hampered efforts to mine and profit off the reserves. The Taliban takeover comes at a critical time for the battery-materials supply chain: Producers are looking to invest in more upstream assets to secure lithium supply ahead of what Macquarie has called a “perpetual deficit.” The US, Japan and Europe have been seeking to cut their dependence on China for rare earths, which are used in items such as permanent magnets, though the moves are expected to take years and require millions of dollars of government support. One major problem for the Taliban is a lack of skilled policy makers, according to Nematullah Bizhan, a former economic adviser to the finance ministry.  “In the past they appointed unqualified people into key specialized positions, such as the finance ministry and central bank,” said Bizhan, now a lecturer in public policy at the Australian National University. “If they do the same, that will have negative implications for the economy and for growth in Afghanistan.” Officially, Afghanistan’s economy has seen rapid growth in recent years as billions in aid flooded the country. But that expansion has fluctuated with donor assistance, showing “how artificial and thus unsustainable the growth has been,” according to a recent report from the US Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction. China has been burned before. In the mid-2000s, investors led by state-owned Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd. won an almost $3 billion bid to mine copper at Mes Aynak, near Kabul. It still hasn’t seen any output due to a series of delays ranging from security concerns to the discovery of historical artifacts, and there’s still no rail or power plant. MCC said in its 2020 annual report it was negotiating with the Afghan government about the mining contract after earlier saying it was economically unviable. The Taliban are trying to show the world it has changed from its oppressive rule in the 1990s, saying it welcomes foreign investment from all countries and won’t allow terrorists to use Afghanistan as a base. Janan Mosazai, a former Afghan ambassador to both Pakistan and China who joined the private sector in 2018, sees “tremendous opportunities for the Afghan economy to take off” if the Taliban prove they’re serious about “walking the talk.”  But not many are optimistic. Reports have emerged of targeted killings, a massacre of ethnic minorities, violent suppression of protests and Taliban soldiers demanding to marry local women.  “Everyone’s just in crisis mode,” said Sarah Wahedi, a 26-year-old tech entrepreneur from Afghanistan who recently fled the country. “I don’t see the entrepreneurs getting back to business unless there’s a huge overhaul in the Taliban’s behaviour. And there’s nothing I’ve seen that makes me think that’s going to happen.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/china-eyes-afghanistan-s-1-trillion-of-minerals-with-risky-bet-on-taliban-1023560.html
26-08-2021||Panorama||Proteins and workout||Is it beneficial to take protein supplements or powders on a day when I don’t workout? Or should protein powder only be consumed on training days? Can I have it if I don’t workout at all? There are many such questions that people have when it comes to protein intake, and you’ll find there are a lot of different opinions on this subject. Also, many wonder if protein intake every day is healthy or not. Medical researchers advise against protein supplements for the average person. The amount of protein every person requires varies based on various factors such as age, sex, health and activity level. Ideally, your daily food should provide you with the required protein. But many sports trainers continue to push them on amateur athletes simply because they don’t know any better. So the question arises, do you need protein when you exercise, particularly when you try to build muscle through weightlifting or other forms of resistance training? The answer is yes. The process of building muscle involves causing damage to muscle filaments and then rebuilding them, and this requires more protein. Protein is an essential macronutrient made up of Amino Acids. These chain-like compounds can be broken apart and put back together in a nearly endless variety of patterns that are used to create different kinds of cells. Your body can make some of these Amino Acids on its own, but not all of them. The complete proteins found in animal products are your best source of the essential Amino Acids that your body cannot produce on its own. So, besides needing protein to build and rebuild muscles, it is required to create new cells. That doesn’t mean that you should be consuming unnecessary and extra protein. Dairy products are also high in protein, as are certain green leafy vegetables and legumes. Too much protein can put a strain on your Kidneys, so if you’re using protein supplements to lose or maintain weight without working out, you need to balance your diet with fresh fruits, vegetables, whole grains, healthy fats & between 1-2 litre of water per day. Tofu, Soya milk, lentils, Chickpeas, Pinto beans, Almond milk, nuts and oilseeds like Sunflower, Pumpkin seeds, Sesame (Til) seeds etc., are rich sources of protein for vegetarians & vegans. The right way A healthy individual needs 1 gram of protein per kg body weight per day. However, when training, you need about a half gram of protein per pound of body weight. Now comes the questions of ‘how much protein?’, ‘what kind of protein?’, or ‘whether protein supplements should be consumed on non-workout days’. If you want to slim down or need more protein in your diet, feel free to have a protein shake on your off-training days. For example, if you skip breakfast or have a business meeting to rush to in the morning, drinking a protein shake can replace a meal and provide you with the energy needed to function optimally. However, these cannot replace meals; their role is to supplement your diet and not replace it. But there is a catch. The risk factor here is that all food and beverages provide calories. Protein supplements in the form of shakes and bars are no exception. These supplements work best when used as part of a training program since they fuel your muscles into growth and increase fat burning. Incorporating protein supplements in your diet with no workout at all is not recommended. If you go overboard, you may end up gaining weight — especially if you have a sedentary lifestyle. You might also develop hyperaminoacidemia (excess of amino acid in the bloodstream) with nausea and diarrhoea symptoms; other health concerns may include kidney problems. It is the organ’s function to metabolise the protein, but extra intake will slow down the kidney’s metabolism. Thus, if you need to consume more protein and don’t exercise, it is best to have natural sources of the macronutrient, as mentioned above, coupled with minimum exercising. Remember to keep the nutrition factor high, and the calorie counts low if you aren’t exercising-- to burn off extra calories. (Dr Shah is a general physician and Mahadik a clinical nutritionist at hospitals based in Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/proteins-and-workout-1023564.html
26-08-2021||Panorama||‘Friends’ Rao and Reddy fume as a water war rages between Andhra Pradesh, Telangana||Within a month of becoming Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh in mid-2019, Y S Jaganmohan Reddy went to Pragathi Bhavan, the palatial official residence-cum-operating space of his Telangana counterpart K Chandrasekhar Rao in Hyderabad. The two held drawn-out discussions over many thorny issues between the two Telugu states, prominent among them being river water-sharing. The talks were held in a cheerful environment with a “give and take” approach – a welcome shift from the confrontations during the tenure of former Andhra CM Chandrababu Naidu – and Reddy’s team was served the best of Telangana cuisine. While resolving to amicably settle all pending matters related to the 2014 bifurcation of the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, Rao and Reddy had even discussed an ambitious plan to lift Godavari waters to the Krishna basin through Telangana, to water the parche d regions on both sides. A week prior to the meeting, Reddy, upon Rao’s invitation when the latter visited his Amaravati residence, had attended the inauguration of the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project on the Godavari in Telangana. Reddy also handed over to his counterpart Andhra Pradesh’s share of the Hyderabad secretariat buildings, allowing Rao to proceed with his plans for a grand, new Telangana secreta riat. The bonhomie paved the way for further parleys between the two CMs in August and September that year, to firm up ideas like the Godavari-Krishna interlinking. Former CM Naidu had, however, slammed the “friendship” and expressed apprehensions over the project, which he said could cost up to Rs 1.5 lakh crore and required water to flow through Telangana. “Today, you (Reddy) have cordial relations with the Telangana CM, but neither of you are permanent in the post. There will be a change of guard and there could be water disputes,” Naidu had said then, accusing Reddy of pledging Andhra Pradesh’s interests. Naidu’s prophecy seems to be coming true, within the tenure of the two chief ministers, and proving that a peaceful settlement of water disputes between states is hard to come by. The Rao and Reddy governments are now squabbling more bitterly than the two governments did during even Naidu’s time, accusing each other of building unauthorised projects, and each claiming more rights over the Krishna river that straddles the two states. While the consultations held by the Centre through the Union Water Resources minister-chaired apex council are often unfruitful because of this tiff, the two sides are engaged in a legal face-off, too, waging cases in the apex court and tribunals. Within five months of gracing the Kaleshwaram event as a special guest, the Reddy government had in November 2019 raised objection s to the mega lift irrigation project in the Supreme Court, stating that its restructuring would be detrimental to Andhra’s irrigation interests. What has aggravated the water war between the two sides is the YSRCP government’s May 2020 order allocating Rs 6,829 crore for the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme (RLIS)  and supporting the canal system to draw three TMC per day from the Pothireddypadu Head Regulator on the Srisailam reservoir. While Andhra says that RLIS is essential to provide water for the chronically drought-prone Kurnool, Kadapa, Anantapur, Chittoor, Nellore and Prakasam districts, Telangana says the project is in violation of the AP State Reorganisation Act, 2014, and has appealed to the Centre, the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and the National Green Tribunal to stop “the illegal construction activity.” Some of the TRS ministers have accused Reddy and his father – the late chief minister of undivided AP, Y S Rajasekhara Reddy -- of stealing Telangana’s share of waters, attracting sharp reactions from YSRCP ministers. Reddy charged that Telangana is already constructing the “unauthorised” Palamuru Ranga Reddy, Dindi and other lift irrigation schemes, despite Andhra’s repeated complaints to KRMB. The issue precipitated in June with Telangana using the Krishna waters to generate power at Srisailam, Nagarjuna Sagar and Pulichintala projects, following Rao’s orders. A tense situation prevailed, with police forces deployed on both sides of the projects, which are under shared control of the Andhra and Telangana governments. The scene was reminiscent of those from 2015, when the irrigation project officials of the two states were engaged in heated arguments and cops from the two states came to blows on the Nagarjuna Sagar dam because of the stiff stand taken by the then chief ministers – Naidu and Rao -- over water-sharing. Complaining that Telangana’s “unilateral withdrawals” from dead storage levels for electricity were resulting in wastage of precious waters, Reddy shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking CISF protection at the common reservoirs to safeguard AP’s i nterests. Amid the row, the Centre had in July notified the jurisdictions of the Godavari and Krishna river management boards for the equitable management of the projects on the two rivers in the two states. However, the two governments continue to wrangle. “Because of the central government’s anti-Telangana attitude and AP’s dadagiri (strong armed action), we could face problems in future with availability of Krishna waters,” said Rao, addressing a rally near Nagarjuna Sagar in August. Rao reiterated that the“injustices meted out to Telangana in river water allocation had resulted in separate statehood movement.” Reddy has asserted that his state will draw its rightful share of river waters in the interest of its farmers while maintaining that he wants cordial relations with neighbouring states. While the present sharing arrangement of the 811 TMC Krishna waters is in a 66:34 ratio between Andhra and Telangana, Rao now wants this to become 50:50, while Reddy wants the distribution revised to 70:30. A meeting of the Krishna River Management Board, now re-scheduled to September  1, could see some more sparks fly over the matter. If this is the state of affairs when there are plentiful rains and copious inflows into the reservoirs, analysts are worried about what would happen in rain-deficit years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/friends-rao-and-reddy-fume-as-a-water-war-rages-between-andhra-pradesh-telangana-1023567.html
26-08-2021||Right in the Middle||The countryside||Pandemonium has reigned ever since the pandemic hit the world. Not one of us has been spared, each suffering in his or her own way. Many of us have been displaced from the familiar environs of our homes and forced to live in alien surroundings. I am one among them. I have had to leave the city, my home for many years, and acclimatise myself to a life in the suburbs of a town. But to my great relief and happiness, I have discovered that there is an upside to it. The pandemic, no doubt, is an ill-wind, but it is capable of blowing some good. For me, it has opened up a new vista, largely removed from humans but close to nature. And what a beautiful world it is. The bird-life that exists here is abundant, something that city folks are unaware or quite ignorant of. All you need is a pair of good binoculars. These creatures come in all sizes and shapes and in breathtaking colours. There is, for instance, the strong-beaked, big kingfisher with a prominent white breast and vivid ultramarine and bright blue plumes. There is its smaller cousin dressed in equally bright feathers. Their call is distinct, redolent of open fields and blue waters alive with fish. The Brahminy mynah is a nattily turned out creature with a golden underside and a nifty tuft. A neighbour, who is a bird-enthusiast, has listed forty different birds he has spotted. I am eager to equate my record with his but have reached only the halfway mark. One easy way of enticing birds is to put out a bowl of water which allows them to quench their thirst or take a cool dip. These feathered friends take you right back to childhood with all its realms of wonders. You cannot resist contemplating— Are they aware of their wondrous plumage? What role do their bright dots of colour signify? What indeed is blue, red or any other colour? One neighbour is a wildlife enthusiast. He is a practising doctor, but all his spare time is given over to animals and denizens of the woods. He is ready to come at any time of the day or night when some creature needs rescuing. His latest was a rat-snake that had entered inadvertently into a house. He guided it into a bag and released it into the wild.  The countryside has reminded me that the simple pleasures of life are still available and well-worth preserving. There are stretches of green grass that harbour tiny but beautiful flowers. Bees and butterflies are abuzz around flowers that will eventually yield sweet fruit. The vegetables you buy are fresh with their natural flavours intact. The milk you get is wholesome and authentic. People are friendly and helpful and those entrusted with work perform it sincerely. What a far cry all this is from city life! Urbanisation has hardened and disillusioned us. The question is, have we found or lost our way?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-countryside-1023555.html
26-08-2021||Second Edit||Approval for DNA vaccine is good news||The grant of emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI) to another indigenously developed vaccine, ZyCov-D, is an important event in the efforts towards developing and using indigenous Covid-19 vaccines. It is a DNA-based vaccine, developed by Zydus Cadila in collaboration with the Department of Biotechnology, and is considered to be the world’s first needle-free vaccine. It is also the first vaccine for children in the 12-18 age group and the sixth for adults in India. It has shown a primary efficacy of 66.6% in its phase-III clinical trials, and it is expected that a two-dose regimen can be developed in the near future. Children of all ages have been left out of the vaccination programme till now because there was no vaccine that has been developed specifically for them. Now that one is available, a children's vaccination programme should be planned and implemented. If the vaccine arrives in September, as is expected, it can give a fillip to the country’s vaccination plans. It is stored at 2-8 degrees Celsius but is said to have stability at 25 degrees Celsius for at least three months. It is to be given at intervals of 28 and 56 days, using a painless needle-free applicator. This would also help because some youngsters in the 12-18 age group have the fear of the needle. Schools have been shut ever since the pandemic started and their reopening should get the highest priority. But it has been a more difficult proposition than reopening the economy, for various reasons. If children can be brought under vaccination coverage, it may be possible to reopen schools with greater confidence. But there is the need for special care, as reports suggest that a possible next wave of the epidemic may affect more children than previously. The vaccination programme has picked up but it is still far off the targets. The task of vaccinating 8-10 million people every day is challenging. Unless this is done, the aim of fully vaccinating the country by December will be impossible to achieve. There are encouraging reports from rural areas, as over 60% of all vaccinations in the past few weeks have taken place in such areas. The pace in the rural areas should be sustained and increased. There is also the need for more educational campaigns to remove vaccine hesitancy. There are complaints of non-availability of vaccines and supply glitches. Studies should also continue on how virus mutations will affect the immunity gained from vaccinations. An efficient vaccination programme for children will add to the effectiveness of the overall drive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/approval-for-dna-vaccine-is-good-news-1023559.html
26-08-2021||South||Kerala's Covid-19 lessons for India and the Modi government||Vilified by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's party for its high Covid-19 cases, Kerala's apparent poor record may actually hold crucial lessons for the country in containing the outbreak as authorities brace for a possible third wave of infections. The opposition-ruled, densely populated state is currently reporting the most number of coronavirus cases in the country and accounts for the second-highest national tally - unflattering headline numbers that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has seized upon as a reflection of bungled local leadership. However, a Reuters analysis of national and state data, and interviews with epidemiologists and Kerala health authorities paint a different picture. It shows the state's containment measures have helped to catch infections early, allowing authorities to better manage the illness and dramatically lower the death rate - a stark contrast to people dying in carparks and outside hospitals for lack of oxygen and beds in big cities like Delhi at the height of the health crisis a few months earlier. "While the central government may have its views on rapid antigen tests, it is important to consider that the state's strategies have by and large succeeded in not just keeping mortality low but also in being able to detect one in six cases compared to one in 33 nationally," said Rajib Dasgupta, head of the Centre of Social Medicine & Community Health at New Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University. The efficient detection rate and its population density at more than twice the national average explain the high number of cases in Kerala. All the same, at 0.5 per cent, Kerala still has the lowest fatality rate among all but one thinly populated state. The national figure is 1.4 per cent and it is 1.3 per cent for the country's Uttar Pradesh. The difference comes down to Kerala's reliance on rapid antigen tests to detect and strictly isolate infected people at home, an approach the federal health ministry has sharply criticised but which state officials argue has helped them to better allocate hospital beds and oxygen supplies for those who really need them. The government-recommended RT-PCR tests are more accurate but take longer to produce results, meaning by the time a positive Covid-19 case is confirmed the infected person is more likely to have developed severe symptoms and passed it on to others in a vicious cycle of more infections and deaths. Kerala's rapid test results allow for early treatment in home isolation which then narrows the virus' path to infections, state officials say. These factors, along with the strained medical resources across much of India, largely explain why the overall national death rate is much higher than in the Communist-run state. Kerala officials also say a state-run support service that includes phone consultation, provision of drugs and pulse oximeters that detect blood oxygen levels for people recovering at home provide a bulwark in the battle against the disease. Delhi had a similar support structure but it collapsed when cases surged. "We do have a different model and our fatality rate shows our model is on the right track," Kerala Health Minister Veena George told Reuters. But Kerala officials acknowledge that the fast-evolving pandemic can undo even the best thought-out plans unless authorities remain nimble and flexible. A model to emulate? When Reuters recently visited Kerala's most populous Malappuram district, which is reporting the greatest number of infections in India, a quarter of the 344 Covid beds in its biggest hospital were vacant and oxygen supply was ample. The Indian Council of Medical Research has recommended lockdowns for districts where more than 10 per cent of the tests return positive results. The rate is about 15 per cent for Kerala and even higher in Malappuram, but shops and restaurants are open for business. Kerala officials argue that they are able to keep businesses open as the state has the best testing rate among Indian states - 86 tests per 100 people, compared with about 33 in Uttar Pradesh- meaning they are able to catch infections early and ensure timely treatment. The model, epidemiologists say, can be replicated in few other states with good health facilities, such as neighbouring Tamil Nadu. "Their surveillance is good, they detect cases early and their testing is very focused," MD Gupte, a retired director of the National Institute of Epidemiology who advises the central government on immunisations, said about Kerala. "Most people in Kerala are educated, so that helps." India’s daily demand for medical oxygen jumped more than eight times in May from pre-pandemic levels, but Kerala avoided major shortages of hospital beds and oxygen that crippled many states when nationwide infections saw an explosive surge. The federal health ministry did not respond to emails requesting comment. Vaccine Push State Health Minister George said the state was on course to administer at least one vaccine dose to all adults by next month, the fastest pace among all states. Currently, the state has covered more than 55 per cent of adults with at least one vaccine dose, compared with 48 per cent for the whole of India, which wants to vaccinate all its adults by December. Kerala, with 3.55 crore people, has so far reported 38 lakh infections, or 12 per cent of India's total of 3.25 crore. Its 19,757 deaths, however, account for only 4 per cent of the overall nationwide fatalities. The Indian government recommends 70 per cent of all Covid-19 tests be carried out by the RT-PCR method, while Kerala's rate is less than 50 per cent. "This is not the Kerala model, this is a model of mismanagement," BJP President Jagat Prakash Nadda, India's former health minister, said  He said BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh had better managed the pandemic, though a government survey estimated in July that more than 70 per cent residents of both states had been exposed to the virus. The figure was 44 per cent for Kerala. Kerala's Covid-19 hospitalisation rate is only about 3 per cent, a state official said, compared with more than 5 per cent nationwide when cases peaked in May. TS Anish, a member of Kerala's Covid Expert Committee, said the state was now focused on vaccination. "If you are able to vaccinate large numbers, you will get infections but your health system will not be overwhelmed."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-lessons-for-india-and-the-modi-government-1023667.html
26-08-2021||South||TN tables Bill to provide 7.5% reservation for government school students in professional courses||A bill to provide 7.5 per cent reservation in admission to professional courses like engineering, agriculture, and law for students from government schools was tabled in the Tamil Nadu Assembly on Thursday. Tabling the Bill, Chief Minister M K Stalin said the decision to bring a legislation to provide reservation for government school students was taken after it was found that the number of such students getting into engineering, veterinary, agriculture and law courses was “very low.” As the Bill was introduced in the Assembly, Opposition Leader Edappadi K Palaniswami said the AIADMK “wholeheartedly” supported the legislation as it would benefit more students from the hinterland. The legislation is modelled on the lines of a law that the previous AIADMK government passed by providing 7.5 percent reservation to students from government schools in admissions to medical and dental colleges. Explaining in detail, Stalin said of 8.5 lakh students who graduated from plus-two in 2019-2020, 3.45 lakh are from government schools. Of the students who joined the prestigious Anna University in various engineering streams in 2020-2021 academic year, only 0.83 percent were from government schools. “The percentage of students from government schools who got admission in government engineering colleges is 6.31, while it is just 0.44 percent in government-aided colleges. Only 3 percent of those who joined veterinary courses are from government schools, and the percentage for agriculture courses is 4.89,” Stalin told the Assembly. He said government decided to provide 7.5 per cent reservation after carefully considering the recommendations of the Justice D Murugesan Committee which suggested that reservation up to 10 percent can be accorded to students from government colleges. The committee’s mandate was to suggest ways to increase enrollment of government school students in professional courses. The reservation will be implemented from the 2021-2022 academic year. The Commission, according to the legislation, reported that government school students being in a disadvantageous position, require more facilities to pursue their school education and “preferential treatment” in joining various professional courses. “It is evident from the Commission's report that there exists de facto inequalities between the Government school students and the private school students,” the Bill said, adding that the government has decided to set apart certain percentage of seats on preferential basis to the students, who have studied from sixth to twelfth standard in government schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-tables-bill-to-provide-75-reservation-for-government-school-students-in-professional-courses-1023672.html
26-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu passes Bill to provide 7.5% reservation for govt school students in professional courses||Tamil Nadu Assembly on Thursday unanimously passed a bill to provide 7.5 per cent reservation in admission to professional courses like engineering, agriculture, and law for students from government schools. Though principal Opposition AIADMK supported the Bill when it was tabled by Chief Minister M K Stalin in the morning, the party members were not present in the House when the legislation was put to vote – they had staged a walkout protesting against the DMK government’s move to merge Dr J Jayalalithaa University with Annamalai University. Members of the Opposition – BJP and PMK – who were present in the House supported the Bill. As the Bill was introduced in the Assembly, Opposition Leader Edappadi K Palaniswami said the AIADMK “wholeheartedly” supported the legislation as it would benefit students from the hinterland. The legislation is modelled on the lines of law that the previous AIADMK government passed by providing 7.5 per cent reservation to students from government schools in admissions to medical and dental colleges. Tabling the Bill, Stalin said the decision to bring legislation to provide reservation for government school students was taken after it was found that the number of such students getting into engineering, veterinary, agriculture and law courses was “very low.” Explaining in detail, Stalin said of 8.5 lakh students who passed out of plus-two in 2019-2020, 3.45 lakh are from government schools. Of the students who joined the prestigious Anna University in various engineering streams in the 2020-2021 academic year, only 0.83 per cent were from government schools. “The percentage of students from government schools who got admission in government engineering colleges is 6.31, while it is just 0.44 per cent in government-aided colleges. Only 3 per cent of those who joined veterinary courses are from government schools, and the percentage for agriculture courses is 4.89,” Stalin told the Assembly. He said the government provided 7.5 per cent reservation after carefully considering the recommendations of the Justice D Murugesan Committee which suggested that reservations up to 10 per cent can be accorded to students from government colleges. The committee’s mandate was to suggest ways to increase enrollment of government school students in professional courses. The reservation will be implemented from the 2021-2022 academic year. The Commission, according to the legislation, reported that Government school students being in a disadvantageous position, require more facilities to pursue their school education and “preferential treatment” in joining various professional courses. “It is evident from the Commission's report that there exists de facto inequalities between the Government school students and the private school students,” the Bill said, adding that the government has decided to set apart certain percentage of seats on preferential basis to the students, who have studied from sixth to twelfth standard in government schools. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-passes-bill-to-provide-75-reservation-for-govt-school-students-in-professional-courses-1023799.html
26-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to set up control room to receive complaints of sexual harassment at schools||Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced setting up of a control room with a toll-free hotline and private email facility to receive complaints of sexual harassment and violence at schools, while an orientation module will be prepared to raise awareness about the POSCO Act among all stakeholders.  The announcements were part of the policy note tabled by School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi in the Assembly. The government’s move comes months after teachers from several prestigious schools were accused of sexual misconduct with students during online classes and outside school hours.  Poyyamozhi also said Child Abuse Prevention Week should be observed in all schools every year during November 15-22 and a Student Safety Advisory Committee will be set up in each school to monitor students safety and wellbeing. The control room will be set up at the Directorate of Public Instructions (DPI) campus in Chennai to receive complaints specifically pertaining to sexual harassment and violence at schools, from students, parents and others.  “An orientation module will be prepared for use by schools to raise awareness about POSCO Act among all stakeholders and to improve safety in schools,” the minister said in the policy note. Among other measures is a self-audit module to be filled up by schools and the installation of safety boxes in school premises to enable students to lodge their complaints and feedback.  The minister said 12 new primary schools will be opened and 22 schools will be upgraded in hilly and remote areas in the 2021-2022 academic year and added that an amount of Rs 20.76 crore is earmarked for establishing smart classrooms in 865 Government Higher Secondary Schools.  Laying emphasis on inculcating reading habit among students, Poyyamozhi said dedicated library hours will be earmarked for every class and the same would be incorporated in the timetable of the respective class. “Every student will be encouraged to borrow a book from the library every week. Activities like quiz, elocution, storytelling, essay writing, etc. will be introduced in the library hour,” he added. On Kalvi TV, the minister said efforts are on to produce concept based videos instead of content-based videos, while much emphasis is being laid on enhancing the content telecast on the channel with the help of subject experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-set-up-control-room-to-receive-complaints-of-sexual-harassment-at-schools-1023803.html
26-08-2021||South||After e-budget, Tamil Nadu government departments to get ‘e-offices’||After presenting the state’s first ‘paperless’ budget, the DMK dispensation in Tamil Nadu has now decided to establish ‘e-offices’ in all departments of the Secretariat, as part of its efforts to ensure “transparency” in the functioning of the government.  To be implemented at a cost of Rs 13.44 crore, the ambitious project has received “administrative proposal” and “financial sanction” from the government. The move comes weeks after Finance Minister P T R Palanivel Thiaga Rajan presented Tamil Nadu’s first ‘e-budget’ as legislators were glued to the computer screens at their desks instead of flipping through a voluminous book.  The Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA) had sent a detailed proposal to set up ‘e-offices’ at all department offices in the Secretariat by quoting Rs 21.46 crore as the budget. However, the government after “careful examination” restricted the proposal to Rs 13.44 crores, a Government Order (GO) issued on August 23 said.  The e-office project envisages removing the manual file movement in the departments gradually, the GO said, adding that the requisite Software User Licence to implement e-office lite product will be purchased from the National Informatics Centre (NIC). The e-office will provide role-based login to maintain a proper file creation hierarchy and will ensure automatic generation of MIS (Management Information System) reports for every individual and many other classified reports.  “The note file/draft created by any user is acknowledged with a time and date stamp along with a digital signature if integrated with the application. Reminders are enabled to notify any pending file activity/action to be carried on the specific period,” the GO said.  Officials said the tracking of files would become easier in ‘e-offices’ and the system would benefit people by way of “transparency in the file movement system.”  They said Chief Minister M K Stalin was keen on introducing the ‘e-office’ system. The government has already asked all its departments to go only for e-tender for procurement.  “Not just transparency, we can also contribute to the environment by reducing the dependence on paper. E-files are much more comfortable, and they will become the order of the day soon,” a senior government official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-e-budget-tamil-nadu-government-departments-to-get-e-offices-1023821.html
26-08-2021||South||35% of new Covid-19 infections in Kerala are from households||About 35 per cent of the fresh Covid-19 infections being reported in Kerala are found to be from households. A study by the Kerala Health Department in this regard highlighted the need to strictly follow Covid-19 social distancing measures inside homes. It was found that about 35 per cent of the persons who are getting infected these days are getting infected from someone within the home only. Health Minister Veena George said that it has been widely found that if one member of a family gets infected, all other members are also testing positive. "This is due to laxity in maintaining social distancing norms in homes," she said. She also said that those lacking isolation facilities in their homes can use the Covid care facilities of the government. "In case one person in a house gets infected, all should wear mask and the infected persons should remain isolated," she said. Health department sources said that many are roaming around freely after getting vaccinated. But there is a high risk of the vaccinated becoming Covid-19 carries to those in home, especially children who are yet to be vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/35-of-new-covid-19-infections-in-kerala-are-from-households-1023837.html
26-08-2021||South||DU's decision to remove works of two Dalit authors from its syllabus kicks up a political storm in Tamil Nadu||Delhi University’s decision to remove works of two Dalit authors from Tamil Nadu from its syllabus kicked up a political storm in the state on Thursday with Chief Minister M K Stalin issuing a strong statement asking authorities not to view everything from the prism of “politics of communalism.”  Stalin demanded that the University and the Union Government immediately restore the works in its curriculum. He also said the decision to remove the works of certain authors by the Oversight Committee (OC) despite objections from the Academic Council (AC). The works of Sukhartharini and Bama were removed.  Sukhartharini, one of the writers whose work was removed along with renowned author Mahasweta Devi’s short story, said she was not “surprised” at the development.  “I am not surprised at all. I would only be surprised if my works continue to be part of the syllabus. I think this is what has been happening for a long time. I think caste has played a role in this decision,” Sukhartharini said.  She also said it was for the people for whose consumption writers pen their books to raise their voices against such actions. In a statement, Stalin said the habit of viewing works of people who speak for women’s rights and fight for the emancipation of the downtrodden through the “prism of politics of communalism.” “I request the management of the university and the Union Government to ensure that the removed works be added to the curriculum immediately,” Stalin said.  Lok Sabha MP and VCK chief Thol Thirumavalavan, a prominent Dalit leader, expressed “shock” at the development. “Removing works of prominent writers from the syllabus of universities is shocking and more so when it involves writers from the Dalit community. I hope the order is withdrawn,” Thirumavalavan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dus-decision-to-remove-works-of-two-dalit-authors-from-its-syllabus-kicks-up-a-political-storm-in-tamil-nadu-1023850.html
26-08-2021||South||84-day gap between two Covishield jabs for efficiency: Centre tells Kerala HC||The Centre on Thursday informed the Kerala High Court that the 84-day gap between the Covishield vaccine's first and second doses is to ensure efficiency. The 84-day gap was fixed on the basis of the recommendation of the Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety for better protection, the Centre informed.  The HC had earlier sought the Centre’s response on the requirement for an 84-day gap after Kochi-based Kitex Garments moved the court seeking permission to give second dose to its 5,000 odd employees. The firm maintained that even as all its employees were provided first dose vaccine, the second dose was getting delayed owing to the 84-day gap being insisted by the authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/84-day-gap-between-two-covishield-jabs-for-efficiency-centre-tells-kerala-hc-1023878.html
26-08-2021||South||Fresh Covid cases above 30,000 in Kerala; deaths crosses 20,000||While the fresh Covid cases of Kerala remained above the 30,000 mark for the second consecutive day, the Covid death rate of Kerala is also witnessing a slight increase as the total deaths crossed the 20,000 mark on Thursday. The Covid death rate of Kerala that remained around 0.4 per cent during the beginning of this year has now crossed the 0.5 per cent mark. The total daily Covid deaths have been witnessing a marginal increase over the last few months. The total Covid deaths of Kerala reached 20,134 by Thursday with 164 more deaths reported in the last 24 hours. This apart 517 non-Covid deaths where persons who got the infection died due to other reasons were also reported in the state. The Covid death rate of Kerala is still much below the national average of around 1.34 per cent. The state health department was highlighting the low death rate as a key achievement of the state’s strategy of ensuring proper medical care to the infected by controlling the spread of Covid. Meanwhile, the fresh cases were remaining alarmingly high. The TPR on Thursday was 18.03 per cent. The increasing trend, which is considered to be the outcome of the lockdown relaxations during Onam, is likely to continue for some more days or weeks, a health department official said. Even as the number of active cases in the state reached 1,81,209, those in hospitals was only 27,425. Over 57 per cent of the hospitals' beds in the state were already occupied. The Left Democratic Front government in the state is coming under severe criticism from the opposition political parties. Opposition leader V D Satheesan of Congress said that the state’s Covid containment strategy was proving to be a failure and hence the state should rework it.  Kerala BJP leader and Minister of state for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should explain the reason why Kerala became the worst state in containing Covid. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fresh-covid-cases-above-30000-in-kerala-deaths-crosses-20000-1023918.html
26-08-2021||State||1,000 EV charging stations in Karnataka by December-end: V Sunil Kumar||Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar, on Wednesday, said that 1,000 electric vehicle (EV) charging stations would be opened across the state before December. Speaking at a progress review meeting here, he expressed displeasure for having just two electric vehicle charging stations in Mysuru city. “Around 100 to 200 charging stations should be opened within 100 days,” he said. Speaking to reporters earlier, he said, “There is no immediate proposal for privatisation of the electricity corporations before the government”. To a question, he said that he has no information on the New Electricity Bill that the Union government intends to bring. It is the decision of the Central government and revision of power tariff is also one among them, he said. Commenting on the government restrictions on the public celebration of the Gowri-Ganesha festival, Sunil Kumar said the norms would be relaxed based on the Covid situation. “Managing Covid is equally important to us, like Ganesha festival. Hence, a decision would be taken carefully,” he said. Earlier, he visited Chamundeshwari temple, atop the Chamundi Hill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/1000-ev-charging-stations-in-karnataka-by-december-end-v-sunil-kumar-1023537.html
26-08-2021||State||Transparency needed in appointment of vice-chancellors: M R Doreswamy||Former adviser to the state government (education reforms) Prof M R Doreswamy has urged the government to bring in transparency in the appointment of vice-chancellors for state-run universities. Doreswamy told reporters, "The government has a habit of appointing sitting VCs to the search committees to select VCs. But, when the sitting VCs are in obligation with the government, how can they give justice during selection?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/transparency-needed-in-appointment-of-vice-chancellors-m-r-doreswamy-1023538.html
26-08-2021||State||PESSAT-2021 results announced||The PES University has announced the results of PESSAT-2021 for admissions to BTech courses. More than 18,000 candidates from across the country had appeared for the test. The counselling for admissions is scheduled to be held on September 4 and 5. The university's first five toppers --- Shikara A,  Aditya Prabhash, Arnav Arvind, Yashas M Salian and Vidya Sagar G --- are from Bengaluru.  The PESSAT-2021 was conducted from July 30 to August 22. The university felicitated the first five rank holders on Wednesday.  Addressing the media after releasing the rank list, Prof M R Doreswamy, chancellor of PES University, said, "The university has given importance to postgraduate courses and encouraged students to pursue higher education through scholarships. The maximum monthly scholarship offered for postgraduate students is Rs 27,000." Explaining about the placements, Doreswamy said, "The placements for this season have started just 15 days ago and already 100 of our students have got the offers and the package varies between Rs 28 lakh and Rs 40 lakh per annum." Sixty-one companies have registered to hire students and the students who are passing out in 2022 are taking part in these placement processes and several other companies are showing interest to take part in the placement process, the university authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pessat-2021-results-announced-1023539.html
26-08-2021||State||Trainee conductor not a workman under Industrial Disputes Act: Karnataka HC||The High Court has said that a trainee conductor on a temporary basis cannot be considered as a workman under the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act. A division bench made this observation while dismissing the appeal filed by a former trainee conductor of NWKRTC challenging the removal order passed during his two-year training period. The appellant was removed on November 20, 2001, after he was found guilty of charges for not issuing tickets to 14 passengers in 1999. A Labour court had ordered his reinstatement with back wages, while the single-judge bench set aside this order and upheld the removal. The former trainee conductor claimed that he had completed 240 days in the corporation, preceding the date of his termination, and hence attained the status of “permanent employee’. He also contended that he is entitled to the benefit under Section 25 B of Industrial Disputes Act. The corporation had also claimed that the appellant was involved in 32 such cases of not issuing the tickets. “A plain reading of the training order dated December 9, 1996, selecting him as a ‘trainee conductor’ on temporary basis and deputing him to undergo training for a period of two years subject to certain conditions, leave no room for doubt that he had not been appointed on permanent basis in the services of the Corporation. It was only after completion of satisfactory training, he could have been considered for appointment provided there is a vacant post and he being found suitable by the recruitment committee as contemplated under regulation 12 of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (Cadre and Recruitment Regulations), 1982,” a division bench headed by Justice B Veerappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/trainee-conductor-not-a-workman-under-industrial-disputes-act-karnataka-hc-1023540.html
26-08-2021||State||Mysuru gang-rape: Survivor recovering, police confident of cracking case soon||The survivor of the alleged gang-rape is responding well to the treatment and is recovering at a private hospital in Mysuru. The 22-year-old girl from Maharashtra, an MBA student at a city college, was allegedly raped by a gang of five persons near Chamundi Hill on Tuesday night. An FIR was filed on Wednesday afternoon in this connection. The parents of the survivor arrived in Mysuru and are taking care of the girl. The girl, along with her male classmate, had been for a ride on a two-wheeler and the accused, who were likely consuming liquor, waylaid them and sexually assaulted the girl, after beating the boy. Following the incident, the boy managed to reach a hospital with the help of one of his friends. Both, the girl and the boy, sustained injuries. The condition of the girl was serious, as she was under shock, when she reached the hospital. Now, she is responding well to the treatment, said an officer. There were rumours that the accused shot a video of the rape and also took photographs of the survivor. It is said that the accused blackmailed of releasing the video, if they fail to pay a ransom. However, a police officer denied the rumours and said, no such incident has come to their notice, during investigation. The city police police have intensified the investigation and have some leads about the crime. ADGP (Law and Order) Pratap Reddy and City Police Commissioner Chandragupta inspected the crime scene. The police are trying to identify the culprits with the help of mobile phone signals. In addition, they have collected CCTV camera footages from some access roads and empty liquor bottles. The police have collected 34 articles from the crime scene. An officer said, the police have received leads about the accused and the culprits will be arrested in a couple of days. The police suspect that a local person and a few migrant workers are involved in the crime.  Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has visited Mysuru and held a meeting with police officials. District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar said, action would be initiated against the police, if lapses were found on their part.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-gang-rape-survivor-recovering-police-confident-of-cracking-case-soon-1023730.html
26-08-2021||State||Mysuru rape case: NCW asks Karnataka Police to take immediate action||The National Commission for Women (NCW) on Thursday asked Karnataka Police to take immediate action against the culprits involved in the rape of a young woman in Mysuru. Taking cognizance of a media report, NCW Chairperson wrote to the Karnataka Director General of Police asking him to take immediate steps to arrest the group of men who sexually assaulted the girl in Chamundi Hills in Mysuru. The girl was with a male friend when a group of men attacked them and later raped her. Sharma has also spoken about the "dreadful incident" with the Chairperson of the Karnataka State Commission for Women. The Commission has also sought to initiate a process to provide the adequate necessary compensation to the survivor as per the rules of the Victim Compensation Scheme enumerated under Section 357A of Criminal Procedure Code, 1972, an official statement said. The NCW has also asked that the survivor must be provided with medical and counselling support. It also directed the authorities to communicate the action taken in the case to the Commission at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-rape-case-ncw-asks-karnataka-police-to-take-immediate-action-1023733.html
26-08-2021||State||Sanjjanaa to challenge FSL reports, says she was on high dose of medications||A day after the CCB police revealed the test results of hair follicle samples in various drug abuse cases registered during 2020, actor Sanjjanaa Galrani was admitted to a private hospital. She was accused in one of the cases that were registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) at Cottonpet police station in 2020. Confirming her admission at a private hospital, Sanjjanaa told DH that her lawyer will challenge the FSL report. “I was on anti-stress tablets and visiting doctors for my mental health and sleep disorders from the day the case had started. They had given me a high dosage of mood elevators. I was consuming 16 tablets a day with a high dose of chemicals. It is no big deal that the FSL report is positive. All my medications are on records. God bless the people who did this to me is all I have to say. Karma will revolt,” Sanjjanaa said. The actress said that just because she was a multilingual celebrity, her popularity has been abused for the sake of publicity. She said life has been very difficult after the case was registered. "Only the best people in my life have stood by me and others have turned their back and walked out with my hard-earned money. Today, I am personally, financially, legally, emotionally drained. I still have very big legal bills to meet. Life was just recovering for me from the sabbatical last year and this FSL report pops out .. again puts me in cheap dirty infamous limelight," she said. "There are many grounds on which the FSL report can be positive or negative--Even certain medications also have various chemicals that influence the tests," she said. Trying to bounce back in the industry, the actress said that she has been doing films. "I have been very busy serving people who are in more pain than me. Also on career front, I am trying to bounce back with work through my social media accounts and did two films after the lockdown which is helping me cope up again," Sanjjanaa explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sanjjanaa-to-challenge-fsl-reports-says-she-was-on-high-dose-of-medications-1023794.html
26-08-2021||State||Bomma-led panel to monitor Jal Jeevan Mission in Karnataka||Keen on speeding up works under the Jal Jeevan Mission which promises drinking water taps in all rural households, the state government has now constituted a monitoring committee led by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to monitor the progress of the Mission. According to a government order in this regard, a high-level committee led by the CM will ensure that the works are implemented on time. The 12-member committee includes K S Eshwarappa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, and P Ravikumar, Chief Secretary, among other senior IAS officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bomma-led-panel-to-monitor-jal-jeevan-mission-in-karnataka-1023889.html
26-08-2021||State||Karnataka CM Bommai demands extension of GST compensation period to states||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday demanded the Centre to extend the GST compensation period to states beyond 2022, for three more years. After a meeting with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the CM said he also discussed the GST (Goods and Services Tax) dues to the tune of Rs 11,000 crore to be paid to Karnataka in installments. "The dues that were to be paid from July 2022 are being advanced through installment from this year. Along with this, I discussed extending the GST compensation to states beyond 2022," he told reporters.  In the meeting, the CM informed FM Sitharaman that the state GST collection has not yet stabilised in view of the Covid-19 crisis, and it would be more helpful in this ongoing revenue crisis if the GST compensation to states is extended for three more years. Karnataka is one of the best performing states since the enactment of GST in 2017. "However, the Covid-19 crisis since the last financial year has brought the state revenue collection down including the GST collections," he said in a representation made to the FM. In the meeting, Bommai -- who is also a member of the GST Council -- also flagged that the 15th Finance Commission in its final report for 2021-26 recommended a reduction in Karnataka's share in tax devolution to 3.647 per cent, as compared to 4.71 per cent recommended by 14th Finance Commission. Since Karnataka has seen the steepest cut of 23 per cent because of the reduction in the devolution share, he requested the FM to reconsider the criteria of horizontal devolution for sharing of resources between the states. The CM also informed that the state government had submitted an additional memorandum to the Commission in this regard. But the Commission has not considered the state's request. "This has severely impacted Karnataka compared to other southern states," he noted. The CM also brought to the notice of the FM that the Central government has not considered the 15th Finance Commission recommendation to award state-specific grants of Rs 6,000 crore to Karnataka for holistic improvement of water bodies of Bengaluru and for Peripheral Ring Road. That apart, the NABARD assistance given to different groups including SC and ST women, Self Help Groups and for infrastructure purposes-- was also discussed in detail with the FM, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-bommai-demands-extension-of-gst-compensation-period-to-states-1023896.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government sets October 2 deadline for setting up goshalas||The state government has set a deadline of October 2, 2021, for setting up goshalas in all districts across the state.  According to a recently issued government order in this regard, each district should have at least one goshala and the government will release Rs 24 lakh per district. In all, the government has released Rs 15 crore for the same. The district administrations have been asked to use the funds for bio fencing, building cow sheds, farm ponds and cultivating fodder. They can take a call on tying up with private trusts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-sets-october-2-deadline-for-setting-up-goshalas-1023529.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru gang-rape: Congress flays delay in filing FIR||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson Manjula Manasa said the delay in filing of FIR in the Mysuru gang-rape case gives rise to suspicion. Speaking to media persons here on Wednesday, Manjula, the former chairperson of Karnataka State Women’s Commission, said the incident occurred around 7.30 pm on Tuesday and the victims — the girl and her friend — have reached a private hospital on their own. On Monday, four armed robbers had allegedly looted a jewellery shop in Vidyarnyapuram, a prime and busy location in Mysuru, shooting a customer to death. It is the first case in the history of Mysuru, when the robbers killed a person with a gun. In July, a mentally-retarded woman was raped in the Destitutes Ward at Krishnaraja (KR) Hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-gang-rape-congress-flays-delay-in-filing-fir-1023533.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka home minister bats for thorough probe into Mysuru gang-rape case||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra said on Wednesday that the state government has swung into action to inquire into the gang-rape incident in Mysuru. A special team has been formed to investigate the matter and an FIR has been lodged, he said. Speaking to reporters here, the minister said a team of senior police officials, led by ADGP Pratap Reddy, had gone to Mysuru on Wednesday to inquire into the incident. “I am too travelling to Mysuru on Thursday,” Jnanendra said. Two students had travelled to the forest area near Helipad in Mysuru. Some miscreants followed them, leading to the unfortunate incident. The student was admitted to the hospital around 1.30 am, the minister said. “We have taken the incident seriously. We will investigate it and bring the culprits to books,” he added. He said compared to a city like Bengaluru, Mysuru is “peaceful” and this incident was “disturbing”. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said in New Delhi that he spoke to DG&IGP about the incident and obtained details from him. “I have directed him to take appropriate action immediately to arrest culprits,” the CM said. Ganesha festival issue As for the public celebration of Ganesh Chathurthi, all the existing restrictions will be in place. “I am aware that some leaders are demanding the government to relax norms. But life is more important. At a time when the third wave is imminent, the restrictions have to be in place,” Jnanendra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-home-minister-bats-for-thorough-probe-into-mysuru-gang-rape-case-1023534.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sets out to double farmers' income by 2023-24||Aiming at becoming the first state to double farmers income by 2023-24, Karnataka will constitute a committee to prepare a report about the same, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. The government has also decided to set up a ‘secondary agriculture directorate’ which will focus on food processing and agro products. He was speaking to reporters following a presentation on the Government of India strategy for doubling farmers income (DFI) by Ashok Dalwai, CEO, National Rainfed Area Authority and chairman of the empowered body on DFI under the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. “We had a detailed discussion on the report submitted by the Centre. Karnataka has taken keen interest in doubling the farmers’ income,” Bommai said, adding that the government was working to ensure that Karnataka becomes the first state to double farmers’ income by 2023-24. The committee will consist of farmers from the state, who will be in touch with the Central government officials to prepare a comprehensive Karnataka-specific report on farmers’ income. The report will be implemented by the state, Bommai said. The CM added that another committee was being constituted under Agriculture Minister B C Patil to focus on seeds, pest and fertiliser management, and improving the fertility of the soil with the help from Agriculture Universities. The second agriculture directorate will be a task force constituted to improve food processing and the agriculture products sector. The directorate will also focus on agriculture-allied activities such as sericulture, animal husbandry, dairy farming, pisciculture and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sets-out-to-double-farmers-income-by-2023-24-1023541.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nandi Hills shut after landslide; greens warn against projects||A landslide at the foot of the Nandi Hills washed away a part of the road and stranded several tourists, prompting officials to close the tourist centre for a month. The incident threw spotlight on the proposed development projects and mining activities in the surrounding areas. The slurry from the landslide washed away a part of the Nandi Hills main road about a kilometre from the checkpost. Tourists were brought down from the hill along a pathway and a temporary road had to be constructed to bring back their vehicles one by one. Deputy Commissioner R Latha, who visited the spot, said the landslide was caused by heavy rains. “Nandi and Brahmagiri hills are part of the same rock formation. The soil has accumulated over years and formed smaller hills. A part of a hill was washed away,” she said, adding that the restoration of the road will take up to a month. “We had already restricted the number of tourists to the hills to the limits of the parking space on the top,” she said. Environmentalists cautioned that the government’s continued support to mining in the area surrounding the hills was destabilising the hills, and said no more development projects should be allowed before studying the carrying capacity. Former secretary of Forest Department A N Yellappa Reddy, who met Assembly Speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri to request declaration of Nandi Hills as a heritage zone, said urgent measures were needed to stop further damage.  “Nandi Hills is part of the Dharwar Craton that forms the bedrock of the southern peninsula. As if the damage caused by mining was not enough, governments have been pushing for unscientific projects, from road widening to the ropeway,” he said. Reddy said the hills support a fragile ecosystem and the landslide was a stark warning. “People visiting the area have to be educated about Nandi Hills being more than just a weekend getaway. The flora and fauna require protection,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nandi-hills-shut-after-landslide-greens-warn-against-projects-1023573.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Interstate river water disputes: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai holds meeting with legal team||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Thursday held a meeting here with legal and technical experts to chalk out strategies for tackling water sharing disputes with neighbouring states.         "Had a detailed discussion with the legal team on Supreme Court cases related to interstate river water disputes. Several issues were discussed," Bommai told reporters after the meeting. The meeting was held at the Karnataka Bhavan here.         Emerging from the meeting, the CM said he had met senior advocates Mohan Khatri on Wednesday and Shyam Divan this morning and discussed ways to proceed in view of the existing water disputes.         With regard to the Mekedatu project, Bommai said it has been decided to put forth the state government's stand when the case gets listed for hearing next time. Karnataka has proposed a balancing reservoir at Mekedatu in Ramanagara district, but the Tamil Nadu government has opposed it vehemently. Further, Bommai said the dispute over Kalasa-Banduri Nala project on Mahadayi river was also discussed. The hearing of this case is listed on September 2. The main issues in the special leave petition were discussed in the meeting, he added.       Holding that water projects being implemented in Tamil Nadu are illegal in nature, Bommai said another petition will be filed in the Supreme Court against the neighbouring state and the matter will also be taken up with the Centre. "Many issues were discussed in the meeting. In a week or so, they will inform us of the progress. Our government is constantly trying to resolve long pending cases," he added. Karnataka Water Resources Minister Govind Karajola, Health Minister K Sudhakar, MP Shivakumar Udasi, Water Resources Department Deputy Chief Secretary Rakesh Singh, chief minister's general secretary Manjunath Prasad, Advocate General Prabhu Linga Navadagi and others were present in the meeting. The CM, on his second day of his visit, plans to call on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/interstate-river-water-disputes-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-holds-meeting-with-legal-team-1023684.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Efforts on to nab culprits in Mysuru gang-rape case: K'taka Home Minister||Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Thursday said that the government and the police department have taken the gang-rape incident in Mysuru "seriously" and all efforts are on to nab the culprits. The Minister said he will be travelling to Mysuru Thursday to take stock of the developments and the situation there. "The incident happened around 7:30-8 PM (on Tuesday), and the victim is admitted in the hospital, where good treatment is being provided. By 12 pm (on Wednesday) FIR was registered. As (the victim) is in shock, we are not able to record her statement completely. But, police have registered an FIR and all efforts are on to trace (the culprits)," Jnanendra said. Speaking to reporters, he said, We have sent our senior police officer ADGP Pratap Reddy from Bengaluru, and Mysuru police commissioner and senior officials have been asked to form teams, investigate seriously, nab the culprits and bring them to justice. "There is no information on any arrests so far, once arrested, it will be made known," he said in response to a question. A college girl was allegedly gang-raped by five men near Chamundi Hill in Mysuru late on Tuesday and the incident came to light on Wednesday. The girl and her male friend, who was assaulted by the gang, are undergoing treatment in a private hospital. The Minister said Mysuru is a tourist place which thousands of people visit, this is incident is "unfortunate" and has made us to bow down our heads in shame. Responding to a question on complaints about lack of patrolling by the police might have led to such an incident, he said, he was going to Mysuru today and will hold a series of meetings with officials there on Friday as well, and try to rectify shortcomings if any. To a question on Congress' allegation that the law and order situation in the state has failed, Jnanendra said, it is unfortunate that they are trying to play politics over such an incident. "This is not an incident to politicise. We have to together see that such incidents don't repeat. Was everything great during Congress rule?" he said. Asked about the health of the victim, the Minister said according to his information, her health is fine, other than she is in a state of shock. "Police are alert, we have taken this incident seriously....her parents have come, according to my information she is from Maharashtra, it is not right to share further information about the victim," he said in response to a question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/efforts-on-to-nab-culprits-in-mysuru-gang-rape-case-ktaka-home-minister-1023705.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Government has taken Mysuru gang-rape case seriously, perpetrators to be caught soon: CM Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said the perpetrators in an alleged gang-rape incident that occured in Mysuru will be caught soon and brought to justice. "It is an unfortunate incident. My govt has taken it very seriously. The perpetrators will be caught soon & brought to justice," he told reporters here. He said he has directed DGP Praveen Sood to ensure that the culprits be arrested at the earliest. A college girl was allegedly raped by five men near Chamundi Hill in Mysuru late on Tuesday and the incident came to light on Wednesday. The girl and her male friend, who was assaulted by the gang, are undergoing treatment in a private hospital. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-has-taken-mysuru-gang-rape-case-seriously-perpetrators-to-be-caught-soon-cm-bommai-1023721.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM meets FM, demands extension of GST compensation to states for 3 more years||Amid fall in state revenue and GST collection in view of Covid-19 crisis, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Thursday demanded the Centre to extend the GST compensation period to states beyond 2022, for three more years. After a meeting with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Bommai said he also discussed the GST (Goods and Services Tax) dues to the tune of Rs 11,000 crore to be paid to Karnataka in installments. "The dues that were to be paid from July 2022 are being advanced through installment from this year. Along with this, I discussed extending the GST compensation to states beyond 2022," he told reporters after the meeting. In the meeting, the CM informed Sitharaman that the state GST collection has not yet stabilised in view of the Covid-19 crisis, and it would be more helpful in this ongoing revenue crisis if the GST compensation to states is extended for three more years. Karnataka is one of the best performing states since the enactment of GST in 2017. "However, the Covid crisis since the last financial year has brought the state revenue collection down including the GST collections," he said in a representation made to the FM. Keeping in mind the revenue crisis in all states, the Centre had provided the GST compensation loan for the 2020-21 fiscal and it has also been extended for the current fiscal. "However, the compensation loan would support the states for only the current financial year, but the impact made by the Covid on revenue collection will be carried forward for next few years also. So, it will take time for GST revenue collection to reach the protected amount," he said. "I request you to kindly reconsider the state's request on extending the GST compensation," the CM stressed. In the meeting, Bommai -- who is also a member of the GST Council -- also flagged that the 15th Finance Commission in its final report for 2021-26 recommended reduction in Karnataka's share in tax devolution to 3.647 per cent, as compared to 4.71 per cent recommended by 14th Finance Commission. Since Karnataka has seen the steepest cut of 23 per cent because of the reduction in the devolution share, he requested the FM to reconsider the criteria of horizontal devolution for sharing of resources between the states. The CM also informed that the state government had submitted an additional memorandum to the Commission in this regard. But the Commission has not considered the state's request. "This has severely impacted Karnataka compared to other southern states," he noted. The CM also brought to the notice of the FM that the central government has not considered the 15th Finance Commission recommendation to award state specific grants of Rs 6,000 crore to Karnataka for holistic improvement of water bodies of Bengaluru and for Peripheral Ring Road. "... the government of India in its explanatory memorandum has not considered the Finance Commission's recommendation. This would be a set back to the state which is already strained due to severe cuts in tax devolution," he said. Bengaluru, the IT and start-up hub of the country, has a major contribution to the services sector of the national economy. And the city has further potential to attract more investments if the critical infrastructure is improved, he said. That apart, the NABARD assistance given to different groups including SC and ST women, Self Help Groups and for infrastructure purposes-- was also discussed in detail with the FM, he added. Bommai on the second day of his visit to Delhi is also scheduled to meet Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Commerce and Food Minister Piyush Goyal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-meets-fm-demands-extension-of-gst-compensation-to-states-for-3-more-years-1023741.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HM's 'rape' & 'secluded spot' remarks evoke angry reactions from Congress||His remarks that the victim and her friend should not have gone to the secluded spot also evoked angry reactions from the opposition party. Speaking to reporters, KPCC president D K Shivakumar condemned the remarks made by Jnanendra. “I seek an answer from BJP leaders (over the comments made). If the Home Minister says that Congress is raping him, what does it reflect about administration in the state. A case should be filed under IPC Section 376 against any Congress leader who tried to rape the Home minister,” he said. Shivakumar said that the Congress party was concerned about the image of Karnataka, and accused the Home minister of divulging the identity of the victim by disclosing the whereabouts of her parents and relatives. “We have no faith in government. They have not arrested even one person even after 24 hours into the incident,” he said. If the minister asks why the victim had gone to the secluded spot, it is clear that there is no freedom for women in the state, he said. Meanwhile, Congress leaders V S Ugrappa demanded the resignation of Jnanendra for his insensitive remarks regarding the case. Committee constituted Shivakumar also announced a fact-finding committee under Ugrappa to visit the spot and submit a report regarding the case. The members of the committee are H M Revanna, Tanveer Sait, Roopa Shashidar, Manjula Manasa, Mallajamma and Manjula Naidu. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hms-rape-secluded-spot-remarks-evoke-angry-reactions-from-congress-1023743.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru gang-rape: Rapists recorded the crime, demanded money||More horrific details have come out in the Mysuru gang-rape. The miscreants had made a video of their act of sexual assault of the college girl and demanded Rs 3 lakh for not making it 'viral' on social media, police sources said on Thursday. The crime had taken place on Tuesday late in the evening. A gang of six miscreants in an inebriated state had targeted the victim who had come to the isolated place with her male friend. They had attacked her male friend with a small boulder. Sources say that the miscreants had raped the girl for nearly two hours. Since the place is isolated and people feared the movement of leopards, the miscreants were sure that their act would go unnoticed and no one would come to the girl's rescue. The miscreants had hit the victim's friend repeatedly with a small boulder, slapped and assaulted him. Both pleaded that they won't tell anyone about the incident. Even after that, the gang continued their attack and left them at the isolated place in an almost unconscious state. Somehow, the victim and her friend reached a hospital and told the authorities that they were attacked. They did not reveal what actually happened fearing the release of the video. But later the victim's male friend told the police about the rape. The police have recovered empty bottles and cans of beer from the area. The police sources said they are working on tracking calls from the tower location as they suspect the miscreants of spending more time there. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Women has taken suo motu notice of the gang rape case and registered a case. Rekha Sharma, the Chairperson, has stated that the commission would meet the victim on Thursday. Opposition leader Siddaramaiah has slammed the government that it has failed to maintain law and order in the state. Incidents of loot, attacks are on the rise, he said. The police are gathering information from the friend of the victim but no breakthrough has been made so far. The state government has appointed ADGP Pratap Reddy to head the investigation into the incident. The police are searching for clues as no CCTVs are installed in that area. As per preliminary information obtained from the girl and her friend, the rapists spoke in Kannada indicating they are locals. The police are waiting for the detailed statement of the victim and drawing up sketches of the miscreants based on the information given to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-gang-rape-rapists-recorded-the-crime-demanded-money-1023773.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,213 new Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths ||Karnataka reported 1,213 new Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths on Thursday, taking the total number of infections to 29,43,463 and the toll to 37,231, the health department said on Thursday. The day also saw 1,206 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,86,906. Bengaluru Urban logged the most number of cases (319), as the city saw 205 discharges and two deaths. Active cases in the state stood at 19,300. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.64 per cent, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was at 2.06 per cent. Of the 25 deaths, 10 were from Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru accounted for three, Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, Dharwad and Udupi had two each, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 319, Dakshina Kannada 269, Udupi 113, Mysuru 98, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,36,229, followed by Mysuru 1,75,639 and Tumakuru 1,19,084. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,12,910, followed by Mysuru 1,72,235 and Tumakuru 1,17,297. Cumulatively a total of 4,26,45,456 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,87,187 were done on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1213-new-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-1023834.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||B V Nagarathna: The new Supreme Court judge with roots in Mandya village||B V Nagarathna, who was recently appointed as a Supreme Court Judge, hails from Engalaguppe Chatra village in Pandavapura taluk in Mandya district. She is expected to be the second Chief Justice of India from the same family. Her father E S Venkataramaiah served as the 19th CJI for six months in 1989. President Ram Nath Kovid approved the list recommended by the Supreme Court collegium on Thursday paving the way for her to become the first CJI in 2027 for one month between September 25 and October 29. If Nagarathna assumes office as CJI in 2027, history will be created with both father and daughter serving as the CJI. Nagarathna, born on October 30, 1962, completed SSLC at Sophia School in Bengaluru. As her father served as the SC judge in Delhi, she completed her education there. She received her degree at the Law College in Delhi in 1987. She started career as an advocate in Karnataka High Court. She was appointed as the additional judge of Karnataka High Court in 2008 and as a full-time judge in 2010. Nagarathna's is a joint family and there is a house at Engalaguppe Chatra village. Her uncle E S Seetharamaiah and aunt Premamma reside here. Seetharamaiah's son E S Indresh is a High Court judge. Her cousin E S Radhakrishna said, "Though Nagarathna studied in Bengaluru, she has enjoyed the village life during vacations. If she comes to Mysuru, she visits the village".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-v-nagarathna-the-new-supreme-court-judge-with-roots-in-mandya-village-1023838.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't agree with home minister's remarks over Mysuru gang-rape case: Karnataka CM Bommai||Disapproving the comments made by Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra that the victim of the Mysuru gang-rape case and her male friend should not have gone to the secluded place, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said that he has advised him to give clarification.   The CM, who was in two-day tour to Delhi told reporters that he also does not approve the Home Minister's statement that the opposition Congress was trying to "rape" him by targeting him over the incident. "I just don't agree with the comments made by the Home Minister regarding the girl and gang-rape incident. I have advised him to give clarification," the Chief Minister said, adding, "I have directed the officials to pursue the matter seriously and update me on the developments." "Our government takes these incidents seriously. The government will form a special team to investigate the case of gang-rape of the college student in Mysuru, he said. Bommai also asserted that the perpetrators will be caught soon and brought to justice. “I have spoken to Mysuru City Police Commissioner and Additional Director General (ADGP) Pratap Reddy and asked them to speed up the investigation. We will immediately form a special team," the CM said. "The Commissioner is speaking to the victim and her parents about the incident.The investigation is under progress. We will not compromise (on the investigation)," he said, adding that the government will ensure that culprits get the harshest punishment. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-agree-with-home-ministers-remarks-over-mysuru-gang-rape-case-karnataka-cm-bommai-1023840.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Avoid secluded spots: Minister Anand singh tells young lovers, newly-weds||Tourism minister Anand Singh also landed in a soup on Thursday, saying that young lovers and newly-wed couples should not go to secluded places. This was in response to queries on the gang rape of a student in Mysuru. "Be it young lovers or newlywed couples, they shouldn't go to such places. We cannot tell everyone not to go," he said, recommending the forest department to create awareness about secluded places so that people avoid getting into such areas. "If we have to do more than that, there is the police. But, we can't depute policemen on guard duty at all such spots," he said, adding that creating awareness was the only way to prevent people from going to secluded spots. Singh's remark came hours after Home Minister Araga Jnanendra's remarks that the victims should not have visited such a spot late in the evening. He had also said that "Congress was raping" him over the issue. Following criticism from various quarters, the minister withdrew his statement. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/avoid-secluded-spots-minister-anand-singh-tells-young-lovers-newly-weds-1023843.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on primary school classes on Aug 30: Nagesh||Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said that the task force, led by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, will hold a meeting on August 30 to decide on commencement of offline classes from 1 to 8 in schools. Nagesh informed reporters here on Thursday that classes from class 9 to second PUC have been started from August 23. "We have received a good response from teachers, parents and education experts. Based on the pros and cons, a decision on commencement of classes from first to eight standard will be taken," he said. A committee, headed by expert Dr Devi Shetty, has advised commencement of classes of primary schools. But a decision would be taken based on the report of the technical committee. Covid-19 third wave, if surfaces, then a decision on closing schools would be taken, he said. Counseling for transfer of teachers would start from September 5 and care would be taken to facilitate maximum number of teachers, he added. Nagesh said, textbooks have been distributed to 50% students and books were available for students of class 9 and 10. By September 15, all schools would get 100% textbooks, he added. He said no school has been selected on pilot basis for implementation of New Education Policy. Private schools, if come forward, would be given approval in this regard, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-primary-school-classes-on-aug-30-nagesh-1023881.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to enact law for welfare of lawyers: Basavaraj Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has assured that a law ensuring the welfare of the advocate fraternity will soon be enacted. He was speaking after inaugurating a bilingual monthly publication titled 'Vakila Vahini'. He said Advocates Association Bangalore (AAB) has submitted representations seeking a law to protect the interests of the advocates. He also said that the state government will ensure a health insurance scheme to the advocates as directed by the High Court in a recent PIL. "We may need the assistance of the advocate fraternity in finalising the draft bill that the state government intends to table in the upcoming assembly session. The draft bill may require a little modification which will be incorporated after consultation," he told the advocates. It can be recalled that the state government in August 2021 decided to release an additional amount of Rs 4 crore as financial aid to lawyers to help advocates tide over the Covid-19 situation. The state government had made this submission before the division bench hearing a Public Interest Litigation seeking court’s intervention for a direction to the state government. Last year, the state government had released Rs 5 crore for the benefit of the advocates and advocate clerks in distress due to the pandemic situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-enact-law-for-welfare-of-lawyers-basavaraj-bommai-1023882.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RTCs to get part of salary expenditure in govt aid||Following repeated complaints over the 1.1 lakh road transport corporation (RTC) workers not being paid for over a month, the state government, issued an order for the release of 25% of the grant-in-aid to disburse salary for the month of July. The four state-owned transport corporations had submitted a proposal seeking an aid of Rs 641.61 crore. KSRTC, NWKRTC and KKRTC have together received Rs 61.82 crore (25%) of the money they need to pay the workers. BMTC has received 50% (Rs 49.31 crore) of the amount.   The four corporations have to meet the remaining salary expenditure from their own resources, the government has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rtcs-to-get-part-of-salary-expenditure-in-govt-aid-1023883.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid positivity rate in Karnataka dips to 0.64%||Karnataka on Thursday reported 1,213 fresh Covid-19 cases and 25 deaths as the total number of infections swelled to 29,43,463 and the toll to 37,231. A total of 1,206 people were discharged from hospitals across the state, post-recovery. The number of recoveries in the state rose to 28,86,906. As on Aug 26, there are 19,300 active carriers of the virus inthe state. The positivity rate for the day stood at 0.64% while the case fatality rate was2.06%. Of the 25 deaths reported in last 24 hours, Dakshina Kannada reported 10, Mysuru accounted for three while Bengaluru Rural, Bengaluru Urban, Dharwad and Udupi saw two fatalities each. Bengaluru Urban logged the most number of cases (319) followed by Dakshina Kannada 269, Udupi 113 and Mysuru 98. A total of 4,26,45,456 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,87,187 were done on Thursday alone. On Thursday, 4,12,211 Covid vaccine doses were administered taking the tally to 3,88,84,515.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-positivity-rate-in-karnataka-dips-to-064-1023886.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Get computer certified before March 2022 or forego promotion, increments: Karnataka govt to staff||Having made computer skills' certification mandatory for government jobs, the state government has now set a seven-month deadline for all its employees to get a computer skill certification. A recent government order in this regard issued by Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) has set a deadline of March 22, 2022 for the staff to get themselves certified through Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation (KEONICS). The order cites the Karnataka State Civil Service (Computer Literacy Test) Rules, 2012, which specifies that all employees have to be computer literate and certified to be eligible for promotions or increments. Employees who overshoot the March deadline will not be considered for either promotions or increments, the order stated. Even though the government set the Rules in 2012, the guidelines were not issued until 2017 and after that, the deadline was extended for several reasons including the issue of exam centres being restricted only to a few districts such as Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi and Mysuru, explained C S Shadakshari, president, Karnataka State Government Employees Association. Now, the government has set up centres in all districts, he said. With the recently issued deadline, several government employees are now rushing to pass the computer test. "I myself passed the test only few days ago. With the literacy test being linked to the state's Human Resources Management System (HRMS), employees of several boards and corporations where HRMS was not implemented, could not take the test earlier. Since the HRMS is now in place, several of us are taking the test," Shadakshari added. While majority of the employees have cleared the exam, some new recruits and older employees who were intimidated by the process were left out of the loop. All of them will now take the exam. "Although one may know how to use a computer, answering technical questions and writing an exam, needs preparation. The employees association has also distributed training material to help staff clear the exam," according to Raghu, treasurer of the association. The syllabus prescribes basics of usage of mail, powerpoint, creating slides and usage of internet among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/get-computer-certified-before-march-2022-or-forego-promotion-increments-karnataka-govt-to-staff-1023894.html
26-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Tourism Dept mulls 'privatisation' of properties for better occupancy ||Struggling to overcome the losses triggered by the Covid pandemic and ensure maximum occupancy of travellers at all its establishments, the tourism department is mulling to rope in private players to run some of the tourist facilities across Karnataka including Jungle Lodges and Resorts (JLR) and Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) run facilities. Holding a review meeting of the tourism department on Thursday after assuming charge as tourism minister a couple of days ago, Anand Singh told media persons that the department is discussing the possibility of privatising government tourism properties including KSTDC hotels and JLR facilities. "The state government alone can not develop all the facilities and we can not expect that it should allocate funds in the budget. Instead, we should earn the revenue and spend the same on maintaining the staff and facilities. In my own district, there is a JLR facility near to Hampi. In a few meters distance, there is also private property. While we struggled to fill even 80 per cent, the private property at the same time would have had 80 per cent bookings. We want to address these problems. If we rope in private players, without selling off the properties, on a profit-sharing basis, we can turn around the situation," the minister explained. Singh also allayed the fears that the properties be sold to private players. "We (government) will retain the ownership and only the management will be entrusted to private persons. Also, the idea is still in the discussion stage. Privatisation does not mean we sell off government properties for some kickback," the minister explained. He also said that they are yet to discuss whether the plan is executed on a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model or invite interest by calling global tenders. The minister and officials also discussed the possibility of handing over 'Yatri Nivas' properties of the tourism department to the Religious Endowment (Muzrai) department as most of them are attached to the temples belonging to the department. Besides, the department has also agreed to divert Rs 70 to Rs 80 crore budget earmarked for publicity for the development of basic infrastructure at top 10 tourism places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-tourism-dept-mulls-privatisation-of-properties-for-better-occupancy-1023925.html
26-08-2021||West||Fishermen protest against plan to shift them from Mumbai's Crawford Market||Fisherman from Mumbai and neighbouring areas have opposed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) plan to relocate fish vendors from the historical Crawford Market. Nearly 1,200 fishermen and representatives of the Koli community from across the city and neighbouring areas like Dahanu, Vasai, Thane and Raigad on Wednesday staged a protest outside the BMC headquarters in south Mumbai, said Devendra Tandel, president of the Akhil Maharashtra Machhimar Kriti Samiti (AMMKS). They opposed the BMC's plan to shift fish vendors from the Crawford Market in south Mumbai to Airoli in Navi Mumbai and other parts of the metropolis, he said. The BMC has already demolished the fish market in Mumbai's Dadar area, he pointed out. The Crawford Market acts like an agriculture produce marketing committee (APMC) of fish trade and shifting vendors to Airoli would affect the business, Tandel claimed. He said fish vendors should instead be relocated nearby or somewhere in Dadar. Joint Municipal Commissioner Ramesh Pawar met the AMMKS delegation though they had sought a meeting with BMC Commissioner I S Chahal, he said, adding that they did not receive any assurance from the civic body. In a representation submitted to the BMC, AMMKS demanded temporary relocation of fish vendors to Carnac Bunder and Cotton Green areas in Mumbai, until a new shed is built for them at the Crawford Market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fishermen-protest-against-plan-to-shift-them-from-mumbais-crawford-market-1023651.html
26-08-2021||West||Narayan Rane rakes up issue of deaths of Disha Salian, Pooja Chavan||In what may snowball into a political issue yet again, Union MSMEs Minister Narayan Rane has raked up the issue involving the deaths of celebrity and talent manager Disha Salian and TikTok star Pooja Chavan. Disha Salian was briefly associated with Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput who died by suicide over than a year ago. Without taking any names, Rane on Wednesday demanded to know who was responsible for the deaths of Disha Salian and Pooja Chavan. “How did Disha Salian die? Who was present at the crime scene?...Which minister was present? Why have the police not established the cause of her death?... What about the death of Pooja Chavan? I am not going to sit quietly till the ministers responsible for the two deaths are arrested,'' he said. He also threatened to move the court for justice. “If need be I will move the court. Let me see who protects them,” Rane said. Disha (28) had reportedly ended her life by jumping from the 14th floor of Galaxy Regent building at Malad in the far western suburbs of Mumbai on the intervening night of June 8-9, 2020. Her death had taken place five days before the dead body of Sushant (34) was found at his rented duplex flat in Bandra in northwest Mumbai on June 14, 2020. Pooja Chavan (22) had allegedly ended her life by jumping off the Heaven Park building in Pune’s Wanwadi locality on the intervening night of February 7-8, 2021. Following her death, the name of state Forest Minister and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod cropped up, after which he had to resign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/narayan-rane-rakes-up-issue-of-deaths-of-disha-salian-pooja-chavan-1023687.html
26-08-2021||West||Maharashtra farmer seeks permission to cultivate cannabis on his farm||A farmer from Solapur in Maharashtra has approached the district administration seeking permission to grow ganja (cannabis) plants on his farm, saying the contraband fetches a good rate in market and claimed there is no fixed price for any agricultural produce. However, the district administration forwarded the farmer's application to police, who termed it as a "publicity stunt". The cultivation of cannabis, also known as marijuana, is prohibited under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Anil Patil, the farmer from Mohol tehsil in Solapur, in his application sent to Solapur district collector on Wednesday, said there was no fixed price (MSP) for any crop and hence, the agriculture business was running into losses. "As agriculture produce fetches a pittance, farming is turning out to be difficult. Even the input cost of cultivation of any crop is not recovered. The dues of sugarcane sold to sugar factories are unpaid," he said in the plea. Claiming that there was a good price for ganja in the market, Patil sought permission to cultivate it on his two-acre land. He also asked the district administration to give him permission by September 15 to grow ganja plants on his farmland, failing which he would start the cultivation from September 16, presuming that he has been given the nod for it. "If any offence is registered against me for ganja cultivation, the administration will be responsible," he said in the application. However, Mohol police station's senior inspector Ashok Saykar said the farmer's application was just a "publicity stunt". "If he resorts to such an act (cultivating ganja), we will register an offence against him," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-farmer-seeks-permission-to-cultivate-cannabis-on-his-farm-1023688.html
26-08-2021||West||Extortion case filed against Mumbai Police DCP, two other cops||Police have filed an extortion case against Mumbai Deputy Commissioner of Police Akbar Pathan and two other cops, one of them arrested for the killing of businessman Mansukh Hiran, on a complaint by a man who is an accused in a cheating case, an official said on Thursday. The complainant, Gurusharan Singh Chavan, faces a cheating case lodged at the Andheri MIDC police station in suburban Mumbai last year. He is one of the accused in a criminal case related to cheating people on the pretext of selling a "rice puller" metal device, claiming it had magical properties to pull rice out of grains, police said. The extortion FIR against Pathan and the two others was registered by the Amboli police on Wednesday on orders of the metropolitan magistrate's court in Andheri, the official said. The others named in the FIR are inspector Chimaji Adhav, who was earlier with the crime branch, and dismissed Assistant Police Inspector (API) Sunil Mane, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the murder of Thane businessman Hiran, a case linked to the bomb scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February, he said. In his complaint, Chavan has claimed the trio took Rs 17 lakh from him via a police informer for not framing him in a cheating and forgery case, the official said. The three policemen allegedly asked for more money, but when he refused to pay, they filed a criminal case related to cheating and forgery against him at the MIDC police station. Pathan, who earlier served as DCP (Crime), is currently attached to the local arms division, while inspector Adhav is attached to the Byculla police station. This is the second FIR against Pathan. In July, real estate developer Shyamsunder Agarwal had lodged a complaint at the Marine Drive police station against two builders and six police officers, including Pathan, who were probing a case related to Agarwal's alleged nexus with the underworld. In his complaint, Agarwal had claimed Pathan demanded Rs 50 lakh and a flat in Bhayander on Mumbai's outskirts for not invoking the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against him. Agarwal had also named former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in his complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/extortion-case-filed-against-mumbai-police-dcp-two-other-cops-1023801.html
26-08-2021||West||22 students in Mumbai school test Covid-19 positive||Amid fears of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, 22 students from the St Joseph School and Orphanage in Mumbai have tested positive for the coronavirus.  The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) sealed the school on Thursday. According to BMC officials, a total of 95 students were screened at the Scouter Street dispensary, of which 22 tested Covid-19 positive. Of these 22, four were below the age of 12 and were shifted to the paediatric care wing of the Nair Hospital.  The remaining 18 include twelve in the 12-18 age group and six above 18. They were shifted to the Richardson and Cruddas Covid Care Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/22-students-in-mumbai-school-test-covid-19-positive-1023810.html
26-08-2021||West||Congress leader’s election petition accusing Thackeray to come up for hearing in Bombay High Court||In a significant development, an election petition filed by senior Congressman and former minority affairs minister Mohammed Arif Naseem Khan against now Shiv Sena MLA Dilip Lande would come up for hearing in the Bombay High Court on Friday. Khan is currently the working president of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC). In the 2019 October Vidhan Sabha polls, Khan lost the Chandivali seat by a narrow margin of 409 votes against Lande. Khan, in his plea, has pointed out on 20 October, 2019, Shiv Sena president and now chief minister Uddhav Thackeray along with his close aide and now state transport minister Anil Parab and film actor Milind Gunaji had campaigned beyond the stipulated campaigning period.  Polling in the state was held on 21 October, 2019. According to Khan's petition, a fake video was circulated showing him raising the slogan of “Pakistan zindabad”.  The petition would be heard - for the first time  - before a division bench headed by Justice SK Shinde.  Khan had lodged a complaint against Lande, however, the Returning Officer did not take any action.  “The unlawful campaign during the prohibited 48 hours of elections by Thackeray with his large convoy and protection was against Election Commission norms. The aforesaid acts have resulted in an unlawful election process resulting in election of Lande by a margin of 409 votes,” the petition states.  Incidentally, the Shiv Sena and BJP contested the polls together. However, after the polls, the Shiv Sena forged an alliance with opposition NCP-Congress to keep BJP out of power and formed the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-leader-s-election-petition-accusing-thackeray-to-come-up-for-hearing-in-bombay-high-court-1023860.html
26-08-2021||West||Will get Congress battle-ready for 2022 Goa polls; select loyal candidates: P Chidambaram||The Congress will be battle-ready for the 2022 Goa assembly polls and the party will prop up "loyal" candidates who will not switch over to the BJP, former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram said on Thursday while steering clear of media queries related to change in the party's state leadership and over the issue of patching up an alliance with like-minded parties. The veteran politician was in Goa on a two-day visit to the state as the All India Congress Committee's senior observer to oversee processes linked to the state assembly polls, which are scheduled to be held in early 2022. "My initial assessment is that the political atmosphere is extremely favourable to the Congress party. By all accounts, including accounts which I read in the media, there is an expectation that there will be a change in government and a new government led by the Congress will be formed after the elections," Chidambaram said. "If that is the expectation of the people of Goa, I want to assure the people of Goa that we will not disappoint you. We will get the party ready for elections and we will present to the people of Goa a set of candidates who will be loyal, faithful to the ideology hardworking and will serve the interests of the people of Goa," Chidambaram further said. When asked about the possibility of a change in leaders, as voiced by some senior state Congress leaders, including former Chief Minister Francisco Sardinha, Chidambaram said that replacing state leadership was not part of his mandate. When asked if the party was seeking to forge an alliance with other like-minded political outfits in the state to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, the former Union Finance Minister said: "Again that is not the mandate now. Those are matters which will be discussed if necessary at the appropriate time. But at the moment it is to get the party battle-ready in all the 40 constituencies". Commenting on the disillusionment among the traditional Congress vote bank over the repeated saga of desertion of party MLAs to the ruling BJP, Chidambaram said: "... but (over) the last four and a half years he's (voter) even disappointed with the performance of the present government. He's even more disappointed with the failure of the present government". "...I'm assuring him now that we will present a set of candidates who are loyal, who are faithful to the ideologies of the party and who will serve the interest of the people of Goa," Chidambaram also said. 13 Congress MLAs have quit the party to join the BJP since 2017. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-get-congress-battle-ready-for-2022-goa-polls-select-loyal-candidates-p-chidambaram-1023875.html
26-08-2021||West||Covid-19 second surge: Gujarat records 480% excess mortality in April 2021, world’s highest||Raising fresh questions on India's official Covid-19 death toll, a new study has estimated that the excess mortality in 54 of 162 municipalities in Gujarat since the beginning of the pandemic exceeds the official Covid-19 death count for the entire state. In April 2021, when the second wave of the epidemic was surging throughout the country, Gujarat reported 480% excess deaths over the state’s average mortality registered in April 2019 and April 2020. The excess death reported in Gujarat was the highest anywhere in the world. The research carried out by public health experts at the Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health, Boston; University of California, Berkley and National Foundation of India is the latest in a growing list of studies claiming large-scale underreporting of Covid-19 deaths in India – a charge that has been consistently denied by the Union Health Ministry.  Using data from municipal death registers, the Indo-US estimated 16,000 excess deaths across 54 municipalities in Gujarat since March 2020. Most of these deaths – around 9,500 - occurred during the second wave, between January and April 2021. The municipalities represent only 5% of the population of the western state. The official Covid-19 death count for the whole of Gujarat from March 2020 to August 16, 2021 is 10,075. As of August 26, the toll stands at 10,080.  “The most striking deviation from the baseline is for the month of April 2021, where we estimate 480% more deaths than expected,” the team reported in the study, which is yet to be peer-reviewed and was released on a preprint server. For comparison, in April 2021, Ecuador recorded a 411% increase and Peru recorded a 345% increase in mortality. In Gujarat, mortality was more among the females and the 40-60 age group, which experienced a greater increase from baseline mortality compared to other demographic groups. “The vast majority of these excess deaths likely represent direct deaths from Covid-19 in the absence of any other known catastrophe. A small percentage of these would include deaths from the indirect impact of the pandemic and from causes unrelated to the pandemic,” the team said. Such a large discrepancy between official Covid-19 death counts and excess mortality underscored the need to rectify how official death counts are collated, the researchers said. Reliance on death certificates as the single source of truth, they observed, was not the best option to establish the truth when access to health systems, testing availability and death certification accuracy are all weak. Previously, researchers suspected underreporting of Covid-19 deaths in many states. In June, the Patna High Court delivered a judgement with evidence of such underreporting in one district of Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-second-surge-gujarat-records-480-excess-mortality-in-april-2021-world-s-highest-1023911.html
26-08-2021||West||Gujarat government to challenge HC's stay order on anti-conversion law in SC||Hours after the Gujarat High Court refused to modify its order staying several sections of contentious anti-conversion law described by the government as "anti-love jihad law", the Vijay Rupani government on Thursday evening said in a statement that it will challenge the order in the Supreme Court. Announcing the decision, minister of state for law Pradipsinh Jadeja was quoted in a statement released by the government as saying, "In Gujarat, we are moving ahead with a firm resolve to protect sisters and daughters of all religions, including Hindus. To fight jihadi elements who misbehave with daughters, we brought a weapon in the form of anti-love jihad law as a result of a determined political will. The state government has tried to protect the sisters and daughters by passing the Gujarat religion freedom bill in the state legislative assembly with the auspicious intention of banning marriages performed under false Hindu names, symbols, enticed by greed or temptation." Jadeja claimed that "sensitive" chief minister Vijay Rupani introduced this law to "protect his sisters and daughters" without any political agenda. However, he has been quoted in the statement, "While the state government has tried to protect sisters by passing the Gujarat Freedom of Religion Amendment Bill, several opposition elements have misinterpreted the law and filed petitions in the court, which has stayed the law against which government will have to move the Supreme Court." The petitions challenging the law were filed by Jamiat Ulama-e-Hind, Gujarat and an activist Mujahid Nafees. Earlier last week, the division bench led by outgoing chief justice Vikram Nath had stayed the controversial sections by holding that "Prima-facie inter-faith marriages between two consenting adults by operation of the provisions of Section 3 of the 2003 Act interferes with the intricacies of marriage including the right to the choice of an individual, thereby infringing Article 21 of the Constitution Of India." Section 3 of the act prohibits religious conversion of any person by use of force or allurement or by any fraudulent means. The Vijay Rupani government amended this section by adding marriage as a medium of conversion by amending the Gujarat Freedom Of Religion Act, 2003. The high court had said, "A plain reading of Section 3 would indicate that any conversion on account of marriage is also prohibited." The order noted that the way state government is trying to interpret its reasoning may not be understood by the common man. The order stated the prima facie section 3 of the Act makes an interfaith married and subsequent conversion a criminal offence. The court also said that "From the perception of the common man, it appears that merely because a conversion occurs because of marriage, it per se cannot be held to be an unlawful conversion or a marriage done for the purpose of unlawful conversion." The court has also pointed out how Section 6A of the Act places the burden of proof on interfaith couples "to prove that the marriage was not solemnised on account of any fraud, allurement or coercion. This again puts the parties validly entering into an inter-faith marriage in great jeopardy." After this order, the government moved a modification plea against suspension of Section 5 of the new law. This section mandates that religious priests must take prior permission from the district magistrate for any religious conversion. Besides, district magistrates are required to to be informed in a prescribed form. The division bench refused to rectify its order while stating, "We do not find any good reason to make any change in the order passed by us on 19.08.2021. Accordingly, the note for speaking to minutes stands disposed off." On August 19, the court stayed sections 3, 4, 4A to 4C, 5, 6 and 6A, which deal with interfaith marriages and religious conversion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-government-to-challenge-hcs-stay-order-on-anti-conversion-law-in-sc-1023914.html
26-08-2021||West||Two sanitation workers die of suffocation in Gujarat, third missing||Two sanitation workers died of suffocation in a sewer while the search for third one was on for over ten hours on Thursday in the outskirts of Ahmedabad city. Fire officials said that although rescue operation is on to find the missing worker but there was slim chances of his survival in the pit. Fire officials received an emergency rescue call at around 12 PM. The team rushed to the spot located in Bopal area under Ahmedabad rural police station. Fire officials said that they could immediately fished out the two sanitation workers who were unconscious and were declared brought dead in the hospital. "The two workers had entered the pit to rescue their missing co-worker. They didn't have any safety equipments with them and died due to suffocation. We are trying to locate the missing worker but his chances of survival is very less given the toxic fumes in the 30 feet deep sewer line," said a fire official who was part of the rescue team. Ahmedabad rural Superintendent of Police Virendra Yadav told DH that the contractor was detained soon after the incident came to light and process of filing an FIR under section 304 of IPC (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), among other charges, was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-sanitation-workers-die-of-suffocation-in-gujarat-third-missing-1023927.html
