27-08-2021||First Edit||Madras HC voiced southern states’ concern||The Madras High Court’s observations on the decrease in the political representation of Tamil Nadu in the Lok Sabha are significant in view of the rising concern in some states over the consequences of the delimitation of Lok Sabha constituencies, scheduled to be done post-2026. Till 1962, Tamil Nadu had 41 seats in the Lok Sabha, but this was reduced to 39 in 1967 because the state’s population growth declined as a result of its success in implementing family welfare measures. The number of seats for a state in the Lok Sabha is linked to its population as there has to be an equivalence in the number of electors that a legislator represents. The court observed that the reduction in Tamil Nadu’s seats was "unfair and unreasonable.’’ It posed some questions and made some proposals to address the problem. There is concern among Opposition parties over the matter. Some Congress leaders have alleged that the Modi government plans to bring about a constitutional amendment and conduct delimitation before the 2024 elections to raise the number of Lok Sabha seats to 1,000. Since the population has increased in the northern states faster than in the southern states, the former will get higher representation in the House than the latter. Delimitation was originally meant to take place after every census but because of the differential rise in population, it was decided to freeze the exercise until after 2026. Holding it even post-2026 would go against states that have reduced their populations. The Opposition thinks that the government may go in for delimitation now because it will be advantageous to the BJP as the states where it is dominant will get more seats and those where it is weak will see a fall in seats. The court noted that changes in the number of seats would increase or decrease the political power of states. It said that the loss of even one seat is important, and recalled that the Vajpayee government lost the no-confidence vote in 1999 by one vote. It suggested that the states facing loss of political representation should be compensated either financially or with higher representation in the Rajya Sabha. But neither of these suggestions would be enough to make up for the loss of Lok Sabha seats. Either the freeze on delimitation should be extended beyond 2026 or the number of seats should be increased in such a way that the present relative balance of political power among states is maintained. Even this is debatable, because even an absolute number of one seat can make and unmake governments. It must, in any case, be ensured that states that have slowed down their population growth do not suffer for that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/madras-hc-voiced-southern-states-concern-1023949.html
27-08-2021||First Edit||Highway to Bandipur’s destruction||While environmental activists have so far managed to stave off the Kerala government’s manoeuvres to get the night ban on traffic through Bandipur National Park lifted, they now have to contend with the National Highway Authority of India’s (NHAI) move to divert nearly 24 acres of the tiger reserve land to widen an existing highway stretch of about 13 km. While two highways cut through the park, the NHAI has sought a nod from the Union environment and forest ministry to expand NH-181 which connects Mysuru to Ooty, without “any hindrance” from the Karnataka forest department. This road is frequented by tourists. What has raised eyebrows is the NHAI’s move to bypass not only the eco-sensitive notification for the park, which mandates an environment impact assessment while widening roads, but also the state forest department, which has consistently opposed attempts to allow increased vehicular movement within the reserve area, including a proposal to construct flyovers and underpasses. The Guidelines for Roads in Protected Areas also lays down that the status quo should be maintained on roads passing through national parks and tiger habitats, while allowing for existing carriageways to be repaired and maintained only in their current form and extent. Besides tigers, Bandipur is home to several species like the elephant, leopard, chital, sambar, barking deer, langur and rusty-spotted cat, besides reptiles, birds and amphibians. With increasing animal deaths due to accidents, the Karnataka High Court had in 2009 banned night traffic through the park, which was upheld by the Supreme Court. The existing highways already have a huge adverse impact on wildlife, obstructing the free movement of animals, higher mortality due to accidents, and even impacting the behaviour of animals, in addition to noise and air pollution. Environmentalists see the proposal to widen the 13-km stretch as a ruse to then widen the rest of the highway through the forests also in due course, which can only spell doom for wildlife. Bandipur is also an important watershed for Kabini and Moyar rivers. The animals in the wild have the first right to the forests. To dissect the forests and further shrink them with highways and other infrastructure projects for the sake of human convenience, instead of investing all available resources on conservation, is foolhardy. The NHAI’s attempt to widen the road, skirting existing rules in the process, is condemnable. Bandipur is among the few pristine forest areas still left in the country and it should be protected at all costs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/highway-to-bandipur-s-destruction-1024297.html
27-08-2021||In Perspective||Taxing MNCs: G-7 formula is flawed||The agreement reached by the finance ministers of the advanced economies at the G-7 meeting on taxing MNCs stands on two main pillars: one, a global minimum corporate tax (GMCT) rate of 15%, and two, “reaching an equitable solution on the allocation of taxing rights, with market countries awarded taxing rights on at least 20% of profit exceeding a 10% margin for the largest and most profitable multinational enterprises.” Concurrently, efforts are to be made for the removal of all Digital Services Taxes (DST) imposed on these companies by several countries. The move is prompted by MNCs registering in low-tax jurisdictions such as the Netherlands, Ireland and Luxembourg, and showing all their revenues and profits in those jurisdictions regardless of where their sales are made. This way, they avoid paying higher taxes in the ‘source’ country and cause a corresponding loss of revenue to the latter— around $100 billion annually, according to the Tax Justice Network (TJN).  India, too, is losing heavily— around $10 billion annually— according to TJN. The loss is mostly due to digital giants such as Google, Facebook and Amazon reporting the bulk of the revenues generated from Indian customers in the books of their investment arms/subsidiaries registered in tax havens such as Singapore, Mauritius and Ireland. How does the G-7 address this? Under pillar I, by requiring every country to set a floor tax rate, it wants to kill the very urge that drives MNCs to register their subsidiaries in low-tax jurisdictions. Under pillar II, source countries get to tax a certain portion of the profits generated by such companies from the operations in their territories. Far from helping, however, this prescription will only create more anomalies. A globally determined minimum tax rate will interfere with the sovereign right of a country to galvanise its tax policy to achieve its objectives. For instance, on September 20, 2019, the Indian government brought about a steep reduction in the tax rate for new entities in the manufacturing sector from the then existing 25% to 15%. Under the GMCT regime, with the floor set at 15%, India will lose the freedom to lower its rate below this level if it wants to. Had an earlier US proposal to set GMCT at 21% gone through, India would then have been forced to raise its minimum tax rate from 15% to 21%. That apart, a GMCT will do little to tackle tax evasion. For instance, think of a scenario wherein India levies tax at 21% against the current low of 15% (for new manufacturing units). This won’t result in additional tax collection to fully offset the loss resulting from profit-shifting. If out of Rs 100, only Rs 20 is recorded in India, the extra revenue from the higher rate will be only Rs 1.20 (20x.06) against a loss of Rs 12 due to profit-shifting (80×0.15). The only logical way to prevent evasion is for the source country, where the profits are generated, to capture and tax them. This right should vest entirely with the source country. This stance is endorsed by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), which is coordinating the efforts of over 140 countries to arrive at the so-called BEPS (base erosion and profit-shifting) framework agreement to tax MNC profits. Thus, in an October 2019 draft on “taxing digital companies,” the OECD had stated: “Profits of MNCs should be available for taxation in the country where their customers are, irrespective of any physical presence in that market, and a formula should be evolved for such taxation.” But the formula proposed by the G-7 under pillar II is flawed. It gives to the source country taxing rights only to the extent of 20% of the profit (exceeding a 10% margin) and that too, for the largest and most profitable MNCs. Put simply, if the firm earns Rs 100 from its operation in India, then India gets to collect tax only on Rs 20. Who gets the right to tax the balance Rs 80? Will it be the tax haven or the home country of the MNC or both? Clearly, the G-7 formula is erroneous. Neither the country of incorporation nor MNCs’ home country has any right to collect tax on profits made from its operations in the source country. To conclude, India should not agree to the GMCT. However, it can take on board the G-7 proposal under pillar II, but with a clear stipulation that only the source country from where an offshore firm is deriving its income – irrespective of where it is recorded – has the sole right to collect tax on it. A consensus should be built around a criterion for arriving at the annual taxable profit. The source country should have the freedom to decide the tax rate it deems fit in line with its policy imperatives. Until then, India should retain DST (or ‘equalisation levy’ introduced in 2016/2020, instead of tax on profits) on digital giants. (The writer is a Delhi-based policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/taxing-mncs-g-7-formula-is-flawed-1023947.html
27-08-2021||In Perspective||The case for a sober Independence Day||Almost as if to cue, the Independence Day weekend (August 14 and 15) was characterised by rage and feigned victimisation over Prime Minister Modi’s announcement about observing August 14 as ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’. The rage came from people who believed that the PM’s intent in declaring such an event was not kosher. It was an attempt to mine old wounds for electoral gains and an attempt to keep boundaries intact, not build bridges. In response to this, those who supported this action likened the cries of naysayers to ‘Holocaust Denial’ and believed that nameless (and shameless, in some accounts) ‘liberals’ were behind this so-called denial. Has the brutal story of Partition been denied in India? Not really, is perhaps the first response. Films and literature have talked about it in great detail. There are far too many to recount. Hence, those who wish to access narratives of it can do so. As of 2021, there are still many who live among us who have lived through those days and can recount their experiences. But those who claim that the brutal realities of Partition have not been acknowledged do have a point. ‘Official’ acknowledgement of Partition has been largely missing. The forced amputation of Punjab and Bengal, regions that had been whole for centuries, and the incorporation of their separated halves into separate nation-states and the effect it had on the psyche of those people has definitely not been given its due. One could well contest this by pointing out that refugees were resettled, many of them prospered, and most have gotten over their trauma, etc. But that isn’t the point. The newly independent nation-state was duty-bound to take care of those of its citizens who had suffered for the sake of its creation. The larger point has to do with what August 15 has come to stand for owing to how the establishment chooses to mark that day. August 15 is, and has been since 1947, a day of celebration. There is a festive air that envelops the nation on that day. The PM speaks from the Red Fort. The national flag is on prominent display in many places. Patriotic songs seem to be on everyone’s playlist. And “we did it…we drove the British away” is the mood of the moment. It is a time to invoke victory and partake of a feeling of triumph. But is it so really? Is that the sentiment that everyone shares? For many, independence meant being uprooted and literally hurled into an empty abyss of sorts, with no light at the end of the tunnel. It meant losing everything that one was familiar with. It meant starting from scratch. It did not mean celebration or triumph. Given this, is it my case then that the observance of a Partition Horrors Day or some such event would assuage those wounds and acknowledge the loss that people suffered? Decidedly not. This new-fangled day does nothing to address that. For one, its observance on August 14 is always bound to be something of a sideshow. It is almost as if the nation was being told to be sombre one day so that the next day can be one of celebration. How does this work to address the horrors of Partition? It does not. It is mere lip-service, a band-aid to plaster over deep wounds. What then is to be done? The need is actually to recast the way we ‘celebrate’ Independence Day itself. True, the nation did become free from foreign rule on this day, and that is a commendable achievement. Also true is that this burden of freeing the many was borne unfairly by a few. Hence, this day ought to be marked by a certain sombreness and a subdued air rather than one of triumphalism and razzmatazz. That will go a long way in addressing the feelings of those who paid a heavy price. Also, given that 75 years have passed since that day, the sombreness should also be on account of the fact that the dreams that were sold to the people about what freedom would bring have not been realised. The nation has a long way to go to realise those promises. Education, employment, equality and much else have not been provided to all in equal measure. When freedom dawned in 1947, Faiz had lamented: “This stain-covered daybreak, this night-bitten dawn/This is not that dawn of which there was expectation.” This should remind us of the price of freedom. And now all these years later, the words of Siddalingaiah’s song, Yaarige bantu, yellige banthu nalavattelara swatantra, which questioned who the beneficiaries of 1947 were, should temper our mood and celebratory attitude. There is some scope for modest celebration. But the need for sober reflection should be made stronger. Let us not forget our past. Let us also not forget our tasks for the future. (The author is a Bengaluru-based editor and writer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-case-for-a-sober-independence-day-1024296.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||PES students design low-cost robot for sowing, sprinkling||Four students of Industrial and Production Engineering of PES College of Engineering in Mandya have designed a low-cost robot, agri robot for sowing seeds and to sprinkle fertiliser and water. The project was carried out by K A Krupa, D R Chidambar, K P Gowtham Gowda and H C Pramod under the guidance of professor B S Shivakumara. While a seed-cum-fertiliser drill sowing machine costs around Rs 60,000, a sprinkler for fertiliser and water costs up to Rs 17,000 at present. The agri robot which is a combo of both costs around Rs 35,000. Shivakumara said, "The metal body weighs about 900 gram with an ESP 32 micro controller. The robot is also fitted with DHT 2 and ultrasonic sensors which can sense humidity and temperature. It can also sense an obstacle up to 40 cm. The 12 watts battery can power the machine for up to 3 hours. It has rain sensors which turn off the machine when it rains." "Agriculture and horticulture have so much scope. This field requires advanced technologies for sowing, cropping, cutting and irrigation," he said. The machine may be controlled on smartphones using an app developed by the same team. The robot may be connected via wi-fi or bluetooth within a range of 500 metres. The seed sowing, digging and irrigation robot can manoeuvre on varied terrain and does not damage the field. “Getting farm labourers is a major problem in agriculture these days. The agri robot reduces the expenses and increases an ideal opportunity for seed sowing and irrigation operations,” said Krupa. She added, “15 workers can sow paddy on 2.5 acres of land on a day. Our prototype agri robot can cover one acre a day with the current speed. If the speed is increased, it can cover up to 1.25 to 1.5 acres per day. If we develop this into a real time product, its minimum capacity could be 3 to 4 acres per day.” Further improvement is required for the robot. The students have plans to include solar panels to reduce the use of batteries. The proposed robot can be manufactured in a variety of sizes and capacities to match the size and structure of the agricultural field. The whole system can be controlled by installing software on a normal mobile phone. This project can help conserve water and minimise wastage of fertilisers, seeds, effort and time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pes-students-design-low-cost-robot-for-sowing-sprinkling-1024154.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Admissions open at Maharani's College||Maharani's Women's Commerce and Management College, Paduvarahalli is issuing application forms for BCom and BA courses for the academic year 2021-22. The students who have completed PUC or equivalent are eligible to apply. Last date to collect application forms is September 4. The students should fill the application forms with necessary documents and submit by September 6, said G H Mahadevaswamy, principal, in a press note.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/admissions-open-at-maharanis-college-1024162.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru police solve robbery case, six arrested||The city police claimed to have solved the sensational robbery case that occurred on August 24 in Vidyaranyapuram by arresting six persons from different parts of the country. "Eight persons are involved in the robbery. Two of them, one from Mysuru and another from Bengaluru plotted the robbery, while the remaining executed. The duo have criminal history and own jewellery shops," DG&IGP Praveen Sood told reporters. "The six persons were arrested from West Bengal, Mumbai, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir," he added. Sood congratulated city police commissioner Chandragupta and the teams that cracked the case and announced Rs 5 lakh cash reward for the teams. The police had formed five teams and had sent them to different parts of the country. A gang robbed the jewellery shop and opened fire at Chandrashekar of Dadadahalli. They barged into the shop, downed the shutters and looted jewellery after assaulting shop owner Dharmendra. They attacked Chandrashekar when he tried to stop them while escaping. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra and Director General were present at the press meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-police-solve-robbery-case-six-arrested-1024180.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Union Minister Murugan to inaugurate fourth community radio on August 29||The JSS College of Arts, Commerce and Science, is launching a community radio service on the account of the 106th birth anniversary of late seer Shivarathri Rajendra Swami. It will be inaugurated by L Murugan, Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Information and Broadcasting on August 29. The community radio will be available on frequency 91.2Hz between 7 am and 8 am and 4 pm and 5 pm. The number of community radios in Mysuru will increase to four. Radio Manasa 89.6, Janadhwani and Jnanadwani are already on air now. According to a press note from Sambashivaiah, chief executive of the college, “The radio station will host programmes like Karunalu baa belake, Jeeva sanjeevini, Prathiba vilasa, Kavya parampare, Idu namma nadu, Bhaava sangama, Ivaru nammavaru, Parisara parichaya, Ayur satva, Gnana Sudha, Vignana gnana suddi, education and legal awareness related programmes”. Mysuru has witnessed some positive developments in the community radio sector. The University of Mysore (UoM) launched the community radio service ‘Radio Manasa 89.6’ on February 13. Students of the Manasagangotri campus and community members host programmes like interviews, talks, discussions, songs, drama, etc. The radio station also organises training programmes and community-oriented activities at regular intervals. Janadhwani , an initiative of Swami Vivekananda Youth Movement is the first community radio of Mysuru established in 2013. It focuses on development and tribal issues. It created awareness on Covid-19 among tribals and rural people on the periphery of forests. When the pandemic spread and lockdown was imposed, Janadhwani effectively spread awareness to remote hamlets of HD Kote and Sargur. Jnanadwani, an initiative of Maharaja Education Trust, in association with Gopalaswamy Shishuvihara Institutions, focuses on a wide variety of programmes like academics, literature, folklore, devotional songs, etc. M V Gopalaswamy started the first radio station of India in Mysuru in 1935. He coined the name Akashavani for radio.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/union-minister-murugan-to-inaugurate-fourth-community-radio-on-august-29-1024189.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||I know nothing about Mysuru gang-rape case: MP Siddeshwara||MP G M Siddeshwara on Friday stirred a controversy by saying that he does not know anything about the gang-rape incident in Mysuru. "I do not represent Mysuru," he said. Speaking to media persons after chairing the telecommunication advisory committee meeting, he said he was busy with various works throughout the day. "I have no time even to read newspapers. Television news channels air whatever news they wish but I don't have time to see them," he said. He also suggested media persons ask anything related to his constituency so that he can direct the officials to take suitable steps. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/i-know-nothing-about-mysuru-gang-rape-case-mp-siddeshwara-1024208.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jal Shakti ministry officials visit KRS dam||The officials of the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti visited Krishanaraja Sagar (KRS) dam and inspected the renovation works taken up with World Bank funds in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya district on Friday. Debashree Mukherjee, Additional Secretary department of Water Resources, Gulshan Raj, Central Water Commission Chief Engineer and others visited the dam. They collected information from Cauvery Neeravari Nigam officials. The visit assumes importance in the wake of MP A Sumalatha raising the issue in the Parliament alleging that illegal mining was posing a threat to the KRS dam. The renovation work on the dam is being taken up at a cost of Rs 181 crore from World Bank. The first installment of Rs 111 crore has been released. The works on replacing 136 crest gates, remote controlling of 158 gates, and grouting works are being taken up. An amount of Rs 70 crore has been released in the second installment and tenders have been floated for various works at a cost of Rs 38.93 crore, according to Nigam officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jal-shakti-ministry-officials-visit-krs-dam-1024215.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||NREGA: National-level symposium in Mandya on Aug 28||All India and Karnataka Agricultural Labourers' Association is conducting a national-level symposium on 'NREGA and Rural Workers' at Karnataka Sangha on August 28. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Divya Prabu will inaugurate the symposium while association national president A Vijayaraghavan, Excise and Rural Development Minister of Kerala M V Govindan Master, Rajya Sabha Member V Shivadasan and AIAW general secretary B Venkat will participate. The executive committee meeting will be held on August 29. Samyukta Kisan Morcha convenor Hanan Molla will share his experiences. Raitha Sangha president Badagalapura Nagendra will be present. Regional vice president G N Nagaraj said, "The NREGA should have been extensively utilised during Covid times. Unorganised labourers have quit cities and have returned to villages. It should have boosted the NREGA, but that did not happen. The symposium is being held to discuss its extensive utilisation in the wake of the 3rd wave of Covid."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nrega-national-level-symposium-in-mandya-on-aug-28-1024216.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Victims should cooperate with police to nab suspects: S T Somashekar||Cooperation Minster S T Somashekar said that the gang-rape victim was not ready to cooperate with the police. Speaking to reporters in Suttur, he said,"Steps have been taken to trace the suspects. ADGP Prathap Reddy led team is conducting the probe. The victims should cooperate with the authorities to nab the suspects. There is information that the victim is not cooperating. Her parents too have written a letter that they are not willing to meet anyone." "Home Minister Araga Jnanendra too visited the spot and conducted a meeting of police officials. The suspects will be nabbed soon," he said. Food and Civil Supplies and Forest Minister Umesh Katti said at KGudi, "Such incidents keep happening in the society. The Home Minister has taken all steps to ensure that such incidents do not recur."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/victims-should-cooperate-with-police-to-nab-suspects-s-t-somashekar-1024220.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru gang-rape: Various organisations stage protests||The Congress party workers staged a protest condemning the gang rape incident on Friday. The police also took several Congress workers into custody for trying to block the road. The party workers took out a torch light parade as a mark of protest on Albert Victor Road. Several organisations condemned the incident and staged protests. The members of University of Mysore Research Scholar Association staged a protest. Minister for Women and Child Development Halappa Achar said that he tried to contact the rape survivor, but her parents requested not to disturb her. "The Women and Child Department will provide needed support to the victim and her family members," he said. Minister S T Somashekar said that there was no politics in the incident. He said that the police were investigating the case and they would arrest suspects soon. On the criticism by leaders of the opposition parties and various organisations, he said,"The government wants genuine suspects to be published. Some leaders are opposing for the sake of opposition."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-gang-rape-various-organisations-stage-protests-1024261.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||H K Kumaraswamy seeks G T Devegowda's resignation||JD(S) state president H K Kumaraswamy on Friday sought Chamundeshwari MLA G T Devegowda's resignation. "The party made him minister. He could have discussed his issues with senior leaders and resolved them. His son's future is more important for him now. It is still not too late. He can speak to the party seniors and try to sort out the issues," Kumaraswamy told reporters. On gang-rape case, he said, "The incident should not be used for political mileage. Local police staff should be suspended. A special court should be set up for the case. The guilty should be punished." "The incident has tarnished the image of the state. The statement of a few ministers that the young woman should not have gone to the isolated place during the night invited flak. Let them issue an order saying that the women should not leave the house after 6 pm. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra should own moral responsibility and resign. Such statements are issued to cover up the department's failure," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/h-k-kumaraswamy-seeks-g-t-devegowdas-resignation-1024174.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||All ministers should compulsorily attend Assembly session from September 13: Speaker||All the ministers should mandatorily attend the Assembly sessions from September 13 to 24, Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri said on Friday. “The ministers complaining of ill health are allowed to remain absent from the sessions. But it is not right to remain absent on the pretext of attending programmes in their constituency. I have already issued directions to the minister through letters,” he told mediapersons. “Along with Ministers, even MLAs and officials should take part in the sessions. I have witnessed incidents of lack of quorum in assembly. The ministers should bring the issue of bills pertaining to their departments well in advance to my notice. They should work within the framework of discipline in the session and ensure values are not eroded in the assembly by imbibing self-discipline,” Kageri said. MLALAD fund "On one hand there is a cry from MLAs over delay in release of MLALAD funds of Rs 2 crore. On the other hand, there is a delay in implementing works under MLALAD owing to administrative reasons. Thus funds to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore in MLALAD account has remained unutilised. In Dakshina Kannada district alone, Rs 20 crore to Rs 30 crore had remained unutilised. “I have taken the issue of non-utilisation of MLALAD seriously and sought a report from all the Assistant Commissioners on the reason behind delay and how to overcome the problems. The report is likely to reach me next week and I will take a decision accordingly,” explained the Speaker. In the past, the works under MLALAD was implemented through DC’s office. Owing to the delay, it was entrusted to the Assistant Commissioner. Inspite of it, there is no progress in the works,” he said. To a query on the alleged gang rape case in Mysuru, Kageri said that the incident has made all to bow their head in shame. “I am confident that the government has taken the issue seriously and is working on the arrest of the culprits,” Kageri stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/all-ministers-should-compulsorily-attend-assembly-session-from-september-13-speaker-1024242.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress manifesto to have pro-transgender promises: DK Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on Friday said the party’s manifesto for the next election will have a slew of promises for the sexual minorities and sex workers. Shivakumar was speaking at an interactive meeting with sexual minorities, sex workers and transgenders. “A law against harassment by the police, support for self-employment, housing, education, health and pension benefits will be in our manifesto,” Shivakumar said, assuring them of taking steps towards instilling respect for their community. “Sexual workers have provisions under the law. Still, they face problems. Those who are poor and vulnerable face trouble whereas the rich get protection,” he said, adding that he would consult party leaders on offering programmes for them in the Congress’ 2023 election manifesto. “We have designed a Mahila Maha Panchayat programme to connect with women in all 224 assembly constituencies. Through this, we have understood your problems,” Shivakumar said. “I will examine reports submitted by a committee headed by (former minister) Jayamala and others. I will meet more people like you in the coming days,” he added. Karnataka has an estimated 70,000 transgenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-manifesto-to-have-pro-transgender-promises-dk-shivakumar-1024255.html
27-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka home minister Jnanendra lacks common sense: Kimmane||Slamming Home Minister Aaraga Jnanendra for his remarks on the gang-rape case in Mysuru, KPCC Spokesperson and former minister Kimmane Ratnakar said it was evidence that BJP leader does not deserve the post. Speaking to media persons here on Friday, he said, BJP leader's remarks are tarnishing the image of people of Thirthahalli constituency. Home minister Jnanendra stated that women must not go to secluded places after 7 pm. "Then why do we need police, government?" he questioned and pointed out that Jnanendra was facing five cases related to communal violence. The person who is the accused has been made home minister, he taunted. Coming down heavily on his political rival, he said Jnanendra lacked the common sense that being a minister he should not speak in favour of a political party and reminded him that he is the home minister for the people of Karnataka and not for BJP. He said Thirthahalli has produced many eminent leaders including former chief minister late Kadidal Manjappa and Shantaveri Gopal Gowda. They had never made any statement on the basis of caste, religion or party. So, Jnanendra who represents such a constituency must cultivate common sense and maturity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-home-minister-jnanendra-lacks-common-sense-kimmane-1024286.html
27-08-2021||Main Article||Slow down, think it through||For some weeks before Independence Day, there were loud whispers predicting that the Prime Minister would announce the formation of military theatre commands on August 15, in conformance with the tradition of making some heavy-duty announcement from the ramparts of the Red Fort to an expectant nation. His 90-minute speech, however, skirted the theatre command issue, thus confirming the government’s acceptance of the problems that beset the issue and the need to deliberate on them for a little longer. The die was cast for theatre commands when the retiring Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Gen Bipin Rawat was appointed the country’s first Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) on January 1, 2020. Amongst other things, his mandate included “Facilitation of restructuring of military commands for optimal utilisation of resources by bringing about jointness in operations, including through establishment of joint/theatre commands.” The CDS betrayed inordinate haste in specifically addressing this part of his extensive mandate as soon as he took over. Possibly, the rush was impelled by the motivation to ‘tick’ this box within his tenure of three years. As soon as he took over as CDS, Gen Rawat surprised many within (and outside) the military by announcing his plan to set up a joint, integrated Air Defence Command (ADC). He issued instructions to prepare a roadmap for it within six months, i.e., by June 30 last year. The announcement caught unawares the Indian Air Force (IAF), the main service involved, and did not seem to have come about as a result of any formal deliberation or assessment involving the IAF. After the announcement, a committee headed by the Vice Chief of Air Staff (VCAS) was quickly formed to study the intricacies of what the CDS had presented as a fait accompli. Subsequently, in August last year, there were reports that the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) had said the ADC would be announced by the second week of October (possibly on October 8, Air Force Day). However, in an interview on that day, the Chief of Air Staff R K S Bhadauria responded to a question about the ADC thus, “The study for setting up the command is in the advanced stage.” Unattributed statements at the beginning of this year indicated that the ADC was planned to come up in Allahabad in April this year, but that has not happened either. It is evident from the foregoing that the CDS’ assessment of the time frame for setting up the first of the theatre commands was unrealistic; aspects related to authority, command, control, integration, legal matters, budgetary allocations etc., continue to cause delays in freezing a design. The challenges in setting up the ADC are many and include the IAF’s misgivings on the doctrinal and philosophical fundamentals of the employment of air power. Meanwhile, on July 2 this year, the CDS, addressing an event organised by an international counterterrorism think-tank surprised, nay shocked, the military and strategic community by proclaiming, “Do not forget that the Air Force continues to remain a supporting arm to the armed forces, just as artillery support or the engineers support the combatant arms in the Army.” Coming at a time when the whole exercise of setting up theatre commands was caught up in an impasse, the statement vitiated the atmosphere. It may have been the result of the CDS’ frustration at not being able to meet his own milestones within designated timeframes, but it was nonetheless untimely and, moreover, delivered at an inappropriate forum. It was also insensitive as it sought to devalue the world’s fourth largest air force to a mere supporting arm, subservient to the Army, ignored decades of military scholarship, rubbished lessons learnt from melting pots of military history, and repudiated the practical wisdom of nations that have employed air power in many campaigns. Contrary to expectations, there were no acrimonious ripostes or rejoinders and, indeed, reactions from serving officers, including the Chief of Air Staff, were subtle and subdued, confining themselves to facts and reasoned arguments, in contrast to the sensational content of the CDS’ statement. Many veterans, not restrained by legal shackles, have been critical, have vented their ire at the CDS and vociferously ridiculed his utterance. In a remarkable and healthy display of levelheadedness, serving and retired Army officers have refrained from cheering the CDS on for voicing his opinion on where the IAF should be pegged in his scheme of things. The CDS’ perception does not match with current military wisdom nor with the tenets of air power. More importantly, it does not take into account a 2012 document titled the Basic Doctrine of the Air Force, which states the IAF’s mission thus: “To acquire strategic reach and capabilities across the spectrum of conflict that serve the ends of military diplomacy, nation-building and enable force projection within India’s strategic area of influence.” Air Chief Bhadauria and several IAF veterans have explained that the IAF is not opposed to the concept of theatre commands but has issues with the way their establishment is envisaged. Bulldozing over these misgivings and reservations may help the CDS achieve a satisfying tenure but he would leave behind a legacy of theatre commands that are dysfunctional from the day they are erected. What is needed is a deliberate application of brakes on the process of theaterisation so that the IAF’s concerns are addressed and the challenges of an as yet untried concept are deliberated upon to forestall setbacks arising from hastening into uncharted territory. (The writer is an IAF veteran and a former senior research scholar at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/slow-down-think-it-through-1023946.html
27-08-2021||Main Article||The land of Rumi lies in ruins||O Kabuliwala! Kabuliwala! These words of Mini, the little girl in Rabindranath Tagore’s short story, Kabuliwala, still chime like jingles whenever I see Afghans or read about Afghanistan, the land of remote, forbidding and mystic mountains, the land of valiant ancient warriors. Abdur Rahman, the tall, loose-robed, long-limbed, high-turbaned and bearded vendor of fruits and wares, who plied his goods in the back lanes of Calcutta, like many of his countrymen across many cities of India, and made their annual pilgrimage back to their land high in the mountains, has been made immortal in his story by Tagore. Migrants are feared as aliens and seen with suspicion and antipathy, but Tagore etched the character of Kabuliwala as a kindred spirit with such delicacy, beauty and endearment, your heart swells as you read the story. The friendship between little Mini, her father, who is an author, and Kabuliwala, blossoms. But Kabuliwala is imprisoned over a stabbing incident with a buyer who owed him a debt, and is put away for eight years. After release from jail, he goes to meet Mini. It happens to be her wedding day. He is dissuaded from meeting her by the father, who thinks he could be a bad omen on the auspicious day. When Kabuliwala offers some dry fruits as a present to Mini and turns away, deeply disappointed to depart, Mini’s father, touched to the quick, asks Mini to be brought in. Kabuliwala is flustered as Mini doesn’t recognise him when he tries to speak to her as in former days. She is now a bashful bride, no longer the carefree child he once knew, and she blushes and bends her head down. Kabuliwala, overcome with a flood of emotions, pulls up his vest and shows the ink imprint of the hand of his little daughter in Afghanistan and fondly runs his hand over it. Mini’s father, tears in his eyes, feels they are all universally bound by the same filial bonds, and offers the proud Kabuliwala some money and urges him to go back home to his own daughter, who has also now grown up. The ink-smeared impression of the hand of Kabuliwala’s little Parvathi in her distant home reminds him of his own little Mini. Mini’s father forgets that Kabuliwala is a poor dry fruit seller from Kabul. Was he more than ‘him’? He was also a father.  These heartwarming thoughts from the story of Kabuliwala swept over me as I saw the disturbing imagery of the fall of Kabul to the marching gangs of Taliban fighters, rifles slung across their shoulders. Thousands of Afghan civilians, women in burkhas and hijabs, with children in arms, stricken with fear and panic, were fleeing their homes to cross the land borders to neighbouring countries. The chaotic scenes of desperate hordes of people rushing to the airport to catch American rescue flights, apprehensive of the Taliban rule in the offing that had terrorised the population for five years in the late 1990s, clinging on to the planes in despair even as they taxied toward take-off, and a few of them soon falling to their death as the planes got airborne, were horrifying and heart-breaking. A land that has been ravaged over the centuries by many waves of occupational armies -- from the time of Alexander, the Great, to the Mauryas of Maghada, (yes, even the pacifist Emperor Ashoka), Mongols, Arab Muslims, the British, the Soviets, and finally the mighty US military in 2001, along with NATO forces -- was “freed” once again a few days ago by the Taliban. This is a land that is termed unconquerable and often referred to as the “graveyard of empires”. This land, whose soil has been fertilised with the blood of millions of its people as well as irrigated by the gore of invaders over millennia, has also been the breeding ground and source from which the Greco-Bactrians, the Kushans, the Ghaznis and Ghoris, the Khiljis and Mughals and others, invaded and marauded and went on to found new empires, including in India.  While the Taliban must be condemned and reviled for spawning terrorism, despised for their bestiality in enforcing extreme Sharia law, hated for treating women abominably and loathed for ruthlessly killing innocents, and while nothing can justify any of that, were not the war games of the superpowers turned into video games of mindless killing, inflicting collateral damage on a large number of innocent women and children and civilians, especially in the rural areas, reminding one of Shakespeare’s line— ‘‘as flies to wanton boys are we to the Gods; they kill us for their sport.” But above all, we have to pay homage to the common people for braving the onslaught of terrible hardships, bereavement of loved ones, their inextinguishable spirit and their stoic courage— caught perennially as they are between the cross-currents of international geopolitics and their local tribal leaders, warlords and religious fundamentalists.  Now, the US has abandoned the country shamelessly, leaving the country in total disarray and chaos, a result of a gross disconnect between inept policy, confusing diplomacy, and failure of intelligence. The Taliban, now virtually in command, is sending signals of its intention to form an inclusive government, giving a call of amnesty to everyone, and promising more freedom for women to work and to go to schools and colleges. But there are already reports of reprisals and killings. Analysts are divided about the genuineness or otherwise of the ‘new’ Taliban. The people, especially women, await in fear and foreboding.  It is a cruel irony. Jalal ad-Din Rumi, a 12th century Afghan mystic, one of the most beloved Sufi poets, a precious gift to the world, whose poems of love and peace and harmony are still heard in churches, synagogues, monasteries and temples, rose like fragrant incense from the same land that now lies in tatters, riven by bigotry and sectarian violence, torn between the imperialism of the superpowers of the world. The time has come for them to exit Afghanistan. China trying to fill the void left by the Americans and wooing the Taliban is foolhardy and it may find its soldiers’ bones interred with the graveyards of former invaders. Fools always rush in where angels fear to tread. And Pakistan forgets that one cannot export terrorism without also importing it into its own society.  And alas, India, the land of Gandhi and Buddha, seems to be out of the picture in playing a role to rebuild and bring back peace to the country, with which we have historic connections and roots.  The Taliban, one hopes, will begin to build bridges. Who could have sung it better than Rumi: “Love is the bridge between you and everything.” (The writer is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-land-of-rumi-lies-in-ruins-1024295.html
27-08-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru gang-rape accused will be arrested soon, assures Home Minister Araga Jnanendra||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Friday said that the police will crack the gang-rape case soon. He was speaking to reporters during his visit to Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi Hill, here. The police are conducting investigation in connection with the rape case. But the rape survivor has not given her statement, he said. The minister said the accused are yet to be traced and that it is not possible to disclose information about the investigation. Sought strength The minister said that he has prayed to the Devi to give strength to the police as well as Home Department to safeguard the people. "I have prayed to the Devi to bless the state so that there is no crime," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-gang-rape-accused-will-be-arrested-soon-assures-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-1024020.html
27-08-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Why don't we also lease out?'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday slammed the Centre's move to monetise its assets across key sectors, saying the Modi dispensation is selling India's "crown jewels" built in the last 70 years and "gifting" them to their two-three businessmen "friends".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-why-dont-we-also-lease-out-1023950.html
27-08-2021||National||India condemns bomb attacks near Kabul airport||India on Thursday strongly condemned the deadly bomb blasts near the Kabul airport and said the attacks reinforced the need for the world to stand unitedly against terrorism and those providing sanctuaries to terrorists. The Associated Press, quoting Russian officials, reported that at least 13 people were killed and 13 wounded in the twin suicide bombings. The Pentagon said a number of US "service members" were killed in the "complex attack" at the Kabul airport. "Today's attacks reinforce the need for the world to stand unitedly against terrorism and all those who provide sanctuaries to terrorists," the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a late night statement. It extended condolences to families of the victims of the attacks. "India strongly condemns the bomb blasts in Kabul today. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims of this terrorist attack," the MEA said in a statement. "Our thoughts and prayers also go out to the injured," it said. The explosions took place amid a scramble by various countries to evacuate their citizens and Afghan partners from Kabul before the August 31 deadline for the withdrawal of American troops.  Thousands of Afghans were crowding around the Kabul airport for over a week, in a desperate attempt to flee the country fearing the Taliban's brutality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-condemns-bomb-attacks-near-kabul-airport-1023956.html
27-08-2021||National||DH Deciphers | What the Taliban’s takeover of Afghanistan means for India||The Taliban has defeated the United States and the government propped up by it in Afghanistan after a 20-year-long guerrilla war. Most analysts had predicted the Taliban’s victory after American withdrawal but have been stunned by the speed with which it occurred. This is the Taliban’s second taste at power after their stint in 1996-2001. Here is how this time might be different from the first and what it means for India: How will the Taliban’s rule be different from their first stint in power? In 1996, the Taliban was more or less isolated on the world stage, with only Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and the UAE recognising it. This time, it's different. After dislodging Ashraf Ghani’s government, the Taliban is claiming legitimacy for return to power. While Pakistan and China are clearly ready to recognise a Taliban government in Afghanistan, Russia, too, indicated that the militant organisation’s return to power in Kabul is a reality it will have to work with. The US and Europe, too, appear to be reluctantly reconciling with this reality. This gives the Taliban an advantage it lacked the last time around, with access to relations and funding that would enable it to run the country. On the other hand, the world has changed since 1996. Afghans have access to social media, the internet and have tasted some elements of freedoms - women's rights, for example - that would make it hard for the Taliban to return to the most brutal form of Islamic rule. Finally, the Taliban is aware that disrespecting human rights would lead to a denial of aid and expertise it sorely needs to run the country. What has been India’s role in Afghanistan? India invested around $3 billion in developmental works such as building roads, schools and dams in Afghanistan in the last 20 years. It also funded the Afghan parliament building and consequently built a lot of leverage with the Ghani government. The objectives of the investment were access to the Balochistan province of Pakistan, developing land routes to the Chabahar port in Iran and containing Pakistan’s influence in the region. Now all those objectives are in danger. On the other hand, these gestures have endeared India to the Afghan people, vis-a-vis Pakistan which has backed the brutal Taliban. This gives India a continued advantage among the population. What has India done since the US withdrawal? India has been slow to engage with the Taliban and has shown little willingness to either talk to or recognise Taliban's de facto rule. Even when every country, including the US, legitimised the Taliban politically by openly talking to them, Indian policymakers were still hesitant up until the last minute. This is because it was difficult for New Delhi to go for full- fledged engagement with the Taliban and publicly acknowledge it, as it is after all, a Pakistani project against India. Now, however, India has little choice but to engage with the Taliban as they are in control of the country. What does the Taliban victory mean for India? The Taliban’s victory, at least on the face of it, is a major triumph for Pakistan and a major setback for India. Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) has backed the Taliban since the group’s origin in the mid-1990s, and the Taliban has links with the Lashkar-e-Taiba, which carried out the 2008 Mumbai attacks. But this time may be different. While still highly dependent on Pakistan, the Taliban this time around has been able to secure acceptance within the international community and has thus gained a certain degree of independence. Its foreign policy may also show a similar degree of independence given that it may require Indian and foreign aid and reconstruction assistance. This may prevent the LeT and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) from using Afghanistan as a staging ground to launch attacks in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-what-the-taliban-s-takeover-of-afghanistan-means-for-india-1023959.html
27-08-2021||National||The Lead: All Things Covid - Covid-19 and thyroid disorders, obesity and vitamin D deficiency||In today's episode of "All things Covid" by GCCMC, a Covid-19 knowledge and collaboration platform enabled by Wipro, in collaboration with Deccan Herald, Dr Usha Ayyagari tells us about the relationship between thyroid disorders, obesity, vitamin D deficiency and Covid-19. Hi and welcome to The Lead by DH Radio. Today's episode is part of a series "All things Covid" by GCCMC, a Covid-19 knowledge and collaboration platform enabled by Wipro, in collaboration with Deccan herald. Today we will get to know about what relation does Covid has with thyroid disorders, obesity and vitamin D deficiency. Listen in... Welcome to 'All Things Covid', this is a podcast where we will put the spotlight on Covid, thyroid disorders, obesity and vitamin D deficiency and help us understand the correlation between each of these conditions, we have with us Dr Usha Ayyagari, who is a senior endocrinologist at Apollo hospitals, Chennai. To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-all-things-covid-covid-19-and-thyroid-disorders-obesity-and-vitamin-d-deficiency-1023993.html
27-08-2021||National||Sonu Sood to be brand ambassador of Delhi's 'Desh ke mentor' programme||Actor Sonu Sood was on Friday appointed brand ambassador of the Delhi government's 'Desh Ke Mentor' programme in which students in state government-run schools find a mentor who could help them unlock their potential. Sood met Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and said he was impressed by the transformation in the Delhi government's schools while urging the youth to be a part of the programme. The programme aims at helping children to find answers to their career-related questions through mentors who sign up to be a part of the programme. As the face of the initiative, Sood appealed to citizens across the country to step forward and support children’s education and take the nation to a brighter tomorrow. Sood, whose work during the Covid-19 pandemic was appreciated by a large number of people, said, "high-quality education for all children, whether rich or poor, is the key to a brighter future for the country. We need to come together and do our share for nation-building." Kejriwal said, "we have worked very hard to transform Delhi Government’s schools. Now we want to make education a people’s revolution. When young people across the country join our education revolution, no one will be able to stop India from becoming a global leader. We are delighted to have onboard Sonu Sood, who has inspired lakhs of youth across the country with his selfless services to the nation."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonu-sood-to-be-brand-ambassador-of-delhis-desh-ke-mentor-programme-1024030.html
27-08-2021||National||Amitabh Bachchan's police bodyguard transferred amid reports of 'Rs 1.5 crore annual income'||A head constable with the Mumbai police department, who had been posted as megastar Amitabh Bachchan's bodyguard since 2015, was transferred amid reports of him allegedly earning Rs 1.5 crore annually, an official said on Friday. The head constable, Jitendra Shinde, has been moved to D B Marg Police Station in South Mumbai as part of a routine transfer, the official said. He was transferred 15 days ago and it was officially published in a police notice at that time, he said. Bachchan has been provided 'X' category security by the Mumbai police. Shinde became a part of that security cover after he was given the responsibility of being the actor's bodyguard in 2015, the official added. As per the guidelines, a police constable cannot continue on the same post beyond five years, the he said. A media report published recently claimed that Shinde earned Rs 1.5 crore annual income while being posted as the superstar's bodyguard. Sources in the police department said that Shinde is one of the trusted bodyguards and could be spotted with Bachchan as part of his security cover. Shinde's wife runs an agency, which provides security guards to prominent personalities, they said. The sources added that the state government was also verifying whether Shinde had provided the details of his assets to the police department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amitabh-bachchans-police-bodyguard-transferred-amid-reports-of-rs-15-crore-annual-income-1024040.html
27-08-2021||National||BJP's Tarun Chugh hits out at Mehbooba over her Taliban remarks||Lambasting PDP president Mehbooba Mufti for her reference to the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan to call upon the government to restore Jammu and Kashmir's special status, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh has said she is daydreaming and that her wishes will never come true. Calling Mehbooba's remarks as "anti-national", Chugh said on Thursday Jammu and Kashmir has outright rejected her Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and "the Gupkar Gang", referring to the People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration -- an alliance of some mainstream Jammu and Kashmir parties. Referring to popular TV series 'Mungerilal ke Haseen Sapne', Chugh said, "Mungerilal was dreaming at night, but Mehbooba Mufti does it in the day. They will never come true." Addressing her party workers earlier this month, Mehbooba had asked the Centre to take a lesson out of Afghanistan where the Taliban seized power and made the US flee, and urged the government to hold dialogue in Jammu and Kashmir and return its special status which was revoked in 2019. Referring to the Taliban seizing power in Afghanistan, the former chief minister warned the Centre “to not test us" and asked the government to “mend its ways, understand the situation, and see what is happening in your neighbourhood." Reacting to her remarks, BJP leader Chugh said, "It was J&K's misfortune that these dynasties (PDP and National Conference) killed development here and whenever public solicited response they started speaking in the language of China and Pakistan. Now they are talking about Taliban. It is a nation run by (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi ji. Anyone who does any misadventure will be taught a lesson. Pakistan has been already taught a lesson." He said that nepotism of the PDP and the National Conference (NC) has murdered democracy in J&K. He said Jammu and Kashmir is fast transforming into a "tourism capital from terrorism capital". "Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president J P Nadda, J&K is fast transforming into 'tourism capital from terrorism capital'. Development and safety of J&K is the commitment of Modi ji and the BJP is working to reach the target," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-tarun-chugh-hits-out-at-mehbooba-over-her-taliban-remarks-1024047.html
27-08-2021||National||Meghalaya to reopen doors for tourists from September 1 with Covid-19 protocols||The hill state of Meghalaya has decided to reopen its doors for tourists from September 1 following a dip in Covid-19 cases.  A meeting of the state cabinet on Thursday decided that fully vaccinated people would be allowed to visit the state without any restrictions. But those who are vaccinated with only the first dose or unvaccinated people must produce a negative RTPCR/TrueNat or CBNAAT test report done within 72 hours to enter the state.  "The local tourists from within the state who are fully vaccinated/vaccinated with a single dose will be allowed to visit any location in Meghalaya for tourism purposes," said a statement issued by the state government.  Tourism is the biggest revenue-generating sector in Meghalaya with thousands flocking to hill stations such as Shillong, Cherrapunjee, Dawki and Jowai. But the sector has been severely affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic leaving thousands, including youth and women, jobless for months.  The state at present has 2,600 active Covid-19 cases but the daily cases have come down to below 200. Colleges and schools reopen The state government has also decided to reopen all colleges from September. "For schools in urban areas, Class I-V may have online classes, Class VI to VIII may have school visits and class IX to XII may be opened. For schools in rural areas, Class I to V may have school visits and Class VI to XII may be opened," said the official statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meghalaya-to-reopen-doors-for-tourists-from-september-1-with-covid-19-protocols-1024048.html
27-08-2021||National||BJP's income rose by 50% in 2019-20, bulk of donations came through electoral bonds: ADR report||The ruling BJP's income rose by 50.34 per cent to Rs 3,623.28 crore in 2019-20 with the bulk coming from redemption of electoral bonds while main Opposition Congress saw a 25.69 per cent decrease in its income to Rs 682.21 crore. The seven national parties — BJP, Congress, Trinamool Congress, NCP, CPI(M), CPI and BSP — together had garnered income of Rs 4758.20 crore in 2019-20 through a variety of sources like donations, including electoral bonds, as against Rs 3,749.37 crore. BJP accounted for 76.15 per cent of the income of seven national parties while the six other national parties — all of them in Opposition — were way behind. Congress' share was just 14.24 per cent while others' share was less than 3.33 per cent. BJP's income rose to Rs 3623.28 crore in 2019-20 from  Rs 2410.08 crore in 2018-19 while that of Congress decreased to Rs 682.21 crore from Rs 918.03 crore. Trinamool Congress garnered an income of Rs 143.76 crore (Rsa 192.65 crore in 2018-19), CPI(M) Rs 158.62 crore (Rs 100.96 crore), NCP Rs 85.58 crore (Rs 50.71 crore), BSP Rs 58.24 crore (Rs 69.70 crore) and CPI Rs 6.58 crore (Rs 7.15 crore). According to the analysis by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), BJP, Congress, Trinamool Congress and NCP collected 62.92 per cent (Rs 2993.826 crore) of their total income from donations through electoral bonds.  Altogether, electoral Bonds worth Rs 3429.55 crore were redeemed by all parties and of this, 87.29 per cent was received by these four national parties in 2019-20. BJP received the highest amount of donation through electoral bonds worth Rs 2555 crore (70.51 per cent of its total income) followed by Congress at distant second with Rs 317.861 crore (46.59 per cent of total income). Trinamool Congress received Rs 100.46 crore (69.92 per cent) and NCP Rs 20.50 crore (23.95 per cent) worth electoral bonds. CPI(M), CPI and BSP did not redeem any electoral bonds. On the expenditure front, BJP spent only Rs 1,651.02 crore out of its total income running over Rs 3,600 crore while Congress overshot its income to spend Rs 998.15 crore. CPI(M)'s expenditure was Rs 105.68 crore, Trinamool Congress Rs 107.27 crore, NCP Rs 109.18 crore, BSP Rs 95.05 crore and CPI Rs 6.53 crore. The analysis showed that maximum expenditure for BJP has been towards election or general propaganda which amounted to Rs 1352.92 crore followed by expenses towards administrative costs at  Rs 161.54 crore. Congress spent a maximum of Rs 864.03 crore on election expenditure followed by expenditure of Rs 99.393 crore on administrative and general expenses. NCP, Trinamool Congress and BSP incurred maximum spending on Election Expenditure of Rs 84.12 crore, Rs 74.65 crore and Rs 51.75 crore respectively. CPI(M) declared that it has spent 35.90 per cent of its total expenditure on employee cost (Rs 37.94 crore) while CPI spent Rs 2.95 crore or 45.26 per cent of its total expenditure on administrative and general expenses. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-income-rose-by-50-in-2019-20-bulk-of-donations-came-through-electoral-bonds-adr-report-1024050.html
27-08-2021||National||R K Singh urges union ministers, CMs to switch to electric vehicles||In a bid to promote electric vehicles in the country, Power Minister R K Singh has urged all union ministers and chief ministers to switch over to electric vehicles for all official purposes. According to a power ministry statement, Singh has shot off letters to his union cabinet colleagues as well as all chief ministers in this regard. The Union Minister of Power and New & Renewable Energy has written to all the Union Ministers including the Minister of States (Independent Charge) and Chief Ministers of all the States/UTs to join the government’s initiative on transformative mobility, as per the statement. The minister has also asked the union ministers and chief ministers to advise their respective ministries/departments to convert their fleet of official vehicles from present Internal Combustion Engine (ICE)/Petrol/Diesel Vehicles to Electric Vehicles for all official purposes, it said. Such an action is expected to set an example for the general public and encourage them to switch over to E-Mobility, it added. The initiative is part of ongoing "GO ELECTRIC CAMPAIGN" launched by the government to promote Electric Vehicles to meet multiple objectives - attaining the goal of reduction in emission, energy security, energy efficiency etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-k-singh-urges-union-ministers-cms-to-switch-to-electric-vehicles-1024051.html
27-08-2021||National||Newcomers in BJP spoiled party's relationship with Shiv Sena, says Raut in attack on Rane||Taking aim at Union minister Narayan Rane, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said that some "newcomers' in the BJP have spoiled the relationship between the two parties, which worked together for 25 years. He also likened such elements to "Bangladeshi and Pakistani infiltrators, who disturb India’s social harmony". Earlier this week, Rane, who joined the BJP in 2019 and was inducted into the Union cabinet last month, sparked off a row with his remarks about slapping Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter’s ignorance of the year of India's independence. His remarks led to protests across the state and he was arrested from Ratnagiri in Maharashtra on Tuesday and later granted bail. Talking to reporters here, Raut said, "BJP and Shiv Sena had difference of opinion over some issues, but our relationship never turned bitter. The leaders, who joined the BJP in the last few years, have spoiled the relationship between the two parties. Their notoriety is similar to that of Bangladeshi and Pakistani infiltrators, who disturb our social harmony here (in India)." "We (Sena and BJP) never attacked each other or did not have such bitter relationship. The way Narayan Rane is acting, he is displaying animosity. What kind of person the BJP has appointed to improve our relationship," Raut said sarcastically. The Shiv Sena has worked with the BJP for 25 years, he added. "We know that the relationship between late (Sena founder) Balasaheb Thackeray and Atalji, as well as Advaniji, was cordial. The relationship between Prime minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is also cordial," Sena’s Rajya Sabha member said. Rane, who began his political career with the Shiv Sena, became the chief minister of Maharashtra in 1999 during the BJP-Sena government. However, he was expelled from the Shiv Sena in July 2005 for "anti-party activities". Rane then joined the Congress and left it in 2017. After quitting Congress, he launched the Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha in October 2017. In 2018, he had declared support for the BJP and was elected to the Rajya Sabha on that party's nomination. In October 2019, he merged his party with the BJP. He was made the Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) last month in the cabinet reshuffle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/newcomers-in-bjp-spoiled-partys-relationship-with-shiv-sena-says-raut-in-attack-on-rane-1024061.html
27-08-2021||National||Congress MLAs loyal to Bhupesh Baghel stage show of strength in Delhi||Ahead of Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel's meeting with the top Congress leadership, a section of party MLAs known to be loyal to him staged a show of strength here Friday. Amid a talk of leadership change in Chhattisgarh, a number of legislators from the state have arrived in the national capital in support of Baghel, who is also reaching Delhi. Around 20 party legislators called on AICC in-charge for the state P L Punia and are learnt to have told him that the Baghel government was working well. The chief minister is himself set to arrive in the capital Friday and will call on AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, even though his meeting with former party president Rahul Gandhi has not been fixed yet. Sources said that Baghel has been called to Delhi by Venugopal for further talks to resolve the crisis in the Chhattisgarh Congress. The state's Health Minister T S Singh Deo has been seeking the rotation on the chief minister's post, claiming there was an agreement made in this regard when the Congress assumed power in 2018. Deo has also said that every member in a team aspires to be the captain, making it clear that he is eyeing the top post in the state. Earlier, Baghel and Deo had met Gandhi Tuesday before holding discussions with Venugopal the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-mlas-loyal-to-bhupesh-baghel-stage-show-of-strength-in-delhi-1024062.html
27-08-2021||National||Biman Bangladesh pilot has heart attack mid-air, plane makes emergency landing in Nagpur||A Biman Bangladesh plane going from Muscat to Dhaka made an emergency landing at Nagpur on Friday after the pilot suffered a heart attack, an airport official said. The aircraft with 126 passengers on board landed at 11:40 am, the official said. Aviation industry sources said the sick pilot was taken to Kingsway Hospital, which is just 10 kms from the Nagpur airport. The plane was near Raipur when it contacted Kolkata ATC for an emergency landing and was advised to land at the nearest airport Nagpur. The co-pilot landed the plane at the Nagpur airport, the sources said. The 126 passengers have been waiting at the airport as Biman Bangladesh is working out alternative travel arrangements for them to reach their final destination, they said. The plane used by the airline was a B737-8. It was at the Nagpur airport only till 9 pm on Friday, the sources said. Biman Bangladesh recently resumed flight services with India after air travel between the two countries was suspended during the coronavirus pandemic.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biman-bangladesh-pilot-has-heart-attack-mid-air-plane-makes-emergency-landing-in-nagpur-1024076.html
27-08-2021||National||India plans to emerge as a global leader in green hydrogen: R K Singh||India plans to emerge as a global leader in green hydrogen and the country is proposing to mandate using green hydrogen in fertilizer and in refining, power minister R K Singh has told the US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate (SPEC) John Kerry. In a telephonic conversation last evening, Singh also informed Kerry that India will invite bids for green hydrogen in the next 3-4 months to encourage viable usage of hydrogen as a fuel, according to a power ministry statement. India is looking at bids for 4,000 MW of electrolysers capacity, it stated. As per the statement, Kerry has congratulated India on achievements in renewable energy on reaching 146GW Renewables with 63 GW under construction and 25 GW under bids. "Union Minister R K Singh has informed Mr Kerry about India's plan to emerge as a global leader in green hydrogen. India is proposing to mandate using green hydrogen in fertilizer and in refining. This is part of the government's commitment towards replacing grey hydrogen with green hydrogen," the statement said. Singh underlined to the US Presidential envoy that Prime Minister Narendra Modi places the highest importance on the environment. He suggested to him that India and the USA could work together in the areas of innovations for power and technology, pointing out the requirement of bringing down the cost of storage of renewable power. The minister informed Kerry about the recent milestone the country had achieved by crossing 100 GW in Installed solar and wind capacity. "If we add Hydro capacity also, the total installed renewable capacity is 147 MW. Further, 63 GW of renewable capacity is under construction which makes India one of the fastest growing in terms of renewable capacity addition," it stated. Singh also informed Kerry that the National Hydrogen Energy Mission has been launched to enable cost competitive green hydrogen production. He added that India would be conducting competitive bids for green hydrogen in the next 3-4 months to pave the road for viable usage of hydrogen as a fuel. The other countries need to come up with more electrolyser plants to bring down the costs. It was suggested that India and the USA should work at setting up an alternate supply chain for lithium in order to secure input material for battery energy storage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-plans-to-emerge-as-a-global-leader-in-green-hydrogen-r-k-singh-1024077.html
27-08-2021||National||I know lot of things, will bring out cases step by step: Rane warns Shiv Sena||In a veiled warning to the ruling Shiv Sena in Maharashtra, Union minister and BJP leader Narayan Rane, who is locked in a bitter fight with it, on Friday said he knew a lot of things about the party and its leaders and would bring out cases "step by step". Without taking anybody's name, he said he knew who had asked whom to throw acid on brother's wife. Rane was speaking at a rally in Ratnagiri district as a part of his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra'. Earlier this week, he had made remarks against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, which kicked up a row and led to his arrest on Tuesday before his release a few hours later. The episode had sparked off clashes between Shiv Sena and BJP supporters. "I have worked with them for 39 years, I know a lot of things. I know who asked whom to throw acid on his own brother's wife. What kind of 'sanskar' is it?" the BJP leader said on Friday. In a veiled attack on Uddhav Thackeray, who is also the president of Shiv Sena, Rane said, "What did one achieve by arresting a union minister? I will bring out cases step by step." "A Sena boy - Varun Sardesai - had come outside my home (in Mumbai) and threatened me. If he comes next time, he won't go back," the former Maharashtra chief minister added. Sardesai is a leader of the Yuva Sena, the youth wing of the Shiv Sena. The Yuva Sena workers had protested outside Rane's bungalow in Mumbai on Tuesday over his remarks. Rane, who started off his political career as a Shiv Sena worker, became the state CM in 1999. However, in 2005, he was expelled from the Sena for "anti-party activities". After that he joined the Congress and stayed there till 2017. After quitting the Congress, he launched the Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha in October 2017. In 2018, he declared support for the BJP and was elected to the Rajya Sabha on that party's nomination. In October 2019, he merged his party with the BJP. He was made the Union Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) last month in the cabinet reshuffle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-know-lot-of-things-will-bring-out-cases-step-by-step-rane-warns-shiv-sena-1024091.html
27-08-2021||National||Delhi HC to hear appeals of Facebook, WhatsApp in privacy policy matter in October||The Delhi High Court Friday said it will hear in October the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp challenging its single-judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe ordered by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh listed the matter for October 11 while extending the time to file replies to the June 4 and 8 notices issued by CCI to WhatsApp and Facebook, till then. While CCI was represented through Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, WhatsApp and Facebook were represented through senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi respectively. WhatsApp and Facebook have also challenged the CCI's asking them to furnish certain information for the purpose of inquiry conducted by it. The case relates to the appeals of Facebook and WhatsApp against a single judge order dismissing their pleas against the probe CCI ordered into the instant messaging app's new privacy policy. The division bench of the high court had on May 6 issued notices on the appeals and asked the Centre to respond to it. The single judge on April 22 had said though it would have been "prudent" for the CCI to await the outcome of petitions in the Supreme Court and the Delhi High Court against WhatsApp's new privacy policy, not doing so would not make the regulator's order "perverse" or "wanting of jurisdiction". The court had said it saw no merit in the petitions of Facebook and WhatsApp to interdict the investigation directed by the CCI. The CCI had contended before the single judge that it was not examining the alleged violation of individuals' privacy which was being looked into by the Supreme Court. It had argued before the court that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp would lead to excessive data collection and "stalking" of consumers for targeted advertising to bring in more users and is therefore an alleged abuse of dominant position. WhatsApp and Facebook had challenged the CCI's March 24 order directing a probe into the new privacy policy. In January, the CCI on its own decided to look into WhatsApp's new privacy policy on the basis of news reports regarding the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-to-hear-appeals-of-facebook-whatsapp-in-privacy-policy-matter-in-october-1024097.html
27-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Vaccine Matters: All eyes on Zydus Cadila's shot rollout for children as fear of third wave looms large||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-matters-all-eyes-on-zydus-cadilas-shot-rollout-for-children-as-fear-of-third-wave-looms-large-1024112.html
27-08-2021||National||No jobs, passports for 'anti-national' social media posts in India||At least three Indian states are denying passports and government jobs to people because of their social media posts or participation in protests, human rights activists said. In a move that could jeopardise the futures of tens of thousands of vocal young Indians, authorities in Jammu and Kashmir, Bihar and Uttarakhand have issued such orders, as India clamps down on dissent online and on the ground. "It is a reprehensible move - the police have no right to decide whether any post on social media is anti-national or not," said Nasir Khuehami, a student leader in the restive region of Jammu and Kashmir, enmeshed in turmoil for decades. "The need of the hour is to not create more hassles in the path of thousands of Kashmiri youth who are now in jobs or studying. It will push the youth into further alienation," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. Across Asia, lawmakers have introduced a slew of legislation for governments to access internet users' data and block so-called false news, which human rights groups say raises the risk of mass surveillance and free speech violations. Social media is a key target, with Thailand banning "false messages" and news that causes panic, while Vietnam introduced guidelines that encourage people to "spread good stories about good people" and positive content about the country. In India, WhatsApp went to court in May to oppose new rules that it said violate privacy rights by requiring social media firms to identify users to authorities, following government demands to remove posts critical of its handling of Covid-19. Indian farmers protesting against new agricultural laws in February found that Twitter had blocked their social media accounts on the demands of the government on the grounds that users were posting content aiming to incite violence. Fear and security Last month, police in Jammu and Kashmir issued a directive saying they would not issue security clearances for passports or government jobs to anyone with an "adverse police report", including for participating in protests. Thousands of protesters were arrested and the internet was shut down in Muslim-majority Kashmir, claimed by both India and Pakistan, after India stripped its portion of the region of its autonomy and statehood in 2019. Legal analyst Sheikh Showkat Hussain said he knew of many Kashmiris who had been denied passports or been fired from government jobs because of the rule, which could hurt thousands in the region, particularly young men. "Without a passport, they cannot go abroad to study or work. And because the private sector is nearly non-existent, most are dependent on government jobs," said Hussain, principal at the Kashmir Law College. "It has been the rule for many years, but the new order makes it explicit - and with advanced surveillance equipment now, it is easier for the police to track anyone. This creates fear and insecurity and denies them opportunity." Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, a commissioner in Jammu and Kashmir, said the directive aims to ensure that individuals "with dubious character antecedents and conduct" are not employed by the government without the mandatory verification. Earlier this year, police in the northern state of Uttarakhand said they would monitor social media posts and maintain a record of those that are "anti-national" or "anti-social", and reject passport applications accordingly. "Whatever is said against the unity and integrity of India can be termed as anti-national," said Ashok Kumar, Uttarakhand's director general of police. Similarly in Bihar, state police said participating in any kind of protest could result in clearances being denied for passports and government jobs. "Such people have to be prepared for serious consequences," said Bihar's director general of police S.K. Singhal. In India, police verification that passport applicants do not have a criminal record is a routine procedure. But "unfettered social media monitoring" in order to access documents or jobs goes beyond the legal standard of "necessity and proportionality" that governs government intrusion into privacy rights, said Raman Jit Singh Chima of Access Now. There is a "danger of creating a republic where police files and surveillance are maintained on all citizens and used to chill and intimidate them by controlling their movement," said Chima, a policy director at the digital rights firm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-jobs-passports-for-anti-national-social-media-posts-in-india-1024117.html
27-08-2021||National||Two Uttarakhand officials suspended for involvement in Kumbh Mela fake testing scam||Two officials in Uttarakhand have been suspended for their alleged involvement in the fake Covid-19 testing scam during the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. Then Mela officer (medical and health) Dr Arjun Singh Sengar and then officer-in-charge (medical and health) Dr N K Tyagi were suspended on Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami's orders Thursday night. The action is based on the recommendation of a probe committee set up by the Haridwar District Magistrate to look into the fake testing scam. "Corruption and carelessness at any level will not be tolerated. Stern action will be taken against anyone who is found guilty in connection with the scam," Dhami said. The probe panel found the officials to have been hand in glove with the companies involved in carrying out the fake rapid antigen tests during the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. It had recommended disciplinary action against them for being reckless and causing financial losses to the state. The probe committee headed by the Chief Development Officer of Haridwar had submitted its report to the government on August 16. Meanwhile, Haridwar Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S has been asked to take appropriate legal action against the companies involved in the fake testing scam through the SIT probing it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-uttarakhand-officials-suspended-for-involvement-in-kumbh-mela-fake-testing-scam-1024122.html
27-08-2021||National||500 facial recognition cameras deployed in Indian railway stations: Report||DH couldn't independently verify the report. Developed by a Russian start-up, NtechLab, the system has been active for one month now in 30 railway stations of Gujarat and Maharashtra, the report added. Facial recognition technology is being increasingly deployed in airports, railway stations and cafes across India, with plans for nationwide systems to modernise the police force and its information gathering and criminal identification processes. But technology analysts and privacy experts say the benefits are not clear and could breach people's privacy or lead to greater surveillance, with little clarity on how the technology works, how the data is stored, and who can access the data. According to the report, an independent research organisation, AI Observatory, tracked down at least 40 government-funded projects in India related to video surveillance and facial recognition.  Chief executive of NtechLab, Andrey Telenkov, told the publication that the system can simultaneously recognise up to 50 people, including those wearing masks, and keep a count of the passenger traffic. He stressed that the technology can also be used for identifying criminals and search for missing persons. "India is a huge market for video surveillance and the biggest worldwide. This is the entry point to one of the largest clients there... Now it is a few railway stations, but I believe they do want to expand the solution across the entire network," he said. NtechLab's products are sold to authorities and businesses in Russia and abroad. It had supplied 1,78,000 facial recognition cameras to Moscow to help police Russia's coronavirus lockdown. Authorities say the technology has helped cut crime and enforce coronavirus lockdown restrictions. But digital rights activists say its use is problematic without a data protection law, and that it threatens the right to privacy, which was declared to be a fundamental right by the Supreme Court in a landmark ruling in 2017. "The police are using the technology to solve a problem without considering that this will simply become a new form of surveillance, a new form of exercising power over women," said Vidushi Marda, a researcher at human rights group Article 19. "AI is not a silver bullet, and no amount of 'fancy' tech can fix societal problems," she said.  (With Thomson Reuters Foundation inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/500-facial-recognition-cameras-deployed-in-indian-railway-stations-report-1024124.html
27-08-2021||National||Samyukt Kisan Morcha calls for 'Bharat Bandh' on September 25||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, spearheading the anti-farm laws protests, on Friday called for a 'Bharat Bandh' on September 25. The SKM said the move is aimed at further strengthening and expanding the farmers' agitation which completed nine months on Thursday. Addressing a press conference at Delhi's Singhu border, Ashish Mittal from SKM said, "We are calling for a 'Bharat bandh' on September 25. This is happening after a similar 'bandh' was organised on the same date last year, and we hope that it would be more successful than the one last year which was held amid the COVID-19 pandemic." Mittal, who was also the convener of the all-India convention by farmers that concluded on Friday, said the two-day event was a success, and saw the participation of representatives from 22 states, of not just 300 farm unions but also members of organisations that work for the welfare of women, labourers, tribals as well as youth and students. During the convention, discussions and deliberations took place on the farmers' struggle that has been going on for the last nine months, and it focused on making their agitation against the farm laws a pan-India movement, he said. "During this convention we understood how the government has been attacking the farming community with the pro-corporate laws, and how by capturing the market, farmers' produce will be bought at lower prices. "The government which is on the verge of bankruptcy, is trying to recover the money from the farmers, labourers and the common man by increasing the fuel prices and prices of cooking gas. All these anti-public steps are to benefit the corporate. It is important to strengthen our agitation against all of these factors," Mittal said. He added that their demands for repeal of the three farm laws, legal guarantee for MSP of all crops, repeal of Electricity Bill, 2021, and no prosecution of farmers under the 'Commission of AQ Management in NCR and Adjoining Areas Bill 2021' were also reiterated during the convention. Mittal also elaborated on the farmers' upcoming rally in Uttar Pradesh scheduled to take place in Muzaffarnagar on September 5, saying it is expected to witness the participation by lakhs of people. "A call for strengthening this movement will be made from there. The movement will be taken to every zila there, and we have appealed to people to participate in large numbers. "We have also appealed to farmer and labour organisations at the zila and lower levels to come together and discuss the impact of these laws and create a collective agitation across the country," he said. On Thursday, the farmers' protest against the three contentious laws completed nine months since they first arrived at the Delhi borders. The farmers have been demanding the repeal of the laws which they are afraid will do away with the MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government that has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/samyukt-kisan-morcha-calls-for-bharat-bandh-on-september-25-1024130.html
27-08-2021||National||Fuel prices up due to higher import cost of crude oil: Narayan Rane||Union minister Narayan Rane on Friday claimed that higher import cost of crude oil was the main reason behind the spiralling retail prices of petrol and diesel. Replying to questions on rising fuel prices which have touched record levels this year, he told reporters in Ratnagiri district that certain things are not in the government's hands. “The import cost of crude oil has gone up. Hence, we (the central government) have to increase the retail prices of petrol, diesel, LPG. Certain things are not in our hands, because we import it," the Union MSME minister said. According to estimates, India imports over 80 per cent of its oil needs and more than 50 per cent of its gas requirement. “I will take up the issue with right persons,” Rane said when asked whether the common man will get any relief from rising fuel prices. The minister was in Ratnagiri district of coastal Maharashtra as part of his 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra', the BJP's mass contact programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-up-due-to-higher-import-cost-of-crude-oil-narayan-rane-1024135.html
27-08-2021||National||SC declines to interfere with bail to alleged ISIS member||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to entertain a plea by the National Investigation Agency against a Bombay High Court's order upholding a grant of bail to the alleged member of UN-banned terrorist organisation Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) Areeb Ejaz Majeed on February 23 this year. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and A S Bopanna dismissed the special leave petition by the central agency after noting that the accused had already remained in prison for more than six years and the trial court has put stringent conditions for his bail. Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the NIA, contended that Majeed was a terrorist who went to Syria and came back to the country to carry out blasts at police headquarters. This was a case under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). His decent behaviour can't be a ground for bail by the trial court, he contended. The top court, however, said it found no ground to interfere with the High Court's order which upheld the trial court's decision to release him on bail on March 17, 2020. Advocate Farrukh Rasheed appeared for Majeed on caveat. Majeed was arrested on November 29, 2014, by the Mumbai ATS which handed him over to the NIA. According to the NIA, he initially went to Iraq in May 2014 on a pilgrimage visa but left for Syria to join ISIL. He was imparted training in handling of weapons and firearms and was actively involved in terrorist acts in Iraq and Syria. The agency claimed the accused was trying to recruit Indians as well as non-residents to join the terrorist organisation for carrying out activities not only in Iraq and Syria but in India as well. It further alleged that the accused had come back to India with some ulterior motive to carry out 'lone wolf attack' kind operation. The agency relied upon alleged social media posts of co-accused to claim Majeed had returned to India for terrorist activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-interfere-with-bail-to-alleged-isis-member-1024139.html
27-08-2021||National||INX Media: Can't allow inspection of seized documents by accused, CBI tells Delhi HC||As investigation in the INX media case is still on, the accused -- Congress leader P Chidambaram and his son Karti -- cannot be allowed inspection of the seized documents as it may result in tampering of evidence, the CBI told the Delhi High Court on Friday. Justice Mukta Gupta, who was hearing CBI's challenge to a trial court order allowing inspection of documents kept in 'Malkhana' (room keeping case properties) by the accused and their counsel, said that the issue of inspection has been settled by the Supreme Court in favour of the accused. “For most of the things, onus has been shifted to the accused. Law also has to progress. Every investigating agency seizes 1000 documents. They rely on 500 and keep 500. It is not your property. They may have exculpatory material for the accused,” said the judge who expressed her inclination to dismiss the petition. The court reserved its order on CBI's petition and allowed the agency as well as the accused to file their written submissions. “Interim order to continue,” it stated. CBI counsel Anupam S Sharma submitted that “secrecy is important” in the case as the investigation was still going on. “Then you say that trial will stop till you complete the investigation... you tell me how much time your further investigation will take and then it will be decided (subsequently) which document is to be given,” the court responded. The court stated that the apex court, in a case pertaining to the deficiencies in criminal trials, has said that an accused can ask for seized documents which have not been relied upon by the prosecuting agency. “We have forgotten what basic criminal law is... Para 11 (of the Supreme Court order) is for agencies like you who are creating hurdle in every matter,” the court remarked. The judge informed that the relevant high court rules on the issue would be notified soon. CBI counsel contended that the Supreme Court order speaks of providing a list of the documents which have not been relied upon by the prosecution. The high court had on May 18 stayed trial proceedings in the case involving Chidambaram and his son Karti. It had also issued notice and sought responses of Chidambaram and others on the CBI's plea. The CBI has sought to set aside the special judge's March 5, 2021 order to the extent that it directed CBI to allow inspection of documents kept in Malkhana by the respondents/accused/ their counsel. Besides, the CBI has also sought setting aside the observations in the order which says that the agency is required to file or produce before the court all the documents collected by it during investigation. The trial court had also said that the accused are entitled to copies of such documents or inspections thereof, irrespective of the fact whether they are being relied upon by the CBI or not. In its plea before the high court, the CBI had said that this case involved high level of corruption with wide ramifications for the society, and while the accused have a right to a fair trial, the collective interest of the society could not be impinged upon. A fair trial is not what the accused wants in the name of a 'fair trial' but it must soothe the ultimate goal of justice. Although right to fair trial of the respondents/ accused was not infringed, since all documents relied upon by petitioner (CBI) were provided to them, it said. The agency contended that the very essence of trial is to unearth the truth for which the court cannot assist the accused in search of a plausible defence. The CBI had registered its case on May 15, 2017, alleging irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of Rs 305 crore in 2007 during Chidambaram's tenure as finance minister. Thereafter, the ED had lodged the money laundering case. Chidambarams are on bail in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inx-media-cant-allow-inspection-of-seized-documents-by-accused-cbi-tells-delhi-hc-1024140.html
27-08-2021||National||Over 4.05 crore Covid vaccine doses still available with states, UTs: Health Ministry||More than 4.05 crore Covid vaccine doses are still available with states and Union Territories for inoculation, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. Over 58.86 crore vaccine doses have been provided to the states and Union Territories so far and more than 17.64 lakh doses are in the pipeline, the ministry said in a statement. It said more than 4.05 crore balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and Union Territories for inoculation.  The Union government is committed to accelerating the pace and expanding the scope of Covid vaccination throughout the country. The new phase of universalisation of the Covid-19 vaccination commenced from June 21.  The vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advance visibility of vaccine availability to the states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them, and streamlining the vaccine supply chain, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-405-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-still-available-with-states-uts-health-ministry-1024151.html
27-08-2021||National||NHAI to be flag-bearer of Centre's asset monetisation plan||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will be the flag-bearer of the government's asset monetisation programme with a plan to raise about Rs 30,000-40,000 crore through monetisation of its operational stretches over the next two years. The company officials indicated that the disruptions in wake of pandemic delayed some of its asset monetisation plan, but with traffic fast returning to near normal levels now, about Rs 10,000 crore of road assets would be monetised by NHAI in the current year (FY 22) and the exercise would kick up pace next year with doubling or tripling of the numbers in the next few years. With the country in firm grip of the second wave of Covid pandemic in the months of April and May, and subsequent restrictions on mobility and partial lockdown, tolling at national highways nose-dived. In a report released earlier, rating agency ICRA had estimated that sequentially tolling had fallen by about 10 per cent in April and close to 30 per cent in May. Thereafter, there has been marked improvement in traffic on highways reaching 90 per cent of pre-Covid levels and has crossed that level too now. An NHAI official said that the entity is in touch with a clutch of investors and soon bids would be invited for taking the operational NHAI project under the toll-operate-transfer (TOT) model. Under the TOT model, highway projects which have been operational for at least two years, and which have been generating a steady stream of revenue, are to be leased out to large-cap investors for carrying out O&M (operation and maintenance) operations in consideration of the highest bid upfront concession fee. The investor recovers investment through tolls collected for a stretch over a period of concession spreading over 20-30 years. Once the cost with agreed return is achieved, the road returns back to NHAI. "The national monetisation pipeline announced by the government has identified the road sector having the maximum potential for such exercise at Rs 1,60,000 crore over the next four financial years. This would be achievable given the tested model already available in the sector. Besides, InvIT model would also be used to pool resources and monetise projects," said a road sector expert asking not to be named. NHAI has planned an InvIT, the second one promoted by a public sector entity after power transmission utility PGCIL, but it has seen multiple deferments over the Covid disruptions. But a Rs 5,100 crore InvIT is now likely next month. The InvIT trust will acquire 100 per cent of the equity shares of the project SPV from the sponsor NHAI. It is expected that NHAI may raise further funds, around Rs 5,000 crore, by transferring more assets to the InvIT later in the year. But TOT may remain the most active model for monetisation. So far NHAI has raised around Rs 17,000 crore through the TOT model by granting on long-term lease three road bundles out of the five attempted so far. The sixth bundle will be out soon. Another exercise for asset monetisation by NHAI will be through toll securitisation where the authority gets paid for investment in road construction and private investor gets to collect toll.Proceeds from the asset monetisation programme are used to repay debt and develop highways. As on March, 2021, NHAI had around Rs 3 lakh crore debt. It is permitted to borrow Rs 65,000 crore in 2021-22, same as in 2020-21. The expectation of asset monetisation (by NHAI and other developers including EPC developers) is also supported by the past performance of road EPC companies. Between fiscals 2016 and 2021, sale of assets to InvITs or to private equity funds helped unlock Rs 80,000 crore of enterprise value for the sector (Rs 50,000 crore for the road EPC companies analysed), according to a Crisil report.  Around 60 per cent of this was through four InvITs. The funds released strengthened their balance sheets.The leverage (calculated as total outside liabilities to tangible net worth) of these companies is estimated to have improved to 1.25 times as on March 31, 2021, from 1.87 times as on March 31, 2016, largely supported by asset monetisation. The Union Budget 2021-22, laid a lot of emphasis on asset monetisation as a means to raise innovative and alternative financing for infrastructure. In her Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that monetising operating public infrastructure assets was a very important financing option for new infrastructure construction. Now a Rs 6 lakh crore monetisation pipeline has been announced for bringing in private investment in brownfield Central government projects in various sectors where assets are idling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-to-be-flag-bearer-of-centres-asset-monetisation-plan-1024160.html
27-08-2021||National||Total political anarchism in Assam; CM's word only law, alleges Akhil Gogoi||Hitting out at the Himanta Biswa Sarma government in Assam, Independent MLA Akhil Gogoi on Friday claimed that "political anarchism" is on the rise in the state, with the word of the chief minister becoming the only law. Addressing a press meet, he expressed dismay over the increasing number of police encounters since May, and said that the Constitution is no longer abided by in the northeastern state. "If the chief minister dreams of something, the next day a Cabinet meeting is called and all that he dreamt of becomes the law without any discussion or procedure. Whatever the chief minister says becomes the law here. "Such a situation has never been encountered in the political history of Assam since Independence. There is total political anarchism in the state. I have read that 56 encounters have taken place since the Sarma-led government assumed charge," the Raijor Dal chief alleged. Gogoi also stressed the need for unity among Opposition parties to defeat the BJP in the state and said the ball lay in the court of the Congress as it would have to decide if it wanted to forge an alliance with the Raijor Dal for by-polls in the state. "We have made our intentions clear. It is now on the Congress, the main opposition party in the state, to demonstrate whether they want to establish true democratic politics once again and defeat the traitors.” "If the Congress fails to put up common candidates with us in Thowra, Mariani and Gossaigaon, we will understand that it is actually an arm of the BJP," he stated. Congress MLAs of Thowra and Mariani left the party to join the BJP, shortly after the new government under Sarma took charge. By-elections are also due in Gossaigaon and Tamulpur, where incumbent legislators have died. The Majuli constituency is likely to fall vacant with the induction of sitting MLA Sarbananda Sonowal in the Union Cabinet, though the former CM is yet to put in his papers. The Independent legislator further referred to a recent letter by Sarma to the prime minister, reportedly urging for merger of Assam assets of ONGC with Oil India Ltd (OIL), and questioned how people could silently sit and watch when a major branch of the ONGC is set to lose its identity, thereby depriving local families of their only means of livelihood. "In my constituency Sivasagar and its neighbouring areas, almost every family has its main income sourced from the ONGC, be it in the form of a job or indirect employment. We cannot allow the government to put their future at stake. Our party will hold an agitation against it," he maintained. Gogoi, during the press meet, also slammed the Centre for "pushing the country into an economic crisis", with every sector bearing the brunt of its decisions. "Three curses of the Modi government have taken our country into its current state of economic distress – demonetisation, introduction of GST and unplanned lockdown. "The central government has gone bankrupt but it is ashamed to admit it. Hence, it is selling the public property acquired over the years," the Raijor Dal chief said. He insisted that the "solution lies in ousting the NDA government" in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. "The Raijor Dal has initiated talks with regional parties across the country. We will have to work together to throw this government out of power," he contended. Gogoi's party, which is yet to get registered by the Election Commission, has held several rounds of talks with the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress, according to sources. The MLA further alleged that the country's media has been "neutralised" by the Narendra Modi government. He sought to know why the media was "maintaining silence" over the drop in the prime minister's popularity ratings in a survey conducted by a US firm. "One of the specialties of this Modi government is the way it has neutralised the media in the country. Narendra Modi’s popularity rating has decreased by 16 points, but the media is not talking about it," he stated. According to a survey by an American data firm, Modi's approval ratings have recently dipped to 66 per cent from the previous 82 per cent in August 2019. "Barring a very few exceptions, most media houses look like Doordarshan now, like government-run media (organisations)," the Raijor Dal president added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/total-political-anarchism-in-assam-cms-word-only-law-alleges-akhil-gogoi-1024164.html
27-08-2021||National||Only a Dalit will succeed me as BSP chief: Mayawati||BSP president Mayawati on Friday said it is too early to announce her successor but when the time comes, another Dalit will lead the party. Attacking the Congress, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said despite losing mass support, the party was allegedly spreading canards and maligning the BSP’s image. "There is no need to speculate on my successor as I am fit and fine at present. I will make the announcement only when I am not fit to lead the party,” the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president said. “My successor will be another Dalit who has stood by me and the party with all honesty and dedication even during the most trying times. The party has seen many ups and downs,” she added. She said BSP founder Kanshi Ram too had declared her as his successor only when he was not keeping well. Reacting to a promotional booklet prepared by the Uttar Pradesh Congress in the run-up to the assembly elections in the state, the BSP chief alleged that the party was using money and food to attract crowds at its rallies. The 24-page booklet, which is meant for distribution among Congress workers during the party’s ongoing training programmes, highlights the alleged misinformation campaign against it and the wrongdoings of opposition parties including the BSP. “The Congress party is pained as it is now well known that even for bringing people to its rallies and public meetings, it has to woo them with money and food. This is the culture of the Congress party for attracting crowds,” Mayawati claimed. This also reflects that the Congress has lost mass support, she alleged. The Congress needed to mention its own shortcomings in the booklet instead of commenting on opposition parties and should first set its own house in order, she said. The BSP chief also claimed that the Congress is finding it difficult to persuade people in Uttar Pradesh to fight elections on its ticket and has to seek financial help from industrialists to fund the campaigning of its candidates. Whereas, the BSP gives tickets to even those who are not financially strong and donations are collected for such candidates, Mayawati said. Unlike the Congress and others, the BSP is not a party of capitalists but of the poor and deprived and is run with the help of small contributions, she added. “It seems that the Congress is desperate to return to power but the party's wrong policies, work culture, double speak are responsible for its present dismal state. For hiding their shortcomings, they are resorting to different tactics but the people of the state are aware of it. They can release as many booklets as they want but it will not be of any help,” she said. The Congress will not gain any support by releasing booklets, enacting dramas or sitting before Gandhiji's statue, she said referring to Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra staging a silent protest before a Mahatma Gandhi statute here against the BJP government last month. People know that during my four tenures as the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, I did historical work for the society and all religious groups which was neither done by the previous governments nor the present BJP regime, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-a-dalit-will-succeed-me-as-bsp-chief-mayawati-1024168.html
27-08-2021||National||Anurag Thakur's 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' to benefit BJP in bypolls: Himachal Pradesh BJP chief||Himachal Pradesh BJP president Suresh Kashyap on Friday claimed that Union Minister Anurag Thakur's recent 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra' would benefit the party in the coming bypolls in the state. The bypolls to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and three state Assembly seats of Arki, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Fatehpur are due as they fell vacant after sitting legislators had passed away. The state has 68 Assembly and four Lok Sabha segments. The Election Commission is yet to announce dates for the bypolls. Mandi BJP MP Sharma was found hanging in his official residence in New Delhi on March 17. Former minister and Fatehpur Congress MLA Sujan Singh Pathania, former minister and Jubbal-Kotkhai MLA Narinder Bragta and former chief minister and Arki MLA Virbhadra Singh died in February, June and July respectively. State BJP chief Kashyap, who is also the Shimla MP, told media here that Thakur's 'Jan Aashirwad Yatra' was executed in line with the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP National President Jagat Prakash Nadda that has infused new enthusiasm among the party workers. This will definitely benefit BJP in coming bypolls, he claimed. Congress already stated that it would contest the bypolls on issues of coronavirus mismanagement, price rise and unemployment in the state. Kashyap said all the saffron party leaders, including Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, his cabinet colleagues, MPs and MLAs participated in the Yatra. The Yatra started from Parwanoo in Solan district on August 19 and culminated at Mehatpur in Una district on August 24. It covered a distance of 630 km across four Lok Sabha constituencies and 43 Assembly segments in eight districts of the hill state, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anurag-thakurs-jan-ashirwad-yatra-to-benefit-bjp-in-bypolls-himachal-pradesh-bjp-chief-1024186.html
27-08-2021||National||In effort to save people from Covid-19, we kill them by fire: Supreme Court slams Gujarat government||The Supreme Court on Friday slammed the Gujarat government for relaxing building norms for hospitals, saying that in the effort of saving people from the Covid-19 pandemic, it was killing them by fire. The top court directed that the July 8 notification issued by the Gujarat government, restraining coercive action against the buildings having no building use (BU) permission, would be kept in abeyance.  A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said if a two-room place is converted to a hospital, one must take permission.  The bench noted the Gujarat government came out with the notification suspending the general development control regulation (GDCR) and Town Planning Act. It is shocking that the safety of citizens was not the priority. All governments converted places to hospitals, but it cannot justify that we will risk people’s safety, the court said. “We are constantly exempting developers, violators from complying with law provisions. That’s all we are doing in this country," the bench said. "Case after case, we see there is big mafia link between developers, planning authorities and law enforcement authorities. And people who suffer are citizens and we can’t tolerate this," an exasperated bench said. The bench said in name of the pandemic, it would not simply tolerate or allow anything. Two major fire incidents occurred at Covid-19 hospitals last year in Gujarat, following which the state government faced scrutiny by the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-effort-to-save-people-from-covid-19-we-kill-them-by-fire-supreme-court-slams-gujarat-government-1024206.html
27-08-2021||National||Level of food processing must be raised from just 10% now: Minister||Food Processing Minister Pashupati Kumar Paras on Friday stressed on increasing the level of processing in India from the current 10 per cent so as to boost farmers' income. Addressing a virtual conference organized by industry body Assocham, the minister highlighted that the food processing industry has always been the "engine of growth for the Indian economy". "India’s food processing sector is one of the largest in the world and its output is expected to reach $535 billion by 2025-26," Paras said. The food processing sector contributes 12.8 per cent to the Indian GDP and provides, directly and indirectly, huge employment, he added. Pointing out that India’s current overall level of food processing is just 10 per cent, Paras said the processing level needs to be increased to capture market opportunities and improve income for farmers. The minister highlighted that the government in the last seven years has taken several measures to boost processing level and grow this sector. Under PMKSY (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojna), he mentioned that 42 Mega Food Parks, 353 Cold Chain projects, 63 Agro-Processing Clusters, 292 Food Processing Units, 62 Creation of Backward & Forward Linkages Projects and 6 Operation Green projects across the country have been approved. The minister said food processing has an important role to play in linking Indian farmers to consumers in the domestic and international markets. Highlighting the importance of this sector, Paras said the Indian food and grocery market is the world’s sixth-largest, with retail contributing 70 per cent of the sales. The food processing industry accounts for 32 per cent of the country’s total food market and is ranked fifth in terms of production, consumption, export, and expected growth, he added. "The production of horticulture crops in India was estimated at a record 320.48 million tonne in FY20 as per second advance estimates. India has the largest livestock population of around 535.78 million, which translates to around 31 per cent of the world population," Paras said. The ministry is making all efforts to encourage investments across the value chain, he said. The food processing sector in India has received around USD 7.54 billion worth of FDI during the period April 2000-March 2017. Paras pointed out that the food processing industry faced various challenges during the pandemic such as shortage of labour, supply chain gaps due to lockdowns. Factories were shut down, and there were huge losses of material, he added. However, the minister said the pandemic has accentuated the critical importance of food safety and the management of food surpluses in the country. Accordingly, he said, the sector's policy measures have shifted the focus from livelihood to processing, distribution, and marketing. Anil Rajput, Chairmam, FMCG council Assocham and Himanshu Priyadarshi, Senior Member, Assocham & Director Public, Policy & Government Affairs, PepsiCo, took part in the virtual event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/level-of-food-processing-must-be-raised-from-just-10-now-minister-1024219.html
27-08-2021||National||Five additional judges sworn in at Calcutta HC||Five additional judges were sworn-in at the Calcutta High Court on Friday by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal. With their swearing-in, the number of judges at the Calcutta High Court rose to 36 against the sanctioned strength of 72. The acting chief justice, during the day, administered oath of office to the five judges — justices Kesang Doma Bhutia, Rabindranath Samanta, Sugato Majumdar, Bivas Pattanayak and Ananda Kumar Mukherjee. The Union Ministry of Law and Justice had on Thursday notified their appointment by President Ram Nath Kovind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-additional-judges-sworn-in-at-calcutta-hc-1024222.html
27-08-2021||National||India administers over 1 crore Covid vaccine doses, highest ever in a single day||India on Friday administered more than one crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines in a single day. As per the Co-Win dashboard, 1,00,64,032 doses were administered on Friday, taking the cumulative number of doses given since the vaccination drive began on January 16 to 62.17 crore. “Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said. Record vaccination numbers today! Crossing 1 crore is a momentous feat. Kudos to those getting vaccinated and those making the vaccination drive a success.  As per the Co-Win dashboard, 48.08 crore beneficiaries have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while 14.08 crore persons have received both doses of the vaccine. The vaccination drive is expected to gain further momentum in September as more than 20 crore doses would be available as vaccine makers step up production.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-administers-over-1-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-highest-ever-in-a-single-day-1024244.html
27-08-2021||National||Navodaya schools to reopen from August 31 for classes IX-XII||Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas (JNVs) will reopen with up to 50% capacity for classes IX to XII from August 31, Education Ministry officials said. “Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti has decided to re-open the JNVs up to 50% capacity, in a phased manner for classes IX to XII, as per the notification of states and UTs which have permitted re-opening of schools by following approved SOP for opening schools,” they said. The officials said from August 31, students will be permitted to attend the classes and stay in the hostel, only with parents' consent. JNVs are fully residential, co-educational schools affiliated to the CBSE and are managed by Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti, an autonomous organisation under the Education Ministry. The JNVs will continue online education, while arrangements were also in place for providing support to ensure mental and physical health and well-being of students through proper counselling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navodaya-schools-to-reopen-from-august-31-for-classes-ix-xii-1024247.html
27-08-2021||National||Women of Mumbai kept freedom movement alive when top leaders were in jail, says freedom fighter Rohini Gavankar||When India's freedom movement was leaderless because top leaders were in jail, girl students and women of Mumbai kept it alive, said Rohini Gavankar, the 92-year-old freedom fighter. “Mumbai saw the participation of many brave women in India’s freedom struggle. For their participation, they were even penalised with rigorous imprisonment. Madam Cama, a Parsi from Mumbai, inspired the nation to have a flag of its own by hoisting the first flag for India. Perin Captain and her two sisters, who were grand-daughters of Dadabhai Naoroji, sold Khadi door to door in Mumbai as an effort to popularise Khadi and thus weaken British rule,” said Gavankar. According to her, when the movement became leaderless in the last phase, it was the women of Mumbai who kept it alive.  “Mumbai’s girl students and women undertook various activities on their own initiative. Even before Indira Gandhi’s Vanar Sena, Ushaben Mehta had started Manjar Sena (Cat Army) in Mumbai. This army was entrusted with mocking and teasing the police and the armed forces,” she said. Gavankar added that Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru deeply appreciated the role played by Mumbai’s women in the freedom struggle during 1930-1940 and called their efforts an inspiration for the whole nation. Gavankar shared memories of her personal experience of partaking in the freedom struggle at a webinar organised by the Press Information Bureau and Regional Outreach Bureau, as part of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting’s celebration of Iconic Week of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. “One of my brothers faced imprisonment and a death sentence. Another brother took part in the Prati Sarkar movement. I was around 14 years old then. I used to mobilise children and would also sing patriotic songs loudly during that time. I did the role of messenger in the Prati Sarkar movement.” Columnist Anuradha Ranade added that more than 300 rebellions occurred against the tyrant rule of the British East India Company from 1757 to 1857.  Narrating Mumbai’s role, Ranade spoke about the contribution of the Bombay Presidency Association and the Indian National Congress. “Due to the divisive and unjust policies of the British, many parts of India saw the emergence of various organisations. One of them was the Bombay Presidency Association, founded in 1885. Indian National Congress was originally Indian National Union; however, in the Bombay Session of 1885, it was renamed as Indian National Congress. "This session took place in Congress Bhawan near Elphinstone Road. It had 72 participants, of which 18 were from Mumbai. Mumbai was the epicentre of India's freedom struggle and South Mumbai was used as a location to hold demonstrations against British policies.” Noted academician Aruna Pendse explained how natives of Mumbai participated in the Salt Satyagraha. “Mumbaikars of that time used the locations of Mahalakshmi and Chowpatty to perform Salt Satyagraha. Events in 1942 showed the multi-coloured and multi-ethnic nature of Mumbai. Under Mahatma Gandhi’s influence, the Gujarati trading community took a wholesome part in the freedom struggle. "The Marathi community also participated in huge numbers. Political rallies on a mass scale first started in August at Gowalia Tank Maidan, now known as August Kranti Maidan. It was here on 8th August 1942 that Gandhiji asked the British to Quit India. Thereafter, Shivaji Park and other places also emerged as locations for rallies.” Pendse went on to add that Aruna Asaf Ali and Usha Mehta encouraged women to participate in the freedom struggle. Mumbai remained the epicentre but the movement started spreading to other parts of the country, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-of-mumbai-kept-freedom-movement-alive-when-top-leaders-were-in-jail-says-freedom-fighter-rohini-gavankar-1024253.html
27-08-2021||National||India's aspiration to become regional power can't rely on borrowed strength: Bipin Rawat||India's aspiration to become a regional power can't rely on borrowed strength and the nation's wars have to be won with indigenous equipment and technology, Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat said on Friday. Addressing an event held by the Institution Of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers, he said the segregated nature of the defence commercial industry ecosystem in India restricts its capacity to manufacture defence equipment. "We cannot be import-dependent if we have to fight and win future wars. Indigenisation, therefore, is the way forward and we in the armed forces are fully committed to it," Rawat said. "Our nation's aspiration of becoming a regional power cannot rely on borrowed strength... India's wars have to be won with Indian solutions," he said. The pervasiveness of information and the pace of technological change is transforming the very character of warfare and providing innovative ways of warfare that would be non-contact (no physical contact) in particular, the Chief of Defence Staff said. "It includes information operations, stealing of intellectual property rights, economic inducements -- all backed up by propaganda in the time of fake news to justify their actions," he added. "The air defence capabilities of our armed forces are at the cusp of modernisation with acquisition of Rafales, S-400, ballistic missile defence system, Akash weapon system and progressive replacement of the legacy air defence systems that we have in our inventory today," Rawat noted. However, keeping in mind the macro-economic parameters and socio-economic requirements of India, the best solutions have to be found through acquisitions and optimisation or up-gradation of legacy systems and through indigenous manufacturing, he said. "We will be able to use our economics or the budgetary allocations made to the armed forces in a better way if we develop our systems indigenously," the Chief of Defence Staff mentioned. The pursuit of disruptive technologies such as artificial intelligence, robotics, nanotechnology, big data analysis, drones, autonomous unmanned systems, militarisation of space, cyber warfare, quantum communications along with the manipulation of social media are all leading to new threats further complicating the security environment today, Rawat said. Enabling technologies such as artificial intelligence and quantum computing are being used to produce sophisticated autonomous weapons that will accelerate the pace of combat, he mentioned. "While these technologies keep shaping the contours of the threat, they also provide with us an opportunity to acquire new military capabilities to our strategic advantage." Rawat said the military value of the ballistic missiles will increase over the next decade with the production of hypersonic gliders and alternative warheads that are capable of breaking into increasingly powerful missile defence systems. The armed forces must be prepared for a future conflict with this changed character of warfare, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-aspiration-to-become-regional-power-cant-rely-on-borrowed-strength-bipin-rawat-1024254.html
27-08-2021||National||Punjab Opposition asks Amarinder Singh-led govt to prove majority in Assembly||Amid the ongoing tussle in the ruling Congress in Punjab, opposition parties, including the AAP and SAD, on Friday asked the Amarinder Singh-led government to prove its majority in the Assembly. A delegation of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs led by Leader of Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema met the Governor here and claimed that the Congress government was “in minority”. The group demanded that a special session of the state assembly be convened and the chief minister directed to prove his government’s majority in the house. According to a statement from AAP, the party leaders said if Amarinder Singh evades proving his government’s majority in next seven days, the assembly should be dissolved immediately. The Congress has 80 MLAs in the 117-member Punjab Assembly. The opposition's demand has come at a time when the Punjab Congress is facing a crisis due to the ongoing power struggle between Amarinder Singh and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Some ministers and MLAs have openly revolted against the chief minister, Cheema said, adding Amarinder Singh has lost the trust and support of his ministers, legislators and the people of Punjab. Addressing a gathering in Bagha Purana in Moga, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal asked the Amarinder Singh-led government to prove its majority. The chief minister should be ready to face a no-confidence motion in the forthcoming assembly session as he has “lost the confidence” of a majority of his ministers and legislators and “does not have any right to remain in his chair”. Talking to reporters, Badal said the chief minister should move a resolution in the forthcoming session of the state assembly “to repeal the three hateful agricultural laws”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-opposition-asks-amarinder-singh-led-govt-to-prove-majority-in-assembly-1024258.html
27-08-2021||National||India, Australia investing heavily to acheive energy targets||India and Australia are investing heavily to achieve energy targets, Consul General of Australia Rowan Ainsworth said at an energy conclave. Australia and India have similar goals in reducing emissions with wide adoption of technologies, she said during the virtual conclave organised by Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Thursday. The diplomat said that the government of Australia is committed to technology-driven energy transition just like India and regular dialogues are held between the two countries for energy storage systems, energy efficiencies and renewable energy. "Australia’s focus is on partnering with other countries to de-carbonize and ensure our economies can work. Few key strengths of Australia’s approach are discussed like reducing emissions, using renewable, and finally cooperating with India," she said.. Australia is proud to be a founding member of International Solar Alliance. India’s leadership in this important issue is appreciated for sustainable development and energy security, she said adding India and Australia have also collaborated on global minerals. Turning to water security, she said it has become important due to the rising population. "Australia and India will also launch the Australia and India water dialogue and bring water experts to the table," she added. Suresh Kumar, the additional chief secretary to the department of power, West Bengal, said the issue is decarbonization which is a global issue. "Energy transition which was previously based on fossil fuels is going through a change and now we’re getting into more and more renewables all over the world. West Bengal fortunately has always been very beneficial in terms of number of coal mines. We also had a number of power stations and we did not have to transport coal for more than 20 to 30 km," he added. · The state had the advantage of having the best natural resources close to the power station. Even it is going through a transition now. "We understand that it’s not feasible to run more and more thermal power stations. The gestation time of a thermal power station is around three to five years, he added. Acting British Deputy High Commissioner, Kolkata, Sophie Ross, US Consul General Melinda Pavek were among those who attended the first session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-investing-heavily-to-acheive-energy-targets-1024263.html
27-08-2021||National||One-stop crisis centres, women helpline assisted 57 lakh women: WCD minister at G20 conference||One-stop crisis centres and the women helpline have assisted 57 lakh women in the country, Union minister Smriti Irani has said in her address at the first-ever G20 Ministerial Conference on Women's Empowerment. The conference was held at Santa Margherita Ligure in Italy in a hybrid format late Thursday night. Noting that India is witnessing a rapid transition from women's development to women-led development, the women and child development minister said the country has adopted a multi-pronged approach in its strategy that accentuates gender justice and equality and enables full expression and participation of women in public life. The socio-economic discourse of the country is firmly committed to eliminating all forms of discrimination, disadvantages and violence against women, she added. "This is the fundamental framework that underpins our development story in which women agencies and leadership play a key role in realising the aspiration of Aatmanirbhar Bharat, a India that is self-reliant not just for her sake but in the interest of the entire global community in a post-Covid world," Irani said. She said the government is poised to launch Mission Shakti, an integrated programme for the empowerment of women. "The programme is carefully designed to touch upon and address all concerns and issues of women responsively in a comprehensive manner while weaving the best features from Indian and international experiences and learning into it. The mission endeavours to make women equal partners in nation building through convergence and citizen ownership," the minister said. Recognising the importance of safety as a foundational requirement for the empowerment of women, she said the government has particularly focussed on the security of women. "Our country has 704 one-stop crisis centres actively extending medical, legal, psychosocial, police and shelter support to women facing violence or distress in an integrated manner under a common roof," Irani said. There is a dedicated toll-free helpline for women that enables access to protection 24x7 over an easy-to-remember short code, 181, she added. "Together, the one-stop crisis centres and the women helpline have assisted 5.7 million (57 lakh) women in my country to this day. "India is implementing schemes and projects worth more than USD 1.25 billion for the safety of women as the baseline facilitator for their empowerment under the Nirbhaya framework. Enabling institutional delivery for poor women, the government of India transfers funds directly to the bank accounts of pregnant and lactating women," Irani said. The G20 Conference on Women Empowerment acknowledged the common objectives and shared responsibilities to advance the goals of equality and development of women and girls in all spheres, including STEM, financial and digital literacy, environment and sustainability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-stop-crisis-centres-women-helpline-assisted-57-lakh-women-wcd-minister-at-g20-conference-1024280.html
27-08-2021||National||India repatriates most of its citizens from Afghanistan; in talks on resumption of evacuation flights||India has not yet operated any evacuation flight from Afghanistan after two explosions near the Hamid Karzai International Airport in the capital of the war-torn country killed at least 110 people on Thursday. Though India could evacuate most of its citizens willing to leave Afghanistan, some were still left in the country, where the Taliban’s swift blitz led to the collapse of President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul. The ones still left in Afghanistan included nearly 20, who could not reach the airport to board the aircraft that left for India nearly 12 hours before the twin explosions near the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul paused evacuation by all foreign nations.   “Our overall assessment is that the vast majority of Indians, who wish to return have been evacuated. Some more are likely to be in Afghanistan,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, told journalists in New Delhi on Friday. “We are monitoring the situation very carefully. It is an evolving situation.” An Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft on Thursday brought home 24 Indian citizens evacuated from Afghanistan. It also evacuated 11 Nepalese and brought them to India. It was the last evacuation flight New Delhi operated from Kabul before the explosions took place near the Baron Hotel and near the overcrowded Abbey Gate of the airport in the capital of Afghanistan. Bagchi, however, did not rule out the possibility of India operating more flights to bring back its citizens from Afghanistan. “We are aware of the very difficult situation on the ground,” said the MEA spokesperson, adding that New Delhi was in touch with “various parties” to assess when it could send aircraft to Kabul to bring back home remaining Indians. The United States and some other foreign nations resumed operating evacuation flights from the airport in Kabul on Friday. Bagchi said that India would continue the prioritised evacuation of its own citizens from Afghanistan. “We were able to bring out some Afghan nationals as well as nationals from other countries. Of these, many of them were Sikhs and Hindus. Primarily, our focus will be on Indian nationals, but we'll also stand by Afghans who stood by us.” Nearly 140 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus also could not reach the airport in Kabul on Wednesday and missed their flight to India. New Delhi evacuated its envoy to Kabul, Rudrendra Tandon, and 175 other officials posted in the Embassy of India in Kabul on August 17 – less than 48 hours after the Taliban militants entered the capital city after occupying many provincial capitals across Afghanistan and President Ashraf Ghani escaped from the country marking the collapse of his Government. India also evacuated 263 of its citizens from Afghanistan, apart from 112 Afghans, including Sikhs and Hindus, and 15 citizens of third countries. New Delhi also arranged the evacuation of its citizens by other nations. New Delhi has been coordinating with the United States for operating the evacuation flights from the capital Afghanistan. The Hamid Karzai Airport in Kabul has been under the control of the troops of the US and its NATO allies. India also coordinated with the governments of Tajikistan, Qatar, Uzbekistan and Iran for using their airports and airspace for securing transit and overflight permissions for its evacuation aircraft, which avoided the airspace of Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-repatriates-most-of-its-citizens-from-afghanistan-in-talks-on-resumption-of-evacuation-flights-1024287.html
27-08-2021||National||Taliban militants may have got their hands on Afghan passports with Indian visas||The Taliban militants may have got their hands on some of the passports issued by the Afghan Government affixed with the visas granted by the Embassy of India in Kabul. After the militants entered Kabul on August 15 and President Ashraf Ghani’s government collapsed, some “groups of people” had raided the office of an agency, which the Embassy of India in the capital of Afghanistan had hired to process visa applications by the Afghans and issue them visas after its approval. “Once the security situation deteriorated immediately after August 15, there were reports of groups of people, who had access to or who raided one of our outsourcing agencies, where the Afghan passports with Indian visas were there,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said. The incident put New Delhi on alert and immigration officials at the international airports in India were asked to remain vigilant to make sure that no unwanted person could enter the country using the Indian visas affixed on Afghan passports lost in Kabul. Bagchi was responding to a query on the deportation of Rangina Kargar, a member of Parliament of Afghanistan, soon after her arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi from Istanbul on August 20. She came to New Delhi to consult a physician in the national capital of India and had a ticket for returning to Istanbul on August 22. But the immigration officials deported her from the airport itself and she was sent back to Istanbul via Dubai. “So in the light of the loss of Afghan passports containing Indian visas, our authorities were in a state of high alert. We were also moving to the e-emergency visa system,” said the MEA spokesperson. “It appears that all these could have led to some confusion which in turn led to the unfortunate incident of the denial of entry to a particular Afghan national.” New Delhi, however, over the past few days evacuated 112 Afghans, mostly Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, including Narender Singh Khalsa and Anarkali Kour Honaryar, two members of the National Assembly of Afghanistan. The Afghans evacuated to India had now been issued visas for six months. “So they (Afghans) are currently coming here under the six-month visa regime. We will take it from there. That's the current plan for six months,” said Bagchi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taliban-militants-may-have-got-their-hands-on-afghan-passports-with-indian-visas-1024291.html
27-08-2021||National||Mahindra Defence to supply anti-submarine system to Indian Navy||The Government on Friday awarded a Mahindra Group company a Rs 1,349.50 crore contract to manufacture Integrated Anti-Submarine Warfare Defence Suites (IADS) for the warships of the Indian Navy. The IADS comes with an integrated capability for detecting enemy submarines and torpedoes at extended ranges as well as diverting incoming torpedoes fired by enemy submarines. The Ministry of Defence inked the contract with the Mahindra Defence Systems Limited (MDSL) for procurement of the 14 IADSs. The high-end underwater equipment uses the latest technology and is designed to detect and protect warships from underwater threats. It is a versatile system capable of operations from all sizes of warships – small, medium, and large. The complex array of sensors in water undertakes surveillance, and provides inputs for signal processing and analysis, to enable necessary action, the MDSL stated. “It is the first major contract with the private sector meant for underwater detection and protection from threats,” S P Shukla, the chairman of the MDSL, said. The IADS is the first of its kind being developed by a company of India for the Indian Navy. The MDSL said that it had qualified by proving the capability of the system through comprehensive testing by the Ministry of Defence in actual operations at sea before being declared as winner on commercial bid. The MoD stated that the contract was an important boost to ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ mission of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and would provide a major fillip to indigenous defence industry in technology development and production.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahindra-defence-to-supply-anti-submarine-system-to-indian-navy-1024315.html
27-08-2021||National||Militarisation of space new threat, says CDS Gen Bipin Rawat||Militarisation of space, cyber warfare and manipulation of social media pose new security threats to nations, Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Bipin Rawat, said in New Delhi. “The pervasiveness of information and pace of technological change is transforming the very character of warfare and providing innovative ways to execute new forms of warfare in non-contact domain in particular,” Gen Rawat said at the 5th IETE Innovators-Industry meet in Delhi. He said that the new threats included information operations, stealing of intellectual property rights, economic inducements, backed up by clever propaganda and at times even fake news to justify their actions. “The militarisation of space, cyber-warfare, quantum communications, along with the manipulation of social media are all leading to new threats, further complicating the security environment in which we live in today,” said the Chief of Defence Staff. He said that enabling technologies such as artificial intelligence and quantum computing were being used to produce sophisticated autonomous weapons which will accelerate the pace of combat, potentially with destabilising consequences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/militarisation-of-space-new-threat-says-cds-gen-bipin-rawat-1024321.html
27-08-2021||National Politics||Pilot starts political tours amid ongoing tussle with Gehlot||Amid the ongoing tussle between two Congress camps in Rajasthan, former deputy Chief Minister and ex-PCC chief Sachin Pilot has started touring different parts of the state as a part of his innovative strategy to reposition himself as a public leader, which has left rival Gehlot camp shocked and surprised. In fact, Pilot started his tours by a show of strength at Gehlot's home turf, Jodhpur, where a large crowd gathered to have a glimpse of thier leader. Surprisingly, senior leaders kept distance from this tour. Also, no comment came on Pilot's tour till the time of filing this story. Further, Pilot who is known as a leader of eastern Rajasthan, however, this time, showed his strength in western Rajasthan to bolster his image, said a senior Congress leader from Pilot camp. Pilot's next stop was Alwar where again a huge crowd gathered to welcome him at different places. Sources close to Pilot said that he will continue his political tour in the next few months to show his strength to the government which he said has been intentionally delaying cabinet expansion and political appointments demanded by him to accommodate his followers. These field trips also aim to boost confidence among voters as many senior leaders have kept themselves confined to homes avoiding going out during the pandemic. Also Pilot wants to position himself as a leader who loves to live with the masses, said a Congress worker. In the last three days, Pilot toured Barmer, Jodhpur, rural Jaipur and Alwar which fuelled speculations if there is something big happening in Rajasthan politics after change of guard in Punjab Congress Committee. While the promises made to Pilot camp are being delayed, this one step by Pilot to organise field tours will leave lasting impression in Rajasthan politics, said a Pilot camp worker. In fact, Pilot speaking to IANS reiterated that he trusts the high command and steps shall be taken by the central leadership soon to address their concerns. "We are confident that our concerns will be addressed soon as our Rajasthan in charge Ajay Maken did lend his ears to our issues," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pilot-starts-political-tours-amid-ongoing-tussle-with-gehlot-1023998.html
27-08-2021||National Politics||Navjot Singh Sidhu's adviser quits amidst row over his remarks||Navjot Singh Sidhu's controversial adviser Malvinder Singh Mali on Friday resigned from the post on a day the Punjab Congress chief said he is "not allowed to take decisions", hinting that his calls would only to be rebutted by AICC in-charge Harish Rawat. The fight within the Congress unit in Punjab continued to simmer as Mali's resignation came a day after a stern warning from Rawat to sack the controversial adviser and Sidhu's bete-noire Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ensured a show of strength by meeting 55 party MLAs and eight MPs over dinner at the home of a Cabinet colleague. Sidhu, who was recently appointed as Punjab Congress president, and Singh are locked in an intense internal fight for control ahead of Assembly polls early next year. Recently, Rawat told Singh's detractors that Congress would face the polls under his leadership. Mali, who was appointed by Sidhu, had run into trouble following his comments about Kashmir when he suggested "Kashmir is a country of Kashmiri people". Sidhu's another adviser Pyare Lal Garg also ran into controversy with his comments on Pakistan. This had led Rawat to say that Congress had nothing to do with Sidhu’s advisers and that the remarks on Kashmir were acceptable to Congress. "I have told Sidhu to remove his advisers. The party cannot accept such people who make irresponsible remarks that hurt the feelings of people," Rawat said earlier. As pressure mounted, Sidhu told a gathering of his supporters in Amritsar on Friday that if he is allowed to work independently, he could ensure Congress rule in the state for 20 years. "But if you don’t allow me to take decisions, then I can’t help anything," Sidhu was quoted as saying. In Delhi, Rawat immediately countered him saying, "I cannot question him on the basis of media speculation. I will see the context of the statement. He is the party chief, who other than him can take decisions?" On Friday, Mali said he cannot continue in the present circumstances and alleged that if some harm comes to him, Amarinder Singh, Punjab’s cabinet minister Vijender Singh, Congress MP Manish Tewari, former deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, former cabinet minister Bikramjit Singh Majithia and BJP’s Subhash Sharma, AAP's Raghav Chadha and Jarnail Singh will be responsible. He said he was withdrawing his consent for tendering suggestions to Sidhu as he is pushed into the "struggle with tied hands, which is not acceptable". He claimed anti-Sikh forces that cannot tolerate the emerging Punjab model, issue-based and solution-based politics, have a "nefarious design to derail" the dialogue process that has started taking shape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/navjot-singh-sidhus-adviser-quits-amidst-row-over-his-remarks-1024027.html
27-08-2021||National Politics||Bhupesh Baghel meets Rahul Gandhi; indicates he will remain Chhattisgarh CM||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Bhagel on Friday met top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for the second time in four days, as his rivals mounted pressure on him to honour a contested agreement on rotating chief ministership and give way to Health Minister T S Singh Deo halfway through his tenure in the government. Baghel indicated that his position is safe after the over three-hour-long meeting with Rahul as 55 MLAs supporting him too reached the national capital in a show of strength, saying he has invited the former Congress chief to the state as Chief Minister. The 60-year-old leader flew down to the national capital in the afternoon for the meeting with Rahul, even as MLAs supporting him held at least two meetings with Congress' Chhattisgarh in-charge P L Punia since last night. The MLAs also sought a meeting with Rahul and Congress General Secretary (Organisation) K C Venugopal during the day as well and landed at the AICC headquarters in the evening. "I told him everything. There were discussions on political as well administrative issues. I requested him to visit Chhattisgarh. He gladly accepted the invitation and he will be there next week,"  Baghel told reporters after the meeting. Asked whether there would remain the Chief Minister and about the rotation of Chief Ministers as demanded by Deo, he said Punia has already clarified the matter and there was no need to clarify it again. Punia had earlier said that there was no decision on rotating the post of Chief Minister when Congress won the polls in 2018. To repeated questions about his fate, Baghel said he has invited Rahul to Chhattisgarh as the Chief Minister of the state. Rahul was closeted with Baghel, an influential OBC leader in the state who pipped Deo in 2018 to the post of Chief Minister, for more than three hours. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi, who is said to be backing Baghel, was also present for most part of the meeting. Altogether 55 of the 70 Congress MLAs said to be supporting Baghel have reached the capital -- 26 of them reached on Thursday night in a chartered plane while the rest came later. Sources said the group of MLAs that came on Thursday night drove straight to Punia's residence in the capital and argued that Baghel should not be removed. On Friday, all 55 MLAs again met Punia. Elaborating on the demand, Chhattisgarh Minister Amarjeet Bhagat said, "only when the team is not doing well, it is required to change the captain of the team. Baghel is doing very well in the state." On Tuesday, Rahul had separate meetings with Baghel and Deo while both held discussions with Venugopal the next day. While Deo did not return to Raipur, Baghel returned to the capital for the Friday meeting. Deo said that he was not called for any meeting on Friday. Baghel's camp believes that Congress central leadership will not be able to ignore the support the Chief Minister enjoys in the party. The party will also have to take into account that Baghel is an OBC leader and replacing him with an upper-caste leader could have an impact in the future. On his part, Deo wants the central leadership to honour the agreement the leaders arrived at in 2018 to rotate the chief ministership after two-and-half years. Besides Baghel and Deo, Tamradhwaj Sahu and Charandas Mahant were also contenders for the top post. In Raipur, Jannayak Janata Congress leader Amit Jogi, son of late Ajit Jogi, also said that he was willing to return to Congress. Earlier, Baghel had stalled his return to the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhupesh-baghel-meets-rahul-gandhi-indicates-he-will-remain-chhattisgarh-cm-1024031.html
27-08-2021||National Politics||Bar Council to frame rules for curtailing strikes by lawyers, Supreme Court informed||The Bar Council of India on Friday informed the Supreme Court that it has convened a meeting of state bar councils and proposes to formulate rules for curtailing strikes by lawyers and initiating action against advocates who participate or instigate others for abstaining from work and strikes on social media. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah was informed by senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra, who is the chairman of the Bar Council of India (BCI), that they have convened a meeting of all State Bar Associations on September 4. "We will be holding a meeting of all the state Bar Councils and Associations on September 4 and we propose to formulate rules to curtail strikes by lawyers and to initiate action against advocates who instigate strikes on social media,” Mishra said. The bench recorded the submission of Mishra and said that it appreciates the action taken by BCI.  On the request of Mishra, the top court posted the matter for further hearing in the third week of September. At the outset, Mishra apologised for not coming up with suggestions earlier in compliance with the court's order last year, due to the onset of pandemic. On July 26, the top court had said it had delivered its verdict on February 28 last year and the BCI and the state bar councils were directed to give concrete suggestions to deal with the problem of strikes and abstention from work by lawyers. It had noted that no response has been received from BCI and other state associations. The top court had asked Mishra to render assistance to the court in his capacity as the chairperson of the Bar Council of India. On February 28 last year, the top court was irked by lawyers holding strike every Saturday for 35 years in Uttarakhand district courts over reasons like 'bomb blast in Pakistan', 'earthquake in Nepal' or 'condolence references for family members' and had warned the advocates concerned of contempt action if they persisted with it. Holding the strike illegal, the top court had sought response from BCI and all the State Bar Councils within six weeks to suggest the further course of action to deal with the problem of strikes/abstaining from work by the lawyers. Taking suo motu cognisance of the issue, the top court had emphasised that at a time when the judiciary is facing serious problems of pendency and delay in disposal of cases, how can the institution as a whole can afford such four days strike in a month. The top court had said that every month on 3-4 Saturdays, the advocates are on strike on one pretext or the other and added that had the lawyers worked on those days, it would have achieved the ultimate goal of speedy justice, which is now a fundamental right. It had said that boycotting courts on every Saturday in the districts of Dehradun, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand is not justifiable at all and as such it tantamount to contempt of the courts. The top court had dismissed the appeal filed by the Dehradun Bar Association challenging the Uttarakhand High Court order of September 25, 2019 which had asked the lawyers' and their associations to withdraw the strike in district courts and warned them of contempt action. The top court had said that despite the law laid down in various verdicts of the apex court, the court had time and again deprecated the lawyers for going on strikes but it continued unabated. "Even in the present case, the advocates have been boycotting the courts on all Saturdays, in the entire district of Dehradun, in several parts of the district of Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar district of the State of Uttaranchal. Because of such strikes, the ultimate sufferers are the litigants," the top court had said. It had noted the information sent by the High Court to the Law Commission with respect to the state for the years 2012- 2016, which showed that in Dehradun district, the advocates were on strike for 455 days (on an average 91 days per year) and in Haridwar district it was 515 days (about 103 days per year). "To go on strike/boycott courts cannot be justified under the guise of the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. Nobody has the right to go on strike/boycott courts. Even, such a right, if any, cannot affect the rights of others and more particularly, the right of Speedy Justice guaranteed under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution," it had said. Referring to the Law Commission's report, the high court had noted that strikes by advocates or their abstinence from courts varied from local, national to international issues, having no relevance to the working of the courts, and were seldom for justifiable reasons. "To mention a few, bomb blast in a Pakistan school, amendments to Sri Lanka's Constitution, inter-state river water disputes, attack on/murder of an advocate, earthquake in Nepal, condoling the death of near relatives of advocates, expressing solidarity to advocates of other state bar associations, moral support to movements by social activists, heavy rains....and even for kavi-sammelans," the high court had noted in its verdict. In its verdict, the high court had noted that "genesis of this peculiar form" of protest of boycotting work on Saturdays for over 35 years was traceable to western Uttar Pradesh, of which the aforesaid districts formed part of, before the state of Uttarakhand was created on November 9, 2000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bar-council-to-frame-rules-for-curtailing-strikes-by-lawyers-supreme-court-informed-1024035.html
27-08-2021||National Politics||Bhupesh Baghel, the man who wrested Chhattisgarh from BJP for Congress after being rocked by Naxal attack||Chhattisgarh Congress is witnessing a power tussle between Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and state Health Minister T S Singh Deo. Amid talks of a leadership change in the state, Baghel has said that Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have entrusted him with the responsibility of running the state government and will quit the moment they ask him to do so. CM Baghel is likely to meet the Gandhis on Friday for the second time in three days as the party high command, after firefighting internal turmoil in Punjab, focussed its attention on resolving the serious crisis in another party-ruled state. While Baghel goes for a show of strength, a sulking Deo has dug the heels amid indications that the party high command is keen to see its commitment of rotational Chief Ministership being fulfilled. While there has been no public announcement of the rotational Chief Ministership formulae, party insiders say such a promise was indeed made in 2018 when the AICC leadership was discussing making one of the three Chattisgarh leaders — Bhupesh Bhagel, T S Singh Deo and Tamradhwaj Sahu — as Chief Minister. But the question that is doing the rounds in the political arena of the country: Can the century-old party survive in the Naxal-infested state without the leadership of Baghel? For it was he, who revived Congress in the state after a period of turmoil and chaos. Like many others in the party, Baghel began his political journey as a member of the Indian Youth Congress and later became a member of the All India Congress Committee. In 1993, for the first time from Patan, he was elected to the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly. In November 2000, after the state of Chhattisgarh was formed, he became a member of the Chhattisgarh Legislative Assembly. Baghel, who was the president of the Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee from December 2013 to June 2019, is best known as the man behind the resurrection of the party in the state after the terrible 2013 Naxal attack in Darbha valley. On May 25, 2013, Naxalite insurgents of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) attacked a convoy of Congress leaders in Jhiram Ghati, Darbha Valley in the Sukma district of the state. The attack caused at least 27 deaths, including that of former state minister Mahendra Karma and Chhattisgarh Congress chief Nand Kumar Patel. Vidya Charan Shukla, a senior Congress leader, succumbed to injuries on June 11 that year. The Congress, which was the Opposition party in the state at that point in time, was in a state of chaos. Since 2003, it had been witnessing the BJP wielding power in the state, and it had now lost its top leaders in a tragedy. But Baghel steadied the ship of the state party unit, sidelined the likes of Ajit Jogi, former chief minister of the state, and his son Amit Jogi, a move that slowly resulted in the party's comeback in the state. Baghel got his reward in the 2018 Chhattisgarh Legislative Assembly elections, which Congress won by a huge majority, following which he became the chief minister of the state. The coming days will decide the fate of the party leadership in the state. But Baghel, irrespective of the outcome, will be applauded for strengthening Congress at a time when the party was going through one of its most difficult phases in independent India, and at a place that still grabs headlines because of Naxal attacks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhupesh-baghel-the-man-who-wrested-chhattisgarh-from-bjp-for-congress-after-being-rocked-by-naxal-attack-1024067.html
27-08-2021||National Politics||Sidhu says will give 'befitting reply' if Congress doesn't allow him to take decisions||The rumblings in Punjab Congress was louder on Friday with state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu daring his party's central leadership to face "befitting reply" if he is not given the freedom to take decisions, as his controversial adviser Malvinder Singh Mali was made to step down following his comments on Kashmir. Congress General Secretary and Punjab-in-charge, Harish Rawat, was, however, quick to rebuff the remarks saying state chiefs are free to take their decisions within the party's norms and constitution and argued that "if they will not take decisions, who else will?" Sidhu said the party high command should give him the freedom to take decisions and he will ensure that the Congress remains in power in Punjab for the next 20 years, for which he has prepared a roadmap. "The party high command should allow me the freedom to take decisions, else I will give a befitting reply," he said. His outburst during a public meeting in Amritsar came as Mali said he "withdrew his consent" to advise the cricketer-turned-politician on Friday after a stern warning from Rawat to sack the controversial adviser and his bete-noire Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ensured a show of strength by meeting at least 55 party MLAs and eight MPs over dinner on Thursday. Sidhu, who was recently appointed as Punjab Congress president, and Singh are locked in an intense internal fight for control ahead of Assembly polls early next year. Recently, Rawat told Singh's detractors that Congress would face the polls under his leadership. Mali, who was appointed by Sidhu, had run into trouble following his comments about Kashmir when he suggested "Kashmir is a country of Kashmiri people". Sidhu's other adviser Pyare Lal Garg also ran into controversy with his comments on Pakistan. This had led Rawat to say that Congress had nothing to do with Sidhu’s advisers and that the remarks on Kashmir were acceptable to Congress. "I have told Sidhu to remove his advisers. The party cannot accept such people who make irresponsible remarks that hurt the feelings of people," Rawat said earlier. On Friday, Mali said he cannot continue in the present circumstances and alleged that if some harm comes to him, Amarinder Singh, Punjab’s cabinet minister Vijender Singh, Congress MP Manish Tewari, former deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, former cabinet minister Bikramjit Singh Majithia and BJP’s Subhash Sharma, AAP's Raghav Chadha and Jarnail Singh will be responsible. He said he was withdrawing his consent for tendering suggestions to Sidhu as he is pushed into the "struggle with tied hands, which is not acceptable". He claimed anti-Sikh forces that cannot tolerate the emerging Punjab model, issue-based and solution-based politics, have a "nefarious design to derail" the dialogue process that has started taking shape. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sidhu-says-will-give-befitting-reply-if-congress-doesnt-allow-him-to-take-decisions-1024069.html
27-08-2021||National Politics||What's in a name? Ahead of UP polls, Yogi government to embark on a name-changing spree||Expecting to gain electoral mileage in the state before the next assembly polls due in less than seven months, the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh is planning to change the names of around half a dozen districts following demands by saffron outfits. According to sources in the government, the districts which are to be rechristened include Sultanpur, Mirzapur, Aligarh, Firozabad and Mainpuri. There was also a proposal to change the names of Ghazipur and Basti districts. The state government had earlier renamed Allahabad as Prayagraj and Faizabad as Ayodhya.  Sources said the state cabinet would soon take a call on the renaming proposals.  ''There are proposals to rechristen Sultanpur as Kush Bhavanpur, Aligarh as Harigarh, Mainpuri as Mayan Nagar, Firozabad as Chandra Nagar and,'' said Mirzapur as Vindhya Dham, said a BJP leader. The saffron outfits have also demanded to rechristen Agra as Agravan and Muzaffarnagar as Luxmi Nagar. Miyanganj, a town in the state's Unnao district, is also likely to be christened as Mayaganj. The Aligarh district panchayat board had recently adopted a resolution recommending changing its name to Harigarh. Similarly a proposal to rename Mainpuri district as 'Mayan Nagar' was also adopted by the district panchayat board of Mainpuri. A few days back, a similar resolution was adopted by the Firozabad district panchayat board demanding that the district be renamed Chandra Nagar.  The proposals assume electoral significance as the state is scheduled to go to polls in March next year. The saffron outfits have claimed that many of the towns and districts in the state were named after Muslim rulers and victors though they had different names earlier. The opposition parties have termed the proposals as ''electoral gimmicks'' intended to hide the failures of the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/whats-in-a-name-ahead-of-up-polls-yogi-government-to-embark-on-a-name-changing-spree-1024090.html
27-08-2021||National Politics||Former IPS officer Amitabh Thakur to float political party ahead of UP polls||Ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, former IPS officer Amitabh Thakur on Friday said he will float a new political party soon. "After consulting my supporters and well-wishers, I have decided to float a new political party," Thakur said here. The proposed name of his new outfit is Adhikar Sena, he said and requested his supporters to suggest more names along with purpose, mission and structure of the party. The government had issued an order for Thakur's premature retirement on March 23 this year, saying he was "not found fit to be retained for the remaining tenure of his service". Earlier this month, Thakur's wife Nutan Thakur had announced that he would be contesting the coming assembly elections against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. "Adityanath took many undemocratic, improper, suppressive, harassing and discriminatory steps during his tenure as chief minister. Hence, Amitabh shall be contesting the election against Adityanath from wherever he contests," she had said. An officer of Uttar Pradesh cadre, he would have retired in 2028. In 2017, Thakur had urged the Centre to change his cadre state. The officer was suspended on July 13, 2015, days after he had accused Samajwadi Party patron Mulayam Singh Yadav of threatening him. A vigilance enquiry was also initiated against him. However, the Lucknow Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal stayed his suspension in April 2016 and ordered his reinstatement with full salary with effect from October 11, 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/former-ips-officer-amitabh-thakur-to-float-political-party-ahead-of-up-polls-1024106.html
27-08-2021||National Politics||Citing polls in Uttarakhand, Harish Rawat seeks to be relieved as Congress's Punjab affairs in-charge||Citing next year's assembly polls in Uttarakhand where he is the Congress' campaign committee chairman, Harish Rawat has sought to be relieved as the in-charge of party affairs in Punjab. He said that to concentrate on the upcoming polls in Uttarakhand, it had been on his mind to seek to be relieved of the responsibility of the party's Punjab affairs in-charge. "Yes, this is the reason," the former Uttarakhand chief minister told reporters in Dehradun on Thursday when asked if he has sought to be relieved of the charge as Punjab affairs in-charge so that he could concentrate on the upcoming polls in his state. He added that he would abide by whatever direction is given to him by the party. "If my party asks me to continue (as Punjab affairs in-charge), I will continue,” said Rawat. Punjab and Uttarakhand will go to polls next year. While the Congress is seeking to retain power in Punjab, it aims to return to power by defeating the ruling BJP in the hill state. Punjab is witnessing an infight between the camps of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Rawat, who is currently in Delhi to meet the party's senior leadership, had recently said next year's Punjab Assembly polls will be fought under the leadership of Amarinder Singh, delivering a snub to the leaders wanting his removal. Rawat had also said that there was no threat to the Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab. Reacting to Sidhu's statement urging the party high command to allow him the freedom to take decisions, Rawat said party chiefs are free to take their decisions within the party's norms and constitution. "I will see the context in which Navjot Singh Sidhu has made these remarks. Mr Sidhu is the respected chief of the Punjab unit. Who will have the power to take decisions if not the state presidents," he told reporters in Delhi on Friday. Rawat added state presidents are free to take decisions within the party's constitution and position. Sidhu had said earlier that the party high command should give him the freedom to take decisions and he will ensure that the Congress remains in power for the next 20 years. He said he has prepared a roadmap in this regard. "The party high command should allow me the freedom to take decisions, else I will give a befitting reply," he said addressing a meeting in Amritsar.\||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/citing-polls-in-uttarakhand-harish-rawat-seeks-to-be-relieved-as-congresss-punjab-affairs-in-charge-1024111.html
27-08-2021||National Politics||Eager to put Mamata out of power, BJP opposes WB bypolls||The West Bengal BJP is opposing Assembly by-elections in the state tooth and nail, eager to oust Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee from her post as Chief Minister for not being able to get elected within six months after taking oath. BJP sources said that the state leadership has given several reasons to the Central leaders, opposing the by-elections. Pointing out that several Covid-related restrictions are imposed in Bengal, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said “Schools, colleges and local train services are suspended in Bengal due to the pandemic. Then how can by-elections be held here? If the TMC government wants by-elections, then it should declare that everything is normal in the state.” Sources further revealed that the state BJP does not want by-elections to be held before November 5 as that is the last date for Mamata to get elected to the Assembly. She lost to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in the last Assembly election. Mamata took oath as Chief Minister on May 5 and has to get elected to the Assembly within six months. “The state BJP has told the central leadership that due to the pandemic, TMC government was not allowing local train services to resume. Buses are also plying with half of their passenger capacity and opposition parties are not being allowed to hold political programs. But the TMC is demanding by-elections in Bengal,” a senior state BJP leader said. The state party unit also told the leadership that with the pretext of the pandemic, the TMC government was not holding elections to 122 municipalities. They also said that since the TMC got full majority in the Assembly, delay in holding by-elections will not put the state government in crisis. While the TMC has repeatedly urged the Election Commission to hold by-elections as soon as possible, Mamata herself has said several times that there is a “favorable situation” in Bengal for holding by-elections. By-elections are due in seven Assembly seats in Bengal including Bhabanipur constituency where Mamata is likely to contest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/eager-to-put-mamata-out-of-power-bjp-opposes-wb-bypolls-1024212.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||India reports 44,658 new Covid-19 cases as surge in Kerala continues||The active cases jumped to 3,44,899, comprising 1.06 per cent of the total infections, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total tally of Covid-19 cases increased to 3,26,03,188, and the death toll climbed to 4,36,861 with 496 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  As many as 18,24,931 tests were conducted on Tuesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 51,49,54,309. The national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.60 per cent, the ministry said. Cumulatively, 61.22 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Wednesday morning. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-reports-44658-new-covid-19-cases-as-surge-in-kerala-continues-1024012.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||Ashok Gehlot to undergo angioplasty after experiencing chest pain||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday underwent angioplasty at the Sawai Man Singh government hospital here after experiencing severe chest pain. Lokesh Sharma, the officer on special duty to the chief minister, said, "The CM's angioplasty has been done successfully. Everything is fine". Earlier in the day, Gehlot had said that he would be undergoing angioplasty.   Post Covid I was having health issues & Since yesterday I was having severe pain in my chest. Just got my CT NGO done in SMS hospital.Angioplasty will be done.I am happy that I'm getting it done at SMS Hospital.I am fine & will be back soon.Your blessings & well wishes r with me. "Post Covid I was having health issues & Since yesterday I was having severe pain in my chest. Just got my CT done in SMS hospital. Angioplasty will be done," Gehlot tweeted. Angioplasty is a procedure to open clogged heart arteries. "I am happy that I am getting it done at SMS Hospital. I am fine and will be back soon. Your blessings and well wishes are with me," he said. The 70-year-old Congress leader had tested positive for coronavirus in April this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashok-gehlot-to-undergo-angioplasty-after-experiencing-chest-pain-1024024.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi High Court asks Centre to respond to pleas by Facebook, WhatsApp challenging IT rules||The Delhi High Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a plea by Facebook-owned WhatsApp against the validity of new Information Technology Rules forcing it to trace origin of messages sent on its service.  The mobile messaging application with about 53 crore users here claimed new rules would break the right to privacy and end-to-end encryption on its service.  A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh sought a response from the Union government on the petition filed by the company against the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 which came into effect on May 25. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for WhatsApp, objected to a letter for adjournment circulated on behalf of the Union government. He said last time too, the matter got adjourned on a request by the Centre. "We are not asking for an interim order. Let notice be issued. It is a very serious issue raised in relation to validity of IT Rules," he said. The court issued a notice seeking a response from the Centre and posted the matter for consideration on October 22. In its plea, the company questioned criminal liability enforced upon its employees on failure to "trace" the origin of messages sent on the service, on an order by court or the government. "Identification of the first originator of a message under the new rules infringed upon the fundamental rights to privacy and free speech of the hundreds of millions of citizens using WhatsApp to communicate privately and securely," its petition said. WhatsApp claimed it "enables government officials, law enforcement, journalists, members of ethnic or religious groups, scholars, teachers, students, and the like to exercise their right to freedom of speech and expression without fear of retaliation."  The company sought a direction of the court to declare Rule 4(2) of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, as unconstitutional and ultra vires of the IT Act, 2000, for violating the fundamental rights to equality, freedom of speech and carry on occupation. It relied upon the landmark ruling by apex court's nine-judge bench in the right to privacy case (K S Puttaswamy) among others to support its plea. Notably, the Union government has already approached the top court for transferring to itself similar pleas filed in different High Courts to prevent overlapping of orders. The top court, which agreed to consider the Centre's plea, refrained from asking the High Courts not to consider pending matters. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-asks-centre-to-respond-to-pleas-by-facebook-whatsapp-challenging-it-rules-1024041.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||HC seeks LG's reply on Delhi govt plea challenging decision to appoint police chosen SPPs in riots cases||The Delhi High Court Friday sought Delhi Lieutenant Governor's reply on a plea by the AAP government challenging the decision to allow police chosen lawyers as special public prosecutors (SPP) for cases related to this year's Republic Day violence and last year's riots. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice and asked the LG to file response to the petition as well as an application seeking stay on the decision. The court listed the matter for further hearing on October 21. The Delhi government, represented through senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Rahul Mehra, has challenged the LG's decision allowing Delhi Police chosen lawyers as SPPs to appear and conduct prosecution in cases relating to violence on January 26, 2021 during the farmers' agitation and north-east Delhi riots cases of February 2020. It said these SPPs have been chosen by the Delhi Police and thus have a serious conflict of interest. "SPPs appointed by us are independent persons. You can't have SPPs which are part of the investigating arm, that is, Delhi Police," Singhvi argued. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-seeks-lgs-reply-on-delhi-govt-plea-challenging-decision-to-appoint-police-chosen-spps-in-riots-cases-1024053.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC refuses interim protection to Hindu Raksha Dal president in hate speech case||The Delhi High Court Friday refused to grant interim protection from arrest to president of Hindu Raksha Dal, Bhupinder Tomar, who is accused of raising communal slogans and inciting the youth to propagate against a particular religion at a rally at Jantar Mantar on August 8. Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice on Tomar's anticipatory bail application and sought status report from Delhi Police. “Prima facie, there are all kinds of slogans and speeches being given. Let the status report be given,” said the judge as the matter was listed for further hearing on September 13. Tomar's counsel submitted that his client was granted interim protection by the trial court and that he was not the one who was shouting the objectionable slogans. “I want to know where you where (at the time of sloganeering). You were not present at all?..Let me have the complete status report,” the court responded. Advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, appearing for Tomar, also said that his client was not the organiser of the event who has already been granted bail in the case. Prosecution counsel Tarang Srivastava informed that he has already shared the video and the transcript of the reportedly objectionable sloganeering to the court. Earlier this month, a sessions court here had dismissed Bhupinder Tomar alias Pinki Chaudhary's anticipatory bail application, saying, “we are not a Taliban State”. Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil said that in the past such incidents have flared communal tensions leading to riots and loss to life and property. “We are not Taliban State. Rule of law is the sacrosanct governing principle in our plural and multi cultural society. While the whole of India is celebrating 'azadi ka amrut mahotsav' there are some minds still chained with Intolerant and self centric beliefs”,  the judge had said in the order passed on August 21. The sessions court stated that complicity of the accused in the case was 'prima facie' apparent from the available evidence and the accusations against him were serious and severe in nature. The police had opposed the pre-arrest bail application, alleging that the accused used the platform at Jantar Mantar to create communal disharmony and to give communal colour to their plans, incited the youth to propagate against a particular religion, despite the sanction to gather refused by the competent authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-refuses-interim-protection-to-hindu-raksha-dal-president-in-hate-speech-case-1024074.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi schools to reopen in phased manner from September 1||Schools, colleges and coaching institutes in the national capital will reopen in a phased manner from September 1, 2021. Sessions for Class 9-12, colleges and coaching institutions will start next Wednesday while that of Class 6-8 will start from September 8. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday afternoon. Delhi government had recently allowed Class X and XII students to visit schools for admission-related work, practical activities and counselling sessions. The phased re-opening of schools comes against the backdrop of an improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the national capital. Schools have remained closed in the national capital since March 2020. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the Education portfolio, said that the activities in education institutions will resume with all precautions, in a phased manner.  Sisodia said social distancing should be strictly followed and no student will be forced to come to the school. "Consent of parents will be essential for students to come. If parents do not permit, then students will not be forced to come and they will not be considered absent either," he said. Sisodia said there was consensus in the DDMA meeting that education activities should also resume like the way economic activities are allowed. He said online education cannot be an alternative to offline education. In a survey conducted by the Delhi government, Sisodia said 70 per cent of people wanted schools to reopen. The Deputy Chief Minister also said 98 per cent of teachers and staff in government schools have got their first dose of vaccine. Private schools have also said a large number of staff members are already vaccinated, he said. An expert committee set up by the DDMA had on Wednesday recommended that schools be reopened for all classes but senior-wing students be called in the first phase followed by middle-class students and ultimately the primary classes, PTI had reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-schools-to-reopen-in-phased-manner-from-september-1-1024096.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||Ex-UP IPS officer, who declared to contest assembly poll against Yogi, arrested in rape victim's suicide case||Ex-Uttar Pradesh IPS officer Amitabh Thakur, who had declared that he would contest against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in the upcoming state Assembly polls, due early next year, was on Friday arrested in connection with the suicide by an alleged rape victim, hours after he announced the formation of a new outfit 'Adhikar Sena'. According to the police sources here, Thakur, who had been compulsorily retired by the government a few months back, was arrested on the basis of the report of the Special Investigation Team formed to probe the matter. The victim, who had accused BSP Lok Sabha member from Ghosi seat in UP's Mau district Atul Rai of raping her, had set herself ablaze before the Supreme Court with her male friend a few days back alleging that some police officials colluded with the culprits to deny her justice and also implicate her in false cases. The victim, who later succumbed to her injuries, had alleged that Thakur and some other police officials had conspired to frame her in a false case of forgery. The SIT had quizzed Thakur, former Varanasi police chief Amit Pathak and some others in this connection. The victim had lodged a case of rape against Rai at the Lanka police station in Varanasi in 2019. She alleged that Rai had raped her after calling her to his house in Varanasi on the pretext of getting her to meet his wife. Later a case of forgery was registered against the victim on the direction of a local court in Varanasi. Thakur, who had already been under ''house arrest'' after he had tried to visit Gorakhpur, Adityanath's home town, to hold a public contact program, was taken to Hazratganj police station, sources said. A video later went viral on social media platforms showing Thakur being 'forced' into the vehicle by the cops. The firebrand ex-IPS officer, who had been usually given insignificant postings in view of his plain speaking, had irked the BJP government when he predicted that gangster Vikas Dubey, who had killed eight cops and was nabbed in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh last year, would be killed in an encounter even before it happened. Thakur announced the formation of a new outfit 'Adhikar Sena' on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-up-ips-officer-who-declared-to-contest-assembly-poll-against-yogi-arrested-in-rape-victims-suicide-case-1024114.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||ABVP members protest in J&K against 'police brutality', arrest of activists||Members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad held massive protests in the Jammu region on Friday against alleged police brutality and arrest of ABVP activists during a demonstration organised here on August 26. The traffic movement was disrupted in Jammu city and on the Jammu-Srinagar national highway due to the protests, police said. Hundreds of protesters assembled in Jammu city on Friday and demanded suspension of the SHO of Ramban police station and a magisterial inquiry into the "beating" and arrest of its activists by the police. They raised anti-police slogans and sat on a dharna in the city, disrupting traffic flow for over two hours. Following which, the police detained some of them and cleared the protest site. "We took this step of detaining them as a preventive measure. This cannot be termed as a peaceful protest as they have disrupted the traffic," SP city Mohita Sharma said. On Thursday night, scores of ABVP activists had staged a demonstration to protest against setting up of an oxygen plant on the land given for the construction of a higher secondary school and a district hospital. BJP leaders from Ramban, including former MLA Neelam Kumar Lengah, had also participated in the demonstration. The ABVP is the student wing of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The protesters on Friday alleged that the Ramban Police had beaten up an ABVP worker and detained several others, including the outfit's district president Tarun Dev Singh, on Thursday night. Talking to reporters here, General secretary of ABVP (Jammu) Mukesh Manhas claimed that over 30 activists were arrested on Thursday night. "The ABVP has been protesting in Ramban for the past three days against the setting up of an oxygen plant on the school land,” he said. Another protest was held on the Jammu-Srinagar highway by the ABVP activists, raising similar demands. The police said the movement of vehicular traffic on the highway has been halted for the last several hours due to the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abvp-members-protest-in-jk-against-police-brutality-arrest-of-activists-1024123.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||Heavy rain damages highways in Uttarakhand, traffic suspended||Heavy overnight rains damaged the Rishikesh-Gangotri and Rishikesh-Badrinath national highways in Uttarakhand leading to suspension of traffic along the affected stretches for public safety, an official said on Friday. The Rishikesh-Gangotri highway (NH-94) has been closed for traffic from Narendra Nagar to Chamba, while the Rishikesh-Badrinath highway (NH-58) has been closed from Tapovan to Maletha, Tehri District Magistrate Eva Ashish Shrivastava said. Traffic will remain completely suspended along these stretches until they are fully repaired, she said.  A large portion of NH-94 caved in near Fakot in Tehri district, while landslide debris falling from the hillside blocked the road at a number of places. Cracks have appeared at multiple spots on this stretch raising fears about further damage. The highway remains blocked by huge boulders and rocks at several places, including Bagad Dhar and Hindolakhal. A large portion of the road has washed away around Bemunda and Soni villages near Fakot, the DM said. Landslide debris has also blocked the Rishikesh-Badrinath national highway at several points, she said. Portions of the Sahastradhara-Maldevta road in Dehradun were also damaged in the rains. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami and Raipur MLA Umesh Sharma Kau visited the area on Friday morning to assess the damage. Dhami has asked District Magistrate R Rajesh Kumar to ensure repair of the road at the earliest. Heavy rains have lashed various parts of Uttarakhand over the past few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-rain-damages-highways-in-uttarakhand-traffic-suspended-1024137.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||Will frame rules against lawyers' strikes, BCI to SC||Lawyers' regulatory body Bar Council of India on Friday told the Supreme Court that it has proposed to frame rules to curb strikes and take action against those who provoked advocates to abstain from court hearings. Senior advocate Manan Kumar Mishra, also chairman of BCI, submitted before a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah that they have convened a meeting of all state bar bodies on September 4.  “We propose to formulate rules to curtail strikes by lawyers and to initiate action against advocates who instigate strikes on social media,” he submitted.  Mishra also apologised for not coming up with suggestions earlier in compliance with the court’s order last year, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The top court took Mishra’s submissions into the record and put a matter for consideration in September. The top court had earlier sought assistance from the BCI chairman to deal with the lawyers’ strike issue. It had taken suo moto cognisance of boycotting of courts on every Saturday in the districts of Dehradun, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand, saying this was not justifiable, rather amounted to contempt of court.  In its February 28, 2020 judgement, the top court said lawyers cannot claim a fundamental right to go on strike or boycott of courts. Even if there is such a right, it cannot be allowed to affect the rights of others to get speedy justice guaranteed under the Constitution, it had said, declaring strike by Dehradun Bar Association as illegal. It expressed serious concern over lawyers holding a strike every Saturday for 35 years in Uttarakhand district courts over reasons like ''bomb blast in Pakistan'', ''earthquake in Nepal'' or ''condolence references for family members''. It had then issued notices to the Bar Council of India and all the State Bar Councils to suggest further course of action and to give concrete suggestions to deal with the problem of frequent strikes and abstaining the work by the lawyers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-frame-rules-against-lawyers-strikes-bci-to-sc-1024149.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||Kashmiri CPI(M) leader asks SC to fix hearing on plea against Article 370 decision ||Kashmiri CPI(M) leader Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami has once again knocked on the doors of the Supreme Court praying for an early hearing to his plea of a batch of petitions, including the challenge to the Centre’s decision to abrogate provisions of Article 370. In an affidavit submitted before the apex court on Friday, Tarigami, a four-time MLA from Kulgam Assembly constituency, has prayed for an early date to his batch of petitions filed in December 2019, besides passing orders “as deemed fit and proper” by the court in the circumstances of the case. He had challenged the validity of the Jammu and Kashmir (Reorganisation) Act, 2019 (The Reorganisation Act) as being unconstitutional. The senior party leader said despite the fact that the petition is pending before the Supreme Court since 2019, the central government has taken some “irreversible actions”. He said the Centre has constituted a delimitation commission to mark boundaries in the territory for all the constituencies before an assembly election can be held.  Pointing out the changes made by the central government, the plea said the Centre made amendment of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act allowing persons who were not permanent residents to buy land in Jammu and Kashmir if it is not agricultural land.  The plea said it has closed down institutions such as the J&K State Women’s Commission, J&K State Accountability Commission, J&K State Consumer Protection Commission and J&K State Human Rights Commission. The CPI(M) leader said his plea ought to be heard on an expedited basis otherwise the petition itself would be rendered infructuous in view of the irreversible actions of the government. Besides, a delay would cause grave injustice to him, his plea contended. "... If the matters are not heard urgently, grave injustice will be caused to the applicant. In such view of the matter, the applicant hereby is seeking an early hearing of said writ petitions,” the petition filed by Advocate PV Dinesh on behalf of the petitioner reads.  Around two dozen petitions challenging the validity of the J&K Reorganisation Act 2019 -- which divided the erstwhile state into two union territories -- and nullification of Article 370 remain pending before the Supreme Court for two years. The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act has already been acted upon. The changes came into effect on October 31, 2019, after being notified in the official gazette. Besides Tarigami’s CPI(M), National Conference (NC), and Sajjad Lone-led J&K Peoples Conference have filed pleas challenging Centre’s August 5 decision to abrogate Article 370. On August 5, 2019, the Union government announced its decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and divided the erstwhile state into two Union territories. A five-judge Bench in March 2020 had declined to refer to a larger seven-judge bench a batch of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the Centre's decision. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-cpim-leader-asks-sc-to-fix-hearing-on-plea-against-article-370-decision-1024173.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||Man arrested for making indecent remarks against Yogi Adityanath||The Uttar Pradesh police on Friday arrested a man for allegedly using inappropriate language against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during a phone call. A complaint was filed by district unit secretary of Hindu Yuva Vahini (Hiyuva), Rajiv Singh Chandel on Thursday that he got a call from an unidentified man who verbally abused him and gave him death threats. He alleged that the caller also made indecent remarks against the chief minister, Ballia Superintendent of Police Ramkaran Nayyar said. “A case was registered against the man under relevant sections of IPC and the Information Technology Act at the Nagra Police Station on Thursday,” he said. The police later found that the mobile number in question belonged to Ankit Yadav of Kothwa village and he was arrested, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-for-making-indecent-remarks-against-yogi-adityanath-1024195.html
27-08-2021||North and Central||Bad weather conditions likely in Delhi from at start of next week: IMD||The meteorological department has predicted bad weather conditions in the national capital at the start of the next week. The department also issued a yellow alert for the city on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. It has issued a green alert for the next two days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) uses four colour codes. ‘Green’ means all is well and ‘yellow’ indicates severely bad weather. It also suggests that the weather could change for the worse, causing disruption in day-to-day activities. ‘Orange’ alert is issued as a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply. ‘Red’ is when extremely bad weather conditions are certainly going to disrupt travel and power and have significant risk to life. Meanwhile, sultry weather conditions prevailed in Delhi on Friday with the maximum temperature settling at 36 degrees Celsius, two notches above the season's average. The minimum temperature was recorded at 25.4 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. Humidity levels oscillated between 77 per cent and 49 per cent. The weatherman has predicted partly cloudy skies for Saturday with the maximum and minimum temperatures likely to settle at around 35 and 25 degrees Celsius, respectively. On Thursday, Delhi had recorded a high of 35.2 degrees Celsius and a low of 26.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bad-weather-conditions-likely-in-delhi-from-at-start-of-next-week-imd-1024209.html
27-08-2021||Oasis||Thoughts of the pandemic||In the pandemic, we hear horrifying tales of the old and young who have died of the virus, some battling it manfully and some succumbing to it helplessly. Life though restrained and confined is still in the fray through various technological devices with constant updates. The existential question raises its head of a future free from the virus or a gradual extinction of life and the arrival of the apocalypse.  All pandemics arrive in a succession of waves. Albert Camus has said: "The plague bacillus never dies or disappears; that it can lie dormant for years and years in furniture and linen chests; that it bides its time in bedrooms, cellars, trunks and book shelves and perhaps the day would come when for the bane and enlightenment of man it roused up its rats again and sent them forth to die in a happy city.” Likewise with the present virus , every face is suspect, every surface is suspect, a handshake can be lethal and a letting down of the mask can be fatal It is at this critical moment facing death in the face that we need to be more grateful for all that life has offered, all the good we have experienced, the love and camraderie of family and friends. This is also the time to forget old enmities, and grudges  and dwell on the transcendental questions— Have we loved enough , have we remembered enough, have we forgotten enough, have we forgiven enough? Have we accepted the good with the bad with equal grace? Have we turned our faces away when things were not quite right, have we had the courage to fight back when it was necessary? Camus has also said that for our edification "we learn in a time of pestilence that there are more things to admire in men than despise” We reminisce about people and events that have long gone, we realise the little wrongs we have done, the little guilts we carry and the conscience we have stilled. We recognise how some of us have risked our lives and health to be with the sick and the grieving, the kindness of strangers, the altruism of those who place the needs of others before their own. Above all through this misery, we realise the uncompromising beauty of nature and its daily miracles, the reassuring sense that  the sun rises and the sky is there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/thoughts-of-the-pandemic-1023945.html
27-08-2021||Opinion||Kabul airport attack: The coming carnage between the Taliban and their jihadist rivals||By Ruth Pollard, The global jihadist community has had a mixed reaction to the Taliban’s remarkable sweep to power in Afghanistan. Al-Qaeda — Osama bin Laden’s alma mater — was brimming with enthusiasm, heralding a triumphant new era of Islamic rule that proves jihad, and not the “democracy game,” is the way to achieve power. The al-Qaeda linked news agency, the Global Islamic Media Front, released a statement of congratulations that said: “May Allah grant the mujahideen in Somalia, the African Sahel, Yemen, Syria, Pakistan, the Indian subcontinent and everywhere the same victory.” Hay’at Tahrir al-Sham, the dominant faction in the insurgent-held regions of Syria’s Idlib province, was also impressed, describing the Taliban’s victory as an example of steadfastness in the face of a foreign occupation. The Islamic State wasn’t so positive. As jihadist expert and fellow at the Washington-based Center for Global Policy, Aymenn Jawad Tamimi, notes in his blog, IS has argued the Taliban’s actions weren’t so much a conquest as a takeover coordinated with the US. The Islamic States’ path was better, the group argued, because “supporting Islam does not pass through the hotels of Qatar nor the embassies of Russia, China and Iran.” It’s here the Taliban may run into some problems of its own. It’s already attempting — albeit pretty unsuccessfully so far — to play both sides, trying to keep the international community onside with its promises of a more moderate version of itself — complete with footage of schoolgirls being ushered into classrooms — while its heavily armed soldiers detain rights activists and beat journalists on the streets. Now there’s been an attack at one of the gates of Kabul airport, where thousands have crowded with fistfuls of documents and hopes of a passage to safety. In the lead up to Thursday’s blasts, statements from the US and the UK indicated the main threat was coming from IS-K or the Islamic State of Khorasan, a group affiliated with the organisation that overran large parts of Syria and Iraq in 2014 and 2015 with the aim of establishing a so-called caliphate. The target — vulnerable civilians, foreign troops and Taliban fighters — clearly proved too good to pass up. Established in Afghanistan’s east in 2015, IS-Khorasan sees the Taliban as its enemy, and the two groups have clashed repeatedly over the years. While the Taliban is inward looking — its ambitions focused solely on Afghanistan — IS-Khorasan has transnational dreams and draws its new supporters from the ranks of the Taliban who have rejected the US-led the peace process. It’s mounted several major assaults on the capital, including back-to-back bombings in 2018 that killed 29 people including nine journalists in the deadliest attack on Afghanistan’s media since 2001. Dozens more were killed last year in a 20-hour siege at a prison in the country’s east when IS militants attempted to free hundreds of their members. During the first four months of 2021, the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan recorded 77 attacks claimed by or attributed to IS-Khorasan. Their targets? The minority Shia Muslim community, women, civilian infrastructure including a Médecins Sans Frontières maternity ward, and military personnel. If these two groups do battle, the main victims, as always, will be civilians. They bore the brunt of the Taliban’s brutal rule from 1996 to 2001 and then the invasion of US and NATO forces, with their air strikes and ground attacks, and the resurgence in suicide attacks that followed. More than 47,000 Afghan civilians have been killed in the conflict — nearly 1,700 of them in the first six months of this year alone — while an estimated 66,000 military and police have been killed, according to Brown University’s Costs of War project. And then there’s the spillover — into Pakistan, Central Asia, China and India. New Delhi is no stranger to cross-border terrorism, and the Taliban will likely provide a haven for anti-Indian terrorist groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. There are genuine concerns these groups will use Afghanistan as a base to launch their attacks in Kashmir as they did in the 1990s. Adding fuel to this fire is the increasing belief — particularly among those who lean toward jihad and violence but are not quite there yet — that politics doesn’t work, nor does democracy or the nation state as defined by the West. They may see the Taliban as a model and alternative, says Rasha Al Aqeedi, senior analyst and the head of the nonstate Actors program at the Newlines Institute in Washington. “Certainly,” she says, “the idea will be glorified again and the appetite to do something will be there — and that is always a problem.” Al Aqeedi says IS actions will actually help the new rulers of Kabul. “If anything,” she says, “it strengthens the Taliban’s positioning as a lesser evil.” Just think about that: The Taliban as the lesser evil. If there’s anything that symbolises the failure of the US campaign in Afghanistan, this is it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/kabul-airport-attack-the-coming-carnage-between-the-taliban-and-their-jihadist-rivals-1023994.html
27-08-2021||Opinion||Narendra Modi’s green new deal might actually work||By Mihir Sharma After making great strides in promoting renewable energy, India is once again being singled out as a global climate laggard. Its negotiators blocked agreement on tackling emissions at the G-20 meeting in Naples earlier this year, publishing an eye-catching dissent calling for the group to focus on bringing down high per-capita emissions in rich countries. India later skipped a ministerial meeting meant to prepare for the next global climate-change summit — the only one of 51 invitees to do so. Its leaders clearly resent pressure to set a date for reducing net carbon emissions to zero, as rival China has. The West’s focus on India’s lack of a net-zero target, however, may be misplaced. It risks missing a potentially major shift underway in the country. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi has always taken climate change seriously, he hasn’t typically highlighted it as part of his domestic policy agenda. His recent Independence Day speech was different. Modi uses the speech, delivered from the ramparts of Delhi’s Mughal-era Red Fort, to outline his government’s major upcoming policy initiatives. Previous speeches launched his “Make in India” manufacturing push and his program to improve India’s sanitation and hygiene. This year, Modi focused on climate change. He tailored the appeal to suit his hyper-nationalist image, pitching the energy transition as a matter of “environmental security,” as crucial as defending against the likes of China and Pakistan. He appealed for greater self-reliance, warning of India’s dependence on petroleum imports.   Modi talked about a new “National Hydrogen Mission” to develop green hydrogen and fuel cells, and about the electrification of India’s massive rail system. He could also have mentioned the government’s new subsidy for electric vehicles, which might make electric two-wheelers, in particular, attractive to India’s vast scooter- and motorcycle-riding population. I doubt India’s government has shifted so strongly to greener rhetoric because of pressure from foreign diplomats and climate activists. It’s more likely that Modi appreciates India’s need for a compelling new growth narrative. India’s growth engines had cooled even before the Covid-19 pandemic hit. Modi’s big manufacturing push hadn’t really paid off; private investment was at historic lows. Early-2000s confidence that India would be the next China, the new factory of the world, has crumbled over two decades of disappointment. In effect, there’s no growth story left in India’s economy that can enthuse both voters and investors. That’s what Modi hopes to recover with his new narrative about green growth. Fortunately, a focus on greener growth might also work. In past decades, unsustainably low domestic prices for raw materials such as iron ore and coal helped drive high growth rates. That boom collapsed amid accusations of corruption and cronyism, as well as objections from many who lived in heavily polluted mining and industrial hotspots. Politically, Modi needs to find a less extractive growth model. Focusing on green opportunities also offers a possible solution to India’s private investment problem. Nobody expects India’s cash-strapped government to create new networks for urban mobility, new housing stock and energy-efficient factories on its own. It’s going to need help from the private sector. If Modi’s government can reduce investment risk in these greener sectors and activities, making them attractive investment propositions for global and domestic capital, it might well turn around its dismal economic record. The rest of the world should perhaps stop expecting India to fit within its own parameters of climate action and focus instead on whether it follows through on these new ambitions. While one should always take pledges about green new deals with considerable skepticism, on this occasion I’m a little bit more optimistic. In other countries, “green growth” is usually an unwieldy attempt to reconcile the divergent priorities of jobs-first politicians and climate-first activists. In India, it is the only game left in town, because we may have lost in all the others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/narendra-modi-s-green-new-deal-might-actually-work-1023996.html
27-08-2021||Opinion||Why India should engage the Taliban||Amid the US withdrawal from Afghanistan and the Taliban's capture of Kabul, the general atmosphere in India seems to be of pessimism vis-à-vis India's relationship with the new dispensation in our western neighbour. This pessimism is grounded in the history of India's non-existent ties to the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan during the 1990s and several misconceptions about the Taliban, which I seek to dispel in this article. I read the autobiography of Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef, one of the founding members of the Taliban, in 2014, soon after I finished reading a sympathetic biography of my late grandfather, Vishnu Shahani. He was an Indian freedom fighter as well as a member of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. What struck me was the similarities between the worldviews of my grandfather and Mullah Zaeef — their devoted love for their homeland and their conviction that religious nationalism would provide much-needed stability. Mullah Zaeef was the ambassador of the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan to Pakistan in 2001 when the Pakistani government, under US pressure, derecognised the Islamic Emirate and arrested Zaeef, who was sent to Guantanamo Bay. Zaeef expresses his anger at Pakistan, derisively referring to it as "Majbooristan, the land that is obliged to fulfil each of America's demands." This points to a common misperception in India of the Taliban as Pakistani proxies, a perception that denies the group's own agency, which was on display when the Pakistani government failed to bring the Taliban to the negotiating table during several rounds of talks of the Quadrilateral Coordination Group (Afghanistan, Pakistan, the United States and China). The fact that the Taliban were subsequently persuaded to participate in the talks in Doha without Pakistani mediation was a further indicator that Pakistan was unable to control the group. This is not to deny the likelihood of ties and financial support, but to underline the fact that the Afghan Taliban are an Afghan group with their own aims and diverse sources of funding, including taxation on poppy cultivation, narcotics processing and drug trafficking; taxes on other economic activities in Taliban-controlled areas; mining and extortion from mine operators; international Islamic charities; and other foreign governments such as allegedly, Iran and Russia. Hence, there are limits to how much influence Pakistan can exert over the group. This influence will wane further as Taliban members shift base to Afghanistan following the recent military victory. Another common refrain I hear in India is that Pakistan is now at risk of a Taliban takeover. However, it is important to distinguish between the Afghan and the Pakistani Taliban. The Afghan Taliban are an Afghanistan-focused group with little interest in controlling Pakistan or any other country. The Pakistani Taliban, or Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, are insurgents who target the Pakistani state but are alleged to receive funding from Indian and Afghan intelligence agencies (prior to the Taliban coup), so there is little chance that the Afghan Taliban will coordinate with the Pakistani Taliban to topple the Pakistani government. Nor are the Taliban likely to offer sanctuary to Daesh (commonly known as the Islamic State), who are bitter rivals whom the Taliban have aggressively targeted. Although the Taliban hosted Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda during the 1990s, Thomas Johnson and Chris Mason explain that this had much to do with Pashtunwali, the social and legal code of the Pashtun ethnic group which emphasises hospitality and forbids asking a guest to leave. Bin Laden himself was a product of the US and Saudi sponsored Afghan "jihad" of the 1980s, and former Taliban emir Mullah Mohammad Omar once compared bin Laden to "a bone in the throat that can neither be swallowed nor thrown out." There is a legitimate concern that the Taliban rule will offer sanctuary for Kashmiri separatists to be trained. This underlines the need for India to engage with the Taliban and address serious human rights abuses in the Kashmir Valley and seek out a political resolution of the dispute over Jammu and Kashmir with Pakistan. Avinash Paliwal has argued that the 1990s Taliban were not necessarily averse to engaging with India. While many videos have been circulating on social media and eliciting horror from Indian users, several of these have turned out to be false. It is incumbent upon us to use social media responsibly, refraining from sharing unverified information from dodgy sources. The media we share reaches Afghans in India, in Afghanistan and abroad and causes panic, so there is a need for sensitivity at the individual level. At a national level, too, we have a responsibility as an emerging Asian great power to seek dialogue to ensure regional stability. As Hashmat Ghani, the brother of deposed Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, puts it, "When you haven't been around certain kinds of people, appearances can be deceiving or even frightening." But there is a need to move beyond preconceived notions to make the best of a situation that was foreseeable for the past few years. Our national responsibility as a great power also extends to providing refuge to fleeing Afghans of all religious identities, especially since democratic Afghanistan was one of our key regional allies. This is a way to build goodwill among the people of the region; India's arch-rival Pakistan has hosted millions of Afghan refugees for the past several decades. (The writer is Assistant Professor, International Studies, at FLAME University, Pune) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-india-should-engage-the-taliban-1024043.html
27-08-2021||Opinion||Punjab sitrep: Making sense of Sidhu's shenanigans and Badal's strategy||About a month ago, Navjot Singh Sidhu was desperate to become the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president. His supporters, 31 MLAs, including a few ministers, are now desperate for another change. They seek the removal of Amarinder Singh as the chief minister of Punjab. Harish Rawat, the Punjab Congress in-charge, has said the Congress will go to the polls under the leadership of Amarinder Singh.  Seemingly unconnected and casually made statements by two of Sidhu's advisers, Malwinder Singh Mali and Pyare Lal Garg, constitute the background of the current state of play in Punjab Congress. Mali questioned, "the need for Article 370 and Article 35A of the Constitution if Kashmir was an integral part of India." He also posted a sketch of former prime minister Indira Gandhi that showed her next to a heap of human skulls holding a gun. Another Adviser of Sidhu, Garg, said that "criticising Pakistan was not in our interest."  Amarinder Singh responded that Garg and Mali should advise Sidhu on Punjab Congress-related affairs and not speak about issues they didn't understand. The CM said Pakistan needs to be criticised because it sends drugs and infiltrates terrorists into India. Within minutes of this statement, a picture of Amarinder Singh's close friend Aroosa Alam, a Pakistan-based journalist, was bombarded on social media. A Facebook post followed, which read: "Those who live in houses of glass do not throw stones at others houses, Captain Sahib." Suddenly, Mali and Garg's seemingly vacuous and casual statements turned out to be baits to draw out Amarinder Singh. And he took the bait. The remarks introduced Pakistan into the conversation and lured Amarinder Singh into it. After all, if the conversation revolves around Pakistan, Amarinder Singh will have to answer the Aroosa Alam question. Sidhu will have to answer for his hug with Pakistan's General Qamar Javed Bajwa.  However, Punjabis also credit Sidhu for accomplishing the opening of the Kartarpur Sahib corridor. While Sidhu's hug with Gen Bajwa has in the past shadowed his role in getting Kartarpur Sahib opened, and even members of his party did not acknowledge this as Sidhu's achievement, the former cricketer is seen as an honest politician who can be at the helm.  Sidhu is a man in a hurry. He wants to dash to the strikers' end. But he has failed to understand that unlike cricket, in which a cricket board can change a team's skipper midway into a series, it is not usually so in politics. Ultimately, the people will vote based on the past five years of Congress rule and not on what they think of Sidhu. For that to happen, he may have to wait till 2027. The infighting has meant that while a united Congress could have presented itself as a formidable force for the 2022 Punjab polls, a divided Congress cannot defend itself from its adversaries, who had started prepping for the elections a year in advance.  Still, under the scanner on religious sacrilege (be-adbi), the Shiromani Akali Dal announced candidates almost ten months before the upcoming polls. With voters unlikely to repose their trust in the Akali Dal on other issues, the party thought it best to fight the forthcoming assembly polls by announcing candidates much in advance. It has put its political machine to work to organise well attended public meetings and declare party candidates. It announced its first lot of eight candidates in April. After a lull because of Covid-19 restrictions, including on political rallies, Sukhbir Singh Badal released a list of another 14 candidates this month. We are still six months away from the elections to the 117-member legislative assembly. Badal has given targets to ticket aspirants. He announces the aspirant's name as the party candidate then and there if the aspirant in question meets the target of organising a big rally. In one instance, Yuvraj Bhupinder Singh, Bibi Jagir Kaur's son-in-law who lost to Sukhpal Singh Khaira in 2017, held a rally which wasn't impressive, and Badal did not announce his candidature. Kaur is the current president of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabhandak Committee. Keen watchers of Punjab affairs believe that the message from Badal is clear - it is not the party that should steer the candidate towards victory but the other way round. It would seem to be an acceptance that the party is on a weak footing.  While the Akalis may not be currently strong politically, strengthening them in their cause is Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. He is busy touring Punjab and criticising his government on unemployment, costly power, illegal sand mining, drug mafia, etc.  The third party in the fray is the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). The AAP has quite a presence in deeper Punjab. But it is leaderless. Party's second-term Lok Sabha MP Bhagwant Mann's background of being a comedian makes him a crowd-puller. But he hasn't graduated beyond that. A leader imported from Delhi may not go well with Punjabis unless it is Arvind Kejriwal himself. But would Kejriwal take that risk? On Friday, Kejriwal announced that actor Sonu Sood is the Delhi government's brand ambassador for education. But is there something more to it? Is it a signal from the AAP for the Punjab polls? Sood is a Punjabi who grew up in the Moga district. Poll issue: Farm protests or Pakistan? But if leaders are important, so are narratives. Notwithstanding the introduction of Pakistan into the conversation, religious sacrilege (be-adbi), or even speculation around respective chief ministerial candidates, the 2022 polls will centre around the farmers' issues. The farmers are united in their cause but are not letting the cat out of the bag. The Akalis, Congress and AAP are unsure which way the farmers, a constituency that has its presence in all 117 assembly segments, might vote. Therefore, the narrative is not Kisan but Pakistan, and when they talk about Pakistan, they talk about drugs, Kashmir and Aroosa Alam.  (The writer is a Chandigarh-based journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/punjab-sitrep-making-sense-of-sidhus-shenanigans-and-badals-strategy-1024144.html
27-08-2021||Panorama||Australia has lessons for India’s asset recycling plan||By Andy Mukherjee, The asset recycling craze that got under way in Australia with the 2013 leasing of Port Kembla and Port Botany near Sydney is reaching India. So is the fear that handing over control of public utilities to a small private sector will hurt the consumer. The cash-strapped Indian government has identified 6 trillion rupees ($81 billion) in existing revenue-generating assets, which it will monetise over four years to fund an ambitious $1.5 trillion pipeline of new infrastructure. But while New Delhi aims to replicate the fundraising success overseas, it also needs to heed the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission Chairman Rod Sims’s warning last month: Privatise to increase the efficiency of the economy, or don’t privatise at all. Policy makers in India envisage parting with revenue-earning operating concessions in exchange for upfront payments or investments. The deals will be structured as “contractual partnerships” with the state retaining long-term public ownership. However, to maximize their profit over a limited time frame, investors would naturally want to raise prices, limit competition or cut back on upkeep. Singapore had to nationalise its suburban trains and signaling systems because the main private operator had underinvested in maintenance, leading to frequent breakdowns and stranded, angry passengers. Similarly, it’s important to prevent today’s lump-sum gains to the government from becoming a cost tomorrow. In New South Wales, where electricity prices doubled in five years after poles and wires were privatised, the government had to step in with an Energy Affordability Package to lower the burden on consumers. The Indian taxpayer, already struggling under extortionate levies on energy, simply can’t afford such largesse. Without bureaucratic capability and regulatory acumen, the Indian program could become a transfer of taxpayer-funded assets to a handful of business groups. This is a concern because of the rising concentration of economic power in everything from transport to telecom. Airports and seaports are the stranglehold of billionaire Gautam Adani’s group, which also wants to acquire Container Corporation of India Ltd., a state-owned logistics firm. The wireless carriage business, once teeming with a dozen operators, has effectively turned into a duopoly, led by Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest man. Privatisation of a state-owned aluminum maker only causes job-loss anxieties among its workers. Once control over utilities is out of the government’s hands for years, even decades, the broader public will worry about higher user charges slapped by operators of roads, railways, airports, power grids and gas pipelines. The other takeaway from the Australian experience is to let consumers see for themselves if they’re getting a fair shake. As the Sydney Morning Herald wrote this year, the 2018 sale of 51% of WestConnex, a controversial motorway in Australia’s largest metropolis, limits the network’s “exposure to freedom of information requests and budget estimates hearings” besides diluting “the ability of the state Auditor-General to keep the project under scrutiny.” It’s also important to mind the gaps in institutional maturity. For an emerging market, India already has fairly well-established investment trusts and toll-operate-transfer structures. But does it have the legal and regulatory mechanisms to truly de-risk politically sensitive infrastructure before asking the private sector to put a price on it? Even where environmental clearances, land acquisition and construction are in the rear-view mirror and there’s certainty over future traffic, weak regulators can introduce their own hard-to-price risks. Take aviation. After a year-and-a-half of Covid-19, India is still enforcing capacity caps and pricing floors and ceilings on flights, denying passenger footfall to airports to save some inefficient airlines. Such arbitrariness results from political economy considerations, which won’t go away in a hurry. The likes of Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, Brookfield Asset Management Inc., Australia’s Macquarie Group Ltd. and Singaporean sovereign wealth fund GIC Pte., as well as local financial institutions are all likely to bid for public assets on offer, and they may even win some, but they may never be on a par with entrenched domestic business groups and their ability to sway regulations. Then there’s the state’s execution capability, called into question by long delays in selling government-run banks, the biggest life insurer, a large oil refinery and Air India Ltd., the national carrier. Frothy equity markets, resulting from a massive global and local liquidity glut, had presented policy makers with a golden opportunity to extract great value for assets, excluding Air India. That bus may have already left. Startups with no current earnings — and some with perhaps no future profits either — swooped in on public capital markets and swept the board. The government just kept waiting. Bureaucratic delays might blight asset concessions, too. By the time New Delhi starts hawking them, the US Federal Reserve could already be tapering its bloated balance sheet. Emerging-market assets may get the short-shrift. More so if it turns out that the coronavirus will keep coming back in waves to countries slow to reach universal vaccination, or unable to afford repeated boosters.  Timing, though, isn’t everything. Finding the right balance between public and private interests will determine success of a patient asset recycling program — not just the amount of money raised this year or next. That’s perhaps the most important lesson from Down Under.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/australia-has-lessons-for-india-s-asset-recycling-plan-1023942.html
27-08-2021||Panorama||'I commanded Afghan troops this year; we were betrayed'||By Sami Sadat, For the past three and a half months, I fought day and night, nonstop, in southern Afghanistan’s Helmand Province against an escalating and bloody Taliban offensive. Coming under frequent attack, we held the Taliban back and inflicted heavy casualties. Then I was called to Kabul to command Afghanistan’s special forces. But the Taliban already were entering the city; it was too late. I am exhausted. I am frustrated. And I am angry. President Biden said last week that “American troops cannot and should not be fighting in a war and dying in a war that Afghan forces are not willing to fight for themselves.” It’s true that the Afghan Army lost its will to fight. But that’s because of the growing sense of abandonment by our American partners and the disrespect and disloyalty reflected in Mr Biden’s tone and words over the past few months. The Afghan Army is not without blame. It had its problems — cronyism, bureaucracy — but we ultimately stopped fighting because our partners already had. It pains me to see Mr Biden and Western officials are blaming the Afghan Army for collapsing without mentioning the underlying reasons that happened. Political divisions in Kabul and Washington strangled the army and limited our ability to do our jobs. Losing combat logistical support that the United States had provided for years crippled us, as did a lack of clear guidance from US and Afghan leadership. I am a three-star general in the Afghan Army. For 11 months, as commander of 215 Maiwand Corps, I led 15,000 men in combat operations against the Taliban in southwestern Afghanistan. I’ve lost hundreds of officers and soldiers. That’s why, as exhausted and frustrated as I am, I wanted to offer a practical perspective and defend the honour of the Afghan Army. I’m not here to absolve the Afghan Army of mistakes. But the fact is, many of us fought valiantly and honorably, only to be let down by American and Afghan leadership. Two weeks ago, while battling to hold the southern city of Lashkar Gah from the Taliban, President Ashraf Ghani named me commander of Afghanistan’s special forces, the country’s most elite fighters. I reluctantly left my troops and arrived in Kabul on August 15, ready to fight — unaware how bad the situation already was. Then Mr Ghani handed me the added task of ensuring the security of Kabul. But I never even had a chance: The Taliban were closing in, and Mr Ghani fled the country. There is an enormous sense of betrayal here. Mr Ghani’s hasty escape ended efforts to negotiate an interim agreement for a transition period with the Taliban that would have enabled us to hold the city and help manage evacuations. Instead, chaos ensued — resulting in the desperate scenes witnessed at the Kabul airport. It was in response to those scenes that Mr Biden said on August 16 that the Afghan forces collapsed, “sometimes without trying to fight.” But we fought, bravely, until the end. We lost 66,000 troops over the past 20 years; that’s one-fifth of our estimated fighting force. So why did the Afghan military collapse? The answer is threefold. First, former president Donald Trump’s February 2020 peace deal with the Taliban in Doha doomed us. It put an expiration date on American interest in the region. Second, we lost contractor logistics and maintenance support critical to our combat operations. Third, the corruption endemic in Mr Ghani’s government that flowed to senior military leadership and long crippled our forces on the ground irreparably hobbled us. The Trump-Taliban agreement shaped the circumstances for the current situation by essentially curtailing offensive combat operations for US and allied troops. The US air-support rules of engagement for Afghan security forces effectively changed overnight, and the Taliban were emboldened. They could sense victory and knew it was just a matter of waiting out the Americans. Before that deal, the Taliban had not won any significant battles against the Afghan Army. After the agreement? We were losing dozens of soldiers a day. Still, we kept fighting. But then Mr Biden confirmed in April he would stick to Mr Trump’s plan and set the terms for the US drawdown. That was when everything started to go downhill. The Afghan forces were trained by the Americans using the US military model based on highly technical special reconnaissance units, helicopters and airstrikes. We lost our superiority to the Taliban when our air support dried up and our ammunition ran out. Contractors maintained our bombers and our attack and transport aircraft throughout the war. By July, most of the 17,000 support contractors had left. A technical issue now meant that aircraft — a Black Hawk helicopter, a C-130 transport, a surveillance drone — would be grounded. The contractors also took proprietary software and weapons systems with them. They physically removed our helicopter missile-defense system. Access to the software that we relied on to track our vehicles, weapons and personnel also disappeared. Real-time intelligence on targets went out the window, too. The Taliban fought with snipers and improvised explosive devices while we lost aerial and laser-guided weapon capacity. And since we could not resupply bases without helicopter support, soldiers often lacked the necessary tools to fight. The Taliban overran many bases; in other places, entire units surrendered. Mr Biden’s full and accelerated withdrawal only exacerbated the situation. It ignored conditions on the ground. The Taliban had a firm end date from the Americans and feared no military reprisal for anything they did in the interim, sensing the lack of US will. And so the Taliban kept ramping up. My soldiers and I endured up to seven Taliban car bombings daily throughout July and the first week of August in Helmand Province. Still, we stood our ground. I cannot ignore the third factor, though, because there was only so much the Americans could do when it came to the well-documented corruption that rotted our government and military. That really is our national tragedy. So many of our leaders — including in the military — were installed for their personal ties, not for their credentials. These appointments had a devastating impact on the national army because leaders lacked the military experience to be effective or inspire the confidence and trust of the men being asked to risk their lives. Disruptions to food rations and fuel supplies — a result of skimming and corrupt contract allocations — destroyed the morale of my troops. The final days of fighting were surreal. We engaged in intense firefights on the ground against the Taliban as US fighter jets circled overhead, effectively spectators. Our sense of abandonment and betrayal was equaled only by the frustration US pilots felt and relayed to us — being forced to witness the ground war, apparently unable to help us. Overwhelmed by Taliban fire, my soldiers would hear the planes and ask why they were not providing air support. Morale was devastated. Across Afghanistan, soldiers stopped fighting. We held Lashkar Gah in fierce battles, but as the rest of the country fell, we lacked the support to continue fighting and retreated to base. My corps, which had carried on even after I was called away to Kabul, was one of the last to give up its arms — only after the capital fell. We were betrayed by politics and presidents. This was not an Afghan war only; it was an international war, with many militaries involved. It would have been impossible for one army alone, ours, to take up the job and fight. This was a military defeat, but it emanated from political failure. (General Sadat is a commander in the Afghan National Army)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/i-commanded-afghan-troops-this-year-we-were-betrayed-1023943.html
27-08-2021||Panorama||Bracing for the third Covid-19 wave||The World Health Organization (WHO) chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus recently warned nations about the early stages of the third wave of Covid-19 amid the surge and spread of the delta variants. As the virus is continuously mutating into more transmissible variants such as the delta variant which has become the predominat variant, the third wave is already hitting several European and Southeast Asian countries, with rising cases and increasing deaths, and seems imminent in India.  Based on different mathematical models, the current predictions by various Indian researchers and leading medical bodies, indicate that a third wave can be expected to strike India in the months of September-October, 2021.  According to a serosurvey conducted by ICMR in June and July 2021 across 70 districts of 21 states has found SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in two-third of Indians above the age of 6, thereby suggesting that 40 crore people or one-third of the country’s population is still vulnerable to the novel coronavirus. Drawing from the learnings of the first two waves, leading health experts have suggested several measures to counter the third wave, these include:  Sustained surveillance, and sharing of data to guide future interventions Systematic testing, collection, compilation, and analysis of clinical, epidemiological, and laboratory data hold the key to decision making. In this context, as indicated by the WHO chief scientist Dr Sowmya Swaminathan, India needs to strengthen its surveillance and closely monitor key Covid-19 indicators to reduce the impact of a possible third wave. Stringent genomic surveillance and monitoring of viral epidemiology and genetic diversity can help explain the evolving nature of the pandemic and help the authorities in making more informed decisions.  Robust healthcare infra While the second wave has made the medical fraternity more experienced at patient management, with the clearcut guidelines in management, there is still a critical need to scale up infrastructure.  Maintainence of  Covid Care Centers, with beds, ICU units, oxygen supply, and availability of medications including the key medications is a pivotal step. The use of technology for teleconsultation, forecasting trends and managing procurement and supply chains for delivering essential drugs and vaccines has already been initiated and must continue. In addition, training healthcare professionals for better management of patients across the disease spectrum could reduce the load on the hospitals. The use of digital platforms for training could help a large number of workers gain the requisite skills in a short time. Vaccinations Vaccination provide significant protection against severe disease and hospitalisations. Breakthrough infections can occur but are likely to be mild in most instances. New data emerging on vaccines suggest that vaccination against Covid-19 provides three times stronger immune response than when recovering from an infection,and this response is seven times higher in the younger age group.  Indeed, a third wave could be significantly blunted or delayed, by scaling up the vaccination drive. Alternate strategies to protect the vulnerable population are being considered. For example, the CDC in the US  is considering whether fully vaccinated people with weakened immune systems need a booster dose of the covid vaccine. Covid-appropriate behaviour must continue Continuing with covid appropriate behaviour, mandatory use of masks, social distancing, restrictions on mass gatherings, localised mini-lockdowns, and micro containments, must be implemented which can keep the number of cases under control, despite large scale restrictions being lifted in most states.  Three key factors can determine the next wave— the nature of the virus, the extent of vaccination and people’s behaviour. Armed with the knowledge of our past, we can with confidence chart a course for our future. Without a doubt, a vigilant and better prepared India can tide over an incoming third wave. With all the stakeholders coming together, the battle against the virus can be won, slowly but surely. It is but a matter of time. (The writer is Global Chief Medical Officer at a pharmaceutical company)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bracing-for-the-third-covid-19-wave-1023944.html
27-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Mute spectators||I am surrounded by mute spectators at home. Their religion is silence. The refrigerator, for example, hums so softly that I have to strain my ear to hear it. The fridge may be frigid, but when I open its door, the light inside sits lightly on my eyes. The cycle is fond of peddling a yarn that never comes to an end even after hours of paddling. I can’t apply the brakes for fear of breaking the story’s cycle. The frying pan on the stove giggles when I find its handle too hot to handle. It would have me thrown into the fire and mummified me but for my mummy being by my side. At home, my father is quiet as a mouse. But wheel him behind the steering wheel of our car, when he steers it on the road, then he charges like a rowdy and rides as if driven by a silent monster. Nuts, he grumbles, referring to his driving under the influence and not to the dry almond nuts that influence his taste.  The naughty washing machine in the corner makes me dizzy as it goes round and round. It has a fat body and a well-rounded get up. It gets up early in the morning for a body greasing before its daily whirl in whirling soap suds. The ancient air-conditioner still works cool as a cucumber, conditioned as it is by the temperature. Once my brother found the old machine warming up to jazzy music on the hi-fi. I think it’s time we left it high and dry, he remarked.  Have faith in me, the old faithful replied. Pointing at my brother, it blasted us with a blast of cold air, as if to prove its point. All mute onlookers, whether idiotic or flippant or wise beyond their ears, make an exception for the idiot box in their dumb club. They play with varieties of sound—from the ground to the sky, from pop to jazz, from fame to games, from thrillers to spoilers. I wait patiently for my opening. At the right time, I open the image of Lord Jagannath before them. Silence returns, followed by the evening conch shell that blows and sends the mute lot to rest. Tomorrow is another day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/mute-spectators-1023951.html
27-08-2021||Right in the Middle||The nagging musician||It was an unwelcome guest to our house. I never extended my hand to it to invite it into our house. In fact, I hated its presence in our house. Though I kept the doors of our house shut to prevent its entry, through some tiny, invisible outlets of the house, it somehow managed to step stealthily into the house. The moment it entered, it kept moving about freely in all rooms and ultimately, it prefered to stay in our bedroom which appeared to be its favourite place. When I lay on my bed for a siesta, it came straight to the bed, sprinting all along the way. Orbiting around me so fast, it halted in the air hanging about my ears so deftly and embarked on its singing spree, maybe, thinking of itself as one of the greatest musicians the world had ever produced. Coming closer to my ears, it kept singing so raucously and horribly, sometimes, it almost got into my ears, singing ceaselessly as if it was demanding the attention of my ears to its music. Disgusted and irritated awfully at its horrible, monotonous singing, while still in sleep, I flailed my hand at it to drive it away from my ears. But dexterously, it moved away from my flailing hand and in no time, it rushed back to my ears, singing more incessantly with a vengeance. However, my hand kept flailing at it vigorously. Maybe, angered at my indifference to its singing spree, it began pinching my ears, shoulders, hands and legs fiercely. Disturbed out of sleep and half-awake, I tossed over my bed impatiently with one hand of mine rubbing the pinched parts of my body and another hand chasing and flailing wildly at this singing and pinching monster. Quite surprisingly, all of a sudden, the singing and pinching came to a halt. Wondered at the disappearance of its notorious music, I woke up from my bed and looked around for the raucous musician and nagging pincher. My searching eyes spotted on my bed, a fat mosquito lying crushed. I pitied this unwelcome musician who, while singing nonstop into my reluctant ears and pinching my body vengefully for my ears’ attention to its dreadful music, had unfortunately invited doom on its life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-nagging-musician-1024300.html
27-08-2021||Second Edit||Narayan Rane’s arrest was uncalled for||If Union minister Narayan Rane’s remarks about Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray were crude and unbecoming of his position, the Shiv Sena leadership’s response to them was vindictive and disproportionate. The sentiments and the motivation behind both the words and the action go a long way back – to the time when Rane fell out with the Sena leadership as he thought Uddhav was robbing him of his rightful place in the party. So, personal grudges and political rivalries are mixed up in the drama of the arrest, the filing of cases and the staging of street protests in Mumbai and elsewhere, and in the heightened rhetoric over all these. Rane is the BJP’s hitman against the Sena, and he performed his role as provocateur to near perfection. The Sena had kept its wild instincts in check for long, but decided that Rane was the right person to be reminded of them. The Sena should have left Rane’s bluster that he would have slapped Uddhav Thackeray for his question about the correct anniversary year of Independence as just that, an uncouth and discourteous bluster. He exaggerated for effect, and Sena did the same for impact. Though his words were in bad taste, they had to be stretched hard to be dubbed criminal. They should have been accommodated within the ambit of freedom of speech, with a generous view taken of that right. But there is no generosity in politics. Some years ago, before politics became so confrontationist, a shrug, a condemnation or a call for an apology would have been the normal response to the verbal offence of the kind Rane made. That would have shown how inappropriate the words were, especially coming from a minister, and how much at odds they were with the norms of public decency. Instead, the Sena unleashed the police and the mob on him and stooped low to settle old scores. What was witnessed in the past few days may be the opening shots for the coming battle in the state which is going to see civic polls and importantly, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections. The confrontation has been building up, with over 40 cases being registered against Rane’s Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Mumbai and other areas on the charge of flouting Covid-19 protocols. One party was raring to provoke, the other was waiting for the provocation. The BJP has tried to take the political and moral high ground as a victim of highhanded police action, but it has also practised the same politics elsewhere. In a politics of short fuses, parties’ sights are shorter, set on the next elections and blinkered by narrow concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/narayan-rane-s-arrest-was-uncalled-for-1023948.html
27-08-2021||Second Edit||Kabul blasts signal Afghanistan's descent into chaos||The deadly suicide bombings that rocked Kabul on Thursday evening, killing over a hundred people, marks the start of another ferocious phase in the decades-long violent conflict in Afghanistan. The Islamic State Khorasan (ISK), the IS’ affiliate in Afghanistan, has claimed responsibility for Thursday’s suicide attacks. The attacks seem aimed at causing maximum bloodshed; it was at the perimeter of Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport where thousands of ordinary Afghans anxious to escape Taliban rule were waiting for flights out of the country. The attacks were also aimed at the US; hundreds of its troops were at the airport. It does seem that the ISK attacks were also aimed at worsening already fraying relations between the US and the Taliban. The attack was not the result of the failure of intelligence agencies. Western agencies were warning of an imminent ISK attack at the airport. The attack happened because of the Taliban’s failure to prevent it. It is the Taliban that is in control of security in Kabul, especially along roads leading to the airport and around it. That its fighters could not prevent the ISK suicide bombers from moving towards the airport lays bare major holes in its capacities. The Taliban took control over territory at lightning speed in recent weeks and managed to capture Kabul without a fight. It will find that fighting a war was the easy part. Now comes the more difficult task of governing, where the Taliban is clueless. Its first stint in power in the late 1990s was more about controlling the Afghan people than anything else. In the coming weeks and months, the world will be watching whether it has the capacity to provide governance, usher in security for the people, kickstart the economy. Security and stability will not come if the Taliban regime allows its fighters to shoot anyone at will. How it deals with the ISK, its main rival in the terrorism business in Afghanistan, and other terror groups like the Jaish-e-Mohammed, the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the al-Qaeda will be important in countries extending the new regime recognition. Although the Ashraf Ghani government and the Afghan security forces collapsed in the face of the Taliban advance, the latter’s grip over power remains tenuous. Anti-Taliban forces, including Amrullah Saleh, who was vice president of the country under the Ghani regime, Ahmad Massoud and Afghan soldiers have regrouped in the Panjshir Valley. Should the Taliban fail to form an inclusive government, it could face armed uprisings. Foreign governments, too, will be more reluctant to extend it recognition. The blasts at Kabul airport draw attention to the continuing chaos and insecurity that ordinary Afghans face. They also underscore the challenges before the Taliban regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/kabul-blasts-signal-afghanistans-descent-into-chaos-1024298.html
27-08-2021||South||Kerala: Celebrity chef and film producer Naushad no more||Popular celebrity chef and Malayalam film producer Naushad died at a private hospital here on Friday following prolonged illness, family sources said. He was 54 and was undergoing treatment for abdomen-related ailments at various hospitals for the last three years, the sources said. Tragedy struck the family earlier this month as his wife Sheeba had died of heart attack on August 12. He is survived by a 13-year old daughter Nashwa. Owner of leading restaurant and catering group, 'Naushad The Big Chef', he had been known for preparing delicacies for celebrities and VIP guests to the state. Also, a presenter of cookery shows in local channels and a judge of various culinary contests, he ventured into film industry by producing critically acclaimed Mammootty-starrer "Kazhcha" in the year 2005. Later, he had produced a handful of films including "Chattambi Nadu", "Lion", "Best Actor", "Spanish Masala" and so on. His critical health condition came to the public notice following a recent Facebook post by a close friend. In his condolence message, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan remembered how Naushad had introduced a variety of delicacies to Keralites through his TV shows.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-celebrity-chef-and-film-producer-naushad-no-more-1024036.html
27-08-2021||South||Madras High Court allows further investigation in Kodanad case||In a setback to former Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, the Madras High Court on Friday ruled that the Nilgiris police can continue with further investigation in the Kodanad Estate break-in-cum-murder case. The court’s ruling came while dismissing a petition filed by a prosecution witness seeking a stay on the further probe in the sensational case.  Justice M Nirmal Kumar said the police was “fully empowered” to conduct further investigation in the case and ruled that the petitioner, ‘Anubhav’ Ravi, has no locus standi to seek a stay on further probe since he is a prosecution witness. Ravi is an office-bearer of Nilgiris district AIADMK.  With the High Court giving a green signal for further probe in the case, the District Sessions Court in Nilgiris will hear the case on September 2. The sessions court had adjourned the case for September 2 as AIADMK lawyers sought postponement of the hearing citing the case in the High Court.   The ruling by the High Court is a setback to Palaniswami who had alleged that the DMK government was trying to “frame” him in the case. Palaniswami had alleged that the case was being re-investigated at a time the trial was “coming to an end”.  Kodanad was the summer retreat of Jayalalithaa since she and her long-time aide V K Sasikala bought the sprawling bungalow in Kothagiri in the early 1990s. The former chief minister would visit the bungalow often when her party, AIADMK, was occupying the Opposition benches in the Assembly. Sayan and nine others are accused of breaking into the sprawling mansion owned by Jayalalithaa in 2017, months after her death, and killing a guard who was posted there. Police had then alleged that C Kanagaraj, Jayalalithaa’s former driver, and Sayan plotted the crime.  However, Kanagaraj, Sayan’s wife and their daughter died in separate road accidents, raising doubts. An “independent investigation” conducted by journalist Mathew Samuel alleged that Palaniswami was behind the break-in, but the former Chief Minister had steered clear of the issue, saying vested interests were trying to bring “disrepute” to him and Jayalalithaa. A new twist was added to the case earlier this week when three persons accused in the case moved the High Court seeking to examine Palaniswami, ousted AIADMK general secretary V K Sasikala and six others in the case.  The Criminal Revision Petition under Section 233 of Cr. PC was filed by Deepu, Satheesan, and Santhosh Samy. They wanted the court to examine Palaniswami, Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s foster son V N Sudakaran, the then Nilgiris Collector Shankar, the then Nilgiris SP Murali Rambha, two employees of the Kodanad Estate and an AIADMK office-bearer from Gudalur.  Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-allows-further-investigation-in-kodanad-case-1024044.html
27-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu government moves SC for rejection of DPR on Mekedatu project||Tamil Nadu on Friday approached the Supreme Court for a direction to the Central Water Commission to reject and return the detailed project report for the proposed Mekedatu balancing reservoir cum drinking water project filed by Karnataka on January 18, 2019. In a fresh application, the state government asked the top court to restrain the Ministry of Environment and Forest and its agencies from entertaining any application for clearance relating to the Mekedatu project. The planning of the Mekadatu project by Karnataka with a capacity of 67.16 TMC ft and generation of 400 MW power at a cost of about Rs 9000 crores is in gross violation of the decision of Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (Tribunal) of February 05, 2007 as affirmed by this court in its judgment on February 16, 2018, it said. Tamil Nadu claimed that the project was located in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary and a Reserve Forest. "The contemplation of the project is also in utter disregard to the final adjudication rendered by the Tribunal as modified by this court," it said. Further, the proposed project would affect the flow of the river Cauvery considerably and will severely affect the irrigation in Cauvery basin of Tamil Nadu, it submitted in its plea. "The State of Karnataka unilaterally and contrary to the judgment of this court, sent a feasibility report of the Mekedatu project to Central Water Commission (CWC), which proceeded to entertain the proposal," it said. The proposed reservoir would result in impounding the flows generated in river Cauvery from the uncontrolled catchment of Kabini sub-basin downstream of Kabini reservoir, the catchment of Cauvery river downstream of KRS dam, uncontrolled flows from Shimsha, Arkavathy and Suvarnavathy sub-basins and various other small streams, which are the sources to ensure 177.25 TMC at Billigundlu, it said. The proposed construction by Karnataka would have a cascading effect on the daily and monthly inflows during the crucial months of June to September resulting in prejudicing the livelihood of lakhs of inhabitants of Tamil Nadu, it said. Further, any new scheme contemplated should be taken up only with the consent of the other basin States as they are vitally affected by the unilateral action of the upper riparian state, the application said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-government-moves-sc-for-rejection-of-dpr-on-mekedatu-project-1024138.html
27-08-2021||South||Vigil against fake Covid-19 certificates in Kasargod||With Keralites being held in Mangaluru with fake Covid-19 negative RTPCR test certificates, the Kasargod district administration has also stepped up vigil. According to sources, some rackets associated with travel agencies and laboratories were suspected to be providing fake RTPCR negative certificates. Kasargod district collector Bhandari Swagat Ranveer Chand told DH that the Dakshina Kannada district administration got in touch with the Kasargod district administration in this regard. The Kasargod district police were directed to initiate necessary actions. Kasargod Police sources said that once details regarding the fake certificates were received from Mangaluru Police, necessary action would be taken to trace the rackets. Complaints of an unauthorised lab issuing Covid-19 certificates had come up earlier. But it was found that the lab was functioning as a collection agency of another authorised lab. Meanwhile, earlier there were instances of a lab in Malappuram district issuing fake Covid-19 negative certificates to those travelling abroad. Legal action was initiated against the lab which reportedly collected around Rs. 45 lakh from 2,500 persons for issuing the fake certificates. Kasargod district medical officer Dr. Rajan K R said that adequate Covid-19 testing facilities were set up in the district and hence there was no justification for people approaching unauthorised testing centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vigil-against-fake-covid-19-certificates-in-kasargod-1024148.html
27-08-2021||South||Kerala Human Rights panel orders inquiry into tribal boy's fall from tree||A day after a teenage tribal boy suffered serious injuries when he scaled a tree to get internet access in Kannur district of Kerala, the state Human Rights Commission on Friday registered a case and ordered an inquiry into the tragic incident. K Baijunath, the judicial member of the panel, asked the district collector to probe the incident and submit the inquiry report within 15 days, an official statement said here. The 15-year-old P Ananthu Babu met with the tragedy at Panniyodu tribal colony near a forest area under Kannavam police station limit in Kannur. There are widespread complaints that mobile coverage is poor in the area and the children in the settlements are attending online classes by scaling trees or sitting in tree-huts, the statement added. Meanwhile, General Education Minister V Sivankutty called the boy's father over phone and inquired about his health condition. He also called the district collector and superintendent of the Pariayam Medical College, where the boy is undergoing treatment, and asked him to ensure the best treatment to Ananthu. A total of 137 places in Kannur district were found to be experiencing network issues and the problem was resolved in 71 centres among them, the minister said later. The tribal boy fell down on Thursday leading to serious injuries to his backbone. He climbed the tree to get a better signal on his mobile phone for checking his plus one allotment status online, officials said. Lack of internet connectivity has kept a large number of tribal students away from studies during the Covid-19 induced restrictions in the area, locals said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-human-rights-panel-orders-inquiry-into-tribal-boys-fall-from-tree-1024153.html
27-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt issues SOPs for reopening schools from Sept 1||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday issued Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for schools across the state to strictly adhere to when the classes commence from September 1 for ninth to twelfth standards. Permitting the re-opening of schools for 9th, 10th, 11th and 12th standards with effect from September 1 with 50 per cent students at a time by duly following the appropriate SOP, the government directed the school education department to take necessary preparatory action and prescribe appropriate SOP for conducting classes regularly. Schools should function six days a week and classes and sections have to be split into batches of not more than 20 students per classroom, as per the SOP. If no additional rooms are available, then students shall be asked to come to school on a rotational basis on alternate days, it said. Online or distance learning will continue to be an alternate mode of teaching. Students may be permitted to attend online classes if they prefer and those willing to study from home with the consent of the parents may be allowed to do so. However, follow-up on the progress of learning outcomes of all such students shall be planned appropriately. Teachers and students should compulsorily wear face masks both inside and outside the school premises and schools should mandatorily follow the SOP. All teachers and non-teaching staff must get themselves vaccinated. As per the health, hygiene and safety protocols, schools premises, furniture, handrails, doors and windows should be cleaned and disinfected properly prior to re-opening. Hand wash facilities with soap and running water should be made available and in addition, hand sanitisers should be provided in all classrooms, the SOP said. Toilets and wash areas should be cleaned, disinfected properly and maintained with cleanliness. Alternate arrangements should be made by the management for contactless attendance for teachers or staff instead of biometric attendance, during the pandemic. Helpline numbers, including those of local health authorities and mobile teams to contact in case of emergency, should be displayed. School premises should be kept clean and tidy and social distancing norms should be strictly followed to avoid crowding at the entrance, exit and inside the school, it stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-issues-sops-for-reopening-schools-from-sept-1-1024158.html
27-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin announces Rs 317 crore package for Lankan Tamil refugees||Asserting that his government was committed to “enhancing” the living conditions of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees in the state, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin on Friday made a slew of announcements like building over 7,000 new houses in refugee camps and free gas stoves and cylinders.  Making a statement under Rule 110 in the Assembly, Stalin also said his government will soon set up a high-level committee under the chairmanship of Minorities and Non-Resident Tamils’ Welfare Minister K S Masthan to address issues like enhancing living conditions of the refugees and granting them dual citizenship.  The Chief Minister said 58,822 refugees are lodged in 822 camps in 29 districts, while 34,087 refugees live outside the camps after duly registering with the police. He also listed the initiatives that the previous DMK governments took to protect the interests of the refugees who began flocking to India in 1983 after the civil war in Sri Lanka intensified.  “Since many houses in the refugee camps are in bad condition, the government has decided to build 7,469 new houses at Rs 231.54 crore. In the first phase, 3,510 houses will be constructed and Rs 108.81 crore will be sanctioned for the purpose,” Stalin said.  Granting Rs 30 crore for enhancing electricity supply, toilet facilities, and drinking water, Stalin said the government has sanctioned Rs 317.40 crore for the Sri Lankan Tamil refugees.  The government will spend Rs 10 crore in training youth living in refugee camps and outside to make them employable, while free gas stoves and cylinders will be provided to families.  Each family will receive a subsidy of Rs 400 each for five cylinders, Stalin said and enhanced the scholarship for students and the financial assistance provided to refugee families.  “Not just Tamils who live here, our government is concerned about the lives of Tamils who live across the world, and we will take care of them,” Stalin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-announces-rs-317-crore-package-for-lankan-tamil-refugees-1024172.html
27-08-2021||South||Congress continues its attack on Left government over rising Covid-19 cases||The Congress on Friday continued its attack on the Left government and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the rising coronavirus cases, saying the Covid-19 management has been 'hijacked' by the officials and the state was hiding details about deaths and claiming a low fatality rate. "We had raised a serious allegation that the government was deliberately showing a low death rate related to Covid-19. The government has been hiding around 25,000 deaths in Kerala and has been claiming that the death rate is low in the state. This means that the government has been hiding the death rate in the state to take credit," Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, V D Satheesan told reporters here. Reiterating his charge that the Covid-19 management in Kerala was an "utter failure", Satheesan said Kerala has been reporting 68 per cent of the total cases in the country.  "Kerala has the highest TPR (Test Positivity Rate) in the country. But the chief minister still claims that the Kerala model is the best. It's an unfortunate situation. There is no role for the chief minister or the health minister here. Everything is decided by some officials. They have hijacked the Covid-19 management. The CM and the health minister are parroting the officials," Satheesan alleged. He demanded to know why the Chief Minister, who earlier used to call a press meet "for minor reasons," was not addressing the concerns of the people now The Congress leader also alleged that the Covid First Line Treatment Centres (CFLTC) in the state has been closed down and asked the state government to reopen them for effective Covid-19 management. On Thursday, senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala had alleged that the state government had failed to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and demanded that the Chief Minister apologise to the people. He had also alleged that the "carelessness" of the state was the reason behind the rise of the Covid-19 cases. Since July 27, after restrictions were relaxed for a few days on account of two festivals, Kerala has been logging more than or close to 20,000 almost every day. On Thursday, the state reported 30,007 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-continues-its-attack-on-left-government-over-rising-covid-19-cases-1024179.html
27-08-2021||South||IMD predicts heavy rain in Kerala, issues orange alert for six districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued orange alert for six districts of Kerala on August 28 and 29 and forecast extremely heavy rainfall. The weatherman has also issued a Yellow alert to all other districts in the state tomorrow. Orange alert was issued for the districts of Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur on August 28 by the IMD, which predicted "extremely heavy rainfall" of around 20 cm. The IMD also issued Orange alert for the districts of Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram and Wayanad on Sunday while other districts in the state have been warned with a Yellow alert. "The southwest monsoon has been vigorous over Kerala," the IMD website read and said rain occurred at most places in Kerala and Lakshadweep. The weatherman recorded 13 cm rain at Kozha in Kottayam district, 12 cm rain at Cherthala in Alappuzha district, 11 cm each at Aluva and Keerampara ARG, both in Ernakulam district. The IMD has also warned the fishermen against venturing into the sea till August 30. "Strong wind with speed reaching 40-50 Kmph gusting to 60 Kmph is likely over Southwest and West Central Arabian Sea. Fishermen are advised NOT TO venture into these sea areas during the period mentioned," the MeT said. A Red alert indicates heavy to extremely heavy rains of over 20 cm in 24 hours, while Orange alert means very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm of rains. A yellow alert means heavy rainfall between 6 to 11 cm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/imd-predicts-heavy-rain-in-kerala-issues-orange-alert-for-six-districts-1024203.html
27-08-2021||South||Kerala reports over 30,000 cases for 3rd consecutive day; TPR at 19.22%||Kerala continued to report over 30,000 cases for the third consecutive day on Friday and showed an increased Test Positivity Rate, while 179 deaths took the the toll to 20,313. The state logged 32,801 cases today, up from 30,007 on Thursday. The figure was 31,445 cases on August 25. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours increased to 1,70,703, health minister Veena George said, compared to 1,66,397 on Thursday. The Test Positivity Rate stood at 19.22 per cent, an increase from 18.03 on August 26. "Out of those found infected today, 144 reached the state from outside while 31,281 contracted the disease from their contacts. The sources of infection of 1,260 are yet to be traced. Among the infected are 116 health workers, " the minister said in a release. Among the districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of cases (4,032), followed by Thrissur 3,953 and Ernakulam 3,627, Kozhikode 3,362 and Kollam 2,828. Meanwhile 18,573 persons recuperated from the disease on Friday, taking the total cured in the state to 37,30,198. Currently, there are 1,95,254 persons under treatment in the state. The health department said there are 353 wards across 70 local self government bodies where the weekly infection population ratio was above eight per cent. The steady rise in cases had seen Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla review the situation with top officials on Thursday and the steps taken to contain the alarming graph of the virus in the state. The central government had said that the southern state is the only one reporting over one lakh active Covid-19 cases, while four states have 10,000 to one lakh active cases and 31, less than 10,000 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-reports-over-30000-cases-for-3rd-consecutive-day-tpr-at-1922-1024260.html
27-08-2021||State||Scindia writes to Bommai seeking help to speed up aviation infrastructure projects in Karnataka||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia has written to Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai seeking the latter's personal intervention in expediting projects for strengthening aviation infrastructure in the state. In his letter, Scindia has highlighted that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has initiated development and expansion of airports in the country at a cost of Rs 20,000 crore in the next four to five years in order to meet the growing passenger demand in the country. Scindia told the Chief Minister about the projects being carried out by AAI in Karnataka and sought his intervention in clearing the land requirement. Scindia said the AAI has projected a land requirement of 370 acres at Belagavi airport, out of which only 348.6 acres have been handed over. Similarly, the Minister said in his letter that the AAI has requisitioned for allocation of 240 acres at Mysuru airport but the land is yet to be handed over by the state government. He also asked Bommai to take necessary steps to operationalise Shivamogga and Vijayapura airports so that the bids received under the Udan scheme could be considered. The state government should also communicate its consent for 100% Viability Gap Funding (VGF) support for the routes to be awarded from these two airports as these are part of the State Regional Connectivity Scheme (SCRS). At present, Rs 7.55 crore is outstanding on the part of the state government as VGF share for Regional Air Connectivity Fund Trust (RACFT). Earlier, Scindia had also written to Karnataka and 21 other governments urging them to rationalise VAT on ATF across all airports in states within the range of 1% to 4%. He has asked them to take forward common intention to boost air travel and connectivity in the state with a view to accelerate its economic development. Citing examples of Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Sikkim and Telangana, Scindia said these states have brought down the VAT to 1% and even below. As a result, he said, they have seen a substantial jump in the number of aircraft movements in their states. For example, he said Kerala has brought down VAT on ATF from 25% to 1% and subsequently, the number of aircraft movements at Thiruvananthapuram airport increased from 21,516 flights to 23,566 flights in a span of six months. Similarly, he said, aircraft movements at Hyderabad saw a rise from 76,954 flights to 86,842 flights in a span of six months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/scindia-writes-to-bommai-seeking-help-to-speed-up-aviation-infrastructure-projects-in-karnataka-1024075.html
27-08-2021||State||Police suspect engineering students behind Mysuru gang rape||Mysuru Police, who are investigating the alleged gang rape case, suspected on four engineering students behind the crime. The incident was reported late on Tuesday near Chamundi Hill, here. A college student was allegedly raped by a gang of men. The police suspect that four engineering students, one from Tamil Nadu and three from Kerala, are suspects in the case, said an officer. Police suspect the accused are hiding in Kerala and two teams of police have left for Kerala, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/police-suspect-engineering-students-behind-mysuru-gang-rape-1024079.html
27-08-2021||State||Crematorium worker, entrepreneur with foreign degree in fray for Hubballi-Dharwad local body polls||When seasoned politicians, their family members, and those having some links with local politics for several years are being considered as prominent candidates in the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) elections, a few of those who are not just new to politics, but also come from a unique background, are testing the waters this time. Husanappa Vajjannavar, who is working at the Heggeri crematorium for the last 17 years, has contested as an independent candidate from Ward No 52. Known for his fight to develop the crematorium and to keep it clean, he also earned praise for burning and burying the bodies of Covid-19 victims. This time, he has contested in the HDMP polls, seeking people's support to get an opportunity for the development of the ward which also includes the crematorium. "People in the area asked me to contest in the elections, as they are fed up with lack of development. They know my service at the crematorium and my concern. I want to develop basic amenities including roads and drainage system in the ward," 51-year-old Vajjannavar told DH. Young entrepreneur After taking up service activities during the Covid-induced lockdown, 28-year-old Kishan Belgavi of Shirur Park has now become an independent candidate from Ward No 48. He holds an MSc in Enterprise from the University of Leeds Business School in the United Kingdom. After working with Amazon, he is now running a modular furniture company in Hubballi. "My friends and I helped the needy persons during the lockdown, and I also worked as a volunteer for the district administration's war room. People want an enthusiastic representative who responds to their woes. I have been campaigning for the last nine days, and have seen people preferring a change this time," he noted. Painter-cum-cobbler A resident of Anand Nagar, Ramu Khanpet is a building painter and a cobbler too. He has contested from Ward No 33 as the candidate of Uttama Prajakeeya Party (UPP). He is often seen engaged in door-to-door campaigning in 'painter's dress' itself. "I have contested after getting a reference from the people, and I want decisions regarding the development works in the ward to be taken by the people themselves. I am also informing people about the ideals of the UPP," Ramu says. Young girl Rohini Somanakatti is the candidate of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) from Ward No 39, and her age is just 22. She is campaigning briskly, and voters are expressing curiosity about her decision to plunge into an election at such a young age. "My father works at a small shop, and I know how difficult it is to pursue higher education for children of common people. The free education model in Delhi inspired me, and I joined the AAP. In addition to good civic amenities, job creation is also essential here," said Rohini, who is also a BCom graduate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/crematorium-worker-entrepreneur-with-foreign-degree-in-fray-for-hubballi-dharwad-local-body-polls-1024080.html
27-08-2021||State||Karnataka DGP to supervise probe into Mysuru gang rape case||Director-General of Police Praveen Sood will supervise the investigation into the gang rape of a college student near Chamundy foothills on the outskirts of Mysuru, Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai said on Friday. "The DGP is going to Mysuru. I have directed him to supervise the investigation and crack the case at the earliest," he told reporters here. The CM said investigation teams have been formed and the probe is in progress in full swing. He added that he has told the police to send the investigation report directly to him. Meanwhile, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra told media that he would hold a meeting with the police officers on the issue and get the progress report. He said the probe was in progress and the number of crack teams have been increased. "I am sure the case will be cracked," Jnanendra said. The medical student with her boyfriend was on their way to the Chamundi Hills on Tuesday evening when at least four people waylaid them and gang-raped her after assaulting him. The gang members also allegedly made a video and threatened to make it viral unless they paid them Rs three lakh, police sources said. When the girl and her male friend expressed their inability, they thrashed them. The girl was later admitted to a hospital where she narrated the trauma she underwent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-dgp-to-supervise-probe-into-mysuru-gang-rape-case-1024093.html
27-08-2021||State||Lalitha Mahal Palace Hotel centenary celebration to be launched on Nov 21||Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar on Friday said that the centenary celebrations of Lalitha Mahal Palace Hotel would be launched on November 21. The foundation stone for the Hotel was laid by then maharaja Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar on November 18, 1921. "A slew of programmes and works, including installation of a statue of Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, display of models of the contributions of the Wadiyar kings of Mysuru and seven-day cultural events, have been planned to mark the centenary celebrations," he told reporters. “The proposals will be submitted to Tourism Minister Anand Singh for approval. Preparations will begin once it is approved,” he said. He said that Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai would be invited for the inaugural ceremony of the celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lalitha-mahal-palace-hotel-centenary-celebration-to-be-launched-on-nov-21-1024156.html
27-08-2021||State||Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham gets A++ grade||The Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham in Mysuru has been awarded A++ grade by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) in the third cycle with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) of 3.70 out of 4. Amrita School of Arts and Sciences, Bogadi Second Stage, Mysuru, is a constituent school of Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham in Mysuru for the last 18 years. Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham had completed six years in January 2009 when it applied for accreditation for the first cycle. Vice-Chancellor P Venkat Rangan said, “It is a privilege to have received A++ grading from NAAC considering that we are still a young university founded in 2003”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/amrita-vishwa-vidyapeetham-gets-a-grade-1024161.html
27-08-2021||State||Council resolves to seek university status to fisheries college||The council of the Mangaluru City Corporation has resolved to urge the state government to accord university status to Fisheries College in Mangaluru. The agenda on the same was mooted by corporator Bharath Kumar. The Fisheries College in Yekkur was started in 1969. In the past, the college was under the University of Agriculture Science. Now, it is part of Karnataka Veterinary, Animal, Fisheries Sciences University in Bidar. The Fisheries College in Yekkur should be carved out of the KVAFSU to upgrade it as fisheries university. The University has given least importance to the developing fisheries sector through the college. The agenda further said that in addition to helping the children of fishermen academically, a separate university for fisheries sector can also provide technical inputs to the fishermen||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/council-resolves-to-seek-university-status-to-fisheries-college-1024204.html
27-08-2021||State||Online fraud: Youth cheated of Rs 14 lakh||A youth from Vanitha Colony in Hubballi lost Rs 14 lakh after being cheated through an online work-from-home advertisement here on Friday. According to the complaint filed by victim Nikitha Gunti with the Cybercrime police station, the fraudsters sent her a work-from-home advertisement on her Instagram account and later followed it up with chat messages on her WhatsApp and Telegram accounts. The fraudster claimed himself to be a representative of Wipro1.in. The fraudster asked Nikitha to credit Rs 100 as a recharge amount and returned Rs 200 to her. Later, for crediting Rs 3,000 she received Rs 3,400 and for Rs 20,000 she got Rs 24,000. Lured by this, the victim credited Rs 1.91 lakh and Rs 12.65 lakh to the account suggested by the fraudster and when she failed to get the returns, she realised that she has been cheated, and filed a complaint. Investigations are on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/online-fraud-youth-cheated-of-rs-14-lakh-1024207.html
27-08-2021||State||Council resolves not to collect penalty if water meter is faulty||The Council of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) has resolved not to collect penalty from consumers with defunct water meters. Instead, it was decided that consumers should pay an average of the minimum for the period when the water meter had stopped working. In the Council meeting, Mayor Premananda Shetty said a double penalty was levied on the consumers who failed to get the meter rectified even after receiving the notice. As a result, consumers were getting water bills to the tune of Rs 6,000 and more. The MCC after discussions decided to collect a minimum average water tariff during the time the meter stopped functioning as per the Karnataka Municipalities Act Section 428. If the water meter failed to function even after its repair, then the officer in charge should fix a minimum charge while issuing the bill. Reduce the tariff The Opposition Congress Corporators urged MCC to reduce the water tariff, which was increased by the administrator. The monthly minimum charge for 24,000 litres of water was just Rs 65 in the past. After revision, it is Rs 56 per month for 8,000 litres. Accordingly, people are forced to pay Rs 168 per month for 24,000 litres of water. Though MCC had passed a  resolution to reduce the tariff, no steps had been taken in that regard, Corporators Abdul Rauf, Lancelot Pinto and A C Vinayraj charged. “The council’s resolution to reduce tariff was sent to the government for approval. But no steps had been taken despite BJP administration having three engines,” ridiculed Opposition Leader Vinayraj. He urged the Mayor to take a delegation to the government and impress them on reducing water tariff in order to help consumers reeling under crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. MCC Commissioner Akshay Sridhar said that the council’s resolution to reduce the tariff was sent to the government in October 2020 for approval. But the government in its reply in May clarified that the Council cannot take a decision on reducing the tariff. Mayor Premananda Shetty said the city corporation will seek the government nod to reduce the water tariff. Meeting with traffic cops  When members raised the issue of parking, Mayor said that a meeting with traffic police will be convened next week to discuss traffic and parking woes in the city. The corporators expressed displeasure for failing to take up drive against petty shops encroaching on the footpath in the city. The MCC commissioner said that a special vehicle, with all required equipment, will carry out the drive to clear encroachments on footpaths. The drive will be taken up from Monday, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/council-resolves-not-to-collect-penalty-if-water-meter-is-faulty-1024246.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka likely to see demand for Covid booster shots||The last thing that a 34-year-old healthcare worker who had been vaccinated twice expected was to come down with symptomatic Covid-19. Darshan P (name changed), a non-government frontline worker, told DH that he had received the first dose of Covishield in March, as his work for a health foundation often saw him working in the field with urban primary health centres and marginalised families. “My second dose was in April. At the time, there was only a 30-day gap between doses. I contracted the disease for the first time last week. On August 19, I developed all the classic symptoms of the disease: fever, cough, cold, a severe headache, loss of taste and smell,” he said, adding that he has no comorbidities. He added that an antigen and RT-PCR test confirmed that he had the disease. “A week later, I still have some symptoms, including mild fever, fatigue, cough and headache. I feel that a booster shot may be required because it appears I have had no protection from the two doses,” he said. One genomic scientist who did not want to be named said that the data shows that the “proportion of breakthrough infections will go up as more people get vaccinated and that at some point almost all cases would be breakthroughs”. He added that eventually, the number of breakthrough cases will peak when the two-dose vaccination rate crosses approximately 70%, resulting in a drop in cases “as the virus would find it difficult to find susceptible people”. How many breakthrough infections have happened in Karnataka? Dr Arundhathi Chandrashekar, director, National Health Mission, said that there have been about 13,500 breakthrough infections up to a few days ago. “There have been a few deaths among people with one dose,” she specified. She added that there is no provision at the moment to tack on a third dose and more than that that the government does not yet know how many second doses have actually been administered in Karnataka. “In some places, second doses have been entered as first doses. We are trying to manually sort this out,” she said. In the interim, officials acknowledged the public’s interest in a booster shot. Dr S Sacchidanand, former vice-chancellor Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences explained that while “there is no decision about a booster dose in our country, people want it for the Delta variant and for additional immunity”. Dr P G Girish, director of, Department of Medical Education added, “Unofficially, people may be taking it.” The issue has experts worried. Dr Pruthu Narendra Dhekane, an infectious diseases expert at Fortis Hospitals on Bannerghatta Road said that India should focus more on completing two doses for the adult population, before adding a third dose to the equation. “It may be unethical to consider a third dose in India at present,” he said. “Only between 9 and 11% of the population has been fully vaccinated. Doses are better spent to complete vaccinations of the unvaccinated or partly vaccinated segment.” It is a view echoed by Dr Sacchidanand who nevertheless added that “there should be some scientific recommendations about the gap needed to provide a booster dose”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-likely-to-see-demand-for-covid-booster-shots-1023969.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No politics in Mysuru gang-rape case: Somashekar||Mysuru district in-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Friday said there was no politics in the alleged gang-rape case that was reported in the city recently. Speaking to reporters here, Somashekar said the police are investigating the case and they will nab the accused. Replying to opposition leaders' comments against the government and the police department, Somashekar said, there was no politics in the case and "we want real accused to be punished. Opposition party is made to oppose," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-politics-in-mysuru-gang-rape-case-somashekar-1024046.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to start 5 lakh Covid-19 jabs daily from Sept 1: CM Bommai||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Friday said the state will start at least five lakh Covid-19 vaccinations every day from September 1 with the help of the Centre. "We did five lakh inoculations on a trial basis on Wednesday. Now we will start five lakh vaccinations daily from September 1," Bommai who returned here on Thursday evening after a visit to Delhi, told reporters. He said his visit to the national capital was mainly to meet Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and seek the Centre's support to start five lakh inoculations daily from September onwards. Mandaviya assured his support and said that the Centre would supply the stock of vaccines based on the consumption of the State, Bommai added. To a question on Covid restrictions during the Gauri-Ganesha festival next month, he said such issues will be discussed at a meeting of Covid-19 experts on August 30. On water disputes with neighbouring states, the Chief Minister said he had a detailed discussion with Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat regarding Upper Krishna, Mekedatu and Mahadayi, Ettinahole and Upper Bhadra projects. He also said that he had a discussion with Advocate General Prabhuling Navadgi, senior lawyers Shyam Divan and Mohan Katarki and senior officials of the water resource department regarding the water disputes and asked them to speed up the cases which are before the Supreme Court. The chief minister also met Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and requested her to continue the GST compensation, as it is ending in 2022. She said that a decision may be taken on this issue in the GST Council meeting, he said. Regarding his meeting with Union Minister of Commerce and Textiles Piyush Goyal, Bommai said he has sought the Centre's support to Karnataka's proposal for a mega textile park in the state. Goyal asked him to send the proposal and assured to offer all kinds of subsidy from the Centre for the project. The union minister also said that he would help the State in forging tie-ups with national and international textile manufacturers, Bommai said. According to the Chief Minister, the mega textile project will generate a large number of jobs, especially for women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-start-5-lakh-covid-19-jabs-daily-from-sept-1-cm-bommai-1024094.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Stockpile eight essential Covid drugs; 12% more than what was consumed in second wave peak: Centre to Karnataka||The Centre has asked Karnataka to stockpile 12 per cent more drugs than that was consumed during the peak of the second Covid wave when the state saw more than 6.05 lakh cases. The state already has 37 per cent of the required stock of eight essential Covid drugs to meet the Centre's mandate. The eight essential Covid drugs are Heparin, Intravenous Immunoglobulins (IV IG) for treating Covid complication Multi-System Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C), Methylprednisolone, Dexamethasone, Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, Amphotericin B (used to treat black fungus), and Posaconazole. To meet the Centre's additional 12 per cent mandate, the state has to procure three drugs in highest quantities: Amphotericin B, IV IG and Enoxaparin (Heparin) of which it has 3.26 per cent, 8.08 per cent and 13.12 per cent of the required stock respectively. The state currently has stock sufficient for the first 30-45 days of the impending third Covid wave. But the state is stockpiling roughly three months worth of stock. An official of Karnataka state Medical Supplies Corporation Limited (KSMSCL) requesting anonymity said, "Tenders for these drugs have been called for where 38 bidders participated. Price negotiation will be done today by asking bidders to match the lowest price at which drug procurement was done recently in Maharashtra, Telangana and Kerala." On July 27, KSMSCL sent a proposal to the state government to procure these drugs asking it to allocate a budget. While the finance department gave an approval for the same, the cabinet approval is pending. "Once this comes through, orders will be placed," said the official quoted above. Director of state-run Minto Eye Hospital, Dr Sujatha Rathod, told DH though plain Amphotericin B is being stockpiled, it cannot be used in Covid patients with diabetes or those with the slightest kidney problem. "Liposomal Amphotericin B is definitely advisable for such patients. Others with no such problems can be given, provided intensified flushing out with saline is done after plain Amphotericin is given," she said.       Talking about the role of Heparin, Dr. Anoop Amarnath, member, state Critical Care Support Unit, said, "Covid is known to cause clots and Heparin is an anticoagulant. Low molecular weight Heparin (Enoxaparin) is given to all admitted Covid patients as a prophylactic (as a preventive measure) as well as a treatment dose. It is a part of the standard treatment protocol for Covid." Paediatric Pulmonologist Dr Srikanta JT, member of state Paediatric Expert Committee, told DH, "IV IG is the only medicine known to not only prevent MIS-C side effects but also protect children from MIS-C. This is why IV IG is life-saving and should also be judiciously used. This is the reason the Centre is asking for stockpiling of this drug. If the third wave hits us in October, we could see a significant number of MIS-C cases in December."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/stockpile-eight-essential-covid-drugs-12-more-than-what-was-consumed-in-second-wave-peak-centre-to-karnataka-1024108.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HDK bats for encounter killing of Mysuru gang-rape accused||Former Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy on Friday suggested that the police should shoot and kill those who gang-raped a student in Mysuru, citing the example of what the Hyderabad police did two years ago.  "Culprits in a sexual assault case usually get a jail time and then secure bail. This is not effective to curb such crimes. The government here should take similar action that the Hyderabad police did," Kumaraswamy told reporters.  In 2019, four persons accused of gang-rape were shot dead in an encounter by the Hyderabad police. Kumaraswamy said the government had to put stringent regulations in place to curb drinking in deserted areas. "This is a lapse on part of the government. Deserted areas should be monitored and people should not be allowed to drink in public like that. The government has failed to curb illegal activities even in rural areas," he said, referring to reports that the accused in the Mysuru case were consuming alcohol in the place where the crime happened.   Meanwhile, Kumaraswamy's statement drew sharp criticism on social media. Supreme Court advocate KV Dhananjay tweeted, "Sri HD Kumaraswamy wants the police to encounter the Mysore rapists just like, he says, ‘the Andhra Pradesh Police did it’. Well, it is the Telangana Police who did that. Isn’t it a criminal offence for a person to publicly demand that the police should murder an accused person?" Sri H D Kumaraswamy wants the Police to encounter the Mysore rapists just like, he says, ‘the Andhra Pradesh Police did it’. Well, it is the Telangana Police who did that.Isn’t it a criminal offence for a person to publicly demand that the police should murder an accused person? When he was chief minister, in December 2018, Kumaraswamy courted controversy for instructing officials to kill a person who was accused in the murder case of a JD(S) leader. He apologised following an outrage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hdk-bats-for-encounter-killing-of-mysuru-gang-rape-accused-1024110.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai hauls up Karnataka's legal team amid water-sharing disputes||Cracking the whip on the Karnataka legal team for the inter-state water dispute, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has asked them to make proper legal strategies so that the state gets relief in cases. Expressing unhappiness over slow progress of pending cases, the CM said he wanted the legal team to be more proactive and work towards getting quick results. While assuring them that he would overhaul the state's inter-state water dispute cell with more technical experts, the CM said he would closely monitor the cases coming up in the Supreme Court and follow up on them. The CM held a meeting with the Karnataka legal team — which represents the state in interstate water dispute cases both in the Supreme Court and Tribunals — on Thursday in the national capital. While directing that only senior counsels should appear for all inter-state water disputes, the CM clearly said no casual approach would be brooked when it comes to state cases, sources told DH. While assuring them of the best technical assistance to fight on behalf of the state, the CM told the legal team to monitor how Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh fight cases in courts, sources said. He also said he would personally monitor the activities of the legal team and review their performance regularly. The meeting was also attended by Water Resources Minister Govind Karjol, Karnataka Advocate General Prabhuling K Navadgi and senior officials from the Water Resources Department. Advocates from the legal team were also present. The Karnataka legal team comprises nearly a dozen advocates who fight cases in Supreme Court and Tribunals representing the state in different inter-state water disputes. The state has been in long-drawn with neighbouring states Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Goa and Maharashtra over sharing of river water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-hauls-up-karnatakas-legal-team-amid-water-sharing-disputes-1024190.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will surely nab those involved in Mysuru gang-rape, says DG&IGP Praveen Sood||Director General and Inspector General of Police (DG&IGP) Praveen Sood on Friday said that the gang-rape suspects would be nabbed soon. "The police are investigating the case without waiting for the rape survivor’s statement," he told reporters here. "The girl is under a state of shock. Her parents have assured of cooperation at the appropriate time. The investigation has started based on the evidence available. We are not waiting for the victim’s statements,” he said. A gang of men allegedly raped a college girl after attacking her friend near Chamundi Hill late on August 24. The girl and her male friend are undergoing treatment in a private hospital.    The DG & IGP said,"The crime scene is preserved and all necessary materials are collected from the spot. Home minister and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai have directed the Police department to take the case on priority." “We are investigating the case. We will crack it soon,” he said. "Home Minister Araga Jnanendra termed the gang-rape and robbery case as unfortunate. I have directed the police to crack the cases immediately." The Minister congratulated City police Commissioner Chandragupta and police team for cracking the armed robbery case in which a youth was shot dead.   Indrajit Lankesh terms victim as ‘Manini’ Filmmaker Indrajit Lankesh on Friday described Mysuru gang-rape victim as ‘Manini’ meaning the one who upholds honour. On the lines of ‘Nirbhaya’ of 2012 Delhi gang-rape and murder case, Indrajit named the victim as Manini. "Wide publicity should be given to the punishment for rape as a deterrent," he told reporters. “Huge boards should be put up in all bus stands on penalty for rape. The police can't be blamed for the gang-rape. If there is no interference in policing and administration, the government machinery can achieve efficiency. It is unfortunate that Mysuru, which has epithets like cultural and historical city, is in the news for all the wrong reasons. Of late, robbery, dacoity, assaults and rapes have disturbed Mysuru,” he said.   'Set up special court for trial' JD(S) state president H K Kumaraswamy on Friday sought not to use the gang-rape incident for political mileage. "Local police staff should be suspended. A special court should be set up for the case. The guilty should be punished," he told reporters. "The incident has tarnished the image of the state. The statement of a few ministers that the young woman should not have gone to the isolated place during the night invited flak. Let them issue an order saying that the women should not leave the house after 6 pm. Home Minister Araga Jnanendra should own moral responsibility and resign. Such statements are issued to cover up the department's failure," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-surely-nab-those-involved-in-mysuru-gang-rape-says-dgigp-praveen-sood-1024210.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 1,301 new Covid cases, 17 deaths ||Karnataka on Friday added 1,301 cases to its Covid-19 tally, which rose to 29.45 lakh. The toll mounted to 37,248 with 17 additional fatalities. The day also saw 1,614 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,88,520. Active cases stood at 18,970, a medical bulletin said.  Bengaluru Urban accounted for the maximum number of 386 cases and two fatalities, it said. Dakshina Kannada district bordering Kerala remained a major Covis-19 hotspot with 248 fresh infections and one death. Other districts too reported fresh cases, including Hassan 117, Udupi 106, 78 in Kodagu, 72 in Mysuru and 62 in Shivamogga. Raichur district reported zero infections. Twenty districts reported zero fatalities, the bulletin said. A total of 1,86,900 samples were tested in the state on Friday, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined so far to 4.28 crore. The number of vaccinations done so far in the state was 3.96 crore, with 6,61,554 people being inoculated on Friday, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-1301-new-covid-cases-17-deaths-1024231.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||IMA scam: SC stays HC order granting relief to Karnataka IGP Hemant Nimbalkar||In a big setback to senior IPS officer and Karnataka IGP Hemant Nimbalkar, the Supreme Court on Friday stayed a Karnataka High Court order quashing a CBI FIR and chargesheet filed against him in the Rs 4,000 crore I-Monetary Advisory (IMA) ponzi scam. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and R Subhash Reddy suspended operation of the High Court's order passed on March 19, 2021. The court issued notice to Nimbalkar, seeking his response on a petition filed by the CBI, questioning the relief granted to the officer. The apex court's order means that the officer would continue to face criminal proceedings for now in the case registered by the CBI on February 1, 2020. It was alleged that the Nimbalkar as the IGP of CID had forwarded the enquiry report of E B Sridhara – another accused – to the State DG and IGP on January 18, 2019, asserting that the enquiry did not find any wrongdoings on the part of the IMA group of entities to invoke the provisions of Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishment Act, 2004 against them. It was alleged that the officer had categorically maintained that the deposits collected by the IMA group of entities were exempted under the law and he did not mention about the deposits collected by the IMA Proprietorship owned by main accused Mohammed Mansoor Khan in his report. On RBI's request for a comprehensive enquiry by the CID on unauthorised deposits, the officer had on May 25, 2019, asserted that there was no requirement to re-look into the IMA issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ima-scam-sc-stays-hc-order-granting-relief-to-karnataka-igp-hemant-nimbalkar-1024237.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ex-CM BSY gets rousing welcome in Shivamogga||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa was given a rousing welcome on Friday evening by his followers on his maiden visit to his home district after stepping down from the top post. He arrived in his new car worth Rs 1.5 crore around 6:20 pm at his residence in Vinobnagar in Shivamogga where party workers and followers welcomed him by bursting fireworks and presenting bouquets. Yediyurappa said he would tour the state after the Ganesha festival with state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel to achieve the 140 mission in the next assembly polls. The respective district in-charge ministers and legislators would also join him on his state-wide tour. He exuded confidence that BJP would win around 130 to 140 seats in the next assembly polls and the party would come back to power in Karnataka. Commenting on restrictions for the celebration of the Ganesha festival, he said the time is not ripe for celebration in public places. "The Covid cases are rising in the neighbouring states. So it would have been better to celebrate the festival on a low-key note. The state government would take suitable steps in this regard," he said. He is slated to visit his home turf Shikaripur on August 28 where he would take part in private programmes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ex-cm-bsy-gets-rousing-welcome-in-shivamogga-1024257.html
27-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||10% of total Covid samples to be taken from children for testing in Karnataka||With the impending third Covid-19 wave and experts cautioning that children may be worst hit in the next wave, the government has decided to take 10% of its total Covid-19 swab samples for testing from children. In addition, all Paediatric ILI (influenza-like illness) patients falling in 15-18 years age group should be tested using RAT (Rapid Antigen Test). Testing targets for districts have also been raised to 1.75 lakh. Also, 50% of the total tests are to be done outside the central area of a taluk to check the spread of infection in rural areas, as per the circular issued by the National Health Mission Director Dr Arundathi Chandrashekhar, here on Tuesday. In districts where the positivity rate is less than 5% and in urban areas, asymptomatic cases will be tested using pooled testing. As per the latest war room report, so far, 91,798 cases and 63 deaths have been reported in the 0-9 age group, and 2,26,845 cases and 90 deaths have been reported in the 0-19 age group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/10-of-total-covid-samples-to-be-taken-from-children-for-testing-in-karnataka-1024317.html
27-08-2021||West||Citizens cannot be externed for raising their grievance against govt: Gujarat HC||Quashing the police's externment order against the organiser of an anti-CAA protest, the Gujarat High Court observed that citizens cannot be externed for raising their grievance against the government. Justice Paresh Upadhyay on Thursday set aside an externment order issued by the Ahmedabad city police against 39-year-old activist Kaleem Siddiqui. As per the externment order, issued in November last year, Siddiqui was barred from entering Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Kheda and Mehsana districts for a period of one year. Siddiqui then challenged the order in the High Court, which had stayed its execution in March. Inspired by the agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Delhi's Shaheen Baug, Siddiqui and a few others had organised a sit-in protest in Rakhiyal area between January and March last year. In December 2019, the city police had lodged an FIR of unlawful assembly against unknown persons for holding demonstrations against the CAA and NRC, and claimed that Siddiqui had been a part of the crowd. This was one of the two FIRs, which became the basis for Siddiqui's externment, the High Court noted. "As far as the second FIR of December 2019 is concerned, it was against a crowd of unknown persons who were demonstrating against the policy of the Government on the NRC/CAA. The petitioner is stated to be one of the persons in the said crowd," the court order stated. "A citizen cannot be subjected to externment for raising his grievance against the Government. On this count also, the externment order needs to be set aside," Justice Upadhyay said. While giving relief to the petitioner, the court also noted that of the two FIRs mentioned by the Ahmedabad police in its externment order, Siddiqui had already been acquitted in the case lodged in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/citizens-cannot-be-externed-for-raising-their-grievance-against-govt-gujarat-hc-1024063.html
27-08-2021||West||Pankaj Kumar appointed as chief secretary of Gujarat||Senior IAS officer Pankaj Kumar has been appointed as the new Chief Secretary to the Gujarat government, an official from the state General Administration department said on Friday. A 1986-batch IAS officer, Kumar (59) will replace Anil Mukim, who is retiring from service on August 31, and will take charge on the same day, a release issued by the department stated. Kumar is currently serving as the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) of the state Home department, and before that he had spent a significant time as the ACS of the Revenue department. During Kumar’s tenure in the revenue department, several pro-people and transparent initiatives such as the online Non-Agricultural (NA) certification system and online land premium payment system had been introduced. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pankaj-kumar-appointed-as-chief-secretary-of-gujarat-1024065.html
27-08-2021||West||Mumbai’s first-ever Climate Action Plan launched||With Mumbai being one of the high-risk cities to the worst impacts of climate change, the first-ever dedicated Climate Action Plan (CAP) for India’s financial capital was launched on Friday. State’s environment, tourism and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray launched the CAP which will ensure better future planning and growth keeping in tune with climate adaptation, mitigation and resilience. As part of the C40 Cities Network, which Mumbai joined in December 2020, the city is encouraged to draft its Climate Action Plan by the end of 2021 and is doing so in compliance with C40 guidelines and ambitious standards. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is developing the climate action plan with technical support from the World Resources Institute India, engaged as a knowledge partner. Thackeray also launched the Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP) website to seek suggestions and inputs from experts and citizens from the city. Citizens will be able to submit their recommendations until 20 September 2021. The process of finalising action tracks under MCAP is expected to be done and ready by November 2021 closer to the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26). Thackeray said the time for action is now as any further delays would make Mumbai unsuitable to live in over the next decade. “Mainstreaming climate action while implementing Mumbai’s development plan can protect the city’s natural systems, increase resilience capacities of vulnerable groups, and enable resilient urban growth that ensures aggressive reductions to the city’s greenhouse gas emissions,” he said. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar was present on the occasion. The plan will focus on six action tracks to introduce sector-specific strategies for mitigation and adaptation that can lead to implementable climate projects that contribute to the city’s resilience. The six thematic action areas are sustainable waste management, urban greening and biodiversity, urban flooding and water resource management, building energy efficiency, air quality and sustainable mobility. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal stated, “There is a need for changing the way we think about development in the current climate change scenario. Coordinated efforts for data monitoring and management, will help us make quick and informed decisions, ensuring the safety of those most vulnerable in our city – Mumbai’s approach during the pandemic has been exactly this.” As part of gathering data to build the plan, a greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory for Mumbai was developed using a global standard tool to identify emission reduction strategies for the years 2030 and 2050. For Mumbai to adapt to changing climatic scenarios, a vulnerability assessment using satellite imagery has been completed to identify critical risk factors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-s-first-ever-climate-action-plan-launched-1024103.html
27-08-2021||West||CM Uddhav, Devendra hold closed-door meeting amid BJP and Sena's war of words||Amid a day-to-day rows between Shiv Sena and BJP, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis had a one-on-one meeting possibly to iron out confrontation in Maharashtra.  The closed-door meeting was held at the Sahyadri guesthouse at Malabar Hill after an all-party meeting to discuss the OBC reservation issue.  CM Thackeray met with Fadnavis’s counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar, before convening with Fadnavis. However, union minister for micro, small and medium enterprises minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane continued to target the Thackeray-family — albeit without naming them — as he resumed his Jan Aashirwad Yatra in the coastal Konkan belt, his bastion.  “I will reveal many things…I have spent many decades in Shiv Sena and know many things…I will reveal all, one by one, phase by phase,” said Rane in Ratnagiri.  “I know a lot of things. I know who asked whom to throw acid on his own brother's wife. What kind of 'sanskar' is it?” Rane said.  Responding to Rane, Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg MP Vinayak Raut also posed some uncomfortable questions for the Rane family. “How did his cousin Ankush Rane die?” he wanted to know.  Meanwhile, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said that his party and BJP have had differences on many issues in the past but they are on the same page on the issue of Hindutva. “Some leaders, who joined the BJP in the last few years, have spoiled the relationship between the two parties. Their notoriety is similar to that of Bangladeshi and Pakistani infiltrators, who disturb our social harmony here,” said Raut.  Rane’s Konkan tour had come to a grinding halt on Tuesday after his comments against Thackeray, after which he was arrested, remanded to judicial custody and then bailed. Rane spent two days in Mumbai and resumed the tour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-uddhav-devendra-hold-closed-door-meeting-amid-bjp-and-senas-war-of-words-1024134.html
27-08-2021||West||Maharashtra to get new IT policy to attract firms to tier-2 and 3 cities||The Maharashtra government is drafting a new Information Technology policy which will encourage the technology firms for innovation to accelerate tech adoption and the promotion of the IT industry in the state.  The policy, which is being drafted in consultation with NASSCOM and IT industry associations, will focus on the steps, incentives, tax rebates to attract IT, ITeS and IT-enabled companies to smaller cities like Nagpur, Latur, Nashik and Aurangabad. While elaborating the policy, Minister of State for IT Satej Patil said in DigiTech Conclave 21 in Mumbai, that the government has been tapping the possibilities for using technology to manage administrative activities including Covid-19 pandemic related management and flood mitigation activities.  He said that the government was also taking steps to ensure that IT plays an important role in the daily lives of the common man by using e-governance initiatives like e-office, Maharashtra blockchain sandbox, among others. Patil also revealed that the government was chalking out policies for other IT related wings like including data centres, fintech and drones. Throwing more light on the proposed IT policy of the government, Patil said, “Since our existing IT policy is expiring, we are in the process of launching the new ‘IT Policy’. Along with it, we are also formulating our own ‘Data Centre Policy’. Both the policies aim to create the right ecosystem for technology companies. There will be incentives for innovations that accelerate technology adoption and the promotion of the IT industry in the state. The policies are being formulated in consultation with industry bodies like NASSCOM and IT industry associations to attract IT, ITeS and IT-enabled companies in the tier-2 and 3 cities in the state." Patil added that as of now, IT companies are mostly focusing on Mumbai and Pune for setting up their units, but the upcoming IT policy will provide the right kind of infrastructure, incentive and skill set to establish IT companies in cities like Nagpur, Latur, Nashik and Aurangabad among others. “By setting up their units in these new locations, they would help avoid the saturation witnessed in Mumbai, Thane and Pune,” he said. The minister said that the Maharashtra government is going to launch a fintech policy to support the sector with a vision to convert Mumbai into a global fintech hub. “The IT department is studying the best practices in the fintech sector with a focus on government and regulatory support to formulate the fintech policy. The policy will be launched soon with an aim to create the right kind of IT infrastructure for fintech companies and startups in Mumbai,” he said. As the central government has launched its guidelines for the use of drones, the state government is planning to unveil its ‘Drone Policy’ to use drones in various sectors like healthcare, agriculture, and power, as well as monitoring floods, waterlogging, etc.  During the pandemic, drone technology came as big support in monitoring quarantine, hotspots and in the inspection of Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-get-new-it-policy-to-attract-firms-to-tier-2-and-3-cities-1024146.html
27-08-2021||West||Ashok Gehlot undergoes angioplasty||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday underwent angioplasty at a government hospital here. The 70-year-old Congress leader had tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection in April this year and after recovery in May, he was facing post-Covid issues. “There was 90 per cent blockage in one of his coronary arteries and one stent was placed successfully. The CM is absolutely fine now,” Sudhir Bhandari, principal, SMS Medical College, told reporters. Angioplasty is a procedure to open clogged heart arteries. Bhandari said Gehlot had complained of heaviness in his chest and pain in neck following which an ECG was conducted, and the reports came normal. “However, we monitored everything very closely and advised the chief minister to get a CT angiography done. He agreed and the procedure was done. Since there was 90 per cent blockage, one stent was placed,” he explained. He said Gehlot expressed confidence and faith in the team and infrastructure of the SMS hospital. “The chief minister is cheerful and asymptomatic,” Bhandari said, adding that Gehlot has been advised complete rest for two-three days. The doctor also said that Gehlot was registered as a common citizen in the Rajasthan Government Health Scheme (RGHS) and got the angioplasty done. Later, in a medical bulletin, Bhandari noted that the procedure (angioplasty) was uneventful and the CM was recovering well post procedure. The SMS Medical College principal further stated that from admission till stenting, the Congress leader’s complete care was supervised by Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished Gehlot a swift recovery and good health. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also wished him a speedy recovery. Earlier in the day, Gehlot had tweeted that he would undergo the angioplasty procedure. "Post Covid19, I was having health issues and since yesterday, I was having severe pain in my chest. Just got my CT Angiography done in SMS hospital and Angioplasty will be done. I am happy that I am getting it done at SMS Hospital. I am fine and will be back soon. Your blessings and well wishes are with me," he said. Responding to the tweet, Modi said, "Praying for your good health and swift recovery, @ashokgehlot51 Ji." Gehlot was accompanied to the hospital by minister Raghu Sharma, party chief whip Mahesh Joshi, Congress MLA Rafiq Khan and other officials from his office. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, AICC general secretary K C Venugopal, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and former Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje spoke to Gehlot. “Got the news of the Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot being unwell. I pray to God for his speedy recovery,” Raje tweeted. Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra also spoke to the CM over phone and wished him speedy recovery. Former deputy CM Sachin Pilot called Sharma and the chief minister's son Vaibhav Gehlot and enquired about the CM's health condition. BJP state president Satish Poonia, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Rathore and other leaders also wished Gehlot a speedy recovery. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed hope that his Rajasthan counterpart will recover soon. "Send my good wishes to Chief Minister Rajasthan Ashok Gehlot Ji for a speedy recovery after his angioplasty procedure. Get well soon," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ashok-gehlot-undergoes-angioplasty-1024159.html
27-08-2021||West||Mumbai: Teen flees home after spending Rs 10 lakh from mother's bank account to play PUBG||A 16-year-old boy ran away from home in the western suburb of Jogeshwari here after his parents reprimanded him for allegedly spending Rs 10 lakh through online transactions for playing PUBG, police said on Friday. The police subsequently traced the runaway teen to Mahakali Caves area in Andheri (east) on Thursday afternoon and sent him back to his parents, an official said. The incident came to light on Wednesday evening, after the boy's father approached the MIDC police station with a missing person’s complaint, and since the boy was a minor, the police registered a case of kidnapping and a search was launched, the official said. During the probe, the boy's parents informed the police that the teenager had been addicted to PUBG since last month, and while playing on the mobile phone, he spent Rs 10 lakh from his mother's bank account to get an ID and virtual currency to play the game, he said. When the parents found out about the online transaction, they scolded the boy, following which he wrote a letter and left the home, the official said. With the help of informants and technical analysis, the crime branch team managed to trace the boy, who was sent back to his parents after counselling, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-teen-flees-home-after-spending-rs-10-lakh-from-mothers-bank-account-to-play-pubg-1024198.html
