28-08-2021||Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi traffic police create 200-km green corridor to transport organ||The Kalaburagi traffic police on Saturday created a green corridor of around 200 kilometres to tranport a liver of a 19-year-old youth who was declared brain dead last week after he accidentally fell from the terrace of a house.  After the parents decided to donate vital organs of the youth, his liver was transplanted at Chirayu hospital and was sent to Hyderabad in an ambulance via green corridor. The organ will be airlifted from Hyderabad to Bengaluru, where it will be sent to Aster R V hospital in J P Nagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/kalaburagi-traffic-police-create-200-km-green-corridor-to-transport-organ-1024510.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru police conduct awareness programme on women safety||The Mangaluru City police conducted an awareness programme on women's safety and protection through the Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) 112 from 8 am to 5 pm on Saturday. Olympian M R Poovamma flagged off the initiative organised in front of City Police Commissioner‘s office to popularise ERSS and said that the programme is aimed at instilling a feeling of confidence and safety in women. This is also an attempt to popularise ERSS and reach out to the public, particularly women, City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar said.  Nearly 100 police teams of PSI and above ranks will be available to address various issues, including student issues, eve-teasing, family issues, harassment at the workplace, and cyber threats. Every team has a woman officer or staff and the woman's confidentiality will be maintained. The city police has 19 vehicles dedicated to ERSS, with an average response time of 15 minutes on the outskirts of the city. A mock drive on how ERSS responds was held in the presence of Poovamma and her mother Janaki under the guidance of the City Police Commissioner near Athena Hospital in Mangaluru. Addressing the students and staff of the hospital, Shashi Kumar said that the maximum response time on receiving a call to ERSS 112 is five to 10 minutes inside the city, while it is 15 minutes on the outskirts. Stating that the service is a dedicated centralised system, the City Police Commissioner said that the centralised number 112 stands for one country-one emergency response system. The calls made by public to 112 will get routed to Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) based at Bengaluru and the information will be dispatched to the District Coordination Centre (DCC).  The ERSS vehicle nearest to the point from where the call is made, will track the location through GPRS and will rush for the assistance. In the last eight months, ERSS 112 has responded to over 4,000 calls. On an average, 30 to 40 calls are received daily through the system, explained the Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-police-conduct-awareness-programme-on-women-safety-1024478.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||University of Mysore circular imposing curbs on movement of girls withdrawn||The University of Mysore on Saturday withdrew the controversial circular issued on Friday curbing the movement of girl students at Manasa Gangotri campus after 6.30 pm.  The move came after the intervention of Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan. The university had issued the circular in the wake of gang rape of an MBA student.   Speaking to reporters on Saturday in Bengaluru, Ashwath Narayan said, “I have spoken to the vice chancellor of the university and directed him to withdraw the circular.” “I agree that the university campuses are big and huge. But that does not mean we should curb the movement of girl students in the campuses, instead we should create a safe and secure environment ,” said the minister. Vice Chancellor Prof Hemanth Kumar told DH that the circular had been withdrawn. “We have decided to intensify patrolling and other safety and security measures,” he said. The University has now issued a revised circular asking students to be careful while roaming on the campus as some parts of the campus were deserted.  Meanwhile, the minister has directed vice chancellors of all state-run universities to strengthen the security and safety measures on the campus. “I have instructed to install more CCTV cameras and intensify patrolling on campuses,” Ashwath Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/university-of-mysore-circular-imposing-curbs-on-movement-of-girls-withdrawn-1024483.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||CET held in 19 examination centres in Dakshina Kannada||The Common Entrance Test (CET) for admission to professional courses were held in 19 examination centres in Dakshina Kannada. According to officials, 8,655 students had registered for the biology exam held in the morning, of which, 5856 students had appeared for the exam and 2,799 students remained absent.  The mathematics exam was held in the noon. The staff at the examination centres checked the body temperature of the students at the entrance using thermal scanning. Sanitisers were also placed in the centres. The students were allowed to reach the examination centre by furnishing the hall tickets following the weekend curfew in Dakshina Kannada. Kannada language test for Horanadu and Gadinadu Kannadiga candidates will be held on August 30 at two examination centres in Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cet-held-in-19-examination-centres-in-dakshina-kannada-1024515.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Physical classes for II PU students commence from September 1 in Dakshina Kannada||Despite covid positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada being above 2 per cent, the district administration has decided to allow the commencement of II PU classes, keeping in mind the "interest" of the II PU students. The colleges should adhere to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the district administration, said Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. All the students from Kerala staying in hostels should be quarantined for seven days after their arrival. After seven days, they should undergo the RT-PCR test and only with a negative certificate can they attend the physical classes. The quarantined students can attend the online classes from their quarantine centre in the college.  In case a student tests positive for Covid, the college should make a separate arrangement for their stay in the hostel. The day scholars should undergo RT-PCR tests once in seven days and attend the classes with a Covid negative report, said the DC. Additionally, the DC said that teachers from Kerala who travel daily to their colleges should produce RT-PCR negative certificates which are valid from seven days, irrespective of their vaccination credentials. Separate classes should be conducted for local students and those staying in hostels. Deputy Director of PU Education department, taluk medical officers and college principals should monitor the implementation of SOP in the PU Colleges. The College heads can start classes for I PU students from September 15 after completing the admission process and availing permission from the PU education department deputy director, said the DC.   Before starting physical classes for UG and PG programmes, the respective colleges should furnish details on the preparations with the Joint Director of Collegiate Education and seek permission to start the classes from September 15. The para-medical nursing colleges should quarantine their students for seven days and conduct RT-PCR tests after seven days before commencing the classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/physical-classes-for-ii-pu-students-commence-from-september-1-in-dakshina-kannada-1024575.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police to wait to record Mysuru gang-rape survivor's statement||The police probing the gang rape case of 22-year-old MBA student near Chamundi Hill on August 24 have decided to wait to record the statement of the survivor. “The victim is traumatised. We will wait till she is able to disclose the details. We have allowed her to recuperate and give her privacy. Her family has assured that she will cooperate with the police once she recovers. The investigation will be carried out on the basis of available technical as well as scientific evidence,” Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood said. "She is yet to recover from the shock. Her parents have shifted her from Mysuru. The police are yet to record her statement. The statement of her male friend too helped the police arrest the suspects," he added. Police appreciated for efforts Efforts of the police in arresting the suspects involved in the gang-rape have been appreciated. Minister S T Somashekar congratulated the police. He said that the police had displayed their ability by cracking the jewellery shop heist case within a few days of the incident. The police play a vital role in maintaining law and order. The Karnataka Police are the best in India. I have directed the police to take necessary measures to ensure the safety of the public by intensifying security and routine patrolling," the minister said. MP Pratap Simha said, "The gang rape was a major challenge for the police  who successfully cracked it within 82 hours." Many residents too appreciated the police for their swift action. "We have confidence in the police, but they should be more alert," said Prasanna of Vijayanagar. JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh said that those invovled in the gang rape should be encountered. The government should give proper directions to the police. Did police leak suspects' pictures? The city police have been accused of leaking pictures of suspects involved in the gang rape case. The pictures have gone viral on social media. K V Dhananjay, a Bengaluru-based advocate, took exception. He twitted: ‘Mysuru gang rape happened in poor light and in the night. The evidence against the accused might require the survivor to reliably and visually identify the accused. She ought to participate in a test parade- before the photos of accused are released to the media.’ Sood declined to disclose the identity of the suspects in a press conference on the ground that such an act would affect the investigation. He also cited a court order. It is alleged a few police staff leaked the photos unofficially.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-to-wait-to-record-mysuru-gang-rape-survivors-statement-1024597.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||HIMS second in state in ABAK scheme implementation||Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS) stands second in the state in implementing Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka (ABAK) scheme. Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi, stands first and K R Hospital Mysuru stands third. KIMS has a total of 2,000 beds and HIMS has 700 beds. The hospital offered treatment to 3,075 Covid-19 patients and 1,794 non-Covid patients between April 21 and July 21.  In all, the hospital offered treatment to 4,869 patients during this period.   HIMS Director Dr B C Ravikumar said,"Rank was awarded based on the patients treated in the hospital. AThe HIMS has done a good job despite limited facilities of 700 beds. The hospital is successful in providing treatment under Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka scheme."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hims-second-in-state-in-abak-scheme-implementation-1024617.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rain resumes with vigour in coast, Vijayapura district||After a three-week lull, rainfall resumed with vengeance in coastal districts and parts of north interior Karnataka on Saturday. A 23-year-old man was swept away in an overflowing stream between Neginal and Mullyal in Basavana Bagewadi taluk of Vijayapura district. Manjunath Patil washed away in the stream while crossing it in the early hours of Saturday. The rescue personnel carried out search operation throughout the day in vain. Vijayapura city and parts of Basavana Bagewadi taluk and Talikote town experienced sharp showers on Saturday evening. The downpour inundated the low-lying areas in Vijayapura city bringing traffic toa halt. Vast tracts of farmland on the banks of Doni river has gone under water. The road connectivity between Talikot and Hadaginal has been cut off. Many villages in the taluk have lost access to roads. With heavy rain forecast for two more days, Doni river, notorious for flash floods, is expected to unleash fury in Talikot taluk. Hubballi-Dharwad twin cities also experienced intermittent rains towards Saturday evening. Meanwhile, heavy showers continued to lash coastal districts on Saturday. Udupi district in particular, received heavy to very heavy rain. Koni in the district recorded the highest rainfall of 19.4 cm (194 mm) while Barkuru and Handadi registered 18.9 cm and 15.3 cm of rain respectively. The region is likely to receive heavy showers till August 31 due to an offshore trough over the eastern Arabian Sea, according to India Meteorological Department. Parts of Kodagu and Shivamogga districts also received moderate spells of rain in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rain-resumes-with-vigour-in-coast-vijayapura-district-1024636.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 16.21 lakh seized at Mangalore International Airport||The officers of Customs at Mangalore International Airport seized 335 grams of gold from a male passenger arrived arrived from Dubai by Air India Express Flight on Saturday. According to Assistant Commissioner Customs Vasudeva Naik D, the value of the seized gold is Rs 16,21,400. The gold was concealed in bolts and in wheel-connecting rods in two skating boards. The passenger is Muhammad Navas from Muliyar in Kasargod. The operations were conducted under the guidance of Commissioner Imamuddin Ahmad, Joanness George C, Joint Commissioner. The investigation is in progress. The Commissioner Imamuddin has appreciated the efforts by the officer in detecting different kinds of modus operandi adopted by the unscrupulous elements to smuggle gold into the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-1621-lakh-seized-at-mangalore-international-airport-1024662.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fisherman who fell from boat rescued||A team of five members rescued a fisherman who was accidentally thrown from a fishing boat at an estuary in Ullal on Saturday. The rescued fisherman was identified as Nawaz (35) from Bengre. He was rescued by Prem Prakash D'Souza, Anil Monteiro, Soorya Prakash D'Souza, Rithesh and Ajith who were on Ocean Breeze boat. The traditional fishermen had cast a net on Friday morning in order to catch crabs. The fishermen had ventured into the sea in order to pull the net on Saturday morning. Owing to gusty wind, many traditional boats had not ventured into the sea. Nawaz fell from the boat while returning with the catch. The other fishermen could not rescue the fisherman  due to the rough waves. The fisherman clung onto a thermocol which was thrown to him by other fishermen. Fishermen on the boat, Ocean Breeze, on receiving the message about a drowning fisherman, found Nawaz floating with the thermocol. Owing to the gusty wind, the boat could not reach the spot. Later they rescued Nawaz by throwing a rope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fisherman-who-fell-from-boat-rescued-1024664.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Cabinet expansion talks in next Delhi trip, says Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai||Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that discussions on filling up the four vacant berths in his Cabinet will be held during his next visit to New Delhi. Responding to media queries, Bommai said that talks on Cabinet expansion could not take place during his recent visit to the national capital as BJP national president J P Nadda was unavailable. “Due to personal reasons - as one of the relatives of Nadda was unwell - I was not able to meet him. When I go to Delhi next, I will discuss it,” he said. On the Mysuru gang-rape case, Bommai said that he had asked the police to report to him. “Police officials are investigating. They will get details and move forward. They have not revealed at what stage the investigation was on. I have asked them to submit a report directly to me,” he said. On demands by various BJP leaders to relax Covid-19 guidelines for the upcoming Ganesha Chaturthi festival, Bommai said that a call will be taken at an experts’ meeting scheduled to be held on August 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cabinet-expansion-talks-in-next-delhi-trip-says-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-1024346.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mysuru gang-rape survivor discharged against medical advice||The survivor of the alleged Mysuru gang-rape got discharged from the hospital against medical advice, on Friday. The girl was under the state of shock and was recovering. But, her parents got her discharged forcefully against doctors’ advice. According to sources, the girl was taken to Bengaluru and then shifted to Maharashtra in a helicopter.  The 22-year-old MBA student was allegedly raped by a gang of men near Chamundi Hill, on August 24.  The girl had sustained severe injuries and her condition was not stable when brought to hospital, the sources said. Congress leader V S Ugrappa, who heads the fact-finding team formed by Karnataka Congress, suspecting foul play in the case, said, the girl has been shifted from the hospital and the police have not recorded her statements. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra and Minister S T Somashekar are giving conflicting statements, he said. Sources said, the survivor’s parents did not allow the police to record her statements. According to legal experts, the case may get weak as the police have not recorded her statements. The victim plays a major role in getting rapists punished. “Though the boy is an eyewitness, the survivor’s statement will be more effective,” said an advocate. The police are investigating the case based on the statements from her male friend and the evidence collected at the crime scene.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mysuru-gang-rape-survivor-discharged-against-medical-advice-1024351.html
28-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will continue to oppose Sadashiva panel report: Chauhan||Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan on Saturday said he would continue to firmly oppose the implementation of Justice Sadashiva Commission report. “The Constitution has already provided reservation to our (Banjara) community. I don’t know why Union Minister A Narayanaswamy is insisting on implementing the report,” Chauhan told reporters here. “I won’t let injustice happen to Koracha, Korama and Bhovi communities on reservation. There’s BJP government at Centre and in the state. We will try to resolve the issue amicably,” the minister said. Replying to a specific query, Chauhan said, “There is no any proposal before the state government on privatisation of vaccination drive and treatment for cattle.” “We will ensure effective implementation of anti-cow slaughter law. We have opened a cattle helpline, first such initiative in the country. The helpline has received over 10,000 distress calls in just one month,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-continue-to-oppose-sadashiva-panel-report-chauhan-1024642.html
28-08-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru gang-rape case: Police arrest 5 people||The Mysuru City Police have successfully nabbed five of six accused in connection with a case related to robbery and gang rape of a college girl near Chamundi Hill. Police arrested the accused from Tamil Nadu. The accused also includes a 17-year-old boy. The gang had raped the girl on August 24 after assaulting her male friend. The police arrested them based on technical evidence. Director General and Inspector General of Police (DG&IGP) said that all the accused were labourers, including an electrician and a driver. The officer said the accused had demanded Rs 3 lakh from the students before raping her. "There is no question whether it was accidental or planned. Rape is rape," he said, adding that Mysuru is the safest city even today.  The police did not get any information from the girl as she still needs to fully recover.  As per the primary investigation, the accused have not blackmailed the victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-gang-rape-case-police-arrest-5-people-1024413.html
28-08-2021||National||If there is no employment, what is the point of having reservation: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday questioned the government on reservation in jobs and asked what was its use if there were no jobs. The former Congress chief also hit out at the government on the new farm laws and demanded their withdrawal. "Tsunami of 'Friendship'. If there is no employment and neither is it going to be in the next few years, then what is the point of having reservation," he asked in a tweet in Hindi and used the hashtag 'India On Sale'. ‘मित्रि’करण की सूनामी- Rahul Gandhi's attack came after the government came out with the national asset monetisation pipeline to garner Rs 6 lakh crore in the coming years. In another tweet, he said, "We will not let the fields turn into sand and will not allow gifting them to 'friends'. Withdraw the anti-agriculture laws." Gandhi used the hashtag 'Farmers Protest' with his tweet. Gandhi and his Congress party have been supporting the farmers' agitation and demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws, which they say are against the farmers and farming.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-there-is-no-employment-what-is-the-point-of-having-reservation-rahul-gandhi-1024326.html
28-08-2021||National||Covid created in God's supercomputer: Minister||An Assam minister has claimed that the coronavirus was made in "God's supercomputer" and nature decided who gets infected. "Nature has decided who would get infected, who won’t & who would be taken away from Earth. This is happening from God's super computer, which is not man-made. The computer decided on sending Covid-19 virus to Earth with 2% mortality," senior minister Chandra Mohan Patowary said, according to news agency ANI. Patowary also claimed the WHO and its scientists had failed to find a way to eradicate the virus and that nature "had started a war" against humans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-created-in-gods-supercomputer-minister-1024390.html
28-08-2021||National||Twitter as 'porn hub' allowing psy-war targeting communal harmony: Report||Twitter is the 'porn hub' of social media, DisinfoLab said in a new report. Shockingly, despite Indian laws and Twitter's own policies, even child porn and rape videos are freely available. Worse, Twitter's lax policy has allowed a massive psy-war targeting communal harmony, the report said. Twitter has a full-fledged porn industry -- from live web cam to other ‘off-line services'. Numerous NSFW content selling websites openly advertise themselves on Twitter, including those who show their registration in India, it added. These activities are not run in hiding but in broad daylight, advertising with hashtags. Live porn is openly sold on Twitter using the #IndianCamGirl hashtag involving a nexus of ‘service providers', it said. The fact that the hashtag started in 2017, involves several influencers, and is used regularly is a testament to Twitter's unwillingness to address these concerns. In the garb of such ‘services', personal data of the users are being mined, to be used for criminal activities from 'sextortion' to rape, to sexual exploitation of minors, leading to grave consequences, including suicides. "Anti-social/anti-India elements are taking advantage of this ‘free porn' environment of Twitter, weaponising the content. An elaborate psy-war is being waged to damage India's communal harmony, particularly between Hindus and Muslims," the report said. "Hundreds of fake handles are running coordinated campaigns, dehumanising the women of both religions. These handles pretend to be Hindus (#hstuds) when demeaning Muslim girls (#mslut); and Muslim (#mstud), while demeaning Hindu girls (#hslut)," it added. The behavioural pattern of these handles - creation date, activity, location and hashtag - clearly establishes an organised campaign designed to harm social harmony. Surprisingly, despite obvious Coordinated Inauthentic Behaviour (CIB), Twitter doesn't seem to take any actions, the report said. "Twitter, the US based for-profit company, seems obliged to follow only US laws, while showing complete dis-regard to India's IT Rules, which prohibits adult content on social media. Twitter doesn't even make any attempt to implement the laws, doable with basic location filter," the report said. Contrast it with other social media platforms which do far better content management, and continue to strive to keep social media space clean. Shockingly, Twitter seems blind to even most obscene contents, including child porn despite a 'child sexual exploitation policy'. "Twitter claims to have a ‘zero tolerance' policy towards child pornography - and yet seems to make zero efforts to counter this menace. It's important to remember that this content is available to even under age users, as Twitter doesn't filter 'sensitive content' to even young users," the report said. "Equally shocking is freely available ‘rape videos' on Twitter, which are prohibited even under Twitter's policy of ‘gory content'. Even those video posts, which have words that could trigger filter mechanism are freely available, including the gang-rape video of a young girl," the report said. Twitter has also failed to filter obscene content for young users. Even a minor user on Twitter can access most obscene content if they wish to. Worth noting that Twitter could easily filter particular kind of content on age and location restriction, if it wished to, DisinfoLab said. "To access Twitter Hub, one need not even own a Twitter account. An open Google search could land anyone, even a minor, to most gory and vulgar contents available on Twitter with just a click on ‘view sensitive content'. Seems #Google also needs to take measures to control it," the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-as-porn-hub-allowing-psy-war-targeting-communal-harmony-report-1024404.html
28-08-2021||National||Indira Gandhi worshipped like Goddess in Madhya Pradesh village||Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi is 'no less' than a Goddess for a tribal community in Madhya Pradesh as they believe only God can do what she had done for them during her regime. The tribals have built a temple to the former Prime Minister at Padliya village in Khargone district's Jhirniya area. The tribal dominated area has a life-size statue of Indira Gandhi and the premises have been transformed into a temple. The walls of the temple are painted in the Tricolor. The statue, brought from Jaipur, was installed by the then Congress MLA, Chida Bhai Dawar and a temple was built on 14 April 1987, as per the "wishes" of the villagers and the people of the tribal community. Kedar Dawar, son of Chida Bhai Dawar, is currently an independent MLA from Bhagwanpura assembly constituency of Khargone district. Kedar Dawar said, "Tribals had Goddess-like faith in Indira Gandhi, which still persists, as she initiated several schemes, aimed to change their lives. This is the reason why people adore her as a Goddess, not as a politician." "There is a tradition in the tribal community that when a woman dies an untimely death, she is also given the status of 'Sati' and the same thing happened with the former Prime Minister, so the tribals gave her the status of Sati and a statue was installed," he explained. As per the locals, whenever there is any religious or social event, people go for worshipping at the temple. Even newly wedded couples on their arrival to the village after the marriage visit the temple. Tribal leader Gulzar Singh Markam says that Indira Gandhi is remembered a lot in the present era as she implemented many schemes for the welfare of tribals, while keeping inflation under control. Today, problems as well as inflation are mounting. Life is becoming difficult for the tribals. In fact, it now seems that Indira Gandhi was not a politician but a Goddess. Former state president of the Congress and former Union Minister Arun Yadav says that Indira Gandhi implemented schemes for the welfare of every section and brought prosperity in the lives of tribals, that is why even today Indira Gandhi is popular among the people; and for tribals, she is like a Goddess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indira-gandhi-worshipped-like-goddess-in-madhya-pradesh-village-1024410.html
28-08-2021||National||Dilip Ghosh rakes up 'gold in cow milk' statement; TMC asks him to bring such cows||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Friday claimed that packaged milk is not real milk and those who drink it will not understand the "price of gold" in Indian cow milk, raking up his 2019 comment that created controversy. Ghosh lamented that no one drinks real cow milk these days. Reacting to his statement, the Trinamool Congress asked Ghosh to bring cows that produce milk with traces of gold. "Cows are no longer kept at homes in Bengal. People do not understand the importance of this. Everyone is buying packaged milk, which is not real milk at all. "When I had said that there are traces of gold in cow's milk, several people criticised me. But those who have never consumed real milk, how do they understand the price of gold in cow's milk?" he said while addressing a party programme. In 2019, Ghosh had courted controversy by claiming that Indian cow milk contains traces of gold, which is why its colour is yellow. Asserting that his statement was backed by conclusions of research taking place in foreign countries, the BJP MP had asked those who trolled him for the remark to prove him wrong by producing counter research papers. Ghosh's comment on Friday drew sharp reactions from the TMC, which asked him to bring cows that produce milk having traces of gold so that they can be sent for research. "He makes a lot of comments. No one takes him seriously. But if he can give us a cow that produces milk with gold, we will send it for research purposes. And if he is unable to bring in such a cow, he should stop making such statements," senior TMC Minister Firhad Hakim said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dilip-ghosh-rakes-up-gold-in-cow-milk-statement-tmc-asks-him-to-bring-such-cows-1024419.html
28-08-2021||National||India reports 46,759 new Covid-19 cases, 509 deaths||With 46,759 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases has increased to 3,26,49,947, while the active cases  rose to 3,59,775, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. Of the new Covid-19 cases reported in India in the last 24 hours, Kerala accounted for 32,801 Covid-19 positive cases. The death toll climbed to 4,37,370 with 509 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.10 per cent of the total infections while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.56 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 14,876 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.66 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 33 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.19 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 64 days, according to the ministry. The count of daily new cases has stayed below 50,000 for 62 consecutive days now, the ministry said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,18,52,802, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated.    Cumulatively, 62,29,89,134 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Wednesday morning. India administered a record 1,03,35,290 Covid-19 vaccine doses on Friday. With this, the coronavirus vaccination coverage in the country surpassed 62.29 crore, as per provisional reports till 7 am on Saturday, the ministry said. This has been achieved through 67,19,042 sessions, it added. Also, 17,61,110 coronavirus tests were conducted in the country on Friday, taking the cumulative number of such examinations done so far to 51,68,87,602. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 4,37,370 deaths due to the disease have been reported so far in the country, including 1,36,900 from Maharashtra, 37,248 from Karnataka, 34,835 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,796 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,313 from Kerala and 18,410 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to co-morbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-46759-new-covid-19-cases-509-deaths-1024420.html
28-08-2021||National||Ex-IPS officer Amitabh Thakur held for 'abetting' suicide of rape victim, her friend||Within hours of announcing his plans to float a political outfit ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, former IPS officer Amitabh Thakur was arrested from his residence in Lucknow on Friday on serious charges, including abetment of suicide of a rape victim and her friend in Delhi recently. The 24-year-old woman, who had accused Bahujan Samaj Party MP Atul Rai of rape in May 2019, died on August 24 after she and her friend Satyam Rai set themselves afire outside the Supreme Court complex on August 16. Before the suicide, both had shared their pain on social media with the people. A video showed Amitabh Thakur resisting arrest and trying to clamber on to the roof of the police vehicle outside his residence. He was heard saying, "I will not go unless I am given a copy of the FIR." He was then shoved into the vehicle. In a tweet, the former IPS officer said, "The police have forcibly taken me to Hazratganj Kotwali without giving any reason." After his arrest, Amitabh Thakur was taken to a hospital for medical examination and produced in the CJM court before being sent to jail, Hazratganj police said. Lucknow Police Commissioner DK Thakur confirmed that the former IPS officer has been arrested in a case registered after the death of the rape victim. Director General of Police Mukul Goel in a statement on Friday said, "In connection with the self-immolation attempt by the victim and her aide before the Supreme Court on August 16, the government had constituted an inquiry committee which in its interim investigation report, found BSP MP from Ghosi, Atul Rai and Amitabh Thakur prima facie guilty of abetting the victim and her associate witness to commit suicide and of other charges and also recommended registering a case against them." He said following this, a case has been registered against MP Atul Rai and Amitabh Thakur and the investigation has been started. Amitabh Thakur has been arrested during the course of probe, the DGP said. It has been alleged in the report that a total of seven cases were registered by the accused, Atul Rai, against the victim and her witness. It also claimed that Amitabh Thakur took money from Atul Rai for fabricating false evidence against the rape victim for maligning her image and inciting the woman to commit suicide. According to police sources, the case has been registered under section 120-B (conspiracy), 195-A (intimidation to produce false evidence), 218 (preparation of false record by public servant to save any person from punishment), 306 (abetment to suicide), 504 (breach of public peace) and 506 (intimidation) against MP Atul Rai and Amitabh Thakur on a complaint of Senior Sub-Inspector Dayashankar Dwivedi in Hazratganj Kotwali on the instructions of the inquiry committee. Meanwhile, the family of the rape victim in Ballia told newspersons that they had hope of getting justice under the Yogi Adityanath government. The brother of the victim said that the family would decide on further strategy after seeing what action is taken by the government. "The family wants justice for her as it is for justice that she gave her life. She kept fighting for justice everywhere but to no avail," the brother said. Earlier, her grandfather had accused the BSP MP Atul Rai of threatening the family by sending his aides to their house. Reacting to Amitabh Thakur's arrest, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav lashed out at the BJP government in the state. "The BJP's politics survives only by creating rifts among people. Now due to the pressure of the BJP government, the police are compelled to work against the police. Such a treatment to a retired IPS is unforgivable," he tweeted in Hindi. The former Uttar Pradesh cadre IPS officer on Friday morning had announced that he would soon form a new political party. Amitabh Thakur was given compulsory retirement ahead of time by the government and he had announced to contest against Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in the assembly elections to be held early next year. He was given compulsory retirement on March 23 in "public interest" following a decision taken by the Union Home Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-ips-officer-amitabh-thakur-held-for-abetting-suicide-of-rape-victim-her-friend-1024423.html
28-08-2021||National||Luck shines on Madhya Pradesh farmer for sixth time as he mines 6.47-carat diamond in Panna||For the sixth time in two years, a farmer in Panna district of Madhya Pradesh has mined a high quality diamond - this time weighing 6.47 carat - in a land taken on lease from the government. The farmer, Prakash Majumdar, found this diamond from a mine in Jaruapur village in the district on Friday, said Nutan Jain, in-charge diamond officer. The 6.47 carat diamond will be put up for sale in the upcoming auction and the price will be fixed as per the government guidelines, she said. Majumdar said that he will share the amount received from the auction with his four partners engaged in quarrying the mine. "We are five partners. We got the diamond weighing 6.47 carat, which we deposited at the Government Diamond Office," he told reporters on Friday. He said that he had found a 7.44 carat diamond last year. Besides, he had also mined four other precious stones weighing 2 to 2.5 carat in the past two years. Officials said that the raw diamond would be auctioned and the proceeds would be given to the farmer after deduction of government royalty and taxes. As per the private estimates, the 6.47 carat diamond is likely to fetch around Rs 30 lakh in the auction. Panna district is estimated to have diamond reserves of 12 lakh carats. The state government gives small patches of land on lease in Panna diamond reserve area to local farmers and labourers to mine diamonds and deposit them with the district mining officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/luck-shines-on-madhya-pradesh-farmer-for-sixth-time-as-he-mines-647-carat-diamond-in-panna-1024449.html
28-08-2021||National||No one above law: Delhi court raps Honey Singh for not appearing in domestic violence case||A Delhi court on Saturday came down heavily on Punjabi singer and actor Yo Yo Honey Singh for not appearing before it in a domestic violence case filed by his wife. "No one is above the law. Surprised to see how this case is being taken so lightly," metropolitan magistrate Tania Singh said. Singh moved an application seeking exemption from appearance in the case, citing medical reasons. Meanwhile, his wife, Shalini Talwar, appeared physically before the court. Expressing displeasure, the court told Singh's lawyer, "Honey singh has not appeared. You have not filed his income affidavit and are not prepared with the arguments." The metropolitan magistrate gave Singh one last opportunity to appear before the court, and asked him not to repeat this conduct again. Shalini Talwar has filed a domestic violence case against her singer-actor husband and sought Rs 20 crore as compensation from him under the Protection of Women From Domestic Violence Act. Advocate Ishan Mukherjee, appearing for Singh, filed a reply to her complaint and apprised the court that she has already taken all the valuables with her, including jewellery, and can come to reside at her in-laws' home in Noida in 15 days. "We are ready to accommodate her. We will build a wall. It can be provided to her in 15 days," Mukherjee said, adding that Singh has two properties costing around Rs 4 crores, of which a property worth Rs 1 crore belongs to Shalini Talwar. Hirdesh Singh, known professionally as Yo Yo Honey Singh, and Talwar tied the knot on January 23, 2011. In her plea, Talwar charted out how she was physically assaulted by Singh over the last 10 years. She has also alleged that Honey Singh cheated on her. The 38-year-old woman claimed that she was subjected to numerous incidents of physical, verbal, mental, and emotional abuse at the hands of her husband and his family. Talwar alleged that Singh and his family broke her mentally and emotionally to the extent that she almost started identifying herself as a "farm animal".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-one-above-law-delhi-court-raps-honey-singh-for-not-appearing-in-domestic-violence-case-1024454.html
28-08-2021||National||Jan Dhan accounts swell to 43 crore with total deposits over Rs 1.46 lakh crore||Over 43 crore new bank accounts were opened under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojna (PMJDY) with total deposits of more than Rs 1.46 lakh crore, the official data showed as the Centre’s flagship financial inclusion scheme completed seven years of implementation on Saturday. Out of a total 43.04 crore PMJDY accounts, 36.86 crore or 85.6 per cent are operative, and the average deposit per account is Rs 3,398. Total RuPay cards issued to PMJDY account holders rose to 31.23 crore. For accounts opened after August 28, 2018, the free accidental insurance cover on RuPay cards increased from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh. “Increase in average deposit is another indication of increased usage of accounts and inculcation of saving habit among account holders,” the finance ministry said. "Today we mark seven years of #PMJanDhan, an initiative that has forever transformed India's development trajectory. It has ensured financial inclusion and a life of dignity as well as empowerment for countless Indians. Jan Dhan Yojana has also helped further transparency," Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the journey of PMJDY-led interventions undertaken over a short span of 7 years has in effect, produced both transformational as well as directional change, thereby making the emerging financial inclusion ecosystem capable of delivering financial services to the last person of the society – the poorest of the poor. The PMJDY was announced by Modi in his Independence Day address on August 15, 2014 and was simultaneously launched on August 28 that year to foster financial inclusion. Under the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana announced on March 26, 2020, an amount of Rs 500 per month for three months (April 2020 to June 2020) was credited to the accounts of PMJDY women account holders, the finance ministry said. A total of Rs 30,945 crore has been credited in accounts of women PMJDY account holders during Covid lockdown as an income support measure. About 5 crore PMJDY accountholders receive direct benefit transfer (DBT) from the government under various schemes, the finance ministry said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jan-dhan-accounts-swell-to-43-crore-with-total-deposits-over-rs-146-lakh-crore-1024455.html
28-08-2021||National||HC directs CBI to ensure proper security to accused in Dhanbad judge death case||The Jharkhand High Court directed the CBI to ensure proper security to the two accused in the death case of Dhanbad Judge Uttam Anand and if required use air travel for their movement as they were crucial for the investigation. During the hearing of the case on Friday, the CBI informed the court that they are conducting a narco test on the two accused, Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma, who were arrested in connection with the case. Autorickshaw driver Lakhan and his accomplice Rahul were taken to the national capital by Howrah–New Delhi Rajdhani Express for the narco test. The CBI also submitted its weekly report before the division bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad. CCTV footage had shown that the judge was jogging on one side of a fairly wide road at Randhir Verma Chowk early on July 28 when a heavy auto-rickshaw veered towards him, hit him from behind and fled the scene. Locals took him to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Meanwhile, the state home secretary, who was present during the hearing, submitted before the court that steps were being taken to strengthen the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) here to ensure all types of tests are done in Jharkhand itself. On August 22, the CBI had announced a Rs 5 lakh reward for "worthwhile information" related to the death of the judge. Chief Minister Hemant Soren on July 31 decided to hand over to the CBI the probe into the hit-and-run case of 49-year-old Anand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-directs-cbi-to-ensure-proper-security-to-accused-in-dhanbad-judge-death-case-1024456.html
28-08-2021||National||80% of Mumbai's Nariman point, Mantralaya areas will go under water by 2050, predicts civic chief||Mumbai municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has made a sinister prediction for the city, saying that by 2050, a major portion of south Mumbai, including the business district of Nariman Point and state secretariat Mantralaya, will go under water due to the rising sea level. Speaking at the launch of Mumbai Climate Action Plan and its website at the hands of Maharashtra Environment and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Friday, Chahal said about 70 per cent of the city's A, B, C and D wards in south Mumbai will be under water due to climate change. He said that nature has been giving warnings, but if people do not "wake up" then the situation would turn "dangerous". "Eighty per cent of the areas like Cuffe Parade, Nariman Point and Mantralaya will be under water...Means going to disappear," he said. The civic chief also said that it is a matter of just 25-30 years as 2050 is not too far. "We are getting warnings from nature and if we do not wake up, it will be a dangerous situation for the next 25 years. And it will not only be the next generation but the current generation will also suffer," Chahal warned. He said that Mumbai is the first city in South Asia that is preparing its climate action plan and acting on it. "Earlier, we used to hear about climate change events like melting glaciers, but not directly affecting us. But now it has come to our doorstep," he added. Chahal said that last year for the first time in 129 years, a cyclone (Nisarga) hit Mumbai and thereafter in the last 15 months, there have been three cyclones. After that, on August 5, 2020, about 5 to 5.5 feet water was accumulated at Nariman point. "There was no cyclone warning that day, but considering the parameters, it was a cyclone," Chahal said. Highlighting that the city has witnessed some extreme weather conditions recently, he said that the city faced Tauktae cyclone in Mumbai and witnessed 214 mm rain on May 17, though monsoon arrives here on June 6 or 7. Before June 9, Mumbai recorded 84 per cent of the June rainfall and in July, 70 per cent of month's average rainfall was received in just four days – from July 17 to 20, he said. Under the Mumbai Climate Action Plan (MCAP), the data assessment has identified areas and communities most vulnerable given increasing climate uncertainty, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a release. Data from across BMC's 37 automatic weather stations (AWS) over the past 10 years suggests that on an average, Mumbai has seen six heavy, five very heavy, and four extremely heavy rainfall days per year. And for all the rainfall that occurs during the monsoon season in Mumbai, each year, approximately 10 per cent falls under the heavy category, nine per cent very heavy, and six per cent extremely heavy. According to the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) classification, daily rainfall from 64.5 mm to 115.5 mm is considered 'heavy', 115.6 mm to 204.4mm 'very heavy' and more than 204.5mm is 'extreme'. "The four-year period between 2017 and 2020 has seen a steady increase in the extremely heavy rainfall events. This indicates that the frequency of such extreme weather events is increasing for the city of Mumbai especially over the past four years," said Lubaina Rangwala, Associate Director, WRI India Ross Center for Sustainable Cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/80-of-mumbais-nariman-point-mantralaya-areas-will-go-under-water-by-2050-predicts-civic-chief-1024460.html
28-08-2021||National||Govt brings new 'BH' registration series for personal vehicles to ensure seamless transfer across states||To ensure seamless transfer of personal vehicles across states, the road transport ministry has come up with a new registration mark for new vehicles - Bharat Series (BH-series). In this regard, the government has notified a new vehicle registration regime that will free vehicle owners from re-registration process when they shift from one state/union territory to another. "This vehicle registration facility under 'Bharat series (BH-series)' will be available on voluntary basis to defense personnel, employees of central government/ state government/ central/ state public sector undertakings and private sector companies/organisations, which have their offices in four or more states/union territories," the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said in a statement. This scheme, it said, will facilitate free movement of personal vehicles across states/union territories of India upon relocation. The statement further said that an IT-based solution for vehicle registration is one such effort as "one of the pain points in the vehicle registration process that needed attention was re-registration of a vehicle while moving to another state".         The MORTH through a "notification dated 26th August 2021, has introduced a new registration mark for new vehicles i.e. 'Bharat series (BH-series)'. A vehicle bearing this registration mark shall not require assignment of a new registration mark when the owner of the vehicle shifts from one state to another," the statement further explained. Currently, a person is allowed to keep vehicle for a maximum of 12 months in any state other than the state where it is registered. The owners has to get such vehicles re-registered before the expiry of 12 months. The new rule aims to centralise the system of re-registration of vehicles when relocating between states an easier process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-brings-new-bh-registration-series-for-personal-vehicles-to-ensure-seamless-transfer-across-states-1024462.html
28-08-2021||National||Jan Dhan initiative forever transformed India's development trajectory, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday lauded his government's 'Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana' as it completed seven years, saying the scheme, which facilitates the unbanked population to open a bank account, has forever transformed India's development trajectory. It has ensured financial inclusion and a life of dignity as well as empowerment for countless Indians, Modi said, adding that the initiative has also boosted transparency. "I would like to applaud the untiring efforts of all those who have worked to make PM Jan Dhan a success. Their efforts have ensured the people of India lead a better quality of life." he tweeted. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman noted that 36.86 crore bank accounts out of the 43.04 crore opened under the programme are operative. The government has said that financial inclusion of such a vast number of poor population has helped a number of welfare programmes, including cash transfer, in reaching their target population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jan-dhan-initiative-forever-transformed-indias-development-trajectory-says-pm-modi-1024467.html
28-08-2021||National||SC allows doctor to participate in counselling for admission to AIIMS PG, Post-Doctoral courses||The Supreme Court has directed the Centre and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to allow a doctor to participate in the counselling scheduled on August 31 for admission to Post Graduate and Post-Doctoral courses published by the premier medical institute. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and R Subhash Reddy made it clear that the order has been passed in the special facts and circumstances of this case, since examinations could not be held as scheduled by reason of the overwhelming rise in Covid-19 cases, and considering that a seat is still available at AIIMS, Rishikesh. Pursuant to a notification for admission to Post Graduate and Post-Doctoral courses published by AIIMS, New Delhi, the petitioner, a doctor and a final year student of the MD course in General Medicine at the Institute of Naval Medicine, INHS Asvini, Mumbai applied for admission to the Doctor of Medicine Course of the July 2021 session. The petitioner, Vijaya Kumar Varada, successfully participated in the online selection process, and in the departmental clinical/practical/lab-based assessment conducted virtually through video conferencing. He was selected for a seat in the Doctor of Medicine Course in Cardiology at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, Odisha and was offered a seat in the course in cardiology at AIIMS, and asked to join between July 1 to July 15, failing which the seat allotted to the petitioner would be forfeited. However, the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences, Nashik could not conduct the final MD General examination as per schedule in view of the Covid pandemic and the examination had to be postponed on account of the exponential rise in coronavirus cases in the state. According to the AIIMS prospectus, it requires candidates to acquire the requisite qualification for the Post-Doctoral course within July 31, failing which they would be debarred from taking admission in the institution. When the petition was taken up for hearing on July 19, the counsel appearing on behalf of AIIMS, New Delhi and Bhubaneswar, submitted that the first round of counselling was already over but the last date of seat allocation had been extended till August 5, and the candidates who had been selected in the first round of counselling could take up admission on or before this date. On August 4, the top court was informed that the final theoretical MS/MD examination of the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences was due to be held from August 16-23 and thereafter, the practical examination was scheduled to be held on August 24 and 25. The lawyer appearing on behalf of the university informed the court that the results of the petitioner would be published by August 27. The top court did not pass any interim order on the earlier date having regard to the prospectus published by AIIMS which required candidates to acquire the requisite qualification for the Post-Doctoral course within July 31, failing which they would be debarred from taking admission and considering that the examination of the petitioner had not even been held. The court merely directed that the matter be listed on August 27 observing orally that in the event the petitioner obtained the requisite qualification in the meanwhile and in the event any seats remained vacant, the petitioner might be allowed to take admission. When the matter was taken up for hearing on Friday, a photocopy of the provisional degree certificate issued to the petitioner by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences was handed over to the apex court for perusal. The counsel appearing on behalf of the university confirmed that the photocopy is a true photocopy of the original. The counsel appearing on behalf of AIIMS submitted, on instructions, that two seats in the Post Doctoral Course in Cardiology are available in AIIMS, Rishikesh and there is no vacancy left in DM course in cardiology at AIIMS, Bhubaneswar. Noting the submission, the apex court directed the respondents to permit the petitioner to participate in the counselling scheduled on August 31 and to allow the petitioner admission in the available vacancy in the DM cardiology course at AIIMS, Rishikesh, if the petitioner is interested. "It is only fair that the petitioner should get preference over candidates who have ranked below him in the merit list," the bench said. "This order passed by way of a one time measure for admission to the DM course in Cardiology for the July 2021-22 session, in the special facts and circumstances of this case, is not to be treated as a precedent," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-doctor-to-participate-in-counselling-for-admission-to-aiims-pg-post-doctoral-courses-1024489.html
28-08-2021||National||India has great scope to become indigenous ship-building hub, says Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said the country has "great scope" to become an indigenous ship-building hub, while pointing out that the Centre has introduced policies to help the domestic industry become world class. In his address at an event to mark the commissioning of Indian Coast Guard Ship (ICGS) 'Vigraha,' the last of the seven Offshore Patrol Vessels (OPVs), here, Singh said in the next two years, the expenditure on security around the world will reach $2.1 trillion. "Most of countries do not even have this level of budget for a whole year. And it is expected to increase manifold in the next five years. In such a situation, today we have great scope to make full use of our capabilities, take advantage of policies, and move towards making the country an indigenous shipbuilding hub." "I am happy to say that considering these possibilities, the government has already brought out such policies which helps our domestic industry, be it public or private sector entity, to become world class players," Singh said. On ICGS Vigraha, he said "from its design conception to development, the ship is completely indigenous." Further, for the first time in the history of Indian defence, contract for not one or two, but seven vessels has been signed with a private sector company, Larsen and Toubro Limited, he noted. "And more importantly, within seven years of signing this agreement in 2015, not only launch but also the commissioning of all these seven vessels has been completed today," he said. The 98-meter vessel, with a complement of 11 officers and 110 sailors, has been designed and built indigenously by Larsen & Toubro Ship Building Limited. It is fitted with advanced technology radars, navigation and communication equipment, sensors and machinery capable of operating in tropical sea conditions, a Defence statement said. ICGS Vigraha can carry one twin-engine helicopter and four high-speed boats for boarding operation, search and rescue, law enforcement and maritime patrol. The ship is also capable of carrying pollution response equipment to contain oil spill at sea, it said. The vessel is armed with a 40/60 Bofors gun and fitted with two 12.7 mm Stabilised Remote Control Gun with fire control system, it said, adding the OPV will be based at Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. Chief of Army Staff, General MM Naravane, Coast Guard Director General K Natarajan and Tamil Nadu Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu participated in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-great-scope-to-become-indigenous-ship-building-hub-says-rajnath-singh-1024490.html
28-08-2021||National||Your accomplishments inspired the entire nation: PM Modi congratulates Bhavina Patel on historic feat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated Bhavina Patel for her sensational semifinal win at the Tokyo Paralympics, saying her accomplishments have inspired the entire nation. Patel scripted history on Saturday when she stunned her world no. 3 Chinese opponent 3-2 to become the first table tennis player from the country to reach the final of the Paralympics. "Congratulations Bhavina Patel! You played excellently. The entire nation is praying for your success and will be cheering for you tomorrow. Give your best and play without any pressure. Your accomplishments inspire the entire nation. #Paralympics," Modi tweeted. Congratulations Bhavina Patel! You played excellently. The 34-year-old, who was diagnosed with polio when she was 12 months old, competes in the class 4 category, in which athletes have fair sitting balance and fully functional arms and hands. Their impairment may be due to a lower spinal-cord lesion or cerebral palsy. Patel, who hails from Sundhiya village in Mehsana district in Gujarat and plays in a wheelchair, will take on world number one Chinese paddler Ying Zhou in the summit clash on Sunday. Patel's medal, India's first in para table tennis at the marquee event, will also open India's account at the Tokyo Paralympics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/your-accomplishments-inspired-the-entire-nation-pm-modi-congratulates-bhavina-patel-on-historic-feat-1024495.html
28-08-2021||National||Preparations for Janmashtami on in Mathura||Preparations have started in different temples of Mathura for Janmashtami celebrations, slated for August 30. “While cooking of Prasadam to be offered to the principal deity in Hindu shrine of Janmasthan, has started, sites for the setting up cloak room have been selected,” said Kapil Sharma, secretary Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan. Due to Covid-19 norms, it has been decided to give up the practice of distribution of Prasadam to every visiting devotee, this year, authorities at Shri Krishna Janmasthan stated. Sharma said cloakrooms at selected four sites – (Rupam cinema, in front of Govind Nagar police station, Galteshwar temple Tiraha and Radha Park near Galteshwar temple) around Janmasthan – would be completed by August 29. Officials said that to avoid inconvenience to pilgrims, information about various arrangements made by Shri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan would be communicated through loudspeakers. Novel arrangements have been made to give an auspicious look to the sanctum sanctorum of Keshav Dev temple, Bhagwat Bhavan and provide attire with an attractive and auspicious look to the principal deity, officials said. Since distribution of “Charnamrit” among every devotee, including scores of pilgrims is one of the major programmes of Vrindavan-based Radha Raman temple, Radha Damodar temple and Shah Ji temple where Janmashtami is celebrated during day, the teams of these temples are contacting villagers to ensure maximum cow milk and curd for Abhishek ceremony (bathing) of deity, Padma Nabh Goshwami Secretary Radha Raman temple said. Arrangements for Mangala Darshan (obeisance to deity) of principal deity has started in Bankey Bihari temple Vrindavan, slated for August 30 after midnight, Munish Sharma, the manager of the temple, said. Mangala darshan is open for devotees once a year for about two hours, he added. To ensure Covid-19 norms, permission for organising Bhandara (makeshift kitchen) has been made mandatory, District Magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal said. Owing to the influx of pilgrims at Shri Krishna Janmasthan on Janmashtami, the security at Hindu shrine has been strengthened, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Gaurav Grover said. In Govardhan, Nandgaon, Barsana, Baldeo and Mahaban based Krishna temples, preparation for Janmashtami has also started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/preparations-for-janmashtami-on-in-mathura-1024518.html
28-08-2021||National||Palghar lynching: Court orders clubbing of two FIRs||A special court here in Maharashtra has ordered clubbing of two FIRs registered in connection with the lynching of three persons, including two sadhus, in the Palghar district in April 2020 "to avoid wastage of time and resources and to avoid multiplicity of litigations". The order to club the two FIRs was passed by additional sessions judge Rajesh Gupta on August 12 based on an application filed by the prosecution. A copy of the order was made available on Saturday. Taking into consideration facts and circumstances of the case and on the point of material available on record and in view of "observations by the Apex Court in case of Amitbhai Anilchandra Shah V/s. CBI (cited Supra) in the interest of justice and to prevent unnecessary wastage of time and resources, to avoid multiplicity of litigations, the orders thereto passed, it would be proper and lawful to conduct a joint trial in respect of C.R.No.76 & 77 of 2020". On April 16, 2020, a mob lynched two sadhus Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri (70) and Sushilgiri Maharaj (35) - and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30) at Gadchinchale in Palghar district, 140 km north of Mumbai. The brutal attack took place amid rumours that child- lifters were roaming in the area during the lockdown. The judge noted that two offences were registered for the same crime under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Destruction of Public Property Act and under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. In his submission, special public prosecutor Satish Maneshinde submitted that at the time of registration of the FIR the victims were already dead and therefore section 307 (Attempt to murder) of the IPC was erroneously registered without verifying facts. Investigation in the crime is completed and two chargesheets are filed for both the FIRs. "The say of the other side is obtained on the back leaf of the application. They have no objection for a joint trial," the judge noted. Advocate Amrut Adhikari, appearing for the accused, submitted there cannot be an amalgamation but needs to continue the crime and that another chargesheet filed to be treated as a supplementary chargesheet. “It is apposite to note by the time, as submitted by special PP, the crime No.76/2020 which was registered under section 307, the three persons were already dead. Undisputedly crime no 76 and 77 arises out of the one and the same transaction. The crime no.76 of 2020 relates to an offence punishable under section 307 of the IPC. In fact it ought not to have been registered without verifying the fact of incidence. It further appears witnesses in both the cases are common as so the accused persons are the same. The document and material relied by the prosecution are also not different," the order said. A total of 226 accused are being arraigned for the lynching.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/palghar-lynching-court-orders-clubbing-of-two-firs-1024523.html
28-08-2021||National||ED attaches 45 group properties; assets worth over Rs 363 crore in MMTC fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has attached assets worth over Rs 363 crore of a jewellery firm in a money laundering case linked to an alleged fraud against public sector enterprise MMTC. Forty-five immovable properties of MBS Jewellers Private Limited, MBS Impex Private Limited, Sukesh Gupta, Anurag Gupta, Neetu Gupta, Vandana Gupta and their other group entities have been provisionally attached under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, it said in a statement. The ED case against the accused was made out on the basis of a Hyderabad CBI Anti-Corruption Bureau FIR and chargesheet (filed in 2014) against Sukesh Gupta and others for "defrauding" MMTC Limited (Metals and Minerals Trading Corporation) in purchase of gold bullion under the buyer's credit scheme. "Sukesh Gupta, in active connivance with few officials of MMTC Hyderabad, continuously lifted gold without forex cover and without adequate security deposits. "His dues were consistently misreported to the MMTC head office and without squaring off the existing losses, his firms continued lifting gold from MMTC for their personal gain and thereby caused a loss of public money to the tune of Rs 504.34 crore (including interest up to May 31, 2021, of Rs 277.52 crore) to the MMTC," the ED alleged. "Sukesh Gupta colluded with various officers of MMTC Hyderabad and painted a wrong picture of his accounts and kept on lifting gold to carry on its business as usual," the agency said. "While MMTC ultimately suffered a massive loss, the business of Sukesh Gupta flourished and ran with huge profit," it claimed. On the basis of his business profile, the ED said, he took loans and struck real estate deals and grew his business in the name of various related companies. "All through the investigation, the conduct of Sukesh Gupta has been evasive and non-cooperative and he has failed to discharge the burden of proof imposed on him under the PMLA," it said. In a separate case registered under the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), the ED said it also slapped a penalty of about Rs 222 crore on the MBS group. "Sukesh Gupta also entered into a OTS (one-time settlement) with MMTC in 2019 but as per the latest reports from MMTC, Sukesh Gupta did not deposit any funds, and the OTS has failed," it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-45-group-properties-assets-worth-over-rs-363-crore-in-mmtc-fraud-case-1024536.html
28-08-2021||National||Volume on UNESCO heritage sites of India unveiled||Containing rich text illustrated with spectacular photographs, including archival images, a volume that encapsulates the rich cultural treasures of India inscribed on the UNESCO world heritage list has been launched, officials said on Saturday. The publication, titled Incredible Treasures, was unveiled on Friday evening during an online event, they said. India at present has 40 world heritage sites, both cultural and natural, spanning across the country, including the the Ramappa Temple, a 13th century engineering marvel in Telangana and ancient Dholavira site in Gujarat, both of which earned the coveted tag in July this year. UNESCO and MAPIN publishing house have joined hands for this volume. "INCREDIBLE TREASURES is an eloquent homage to India's long history, bearing witness to its rich biodiversity and influence of multiple communities, crafts & religious traditions, published in collaboration with @mapin_india," the UNESCO New Delhi Office tweeted on Friday night. INCREDIBLE TREASURES is an eloquent homage to India’s long, history, bearing witness to its rich biodiversity & influence of multiple communities, crafts & religious traditions, published in collaboration with @mapin_india India's world heritage sites spans magnificent structures ranging from the Mughal-era Red Fort in Delhi to the ancient Mahabodhi Temple complex in Bodh Gaya in Bihar, and breathtaking natural sites. "India is truly incredible and the world heritage sites presented here span the entire history and geography of the country. We believe that this book will be a definitive reference and will help build greater awareness about India's World Heritage sites among specialists and other readers alike. "We also hope it will encourage them to support efforts to protect and safeguard the world's cultural and natural heritage," a statement issued by the world body quoting Eric Falt, UNESCO New Delhi Director and Representative here, said.  Though the sites across India have been inscribed individually, they collectively contribute to a cohesive historical narrative of India's extremely diverse archaeological and architectural spectrum, as well as natural sites, the statement said. The publication offers a stunning view of all world heritage sites of India – two more sites were recently added in July - described together for the first time with informative, accessible commentary and spectacular photographs, the UNESCO had said ahead of the launch. "NITI Aayog has initiated a nationwide effort to understand the current challenges for heritage management in India and to provide a future roadmap along with an appropriate branding of India's invaluable archaeological and built heritage,"Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog, was quoted as saying in the statement. "We are also ensuring guidance to the concerned heritage custodians of these world heritage sites, including the nodal agency Archaeological Survey of India, to further enhance, conserve and promote these locations for local communities as well as visitors," he said. Incredible Treasures has benefited immensely from the research and contributions of many experts in the fields of architecture, cultural conservation, sustainable heritage development, wildlife and ecology, the UNESCO said. It is available for sale in English at selected book stores, or on Amazon in India, and most of Europe and the US. Other language editions are expected soon, it said. The project was started in August 2019 and took one year to complete. As the Ramappa Temple and Dholavira sites were added to the UNESCO list in July, brochures for these two sites have been added inside the pocket with the book, said conservation architect Shikha Jain, who co-edited the volume. In the 167 countries where they are currently listed, UNESCO's world heritage sites are landmarks of outstanding historical, cultural and natural significance, the statement said. UNESCO seeks to encourage the identification, protection, and preservation of cultural and natural heritage around the world considered to be of outstanding value to humanity. This is embodied in an international treaty called the Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, adopted by UNESCO in 1972.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/volume-on-unesco-heritage-sites-of-india-unveiled-1024537.html
28-08-2021||National||PM Modi motivated scientists to develop Covid-19 vaccine in India: Minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi motivated scientists and doctors to conduct medical research which led to the development of an anti-coronavirus vaccine in India, Union minister Virendra Kumar Khatik said on Saturday. “It is for the first time that we need not have to depend on any other country to procure vaccines to fight against a virus," the Social Justice and Empowerment Minister told reporters. Khatik is in Jabalpur to launch the BJP's 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra', which is aimed at reaching out to the masses. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi took the initiative to motivate scientists and doctors to conduct medical research which led to the development of an anti-coronavirus vaccine in the country,” he added. In contrast, anti-polio vaccination in India was launched three to four years after vaccination against polio almost got completed in many countries, he said. “As of now, around 60 crore anti-Covid-19 shots have been given in the country," he said. Speaking on Central schemes, the minister said a roadmap titled "Amrit Kaal" worth Rs 100 lakh crore has been drawn under the leadership of the prime minister for the next 25 years to make India self-reliant by strengthening the roads, industry and railway infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-motivated-scientists-to-develop-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-minister-1024543.html
28-08-2021||National||We are fast progressing in FTA discussions with nations like UK, UAE, says Piyush Goyal||India is fast progressing in discussions on different free-trade agreements (FTAs) with countries, including the UK and the UAE, to further enhance trade and investment ties, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. Under an FTA, two trading partners reduce or eliminate customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them. Besides, they liberalise norms to enhance trade in services and boost investments. Goyal said India is engaging for such pacts with economies having transparent rule of law and with whom India can have confidence that it will get a fair deal and reciprocal benefits. "We are fast progressing in our discussions with the UK, with the UAE and other GCC (Gulf Cooperation Council) countries. Canada and Australia are really on a fast track," Goyal said while addressing the JITO Trade Mahakumbh. The minister also stated that recently, he had discussions with the USA's Charge'd Affairs in Delhi Atul Keshap, and both agreed to aspire for a $500-billion trade between the countries at the earliest possible time. The world is looking for a trusted partner and that partner is India's business community, he added. He added that whether it is FDI (foreign direct investment), forex reserves, foodgrain reserves, agriculture production or manufacturing; all sectors are on a growth path.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-are-fast-progressing-in-fta-discussions-with-nations-like-uk-uae-says-piyush-goyal-1024545.html
28-08-2021||National||What is Centre's 5-fold strategy to check Covid-19 spread?||Despite the overall Covid-19 situation at the national level improving, certain states and districts across the country continue to report a high number of cases. In this light, the Centre on Saturday asked states to continue following the five-fold strategy to curb the spread of the virus. The states have also been asked by the Centre to extend Covid-19 curbs until the end of September. Here's what the five-fold strategy consists of: 1. As per the five-fold strategy, the number of Covid-19 tests need to be increased. It also states that more than 70 per cent of the tests need to be done via RT-PCR to get the most accurate result as it has found “Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) to be mostly deployed”. 2. The second part of this strategy asks for effective isolation of Covid positive persons and efficient contact tracing. As per its guidelines, at least 30 contacts of a Covid positive person need to be traced, tested, and also isolated within 72 hours. 3. Healthcare infrastructure needs to be upgraded to avoid overworking of the healthcare staff. 4. Ensuring Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in crowded places and gatherings.  5. And finally, the five-fold strategy includes a targeted vaccination approach in districts reporting more positive Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-is-centres-5-fold-strategy-to-check-covid-19-spread-1024546.html
28-08-2021||National||Congress leaders rap 'petty' ICHR for omitting Nehru's image from 'Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebrations||The missing frame of India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, from the banner of 'Azaadi ka Amrit Mhatosav' celebrations on the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) website, kicked up a huge political row with Opposition leaders slamming it as "petty" and "atrocious". The history research body clarified that it was "not diminishing" anybody's role and will bring out more similar banners/posters which include Nehru's photos. "It is not merely petty but absolutely ahistorical to celebrate Azadi by omitting the pre-eminent voice of Indian freedom, Jawaharlal Nehru. One more occasion for ICHR to disgrace itself. This is becoming a habit!" Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said. The government has planned 'Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebrations to mark the 75th year of India's independence. Sharing a screenshot of the ICHR website, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said, "not surprising from this regime and its toadies masquerading as scholars but atrocious nevertheless." Majeed Memon of NCP said the BJP should not change the history just because the party did not exist when the freedom struggle was on or because the RSS did not participate in it. Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi tweeted, "you can never look big if you diminish the role of others in the creation of an Independent India. Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav can only be celebrated when it acknowledges role of all. By omitting India’s first PM, ICHR reflects its own pettiness& insecurity." As criticism mounted, ICHR Research and Administration Director Om Jee Upadhyay told a news channel denied any attempt to undermine anyone's role. "It is not like diminishing anybody's role in the freedom struggle movement. We are making several pages like this. There should be representation from each stream, whichever fought for the freedom struggle," Upadhyay told Times Now. Upadhyay at the same time asserted those who actually got diminished should be highlighted. He said Savarkar lived for 10 years in Cellular jail and was not given his due. "What is wrong if he was on our front," he said as he acknowledged "the kind of contribution Nehru ji has made, cannot definitely not undermined. It may be he is seen among the 16 or among 24. Right now only eight faces are seen." ICHR is already courting controversy over its decision to remove names of people associated with the Malabar Rebellion of 1921 from the dictionary of martyrs of the freedom struggle.  At the time of writing, the Amrit Mahotsav banner  on the ICHR webpage had the photos of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Rajendra Prasad, Madan Mohan Malviya and V D Savarkar. Political analyst Tehseen Poonawala reminded that "ICHR was established on March 27, 1972 as an autonomous body of the Ministry of Education by an administrative order when Nehruji's daughter Indira Gandhiji was PM." Jamaat-e-Islami Hind tweeted, "by omitting the names of Pundit Jawaharlal Nehru and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, ICHR has belittled its name and stature. Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav should rise above parochial and communal agenda." On social media, many pointed out that even Maulana Azad's photo was not shown on the ICHR website. Congress spokesperson Gourav Gogoi asked "which other country would remove their first head of state from a website about the freedom struggle? ICHR’s removal of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Abul Kalam Azad is petty and an injustice." Which other country would remove their first head of state from a website about the freedom struggle? ICHR’s removal of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Abul Kalam Azad is petty and an injustice. India will not forget that the RSS chose to stay away from the Indian freedom movement. Training guns on BJP's ideological mentor, Gogoi alleged, "India will not forget that the RSS chose to stay away from the Indian freedom movement."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leaders-rap-petty-ichr-for-omitting-nehrus-image-from-azaadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-celebrations-1024560.html
28-08-2021||National||Government extends tenure of UCO Bank's MD and CEO for 2 years||State-owned UCO Bank on Saturday said the government has extended the term of its MD and CEO Atul Kumar Goel for two years. The central government, through a notification dated August 26, extended the term of office of Atul Kumar Goel as UCO Bank's managing director and chief executive officer (MD & CEO), for a period of two years or until further orders, whichever is earlier, the bank said in a regulatory filing. Goel's current term was to expire on November 1, 2021. On Friday, Punjab National Bank and Bank of Maharashtra had also informed about extensions given to their MD & CEOs. The government has also extended the terms of two executive directors each in Punjab National Bank and Union Bank of India, and one executive director of Central Bank of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-extends-tenure-of-uco-banks-md-and-ceo-for-2-years-1024564.html
28-08-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on a plea against discrimination faced by Parsi women for interfaith marriage||The Supreme Court has issued notice to the Centre on a plea by a Parsi woman and her seven-year-old son against social excommunication and religious ostracisation faced by them due to her marriage to a non-Parsi. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari sought a response from the Union government on a joint petition by the mother and son from Mumbai. The court initially observed the questions raised in the plea were already covered in reference made to a larger bench following the Sabarimala judgement.  However, it agreed to examine the matter as the petitioners represented by senior advocate Percival Billimoria and advocate Sanjay Nuli submitted that Parsis are a race and ethnic group and ostracisation of a Parsi Zoroastrian and her offspring on the grounds of her marriage to an individual of a different lineage, race or religion is contrary to basic human rights and the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. "A section of the Parsi community, believes that they are racially superior being of Aryan descent and insist that intermarriage with other races “dilutes” and “contaminates” their ethnicity," the plea claimed. The Parsi woman and her children are discriminated and socially ostracised...but the same treatment is not meted out to Parsi males marrying a non-Parsi and their offspring from inter-marriages, it added. The plea asked the court to declare the practice as discriminatory and unconstitutional. It also asked the top court to strike down over 100-year-old judgement of the Bombay High Court passed in 1908, which had held children of intermarried Parsi Zoroastrian men to be within the meaning of Parsis, while denying the same ‘status’ to children of intermarried Parsi Zoroastrian women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-a-plea-against-discrimination-faced-by-parsi-women-for-interfaith-marriage-1024574.html
28-08-2021||National||Transport Ministry introduces new 'BH' registration series for seamless transfer of personal vehicles||To ensure seamless transfer of personal vehicles across states, the Union Ministry of Road Transport has come up with a new registration mark for new vehicles - Bharat Series (BH-series). The Ministry notified a new vehicle registration regime that will free vehicle owners from re-registration process when they shift from one state/UT to another. "This vehicle registration facility under 'Bharat series (BH-series)' will be available on voluntary basis to defense personnel, employees of central government/ state government/ central/ state public sector undertakings and private sector companies/organisations, which have their offices in four or more states/Union Territories," the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) said in a statement. This scheme, it said, will facilitate free movement of personal vehicles across states/Union Territories of India upon relocation. This scheme will be voluntary. At present, a person is allowed to keep a vehicle for a maximum of 12 months in any state other than the state where it is registered. The owner has to get such vehicles re-registered before the expiry of 12 months. The MoRTH through a "notification dated 26th August 2021, has introduced a new registration mark for new vehicles i.e. 'Bharat series (BH-series)'. A vehicle registered with this new series "BH" won't require re-registration when the owners are transferred to a new state. The vehicle owners will have the option to go for the “BH” series and in this case they have to pay the road tax for two years or in multiple of two. After completion of the fourteenth year, the motor vehicle tax shall be levied annually which shall be half of the amount which was charged earlier for that vehicle. In the new “BH” series regime, the ministry has fixed the road tax of 8% for vehicles costing below Rs 10 lakh, 10% for those costing between Rs 10-20 lakh and 12% for vehicles costing over Rs 20 lakh. There will be 2% extra charge for diesel vehicles and electric vehicles shall be charged 2% less tax. The entire process will be made online to ensure there is no need to go to the RTOs,  said a Ministry official. The new rule aims to centralise the system of re-registration of vehicles when relocating between states an easier process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transport-ministry-introduces-new-bh-registration-series-for-seamless-transfer-of-personal-vehicles-1024583.html
28-08-2021||National||No outages in facility linking Aadhaar with PAN, EPFO; all services stable: UIDAI||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) on Saturday said there have been no outages in its Aadhaar-PAN/EPFO linking facility, which is authentication-based, and asserted that all its services are "stable". The comment came amid reports of UIDAI system outages in linking Aadhaar with PAN and EPFO. The reports said that the glitch had left Aadhaar users in a lurch, even as EPF and PAN linking deadline looms. In a statement issued on Saturday, UIDAI emphasised that all its services are "stable and functioning fine". "There have been no outages in its Aadhaar-PAN/EPFO linking facility, which is authentication-based facility," it added. UIDAI explained that as it was going through an essential security upgrade in its systems in a phased manner over the last week, some intermittent service interruptions were reported only in the enrollment and mobile update service facility at a few enrolment or update centres "which too is working fine now, after upgradation". UIDAI went on to say that even though the system has stabilised, it is monitoring the same to ensure that no inconvenience is caused to residents. "It may be noted that more than 51 lakh residents have been enrolled in last nine days since the beginning of the upgradation process on August 20, 2021, at an average of 5.68 lakh enrolment per day," UIDAI said. While, it added, authentication transactions have taken place as usual on an average of more than 5.3 crore authentications per day. The Aadhaar-issuing body said the reports on UIDAI system glitch in linking Aadhaar with PAN/EPFO were "not accurate".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-outages-in-facility-linking-aadhaar-with-pan-epfo-all-services-stable-uidai-1024590.html
28-08-2021||National||Need to ensure press is free from bias: Justice Chandrachud||Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud on Saturday emphasised the need to ensure a free press to provide information in an unbiased manner. He also said that similarly, schools and universities need to be supported to ensure that they create an atmosphere where students can learn to differentiate truth from falsehood and develop a temperament for questioning those in power. "We must strive to ensure that we have a press that is free from influence of any kind, political or economic, which will provide us information in an unbiased manner," he said. Justice Chandrachud was delivering a talk on the topic "Speaking Truth to Power: Citizens and the Law" as part of the 6th MC Chagla Memorial Online Lecture. He said, to counter the spread of fake news, we need to strengthen our public institutions. "It has become exceedingly difficult for citizens to find the truth in this time and age. Second, having found the truth they do not care about the truth," Justice Chandrachud said.  He added "there is a contest between 'our truth' vs 'your truth', and there is also a tendency to ignore a 'truth', which is not aligned with one's perception or political inclination.  He pointed that social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook should be held responsible for false content, but people should also be more vigilant and learn to accept different opinions.  “We incline towards echo chambers and don't like opposing beliefs... we live in a world that is increasingly divided along social, economic and religious lines," he said. Justice Chandrachud further pointed out that it is undeniable that the phenomenon of fake news is on the rise and a pertinent example of this is that the World Health Organization (WHO) recently termed the current Covid-19 pandemic as “infodemic” and highlighted the overabundance of misinformation online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-ensure-press-is-free-from-bias-justice-chandrachud-1024613.html
28-08-2021||National||Fare of new economy AC coach 8% less than AC 3-tier: Indian Railways||Indian Railways has said the fare of the new economy class of air-conditioned will be 8% less than AC 3-tier. "The fares for Economy AC-3 are 8% less compared to the existing AC 3 tier class," Rajesh Dutt Bajpai, Executive Director (Information and Publicity) at Ministry of Railways said. New economy class in the trains has been introduced with premium features to provide comfortable journey to passengers, said the Railways. "New-Economy AC coaches will be introduced in express/ mail trains by replacing sleeper coaches. However, existing 3-AC coaches will continue to exist," said the Railways official. Already 50 new economy AC-3 tier coaches given to different zonal railways. Now since the fare is fixed, these coaches will be attached to existing mail express trains, Bajpai said. "The new class of travel will usher an era of affordable air-conditioned travel with premium features. As production picks up these new coaches will be attached in various Mail/Express and Superfast trains," he added. The first Economy AC-3 tier coach will be fitted in the special train 2403/04 Prayagraj-Jaipur Express under the North Central Railway and will start running from September. As per a circular from the  Ministry of Railways,  passengers opting for berths in the new Economy AC 3 tier coaches will have to pay 2.4 times the base fare of the sleeper travel in Mail/Express trains. The base fare for up to 300 kilometres of travel will be Rs 440 and will go up as distance increases. The base fare for the maximum distance slab of 4951-5000 kms will be Rs 3065. Other charges such as reservation fee, superfast charge, GST as applicable for AC3 classes will be levied separately. In the new coaches, several design improvements have also been made to enhancing passenger comfort like redesigning the AC ducting to provide individual vents for each berth. The coach also has improved and modular design of seats and berths, foldable snack tables in both longitudinal and transverse bays, injury-free spaces and holders for water bottles, mobile phones and magazines, the Railways said. The design of both Indian and Western-style lavatories have improved and public address and passenger information systems have been installed in coaches. Reading lights and mobile charging points are provided for each berth in addition to the standard socket, the Railways said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fare-of-new-economy-ac-coach-8-less-than-ac-3-tier-indian-railways-1024616.html
28-08-2021||National||ISRO conducts hot test of Gaganyaan Service Module Propulsion System||ISRO said it successfully conducted the first hot test of the System Demonstration Model (SDM) of the Gaganyaan Service Module Propulsion System for a duration of 450 seconds at the test facility of Propulsion Complex (IPRC), Mahendragiri, Tamil Nadu, on Saturday. The system performance met the test objectives and there was a close match with the pre-test predictions, the Bengaluru-headquartered space agency said in a statement. Further, a series of hot tests are planned to simulate various mission conditions as well as off-nominal conditions, it said. The Service Module (SM) is part of the Gaganyaan Orbital module and is located below the crew module and remains connected to it until re-entry, ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) explained. The SM Propulsion System consists of a unified bipropellant system consisting of five numbers of 440 N thrust engines and 16 numbers of 100 N Reaction Control system (RCS) thrusters with MON-3 and MMH as Oxidizer and Fuel respectively. "The SDM, consisting of five numbers of 440 N engines and eight numbers of 100 N thrusters, was realised to qualify the propulsion system performance in ground. A new test facility is established at IPRC, Mahendragiri for testing the SDM", the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-conducts-hot-test-of-gaganyaan-service-module-propulsion-system-1024619.html
28-08-2021||National||Modi inaugurates renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial, says not right to ignore such horrors||Dedicating a renovated complex of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial to the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi recalled that the people of Punjab have been the biggest victims of partition. At the event which showcased multiple development initiatives taken by the Modi government to upgrade the complex in poll-bound Punjab, Modi said, "it is not right for any country to ignore the horrors of its past. Therefore, India has decided to observe August 14 every year as 'Partition Horrors Remembrance Day'. He said it is the responsibility of every nation to preserve its history as it teaches us and gives us the direction to move forward. "It is not right for any country to ignore such horrors of its past," he insisted adding "we still feel the pain of what happened at the time of Partition in every corner of India and especially in the families of Punjab." The Prime Minister also mentioned that due to ‘Guru Kripa’ the government could bring ‘swaroop’ of the holy Guru Granth Sahib along with people to India from conflict-ravaged Afghanistan. "Today, if Indians are in trouble, anywhere in the world, then India stands up to help them with all its might. Be it the Corona period or the crisis of Afghanistan, the world has experienced it continuously," he said. Modi said on the 75th year of our Independence, this renovated complex of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial will remind the new generation about the history of this holy place and will inspire them to learn a lot about its past. He said horrors like the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and the Partition speak of the sacrifices made for India's freedom and should not be forgotten as they inspire to keep the country above all. Congress took a dig at the PM with chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala saying "Guru Modi ji inaugurated the Jallianwala Bagh light and sound show in Punjab today and disciple Khattar ji (Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar) got the General Dyer-like barbaric act live telecast by lathi-charging the farmers in Karnal."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-inaugurates-renovated-complex-of-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-says-not-right-to-ignore-such-horrors-1024633.html
28-08-2021||National||Unease in New Delhi over US move to de-link Taliban, Haqqani Network||The latest move by President Joe Biden’s administration to de-link the Taliban and its long-time affiliate Haqqani Network has not gone down well with India. The US State Department’s spokesperson Ned Price told journalists in Washington D.C. on Friday that the Taliban and the Haqqani Network were two separate entities. He made the comment when a journalist asked him if the US troops’ coordination with the Taliban to ensure the security of the Hamid Karzai Airport in Kabul extended to the Haqqani Network too. The statement by the US State Department came as a surprise for New Delhi. The Government of India has not yet officially reacted, but a source told the DH that New Delhi had taken note of it and would seek further clarity on the issue during its forthcoming engagements with the Biden Administration. Brahma Chellaney, eminent strategic affairs analyst, slammed the statement by the US State Department’s spokesperson as a “shameless big lie”. “(The) Haqqani Network, a front for Pakistan's ISI (Inter Services Intelligence), constitutes the Pakistan-reared Taliban's special forces. Khalil Haqqani is the security chief of the new theocracy,” tweeted Chellaney. With a large number of militants of the Haqqani Network deployed on the streets of Kabul, and its leader, Anas Haqqani, representing the Taliban in negotiations for forming the next government in Afghanistan, New Delhi recently warned the international community about the outlawed terrorist organisation based in Pakistan. Anas Haqqani is the son of the Haqqani Network’s founder Jalaluddin Haqqani and brother of its current leader Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is also one of the three deputy leaders of the Taliban, with the two others being Mullah Yaqoob, the son of Mullah Omar, and Mullah Baradar. Khalil Haqqani is the uncle of Sirajuddin Haqqani and the Taliban put him in charge of the security of Kabul after taking over the capital city of Afghanistan on August 15 last. The issue is likely to come up when Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla will meet his counterpart and the US Deputy Secretary of State, Wendy Sherman, in Washington D.C. next week. They are likely to exchange views on the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban took over in most of the provincial capitals as well as the national capital Kabul – 20 years after being ousted from power by a US-led military offensive. Shringla is likely to convey to Sherman that separating the Taliban and its long-time affiliate Haqqani Network not only goes against New Delhi’s position, but also contradicted the publicly articulated assessments of the top US military and intelligence officials in the past, the source said on Saturday. The ISI of Pakistan had in the past used the Haqqani Network to carry out attacks, not only on India’s diplomatic and consular missions in Afghanistan, but also on its citizens engaged in development projects funded by New Delhi in the conflict-ravaged country. “Events unfolding in Afghanistan have naturally enhanced global concerns about their implications for both regional and international security,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had said during a UN Security Council session on threats terrorism poses to international peace and security on August 19. “The heightened activities of the proscribed Haqqani Network justifies this growing anxiety.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unease-in-new-delhi-over-us-move-to-de-link-taliban-haqqani-network-1024650.html
28-08-2021||National||India should go to war with China if it does not vacate Indian territory: Subramanian Swamy||BJP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy on Saturday said India should go to war with China if the neighbouring country does not vacate Indian territory and go back to the Line of Actual control (LAC), which was mutually agreed upon by the two countries in 1993. He also suggested that India should only focus on settling the border dispute with Beijing and not "provoke" the neighbouring country by talking about Hong Kong, Taiwan and Tibet. The BJP leader was speaking at an event organised here to release a book, titled Blinkers Off, How Will The World Counter China, which is authored by Gaurie Dwivedi. "China is an extraordinarily important and dangerous threat to India.... Therefore, India has to be able to work out its strategy in such a way that it meets the threat and finally, puts China in its place," he said. Swamy noted that China has the "audacity" to occupy Indian territory while having extended meetings with the prime minister. "My view is that India should tell the Chinese that if you are not going to go back to what was the original position in 1993, we will go to war with you. We need a battle with the Chinese unless they voluntarily agree to withdraw...teach China a lesson that we are no more the India of 1962," he said. Suggesting that India should only focus on its land dispute with China, Swamy said talking about other issues will only aggravate the situation. "Don't talk about Hong Kong, Taiwan and Tibet. All you are doing is aggravating the situation. Focus on where China has gone wrong. They have crossed the LAC and occupied parts of our land," he said. Speaking at the event, Lieutenant General (retired) Sayed Ata Hasnain said there is a need to look at non-traditional threats from China such as those related to cyber security and economic threats. "In India, we love to talk about the military aspects of this (Sino-India) relationship. Is war a distinct possibility with China in the near future? To my mind, no," he said. Lieutenant General Hasnain, however, pointed out that it would be a "no-war-no-peace" situation like it is with Pakistan and if it continues, "it will be very dangerous for the posterity". "That is what China will keep you in and it is something we will have to rethink on how to counter this particular strategy that China is applying to us," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-should-go-to-war-with-china-if-it-does-not-vacate-indian-territory-subramanian-swamy-1024656.html
28-08-2021||National Politics||Mayawati says she is 'fit', no need to declare her 'heir'||Seeking to allay the speculations over her heir, BSP supremo Mayawati has made it clear that she does not need to choose one now as she is 'completely fit'. Speaking to reporters on Friday, Mayawati, however, added that her heir would be from the 'Dalit' community. ''I am fully fit now....I don't need to announce my heir at present....I will declare my heir if I feel that my health is not good,'' the BSP supremo said. She said that she would remain healthy for a long time. ''I did not contract a coronavirus infection despite the fact that Covid 19 pandemic has been there in the country for the past two years,'' she added. ''I also want to reiterate that my heir will be from the Dalit community. Dalit community has always helped me in every way. The party experienced many ups and downs but Dalit members remained firm in their support,'' Mayawati said. The BSP supremo said that the party founder Kanshiram too had not declared his heir as long as he was fit. ''He declared me as his heir only after he became unwell,'' Mayawati said. She accused the media of resorting to misinformation on the issue of her heir to 'mislead' the people. Mayawati's clarifications on her heir and that the heir would be from the Dalit community were intended to send a message to the Dalits, her core support base, that it would remain on top of her party's agenda even though the BSP might seek to expand its reach among the upper castes, especially the 'Brahmins' ahead of the next assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which are due in seven months time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-says-she-is-fit-no-need-to-declare-her-heir-1024517.html
28-08-2021||National Politics||Mehbooba Mufti alleges police prevented PDP youth wing meeting||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti Saturday alleged the police did not allow a meeting of the party's youth wing in Anantnag and also "roughed up" its members. Mehbooba, a former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, also said the Centre wants to justify its "iron-fist approach by branding all Kashmiris as perpetrators of violence". "PDP youth is not being allowed to conduct a meeting in Bijbehara today. The gates leading to Mufti sahab's grave have been locked & blocked with barbed wires. Can @JmuKmrPolice explain why were these young men roughed up?" Mehbooba said on Twitter. The PDP president said preventing the PDP youth from holding a meeting in South Kashmir “reinforces GOIs (Government of India's) strategy of not allowing any meaningful political engagement especially the one that involves Kashmiri youngsters”. "GOI wants to justify their iron fist approach by branding all Kashmiris as perpetrators of violence," she said. Mehbooba said the daily encounters where militants are killed have become a "source of celebration" for the Centre, but the PDP does not believe in violence. "We want to fight peacefully & politically. By discouraging political activities GOI is pushing Kashmiris to the wall," she said. Later, the activists of the party's youth wing protested the police's action and called for the restoration of electoral democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mehbooba-mufti-alleges-police-prevented-pdp-youth-wing-meeting-1024519.html
28-08-2021||National Politics||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh accuses PM Modi of being expert at renaming, relaunching schemes||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of being an expert at renaming and relaunching schemes. His remarks came on the 7th anniversary of the Jan Dhan Yojna which, he claimed, was renaming of UPA's 'savings bank deposit' scheme. "The PM has hailed the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana on its 7th anniversary. It is actually the 7th anniversary of the renaming of the UPA's Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account," he said on Twitter. The PM has hailed the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana on its 7th anniversary. It is actually the 7th anniversary of the renaming of the UPA's Basic Savings Bank Deposit Account. What an expert in renaming, repackaging and relaunching! "What an expert in renaming, repackaging and relaunching," he said. The government is celebrating the 7th anniversary of the Jan Dhan scheme. Taking to Twitter, the prime minister said, "Today we mark seven years of #PMJanDhan, an initiative that has forever transformed India's development trajectory. It has ensured financial inclusion and a life of dignity as well as empowerment for countless Indians. Jan Dhan Yojana has also helped further transparency." He also lauded the untiring efforts of all those who have worked to make the scheme a success, saying their efforts have ensured that the people of India lead a better quality of life. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-jairam-ramesh-accuses-pm-modi-of-being-expert-at-renaming-relaunching-schemes-1024544.html
28-08-2021||National Politics||Unable to defeat politically, BJP using agencies against TMC: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday lashed out at the BJP government at the Centre, alleging that since it was unable to counter the Trinamool Congress (TMC) politically, it is using Central agencies against her party. Addressing a virtual rally on the occasion of the foundation day of the TMC’s students’ wing the Trinamool Chhatra Parishad, Mamata warned the BJP that if it tries to use the ED against her party, she will also submit several evidences against the saffron party to the Central agency. “Since the BJP and the Centre cannot counter us politically, they are using agencies against us. If they try to intimidate me with the ED, I will send the agency several pieces of evidence against the BJP leaders,” said Mamata. Referring to the ED’s summon to her nephew and the TMC’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira, the Chief Minister dared the BJP to fight Abhishek politically. The combative Chief Minister also warned Union Home Minister Amit Shah not to indulge in such “political vendetta.” Abhishek and his wife have been summoned by the ED in a money laundering case allegedly related to a coal scam. “If you (BJP) want to do politics then maintain political courtesy. Fight Abhishek politically… I have never seen such political vendetta. Remember Amit Shah this can’t go on,” said Mamata. She also said that it was unfair to wrongly target the TMC over coal scams when the coal was under the Centre. Mamata alleged that BJP ministers were lodged in hotels run by coal mafias in Asansol while coming to Bengal for election campaigning She slammed the Centre over its National Monetisation Pipeline alleging that it was conspiring to sell the country. “The BJP government is a government of only bullets and abuse. It is an inhuman government. They will sell rail stations, Air India and coal of the country,” said Mamata, Taking a dig at the saffron party over its frequent corruption charges against the TMC, the Chief Minister said that the saffron party should get its own actions probed and asked where money from the PM-CARES fund went to.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/unable-to-defeat-politically-bjp-using-agencies-against-tmc-mamata-banerjee-1024549.html
28-08-2021||National Politics||Narayan Rane: Shiv Sena insider who turned enemy||Sidelined and cornered several times in his long political career, Narayan Rane knows the art of making space for himself. He is a master of comebacks. The 69-year-old Rane has seen successes and defeats and has occupied most of the top political posts in Maharashtra. A perfectionist to the core, Rane has a huge collection of watches. He is known to maintain timings—literally and politically. Rane, the minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the Narendra Modi government, is the bete noire of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.  Rane's "tight-slap slur" against Thackeray catapulted him to the front pages when he became the first sitting union minister from Maharashtra, and the first from India in two decades, to be arrested. Rane, the Konkan strongman, who dons a waistcoat over a white half-shirt and black trousers as his trademark attire, has a penchant for good clothes, suits and jackets, usually tailored as per his design. Though blessed with elephantine memory, the six-time legislator always keeps a small notebook in his pocket to write important things for his own reference. Besides being a hardcore politician, Rane is an agriculturist, businessman, educationist, hotelier, and newspaper owner. Born on April 10, 1952, in a humble family, Rane is a matriculate who owned a chicken shop in Chembur before entering politics. During the recent controversy, when Shiv Sainiks put up a poster saying “komdi-chor” (chicken thief), he chose not to respond to it.  In his younger days, Rane was alleged to be a part of the Harya-Narya gang operating in the Chembur area. He refutes the claim saying if he was a gangster why did the Shiv Sena make him the chief minister.  He entered politics through Shiv Sena. He was a corporator of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) from 1985-90 and subsequently the chairman of the BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST). When the erstwhile Shiv Sena-BJP alliance government came to power under Dr Manohar Joshi, Rane became the Dairy Development, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Khar Lands minister, and later got the crucial Revenue and Rehabilitation portfolio. When Dr Joshi was removed as chief minister, Rane got the chance and assumed the position between February 1, 1999, and October 17, 1999. Incidentally, in 1999, the Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha plus were held together and the saffron alliance lost and the Congress-NCP Democratic Front government came to power for 15 years, till 2014—which saw four chief ministers—Vilasrao Deshmukh, Sushilkumar Shinde, Ashok Chavan, and Prithviraj Chavan. Rane became the Leader of Opposition and tried to topple the Congress-NCP government but miserably failed. However, he became a thorn in the path of Uddhav's political ambitions. In 2005, Balasaheb threw him out of Shiv Sena for raising revolt. Rane then had two options—Sharad Pawar-led NCP which had several second-rung leaders, and Congress, which he chose ultimately. There he became the Revenue minister of Maharashtra under Deshmukh. Later, he was allotted the Industries department.  In Congress, Rane’s grudge was that he was never made the chief minister or Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) President as promised. In 2018, he finally resigned from Congress majorly owing to differences with Ashok Chavan and floated Maharashtra Swabhiman Paksha (MSP) to join the NDA. Subsequently, he was given the Rajya Sabha berth by the BJP. Rane’s older son Dr Nilesh Rane is a former MP from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg and his younger son is BJP MLA from Kankavli. A family man, Rane’s hotel is named after his wife Neelam. There are several qualities that earned him respect—but this "short temper" often leads to problems. His confidantes say that Rane does not waste a single minute. He sometimes loses his temper but cools down immediately, but in the process, he has lost many close aides. Rane believes in having experts to work with him, including chartered accountants, lawyers, retired IAS officers and subject-matter experts. "When he became the Revenue minister in 1996, he felt the need to keep up with the latest in the subject and took experts on the roll," said a confidante. The family insider added that Rane has a great "intelligence network" and gets to know many things beforehand. In fielding Rane for Jan Ashirvad Yatra, BJP's intentions have been quite clear—unsettle the Shiv Sena and hit them politically where it hits most.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narayan-rane-shiv-sena-insider-who-turned-enemy-1024603.html
28-08-2021||National Politics||Rahul thought my black cap was linked to RSS: Bhagat Singh Koshyari||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi on Saturday as he recalled that the Congress leader believed that the black cap, a traditional headwear from Uttarakhand, he wears was linked to the RSS and thought Hindutva ideologue Veer Savarkar was from the Sangh. Speaking on the launch of his book Bhartiya Sansad Main Bhagat Singh Koshyari, the former Uttarakhand chief minister, who has been associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, also said the government will have to deal with the kind of situation witnessed in Parliament's last session when people like him, a reference to Gandhi, are leading the opposition. Before Koshyari's speech, Union minister Piyush Goyal had slammed the opposition's conduct in the session as he lauded the Maharashtra governor's "sincere and dignified" role as an MP in Parliament. He must be feeling pained at what happened in Parliament, Goyal said. The Monsoon Session was a virtual washout as a united opposition disrupted its proceedings through except for the discussion on a bill linked to the Other Backward Classes. Rajya Sabha also witnessed a debate on Covid-19. Noting that opposition members torn papers, threw papers at the Chair and allegedly manhandled marshals, the government has accused them of unruly conduct never seen before. The opposition has accused the government's unparliamentary conduct for the impasse. In his speech, Koshyari said many people would react seeing his black cap in a same way as a bull does when shown a red cloth. "Rahul Gandhi asked me (then BJP MP) why do you wear a black cap? I told him people wear it in Uttarakhand. He says 'no, no, you are from the RSS'. I said I am from the RSS but the cap is from Uttarakhand. People have been wearing it there before the RSS was born," he said. A few months later, the Congress leader again enquired him about the cap while he was chatting with some MPs in Parliament, Koshyari said. "He again asked me why you wear a black cap... He said this is a RSS cap. I told him that I had said earlier too this is not a RSS cap. He still insisted. I asked him have you read anything about the RSS? He said 'yes, yes, I have read Savarkar'... Piyush ji you will have to live with this din and everything when such people are in leadership," he added. Though Savarkar is a Hindutva ideologue, he was never in the RSS. While the 79-year-old leader mocked at Gandhi, he praised Congress leader Jairam Ramesh. During a parliamentary debate on environment, Ramesh, who was the environment minister then, urged the Chair to give him more time to speak as he liked the content, Koshyari recalled. When the Chair disallowed the request, forcing the BJP MP to wrap up his speech, Ramesh came to him and said that he would reply to debate the next day instead of the same day as scheduled. He told Koshyari to speak what he could not say during the speech while seeking clarification on his reply, the former BJP leader said. While he feels disappointed at the state of Parliament, Koshyari said and named several leaders, many former opposition stalwarts, for their rich contribution to debates in the past and expressed confidence that people will elect members who will restore its earlier glory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-thought-my-black-cap-was-linked-to-rss-bhagat-singh-koshyari-1024637.html
28-08-2021||National Politics||Have nothing to do with ED probe into coal smuggling: BJP||The BJP on Saturday said it has nothing to do with the ongoing probe by Enforcement Directorate into allegations of coal smuggling against some Trinamool Congress leaders but the people of the state want the investigation to be over within a time frame and the unravelling of the truth. BJP state spokesman Samik Bhattacharya told reporters that in the past when investigations into any case against any TMC leader don't yield immediate results there was talk about "Didi-Modi (CM-PM) nexus" by the Left. "Now if there is any news related to the probe, TMC alleges vendetta politics," he said replying to a question on reports of ED issuing summons to Abhishek Banerjee, the TMC national general secretary and nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in connection with the coal smuggling probe. "We don't have anything to do (with the probe). We only want the truth to come out. Any talk about the probe gathering pace or not can be commented on by the investigating agency which works independently and not under us a political party," he said. Asked to comment on Abhisek Banerjee blaming Union Home Minister Amit Shah of resorting to vendetta politics after BJP lost in West Bengal assembly poll and TMC's outreach in Tripura, Bhattacharya said "He (Abhisek) has made a political point after ED summons. It is upto him to say whatever he wants to." About the claims by Mamata Banerjee that she can send documents to ED to back her claim about BJP leaders puttting up in a luxury hotel in Asansol, he retorted "Why doesn't she if she has any proof?". The TMC supremo has alleged that the BJP is working "hand in glove" with the coal mafia and that its leaders had been put up in a luxury hotel in Asansol, which is near the coal mines of the state. Regarding Mamata Banerjee's reservations on the visit of NHRC and CBI teams to meet victims of the post poll violence, the BJP leader said that over 50 members of the party had been killed in attacks by TMC in West Bengal since the end of the assembly election on May 2 this year. The figure was around 180 in past years. "These deaths didn't take place in Mars. The two arrests by CBI in Nadia today were in relation to the murder of a BJP worker in mid May. We are happy the NHRC and CBI are finding out the real truth of TMC attacks," he said. Tripura BJP will react to TMC's charges of attack on its party activists by the saffron camp in the north eastern state, he added. TMC state general secretary and spokesman Kunal Ghosh said BJP is using central agencies for its trumped up charges to harass leaders like Abhishek Banerjee. This was due to the desperation and frustration over BJP's poll debacle in West Bengal and the increasing influence of TMC in Tripura. "The NHRC and CBI reports on post-poll violence in Bengal is part of the same agenda of Amit Shah-led dispensation in Delhi to harass TMC, which enjoys the support of people," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/have-nothing-to-do-with-ed-probe-into-coal-smuggling-bjp-1024651.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Is Congress high command underestimating Baghel?||The Congress high command seems to be underestimating Chhattisgarh Chief Minister and powerful OBC leader Bhupesh Baghel, who single-handedly steered the grand old party in late 2018 to return to power in the mining state after a decade-and-half of BJP rule. The OBC community makes up roughly half of the state's estimated 2.75 crore population and Baghel is the undisputed leader of the community. There is a wider perception in Chhattisgarh that the top Congress leadership is underestimating a seasoned politician like Baghel based on 'misleading inputs' from a bunch of persons with vested interest and a few major mining players. It will certainly be a monumental mistake of the Congress' central leadership if it replaces Baghel as the Chief Minister. Congress workers in Chhattisgarh are hoping that better sense will prevail in Delhi and the party high-command will not hurt 'Chhattisgarhia's' pride, which Baghel symbolises. Baghel has clear backing of at least 55 MLAs who could go to any extent if the party high-command ignores their wishes. Congress has 70 MLAs in the 90-member state Assembly. The scion of the Surguja royal family, T.S. Singh Deo, allegedly backed by a major mining company, is pushing hard in his bid to replace Baghel, claiming that he was promised in late 2018 that he would succeed Baghel after the latter completes his two-and-half-year term. Analysts in Chhattisgarh have been surprised at the way the Congress high-command is attempting to handle the entire episode, as Singh Deo lacks acceptability among the party cadres and appeal in masses. Majority of the Congress MLAs say "what is the need to create a political uncertainty" in the state when Baghel is performing "exceptionally well" and the Congress high-command too has acknowledged it publicly. Analysts also claim that the Congress high-command needs to read the writing on the wall and should not commit suicide in Chhattisgarh. If Baghel is replaced, the dominant OBC community in Chhattisgarh will never accept the humiliation and the party might have to wait for another 15 years to explore chances of making a comeback in the mineral-rich state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/is-congress-high-command-underestimating-baghel-1024409.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Impose restrictions, if needed, to tackle crowd during festival season: Centre to states||The Centre on Saturday asked states to impose local restrictions, if required, to tackle large gatherings during the upcoming festival season while warning that enforcement of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks are on the decrease. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to Chief Secretaries of states and administrators in Union Territories as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) extended the implementation of targeted and prompt actions for Covid-19 management till September 30. Acknowledging that the overall pandemic situation at the national level now appeared to be "largely stable except for the localised spread of virus in few states", Bhalla said the total number of active cases and high case positivity in some districts "continue to remain a matter of concern". Bhalla directed the state and union territory administrations with high positivity rates in their districts to take pro-active containment measures to arrest the spike in cases and contain the spread of transmission. "It is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early" and take adequate measures, which requires a "localised approach", he said. One of the concerns raised in Bhalla's letter was the upcoming festival season and possibility of large gatherings in public places like markets that could lead to an increase in cases.  The states should take "suitable measures" to avoid large gatherings during the festival season and "if required, impose local restrictions" with a view to "curb" such large congregations. "In all crowded places, Covid-19-appropriate behaviour should be strictly followed. We need to continue to focus on the five-fold strategy i.e Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination and adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, for effective management of Covid-19," Bhalla wrote. Bhalla also highlighted that the weekly enforcement data received from states regarding wearing masks, maintaining social distancing norms and imposition of fines among others indicates a downward trend in enforcement. He asked the states and union territories to augment the enforcement efforts for effectively checking transmission of Covid-19.  On vaccination, he said the states should strive to vaccinate the maximum number of eligible people. "It must be ensured that areas having no virus or low virus transmission are adequately protected by progressively ramping up testing and other measures like ILI/SARI surveillance, market surveillance etc with strict enforcement of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour," Bhalla said. He reiterated that the officers should be made personally responsible for any laxity in the strict enforcement of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/impose-restrictions-if-needed-to-tackle-crowd-during-festival-season-centre-to-states-1024465.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||46 child labourers rescued in Uttar Pradesh's Sultanpur||As many as 46 child labourers were rescued during a two-day campaign conducted in the district by a cross-department team, officials said Saturday. They said several establishments were raided in multiple tehsils -- Kurebhar, Jaisinghpur, Kadipur, Lambhua, Baldi Rai, Sadar tehsil and Katka Bazar -- on Thursday and Friday as part of an ongoing campaign against the menace. Assistant Labour Commissioner Nasir Khan said the rescued children were taken for medical examination. He said action is being taken against such establishments under the Labour Act. A joint team has been constituted under the direction of District Magistrate Ravish Gupta and Chief Development Officer Atul Vats to run the campaign, he said. Police, labour department officials along with those of child line have also been included in the team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/46-child-labourers-rescued-in-uttar-pradeshs-sultanpur-1024477.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Anti-Muslim slogans at Jantar Mantar: Court dismisses bail plea of event organiser||A Delhi court has dismissed the bail application of one of the organisers of an event near Jantar Mantar where communal slogans were raised earlier this month. Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil denied relief to Preet Singh, arrested by the Delhi Police in the case, saying right to assemble and freedom to air one's thoughts are cherished under the Constitution, however, these are not absolute and have to be exercised with inherent reasonable restrictions. Singh was accused of creating enmity between different groups and inciting the youth to propagate against a particular religion at a rally at Jantar Mantar on August 8. The judge, on the basis of the material placed on record and submissions put forth by the prosecution, observed that prima facie there had been active participation by the accused in his individual capacity and also as the main organiser of the event itself. In its order passed on August 27, the court also noted that the event was conducted at Jantar Mantar in spite of the denial of permission by the Delhi Police and in total disregard to Covid­ protocol issued by the Union government. “It is apposite to mention that the applicant not only voluntarily organised the event but also actively participated and provided support to the views and contents of inflammatory speeches, which were being made by the participants/accused persons at that time, by acknowledging and endorsing via gestures and clapping intermittently,” the judge observed in the order. He said given the stature of the accused, it was expected that he ought to have exercised his authority, in these circumstances, and prevented participants from the airing such inflammatory opinions in the larger interest of the public and committee welfare. On the other hand, the applicant is clearly seen actively participating in the incendiary speeches along with his other associates, he said. “In addition, on prima facie analysis of the inflammatory and incendiary content of the speeches or interviews of the participants members of the event, comments especially those pertaining in express pejorative references to a religious community, and keeping in view that the applicant was an active organiser of the event, he can not later absolve himself of the responsibility of the content or consequences arising therefrom,” he said. The court also noted that an anticipatory bail application moved by co-accused and president of Hindu Raksha Dal, Pinki Chaudhary, on similar ground was dismissed earlier. The court also held that being an active, main organiser of the event, the accused was an influential personality and there was a possibility of him interfering with the investigation and influencing the witnesses of the case, if released on bail. While opposing the application, the prosecution told the court that the accusations were severity in nature and the investigation was still at a nascent stage. It also said a number of accused people were absconding and evading the process of law and the entire incriminating material is yet to be recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-muslim-slogans-at-jantar-mantar-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-event-organiser-1024480.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Efforts underway to develop Uttarakhand's Benital as 'astro-village'||The Chamoli district administration has stepped up efforts to develop Benital in Karnaprayag block as an 'astro-village', according to officials. A team headed by District Magistrate Himanshu Khurana visited Benital on Thursday to explore what can be done to generate interest among tourists in the upcoming project, they said. Located at an altitude of 2,600 metres above sea level, Benital will offer visitors an easy and close view of stars, planets, and astronomical events, once it becomes an astro-village equipped with large telescopes and a night-vision dome, the officials said. Cottages, pathways, tent platform, restaurant with a reception, and two parking lots are also being built in Benital by the Tourism department for visitors as part of the project, Khurana said. The department has estimated a total expense of Rs 5 crore for the project and submitted a report to the administration. It has entrusted the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam with the responsibility of developing Benital as an astro-village, the DM said. A preliminary clearance for transfer of forest land for the project has already been secured, he added. Khurana advised the department to immediately start repairing the road from Simli to Benital and putting up signage along the route to attract more and more tourists to the place. "Benital already has the potential to attract tourists due to its picturesque location. Once it becomes an astro-village, it can generate self-employment opportunities for locals due to increased tourist activities," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/efforts-underway-to-develop-uttarakhands-benital-as-astro-village-1024481.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi government to strengthen doorstep delivery of services set up 6,800 new beds in hospitals: Kejriwal||The Delhi government will strengthen doorstep delivery of services and set up 6,800 new beds in its hospitals, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. Inaugurating cloverleaf ramps, service roads and cycle track at the Mayur Vihar Phase-one flyover, the chief minister said the Barapullah project will be completed in the next one-and-a-half-years. According to Kejriwal, the cabinet has also decided to award Rs 130 crore tender for Health Management Information System (HIMS) to a private company. With this project, people will no longer have to stand in long queues at hospitals, he said. Under the cloud-based HIMS, people will get e-health cards and will be able to book online appointment with doctors at government hospitals. He said the doorstep delivery of services scheme will be strengthened by floating tenders for hiring two vendors. The contract of the current vendor ends this month and involving two companies will fuel competition, he added. The current strength of around 10,000 beds in Delhi government hospitals will be increased by 70 per cent by setting up 6,800 more beds in the next six months, he said. The chief minister said the Covid situation in Delhi is under control but the government is keeping a close watch and will take a decision on reopening of schools for junior classes accordingly. All government and private schools for classes 9-12, colleges, universities and coaching institutes in Delhi will reopen from September 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-to-strengthen-doorstep-delivery-of-services-set-up-6800-new-beds-in-hospitals-kejriwal-1024505.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||We are united, minor differences will be sorted out: Senior Punjab Congress leader Bhattal||Amid an ongoing tussle within the Punjab Congress camp, senior party leader Rajinder Kaur Bhattal has said all are united, asserting that minor differences will be sorted out. She termed Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's visit to her residence on Friday a “courtesy visit”. Singh's visit to his one-time bete noire's residence came a day after he met around 55 Congress MLAs and eight MPs over dinner at a cabinet colleague's home in an apparent show of strength. Asked about the developments in the party's state unit after her meeting with the chief minister, Bhattal said, “We all are united... minor differences will be sorted out… we all have to work for the party's win in the upcoming polls." The party leadership picked cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu a few weeks back as the Punjab Congress chief, ignoring opposition from Amarinder Singh. But the two camps in the state Congress have not yet called a truce. Bhattal, however, declined to comment on Sidhu's remarks made during his meeting with traders and industrialists in Amritsar on Thursday. "I haven't gone through what he has said," she said. In what could be seen as a dare to the Congress high command, Sidhu has asked it to allow him the freedom to take decisions or he will give a devastating reply. He said he didn't want to remain just a “show horse”. On Saturday, Congress leader Manish Tewari took to Twitter to make a veiled attack on Sidhu's comment. He posted a short video clip of the new Punjab Congress chief making the comments in Amritsar. Borrowing lines from a famous poet, Tewari, a former Union minister, wrote, "Hum aah bhi bharte hai to ho jaate hai badnaam, who katal bhi karte hain toh charcha nahi hota (Even if we sigh, we become infamous, even if they kill, there is no discussion)." Bhattal, a former chief minister who currently is the vice-chairperson of the State Planning Board, said, "Our aim is to ensure Congress again comes to power in the state." She said Amarinder Singh paid her a visit along with his daughter. "Various leaders meet me from time to time, and I meet them too. I always say that we have to unitedly move, and whatever differences exist should be resolved like a family, and we should strengthen the party," she told reporters, replying to a related question. Asked to further comment on the ongoing developments within the state unit, Bhattal said, “All issues are before the high command, and we have to abide by whatever they say.” Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/we-are-united-minor-differences-will-be-sorted-out-senior-punjab-congress-leader-bhattal-1024508.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Punjab Congress crisis: Harish Rawat to visit state soon; briefs Rahul Gandhi||Amid the continued infighting in the Punjab Congress, AICC general secretary Harish Rawat Saturday said he would visit the state soon as he briefed former party president Rahul Gandhi on the situation. Rawat apprised Gandhi of the latest developments as factions supporting Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu engaged in a war of words. "I have briefed him on whatever the situation in Punjab is," Rawat, also the in-charge of party affairs in the state, told reporters after meeting Gandhi here. "In the next two-three days, I will visit Punjab and will meet party leaders. I will also meet Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and PCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu," he said. The Punjab Congress finds itself as a divided lot a few months ahead of assembly elections, with Singh and Sidhu being at loggerheads. The infighting refuse to die down even after the former cricketer was appointed the PCC chief. Sidhu has also urged the party leadership to give him freedom in decision-making, telling them that he does not want to be a dummy party chief. He said this after one of his advisers -- Malvinder Singh Mali -- had to quit following pressure from the chief minister's camp over his alleged controversial remarks on Kashmir. After this, some dissident ministers and MLAs had met Rawat at Dehradun and demanded the chief minister's removal. However, Rawat made it clear that the next assembly elections would be fought under Singh’s leadership. The chief minister's camp also sought action against Sidhu over Mali’s remarks on Kashmir and Pakistan||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-congress-crisis-harish-rawat-to-visit-state-soon-briefs-rahul-gandhi-1024521.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Honey Singh's wife breaks down during hearing in domestic violence case||Punjabi singer and actor Yo Yo Honey Singh's wife broke down in the courtroom Saturday during a hearing in the domestic violence case she has filed against her husband and his family. "I am left with no option. I gave him 10 years. I left everything. I stood by him. He has abandoned me," Shalini Talwar told Metropolitan Magistrate Tania Singh at Delhi's Tis Hazari court. In response, the judge said she is concerned about the petitioner's mental wellbeing. "What do you want from the court now? What stage is the marriage at? Where is the love lost?" the magistrate asked her. Furthermore, the judge said it would be appropriate if the case could be settled. Also, the magistrate came down heavily on Honey Singh for not appearing before the court Saturday and for not filing his income affidavit. "No one is above the law. Surprised to see how this case is being taken so lightly," the judge remarked. Expressing displeasure, the court told Singh's counsel Ishan Mukherjee, "Honey Singh has not appeared. You have not filed his income affidavit and are not prepared with the arguments." Singh had moved an application seeking exemption from appearance in the case, citing medical reasons. Allowing the exemption plea, the judge gave him one last opportunity to appear before the court on September 3 at 12:30 pm. His wife appeared physically before the court. Talwar has filed a domestic violence case against her singer-actor husband and sought Rs 20 crore as compensation from him under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act. Hirdesh Singh, known professionally as Yo Yo Honey Singh, and Talwar tied the knot on January 23, 2011. In her plea filed through advocate Sandeep Kapur, Talwar charted out how she was allegedly physically assaulted by Singh over the last 10 years. She has also alleged that Honey Singh cheated on her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/honey-singhs-wife-breaks-down-during-hearing-in-domestic-violence-case-1024525.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Pakistani man held for spying in 2006 in Gwalior being repatriated||A Pakistani national, who was caught for spying 15 years back in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior, is being sent back to his country, over a year after he completed his jail term as the coronavirus pandemic delayed the repatriation process earlier, an official said on Saturday. "Pakistani spy Abbas Ali was sent to Wagah border on Thursday under police security, from where he will be handed over to his country," Gwalior Central Jail's Manoj Kumar Sahu said. Ali, 43, was caught for spying in March 2006 with objectionable documents from Nai Sadak area under Inderganj Police Station's jurisdiction of Gwalior. "A court had sentenced him to 14 years of imprisonment, which completed on March 26 last year. But he could not be repatriated due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic," he said. Since then, he was kept in a detention centre here and now sent to Wagah border, Sahu said, adding that Ali is scheduled to be handed over to Border Security Force (BSF) on Saturday. According to officials, Ali is a resident of Rahim Yar town in Pakistan's Punjab province.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-man-held-for-spying-in-2006-in-gwalior-being-repatriated-1024528.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Vaccination, ration distribution in Delhi schools to continue after classes start from Sept 1: Kejriwal||Vaccination and ration distribution centres set up in schools in the national capital will still be operational after they reopen for classes 9 to 12 from September 1, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. Following a marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the city, the Delhi government on Friday announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions will reopen from September 1. "There are plenty of classrooms and no dearth of space. Vaccination and ration distribution will continue in schools where it is underway," Kejriwal said, responding to a question on the subject. "Since students of only four classes are being called in the first phase, space will not be a major issue. The vaccination area will be kept separate from where students are allowed," he told reporters on the sidelines of an event here. Asked about concerns of a possible third wave of the pandemic, the chief minister said, "Today the Covid situation in Delhi is under control. Earlier, parents were reluctant too but now parents also want their children to go to schools and study in a classroom setup." "We will be reopening schools slowly. If the need to close them arises again, we will see," he added. Following the decision by the government to reopen schools, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia reiterated that no student will be forced to attend physical classes. "We will soon issue detailed SOP and guidelines for reopening. No student will be forced to attend physical classes, they will have the option to continue with online classes," he said. While majority of schools have welcomed the decision to reopen, parents are still divided about the idea amid concerns of an imminent third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccination-ration-distribution-in-delhi-schools-to-continue-after-classes-start-from-sept-1-kejriwal-1024529.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Man stitches wife's private parts over suspected infidelity||Suspecting his wife of infidelity, a 55-year-old man allegedly stitched her private parts in Madhya Pradesh's Singrauli district, police said on Saturday. The incident took place in Raila village under Mada police station area, around 30 km from the district headquarters, on August 24, additional superintendent of police (ASP) Anil Sonkar said. The accused, who is a quack, suspected his 52-year-old wife of having an extramarital affair with another man, the official said. The man stitched his wife's private parts over suspicion of infidelity, he said, adding that the victim was admitted to the district hospital, where she underwent treatment for her injuries. The middle-aged couple have children who are married, the official said. A case under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 498 (detaining with criminal intent) and other relevant provisions of the IPC was registered at Bandhora police post, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-man-stitches-wifes-private-parts-over-suspected-infidelity-1024538.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Ballia rape victim’s mother demands death penalty for accused BSP MP||The mother of a 24-year-old woman, who had alleged rape by BSP MP Atul Rai, has demanded that the accused politician be sentenced to death. "My daughter was very talented and she was preparing for civil services. She would definitely have become something but she embraced death in agony. I wish that MP Atul Rai, who is responsible for the death of my daughter, should also be sentenced to death..." the victim's mother told media in her native village at Narhi police station area here Friday. "Despite our bad financial state, we will fight to ensure justice to our daughter," she said, adding that she has faith in Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath-led UP government. On August 16, the victim and her friend Satyam Rai had set themselves on fire before the Supreme Court. Satyam Rai died on August 21 and the woman died during treatment in Delhi on Tuesday. Before the suicide, both had shared their pain on social media. The victim, a resident of Ballia district, was a college student in Varanasi. A case of rape was lodged against Bahujan Samaj Party's Ghosi (Mau) MP Atul Rai at the Lanka police station there in May 2019 on her complaint. In connection with self-immolation by the victim and her associate before the Supreme Court on August 16, the government had set up an inquiry committee, Director General of Police (DGP) Mukul Goel said in a statement Friday. In its interim investigation report, the committee found Atul Rai and Amitabh Thakur prima facie guilty of abetting the victim and her associate witness to commit suicide and other charges and recommended registering a case against them and starting investigation. On Friday, police registered a case against Atul Rai and former IPS Amitabh Thakur at Hazratganj Kotwali in Lucknow on charges of abetting suicide and fabricating evidence. Thakur has been arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ballia-rape-victim-s-mother-demands-death-penalty-for-accused-bsp-mp-1024542.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi government nominates three doctors for Padma awards: CM Kejriwal||A Delhi government committee has shortlisted the names of doctors S K Sarin, Suresh Kumar and Sandeep Budhiraja to be recommended for Padma awards this year, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday. He said a total of 740 names of doctors and paramedics were recommended for the awards by 9,427 people out of which the three names were shortlisted by the committee headed by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. The committee shortlisted the names of ILBS vice chancellor Dr S K Sarin who established first plasma bank and genome sequencing facility of Delhi government, LNJP hospital's medical director Dr Suresh Kumar and group director of Max hospital Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, he said. The Delhi government had decided to recommend the names of only doctors and paramedics for the Padma awards this year and had asked Delhiites to suggest the names, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-nominates-three-doctors-for-padma-awards-cm-kejriwal-1024551.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi records zero Covid-19 death, 29 new cases; positivity rate 0.04%||No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi for the third consecutive day on Saturday, while 29 fresh cases of the viral disease were reported with a positivity rate of 0.04 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the 18th time since the national capital was hit by the second wave of the pandemic that zero fatality due to the disease was logged in a day. No death due to Covid-19 was recorded on July 18, July 24, July 29, August 2, August 4, August 8, August 11, August 12, August 13, August 16, August 20, August 21, August 22, August 23, August 24, August 26 and August 27 too, according to official data. On March 2, the national capital had reported zero death due to the virus. The number of single-day cases was 217 on that day and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave of the pandemic swept through the city in April-May. On Friday, 46 fresh cases were recorded as the positivity rate stood at 0.06 per cent, while no death was reported due to Covid-19, according to official data. The daily cases count and the positivity rate dropped to 29 and 0.04 per cent respectively on Saturday, according to the latest health bulletin. On Thursday, 45 fresh cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 0.06 per cent. On Wednesday, the city registered 35 cases and one fatality due to the disease, while the positivity rate stood at 0.05 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-zero-covid-19-death-29-new-cases-positivity-rate-004-1024552.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Police lathi-charge protesting farmers near Karnal; 10 injured||A big political row erupted after nearly 10 persons were injured on Saturday as Haryana police allegedly lathi-charged a group of farmers on their way to Karnal disrupting traffic movement on the highway. In reaction, the farmer blocked many state/national highways including the Fatehabad-Chandigarh, Panchkula-Shimla, Gohana-Panipat, Jind-Patiala, Ambala-Chandigarh and the Hisar-Chandigarh NH, while Congress shared screenshots of pictures of farmers "bleeding" after the lathi-charge.  Farmers blocked roads at the call of Samyukt Kisan Morcha for road and toll plaza blockade till 5 pm Saturday to protest injuries to “dozens of farmers” and detention of some farmers by Karnal police. The lathi charge took place as the farmers were heading towards Karnal to protest against a BJP meeting being attended by  Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar and other senior party leaders. Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, "While farmers were 15 km away from the site (of BJP meet), the police action shows the intentions of the government which seems to have made up its mind to beat up the farmers. There should be an impartial investigation into this whole incident and strict action should be taken against the culprits." While the police said it only used "mild force",  Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi hit out at the BJP government, saying each baton on farmer will prove a nail in the coffin of BJP, while the party compared the action against farmers in Haryana with that of the Jallianwala Bagh incident and calling Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government "General Dyer government". "CM-Dy CM's conspiracy to attack farmers in Karnal is clear from the orders of the Duty Magistrate, who is ordering the police to break the heads of farmers and lash them with sticks. BJP-JJP is the 'General Dyer' government. Khattar Sahib, Today in Karnal sticks have been blown on the soul of every Haryanvi. The oppression of the sinful BJP government that bleeds farmers is like demons. The coming generations will remember the blood from farmers' bodies flown on the streets,'' AICC communication department chief Randeep Surjewala said. "Farmers give robust crops in farms but the BJP government hurts them by baton charging when they demand their rights. Every baton on the farmers' back will prove a nail in the BJP government's coffin," said Priyanka Gandhi in a Facebook post. Calling BJP anti-farmer, Rahul Gandhi said, "Once again they have spilt the blood of farmers and shamed India." Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni alleged that the police brutally lathi-charged the protesting farmers, leaving many injured. Indian National Lok Dal and Swaraj India also condemned the police action. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-lathi-charge-protesting-farmers-near-karnal-10-injured-1024556.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt making 'thorough' preparations for possible third Covid wave: Jain||The Delhi government is not taking any chances and making "thorough" preparations for an impending third wave of Covid-19, Health Minister Satyendar Jain has said. Jain also thanked doctors who sacrificed their lives during the pandemic and said that their names will be written in golden words. Jain urged people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and asked them not to become negligent. The health minister was speaking at the sixth felicitation ceremony for healthcare workers of government hospitals -- Institute of Liver & Biliary Sciences (ILBS), Vasant Kunj; Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital in Ashok Vihar; Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Mangolpuri and Burari Hospital -- in northwest Delhi at Delhi Vidhan Sabha on Friday. "Their (healthcare workers) dedicated service saved precious lives, their supreme sacrifice cannot be forgotten and shall be written in the pages of history in letters of gold. "The Arvind Kejriwal government salutes the selfless and dedicated service of healthcare workers, who had put their own lives at stake and stood with the Delhi government day in and day out to fight this deadly disease." He said the government is doing its best and learning from experiences to prevent the third wave but following Covid-appropriate behaviour is very important, and thus people must not become negligent. Jain stressed that the government's preparations for an impending third wave are "thorough''. The government has its ear to the ground and is not taking any chances, he said, asserting that 37,000 Covid-19 dedicated beds are being laid out, include 12,000 ICUs beds.  "Along with this, 47 PSA oxygen plants along with five LMO storage tanks have already been set up in the city with many more to come up. "Moreover our vision is to move a step forward by making ICU facilities so readily available in the capital that even a normal oxygen bed can be converted into an ICU one instantly without having to shift the patients," he said. The health minister asked people to remain vigilant to stop another outbreak, and advised them to not panic in case they get infected or have symptoms.  "Being motivated and calm boosts the recovery process," he said. Vidhan Sabha Speaker Ram Niwas Goel also praised the senior doctors and healthcare workers.  "The name 'frontline warriors' given to doctors and healthcare workers is absolutely correct as just like the army on the border, they didn't think about their lives but worked selflessly towards rescuing precious lives from the clutches of the deadly coronavirus," he said. Goel stated that the Vidhan Sabha will continue to organise such felicitation programmes for the ''corona warriors'' of the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-making-thorough-preparations-for-possible-third-covid-wave-jain-1024565.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Not all schools in Delhi prepared to resume bus services yet, say school principals||Travelling to schools once physical classes resume may be a challenge for students as not all schools are prepared to resume their bus services yet, according to school principals. Following a marked improvement in the Covid-19 situation in the national capital, the Delhi government on Friday announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions will reopen from September 1. "As of now, the school is not providing school buses or any transport facility. Students who are willing to join the school will have to come on their own. It is not mandatory for students to come to school. Those who wish to continue their studies online will be free to do so," Alka Kapur, Principal, Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh told PTI. "School will provide transportation facilities once the government issues the guidelines or the Covid situation is under control. It will take us some time to adjust to the new post-Covid realities,” she added. The Delhi government has clarified that no student will be forced to attend physical classes and the consent of parents will be mandatory. "It is not certain right now how many parents will give consent for students to attend classes physically. We will reach out to parents in the coming week and if we get a good number of students we will speak to the bus operators and make arrangements. "Since almost a year, the arrangements with transport operators have been suspended and no transport fees is being charged from students," said the principal of a private school, who did not wish to be identified. Another school principal said, "We will wait for the SOPs issued by the government to see what are they recommending about travel in school buses. We are definitely not prepared to begin bus service from September 1, but we will take a call in the coming weeks after evaluating all factors”. Separate entry and exit to avoid crowding, calling 50 per cent students of classroom seating capacity, increased facility for cleaning and sanitisation, availability of quarantine room and random collection of samples of students and staff on regular basis, no sharing of lunch and stationary items by students are among the SOPs recommended by the DDMA committee. The DDMA panel has not made any recommendations for the SOPs for travel by students in school buses. Schools in the national capital were ordered shut last year in March ahead of a nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of coronavirus. While several states started partial reopening of schools from October last year, the Delhi government allowed reopening in January only for classes 9 to 12. However, schools were again completely shut in April following an aggressive second wave of Covid-19. Majority of schools in the national capital had not resumed their bus services when schools reopened briefly earlier this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/not-all-schools-in-delhi-prepared-to-resume-bus-services-yet-say-school-principals-1024581.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Suspense over Chhattisgarh CM issue still looms due to lack of clarity from Congress high command||As Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and the MLAs returned to Raipur so has TS Singh Deo but suspense still looms on the issue of rotational chief minister as there is no clarity from the top leadership of the Congress party, while the only official communication after Friday's meet was from the chief minister himself. However, sources say that the issue is not yet over and the top leadership is likely to talk to Singh Deo before arriving at any decision. For the time being Baghel has got a reprieve from Delhi, but there is no clarity on whether it is permanent or temporary, and no official statement has been issued. Singh Deo who is pushing on the formula of rotational chief minister is maintaining a line that everything is in the purview of the party leadership and whatever decision will be taken by them will be accepted, but the supporters of the two leaders are confused as there is no clear signal from Delhi. The meeting between Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel lasted three hours on Friday but saw no decision being taken on a leadership change, party sources said. After the meeting, Baghel said that he has invited Rahul Gandhi to visit the state. "I have apprised him of everything and discussed political as well as administrative issues... have requested Rahul Gandhi to visit Chhattisgarh," he said. The Congress high command had summoned Baghel to Delhi on Friday to take a final call on whether the powerful OBC leader should be allowed to continue as the Chief Minister or be replaced by TS Singh Deo, the scion of the Surguja royal family. The Baghel camp claimed the support of 56 MLAs. The Congress has 70 MLAs in the 90-member House in the mineral-rich state, but everything is still not well within the grand old party as Singh deo is pushing hard in his bid to replace Baghel, saying he was promised in late 2018 that he would succeed Baghel after the latter completes two-and-a-half-years of his term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspense-over-chhattisgarh-cm-issue-still-looms-due-to-lack-of-clarity-from-congress-high-command-1024594.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police file charge sheet against four for alleged rape, murder of 9-year-old girl||The Delhi police filed a charge sheet in a court here on Saturday against a crematorium priest and three others for the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old girl in the Delhi Cantonment area earlier this month. The final report named Radhey Shyam, the 55-year-old priest of the crematorium in South-West district, and its employees - Kuldeep Singh, Salim Ahmad and Laxmi Narayan - as accused. The four have been booked under sections 302 (murder), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, along with the relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act. Delhi Police registered a case on the basis of the statement of the minor's mother, who alleged that her daughter was raped and murdered and later cremated without the family's consent on August 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-file-charge-sheet-against-four-for-alleged-rape-murder-of-9-year-old-girl-1024596.html
28-08-2021||North and Central||Security forces will act tough against militants, OGWs to maintain peace: J&K Police chief||Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbag Singh on Saturday said security forces will act tough against militants and their supporters in the Kashmir Valley to maintain the prevailing peaceful atmosphere. "We will act strictly against terrorists and their supporters, including OGWs (over ground workers of terrorist outfits). It is the OGWs who carry a pistol to do selective killing and throw grenades to target innocent civilians. We are going very tough against them," Singh told reporters in Bandipora district of north Kashmir. He said the situation in the district has improved and was peaceful even though there were attempts recently to vitiate the atmosphere. "A group of terrorists which had infiltrated and wanted to carry out terror activities was neutralised recently. A huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from them,” he said, adding that security forces will not allow the prevailing peaceful situation in the valley to deteriorate. Earlier, the Director-General of Police (DGP) addressed a meeting of officers and jawans and chaired a meeting of officers of the Army, CRPF, BSF and the police to review the security scenario in the district. Singh directed the security forces to keep pressure on anti-national elements and identify the areas and people aiding them. The DGP said that synergy between all forces in Jammu Kashmir has ensured peace. The Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) of Bandipora and other officers briefed the DGP on the security measures being taken in the district. Referring to the recent successes on the law and order front, the DGP said the police force is known for its bravery and professionalism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-forces-will-act-tough-against-militants-ogws-to-maintain-peace-jk-police-chief-1024606.html
28-08-2021||Opinion||Kabul attacks embarrassment for Taliban||The responsibility of the two suicide bombings at Kabul airport on August 26, which resulted in the death of 13 US marines, over 100 Afghan soldiers, several Taliban and injuries to a large number of persons, has been claimed by the Islamic State Khorasan (ISK), a regional affiliate of the Islamic State (IS). That these attacks occurred despite a prior warning by the US agencies indicate diminution in the US intelligence and military capabilities and tenuous control of the Taliban fighters on the ground in Kabul, despite manning numerous checkpoints. The US, Canada, UK, Germany, India and many other countries have condemned these terrorist acts. US President Joe Biden has vowed to hunt down the culprits and ordered drone strikes on IS's targets. There has been severe criticism of Biden's policies by both the Democrats and Republicans and by the US allies for impetuously withdrawing the US troops, closing down the Bagram airbase and reducing the US to a supplicant before the Taliban. Despite this criticism, Biden has stuck to his August 31 deadline for the US withdrawal even though the USA may not be able to evacuate everyone that it wants. The ISK was set up in 2014 by the IS comprising Pakistani militants and fighters from the "Khorasan", a historical region comprising Central and South Asia (including Central Asian countries, parts of China, Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh) and other countries. It managed to seek the support of certain Taliban elements who were unhappy with their leadership's talks with the US or were attracted to the IS's more extreme transnational ideology, which calls for the establishment of a global caliphate through a war that would kill or enslave all those who do not adhere to its extremist interpretation of Islam. The IS is opposed to the Taliban, and other Pakistan supported terror groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed as the latter have an Afghanistan based agenda or regional agenda dictated by Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). The ISK has accused the Taliban of abandoning jihad for a negotiated peace settlement with the US. The ISK's strength, according to some US researchers, was about 5,000 in 2018. But many of them were killed in subsequent bombings by the US and fighting with the Taliban. Now their number is reduced to about 2,000, mainly in the provinces of Nangarhar, Nuristan, Kunar and Laghman bordering Western Pakistan. Their ranks swelled after the Taliban broke open the Pul-e-Charkhi prison in Kabul last week releasing many IS and Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP)militants. The current leader of the ISK is Shahab al-Muhajir. There are reports that the Taliban's Haqqani Network and other Pakistan based terror groups have aided some IS attacks in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region between 2019-21. Beyond numerous bombings and massacres from 2016-18, the ISK failed to hold any territory in the region and now operates through covert cells near cities and prefers to carry out high profile attacks on soft targets such as Kabul airport. The Kabul attacks have been a major embarrassment for the Taliban though it is trying to save face by saying that these took place in the US-controlled areas. These will upset the calculations and plans of many countries supporting it, such as China, Russia and Pakistan. They demonstrate that the control of the Taliban in Kabul and other parts of Afghanistan is nebulous, and despite its promises, it is yet to control the various terror groups such as the IS, TTP, Al-Qaeda, East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM), and Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU) proliferating on the Afghan soil. Until it takes some firm action, China and Russia may be reluctant to recognise a Taliban government immediately. China is already unhappy with Pakistan for not being able to control the escalating attacks against its personnel in Pakistan. Given that the Taliban's priority is setting up its government, it is unlikely to immediately take effective action quickly against the IS militants. Pakistani leaders were asking the US and European countries to engage the Taliban diplomatically and provide financial and other assistance; this is unlikely until the Taliban can show definite progress in establishing an inclusive government and respecting its people's human rights. Many Americans, the US's allies and partners and Afghan people are angry at President Biden's botched withdrawal of the US troops. They ask why the US and its allies did not withdraw their personnel and military equipment before withdrawing troops. China and Russia are taking jibes at the US fickleness and its unreliability as a security partner. President Biden withdrew the US troops on the premise that Afghanistan won't become a terror haven for the US. His promise carries little meaning now as jihadists in Afghanistan have already started attacking the US. Its global standing has weakened, and many people are questioning whether the USA should have left Afghanistan in this irresponsible and humiliating manner. (Yogesh Gupta is a Former Ambassador.) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/kabul-attacks-embarrassment-for-taliban-1024561.html
28-08-2021||Opinion||Forget ‘chappal-wallahs’ flying, first let them move around on bikes||Corporate India rarely speaks out against the government. So, it was a surprise to see not one but two boss-men of the auto industry question the government on not walking the talk when it came to their industry. As Maruti Suzuki chairman R C Bhargava put it: “There have been a lot of statements made [by the government] on the importance of the auto industry. But in terms of concrete action, which would reverse the decline in trend, I haven’t seen any on the ground.” Vehicle sales have been down in the dumps for a few years now. The pandemic has only made the situation worse. Domestic two-wheeler sales peaked at 21.18 million units in 2018-19. They fell to 17.42 million in 2019-20, before the covid pandemic struck. They fell further to 15.12 million units in 2020-21. Passenger car sales have fallen from 3.38 million units in 2018-19 to 2.77 million units in 2019-20 and 2.71 million units in 2020-21. Commercial vehicle sales fell from around a million units in 2018-19 to about 0.57 million in 2020-21. Only tractor sales have jumped from 0.79 million units in 2018-19 to 0.90 million in 2020-21, telling us that the rural rich have done better than most of the population. Clearly, a bulk of the fall in auto sales happened before Covid struck. This slowdown has had a negative impact on the economy. Auto majors don’t themselves produce most of the components that go into the making of their vehicles. That activity is outsourced. So, if sales fall, leading to a fall in production, it impacts everyone down the line -- from steering makers to tyre makers to steel makers to companies producing the plastic that goes into these vehicles. These companies employ many contract workers. Hence, when production contracts, the negative multiplier effect goes all the way down to thousands of individuals losing job contracts. So, why have vehicle sales been dull? In the case of commercial vehicles, it is a direct function of the lack of fresh investment in the economy. The answer for two-wheeler and passenger car sales is slightly more detailed. Of course, the negative economic impact of Covid has had a role to play. But sales fell even in 2019-20, when there was no Covid. One reason for sales contraction is the increase in prices. As TVS Motors chairman Venu Srinivasan said at the same event where Bhargava spoke up, “The price of the moped has gone up 45-50%. The GST on two-wheelers is the same as (that on) a luxury-level product.” The sales of mopeds fell from 0.88 million in 2018-19 to 0.64 million in 2019-20 to 0.62 million in 2020-21. Other than GST, the price increase has been on account of a series of new government mandates, like the Bharat Stage-VI norms, a rise in insurance costs, and the introduction of new safety features. The high price of petrol and diesel has been, especially over the last two years, another negative factor holding people back. The price of non-branded petrol averaged at Rs 71.4 per litre in 2016-17 in Mumbai. It averaged Rs 107.2 per litre in July 2021. Diesel prices in Mumbai have gone up from an average of Rs 60 per litre in 2016-17 to Rs 97.3 in July 2021. The higher price of petrol and diesel is due to an increase in central excise duty on them. In October 2018, the excise duty on petrol and diesel was Rs 16.98 and Rs 12.83 per litre, respectively. It currently stands at Rs 32.90 and Rs 31.80 per litre, respectively. The major reason for this increase is a massive fall in corporate tax collections. In 2018-19, it had stood at Rs 6.64 lakh crore. It fell to Rs 5.57 lakh crore in 2019-20. It fell further to Rs 4.57 lakh crore in 2020-21, partly due to the cut in corporate income tax rates that the government gifted to the corporates. The government has compensated for its loss of revenue by making the common man pay higher excise duty on every litre of petrol and diesel bought. The second-order effect of this has been that passenger car sales and two-wheeler sales have been negatively impacted. That fall in sales has had a negative impact on the overall economy. Another major reason for the fall in auto sales lies in the fact that many individuals do not have enough confidence in their economic future to take on an auto loan to fund the purchase. Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia recently said: “We want to provide an affordable air travel facility to the common people. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has time and again said this facility should be such that even a person wearing “hawai chappal” (slippers) can travel by air.” But before everyone can afford to fly between cities, it would be great if they could move around in their cities on their mopeds, scooters and motorcycles, or even small cars, for that matter. And that is something that has slowed down over the last few years. A cut in the GST rate, at least on two-wheelers, would be a step in the right direction. At the risk of sounding like a broken record, there is no free lunch. Someone’s got to foot the bill. The trouble is that that someone doesn’t always know that they are the ones paying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/forget-chappal-wallahs-flying-first-let-them-move-around-on-bikes-1024668.html
28-08-2021||Opinion||Blood and tears, instead of milk and honey||Most people know jazz poet Gil Scott-Heron from his song The revolution will not be televised – and if you don’t, then you should. The song that I want to talk about, though, appears later on in his 1970 album Small Talk at 125th and Lenox. That song, or rather poem read to music, is titled Comment #1. Comment #1 is meant to express skepticism about the possibility of an alliance between supposedly radical white student groups with black power groups. Scott-Heron aims to communicate how activists from the white majority would never be able to truly fathom the struggle of the economically destitute, who are also socially discriminated and marginalised. He wonders why I tell him that America’s revolution will not be the melting pot/But the toilet bowl. He is fighting for legalised smoke or lower voting age…/All I want is a good home and a wife. And her children and some food to feed them every night. A related theme in the song is that of the relationship – or the lack of it – between the marginalised individual and the majority’s nation as a whole. This ever-strained relationship between the dominant idea(l) of the nation, such as that we, in India, celebrated this 75th Independence Day, and the everyday reality of those it has discarded, was something that the chief architect of India’s Constitution, Babasaheb Ambedkar was rather intimately familiar with. Through independence, we sought freedom from an imperialist power, from external subjugation. But what promise did an independent Indian nation hold out for the socially stigmatised and marginalised? Would communities such as the Dalits not continue, within a nation free of external rule, to suffer under the empire of Brahmanism, to be internally subjugated? Ambedkar referred to this as the ‘contradiction’ of Indian democracy and spoke of it recurrently in the Constituent Assembly. With the support of Constitutional Adviser B N Rau and Drafting Committee Member K M Munshi, Ambedkar thus sought to prioritise the dignity of every individual in India, irrespective of caste, over jingoistic demands of the nation. This is why the Preamble to the Constitution reads: “assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity [and integrity] of the nation.” That is, the dignity of the individual comes first, always first. But this is quite the opposite of what we have been hearing a lot lately from the top. ‘Nation first, always first’ has been a recurrent mantra, and newspapers faithfully churned out reports announcing that ‘nation first, always first’ would be the theme of India’s 75th Independence Day celebrations at the Red Fort. By inverting the order from what the Preamble proclaims, that individual dignity comes first, the recent mantra declaring ‘nation first’ flies in the face of our Constitution’s words and spirit. At least, this is what the framers of the Constitution would have thought. The Drafting Committee had been asked by several nationalists within the Constituent Assembly to reverse the order of the terms. There was a Motion to amend the Preamble to read: “Assuring unity of the nation and the dignity of the individual”. This Motion, the Drafting Committee firmly rejected. As B N Rau explained to the Assembly: “The reason for putting the dignity of the individual first was that unless the dignity of the individual is assured, the nation cannot be united.” In short, dignity first, always first. The nation depends upon it. Gil Scott-Heron observed in his song Comment #1 that America’s revolutionary promise was made only to the dominant majority, at the expense of the black population and the marginalised. Forsaking individual dignity, America as a ‘nation’ opted for empire instead: And America is now blood and tears instead of milk and honey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/blood-and-tears-instead-of-milk-and-honey-1024669.html
28-08-2021||Opinion||Love thy refugees||This August, India got the chance to preside over the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the eleventh time. The Modi government was clear that it wanted to use this as an opportunity to establish its right to a permanent seat at the high table. The moment itself was mundane: Every member of the UNSC gets to be president – in alphabetical order. But unfortunately, India spent more time on celebrating this mundane moment than it did on enhancing its credentials. Thousands of miles from New York, the Taliban were rampaging, the Kabul airport was in chaos, and thousands of Afghans were going to great lengths in an effort to flee (some even clung onto the wheels of departing aircraft and fell to their deaths). Yet, as Afghanistan was in the grip of this humanitarian nightmare, New Delhi unleashed a series of unforced errors. First, the Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson said that India’s focus is on helping Hindus and Sikhs. When outraged commentators pointed out that there are less than 1,400 Hindus and Sikhs in Afghanistan, and far more people than that number were at risk, New Delhi rolled out an emergency visa and invited all Afghans to apply. But for strange reasons, that visa scheme was later scrapped, approved visas were invalidated, and a new e-visa scheme was launched, ostensibly for the same purpose. Not surprisingly, the chaos caused untold misery, especially for those who had already got the original visa. A friend who had been working in Kabul said, “It doesn’t seem like India wants to help.” Meanwhile, India deported an Afghan MP who had been in New Delhi for medical treatment, and reports said that “very few” e-visa applications were being approved. A former diplomat-turned-minister used the crisis to say that this is “precisely why it was necessary to enact the Citizenship Amendment Act,” even though that law, as it stands, will not help anybody who comes to India after 2014. India’s disreputable approach has already ruined its hard-earned goodwill among the Afghan people. But the bigger problem is that India has no refugee law. The government of the day is able to take irrational and ad hoc decisions because there is no law laying out who is a ‘refugee’ and what rights they will enjoy in India once they are conferred that status – including the right to work and right against repatriation. This is not a Hindu-Muslim issue. India has hosted Tibetan refugees for over 60 years. Yet, due to the ambiguity of their status, Tibetans struggle to find employment, cannot own land, and are unable to travel. A refugee law is also an economic development plan. As countless studies have proved, many refugees fleeing warzones are capable of contributing to the host economy – including as skilled professionals. This is especially true for Afghanistan, where countless well-educated women are currently burning their degrees because the Taliban are hunting them down. But for days, Hindu nationalist trolls have been demonising refugees on social media, based on vicious misinformation. One of their key refrains is that “we already have too many people” – as if the Indian population is a huge burden on an otherwise efficient State apparatus, and the addition of a negligible percentage would somehow spark off Armageddon. If India wants to be a Vishwaguru, it will have to start behaving like one. Selling yoga to the world is not sufficient; India must also stand up for people in distress around the world. The case for a refugee law is not just moral, it is also economic and strategic. As Afghanistan burns, India has no excuse to not enact one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/love-thy-refugees-1024671.html
28-08-2021||Opinion||Ksheerasagar, a friend of the Adivasis||“A festival called Haadi Habba was recently celebrated in Balle haadi (settlement). At this festival, the son of the headman got possessed by the ancestral spirit. He started abusing the Forest Department and the ‘outsiders’ for evicting them, and pointed how they had sullied the gods. Saying this, he started beating his head to the stone idol as a protest against displacement. Blood started oozing from his forehead. He fainted. The people of the haadi then applied some medicine.” Ksheerasagar, an activist and organic farmer based in HD Kote, recalled this painful episode in an essay on Adivasis (tribals) that he had sent in for the Seminar issue on contemporary Karnataka that I guest-edited a decade ago. Noting the dire predicament of Adivasis – among other things, hundreds of families evicted by the government to create the Nagarahole National Park were yet to find rehabilitation -- he had written in earnest: “The Government of Karnataka should take up the cause of tribal people as its first and foremost priority.” Among the most committed activists for the Adivasi cause, Ksheerasagar died from brain haemorrhage earlier this month. Born in Mullooru, Hunsur taluk, in 1949, Ksheerasagar came from a Marathi-speaking family that had traditionally done the work of measuring and surveying land. While studying in Mysuru -- he did his master’s in philosophy -- he came in close contact with the young socialist and civil liberties activists of the city. After working with a Bengaluru-based NGO that focused on land reform issues, he moved to HD Kote, where his wife had got a job as a nursery school teacher. He fell in love with local Adivasi communities, in particular, the Jenu Kurubas, the most numerous among them, and spent the rest of his life trying to understand their culture and aid them in various ways. Between the mid-80s and 2000, Ksheerasagar worked for Fedina Vikas, an NGO that worked for Adivasi welfare in HD Kote. He and his colleague Nanjundaiah and the members of Budakattu Krishikara Sangha (Association of Tribal Agriculturists) helped Adivasi communities reclaim over 12,000 acres of land that had originally belonged to them. The slow, tense and risky experience of working through the bureaucracy, the courts and local vested interests can be guessed. Other tasks were achieved alongside: securing government pensions for elderly Adivasis, the promotion of water harvesting methods in the newly reclaimed land. Siddhartha, the well-known social activist and founder of Fedina Vikas, introduced me to Ksheerasagar during a visit to HD Kote 20 years ago. They had worked closely on many occasions, including, most spectacularly, the successful halting, in the mid-90s, of a project of the Tatas to build a five-star hotel inside Nagarahole forest. Fair, slim and medium-built, Ksheerasagar was shy and friendly and self-effacing. His genuine care and understanding towards the well-being of Adivasis shone through the entire time. Ksheersagar’s written works show his awe and love for the sophistication with which the Adivasis made their lives inside the forest. As a non-Adivasi who had learnt much from having worked with them, he wished that others, too, recognised the rich knowledge they had formed over the ages. Published in English as Playing with the Children of the Forest (translator: Nandini Srinivasan) Ksheerasagar’s Kaadina Makkala Odanaatadalli conveys a sense of the food-gathering practices and of the local animal and plant world that he had obtained during his visits to the forest in the company of Adivasi children. “The main hope of the book,” he wrote, “is that curiosity and wonder about the mysteries of nature become an integral part of (school) learning.” Ksheerasagar’s novel, Jenu Akashada Aramaneyo, and award-winning monograph, Kadina Naadi Mididavaru, capture in graphic detail the forest milieu of the Adivasis of HD Kote. He also wrote a detailed report on how the Adivasis met their food requirements through the year. His idea was to demonstrate to the government that evicting them from the forests meant uprooting them from a highly evolved means of finding food. He and his fellow activist compiled Jenu Nudi, a book that introduced Adivasi children to the Kannada alphabet and elementary language lessons with references taken entirely from their cultural universe. His column, Harisarodala Dani (“Nature’s Inner Voice”), in Samyukta Karnataka, conveyed his intense romance with birds and butterflies. Most recently, in over 40 columns written for Andolana, the Mysuru-based newspaper, he did fascinating profiles of a living Adivasi elder every week. Ksheerasagar’s quiet work among the Adivasis stands out as precious political legacy. It needs to be celebrated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ksheerasagar-a-friend-of-the-adivasis-1024672.html
28-08-2021||Opinion||How to make politicians walk into a trap? Oh, don’t bother||Following closely on the heels of the ‘CD’ allegations in Karnataka, we have more allegations and mudslinging between the BJP and the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra. One Union minister said that he knew who had asked whom to throw acid on (someone’s) brother’s wife. You’d think one would expose a person who threatened acid-throwing any way, but it appears that some people would only do it for political mileage. And then there is the ‘Punjab National Congress’, where politicians use Pakistan, Kashmir, and important national issues to bait each other. Today, we shall read about traps. Not the usual scamster kind, but the kind that are laid for animals. Here is a verse from the Vivekachudamani, traditionally attributed to Shankaracharya. “These five -- the deer, the elephant, the moth, the fish, and the bee -- meet their end because of their attachment to a single sense faculty: hearing, touch, sight, taste, and scent, respectively. What can we then say of humans, who are attached to all five senses?” Commentaries on the verse explain how all these animals are trapped. The deer, so swift on the move, is impossible to shoot or capture -- it can flee in a moment. But it is said that if you play some music, the deer enjoys it so much that it stands absolutely still to listen. And then the hunter fires. Next, the elephant. Traditional ways to capture the elephant apparently relied on a secret trap with a bridge that close once the elephant enters it. But how does one get the ridiculously strong elephant to enter the trap? No amount of wrestling with it will help; in fact, that would be more likely a recipe for instant injury or death. The trick was to use female decoys that lured the elephant into the trap, and then allowed the bridge to close. The moth, we all know from Bollywood lyrics. It is so attracted to the flame that the very sight of a flame is enough, they say. The moth will voluntarily fly into the flame and die as a result. The next one is easy, too. The fish, which can just vanish into the depths of water in a second and avoid getting caught, instead takes the bait because it is tempted by the taste of it. The bee, a connoisseur of the scents of various flowers, cannot resist the seductive scent of the Champaka flower, which is poisonous to it. It seeks out the Champaka flower and takes a good whiff, and that is the last whiff it gets. Now that we know all about traditional traps, how does one trap politicians? There are various techniques -- one could fact-check their remarks, check their criminal records, or hold them accountable for their electoral promises. But why bother? Just let them be, and soon enough, they will bait each other and finish up the job themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-to-make-politicians-walk-into-a-trap-oh-don-t-bother-1024673.html
28-08-2021||South||Net connectivity eludes students in ‘Digital Kerala’||Three months after the second consecutive e-academic year commenced, 4.71 lakh schoolchildren in Kerala still do not have digital devices to access e-classes, and over 3,000 wards in the state are facing poor or no Internet connectivity. Interestingly, Kerala was declared the first digital state in 2016 by then President Pranab Mukherjee citing 100% mobile connectivity and 75% e-literacy. The hardships faced by students in getting access to e-learning has once again come to focus in Kerala again after Ananthu Babu, a student of a tribal hamlet in Kannur district, suffered a severe injury after falling from a treetop. He was trying to get better Internet connectivity on his mobile phone. Similar in the plight of many students in remote locations, mainly tribal hamlets. Many students have to climb trees or go to hilltops regularly to get Internet access for e-learning as steps initiated by the government to establish connectivity were progressing at a snail’s pace. An evaluation by the Kerala Education Department recently found that 4.71 lakhs of the 38 lakh students in Class 1 to 12 did not have digital devices to access e-learning. Government sources said that 3,000 of the over 20,000 local body wards in Kerala were also facing connectivity issues. Many regions, especially around 400 odd tribal hamlets inside forest areas, had no connectivity at all. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan launched a crowdfunding initiative titled ‘Vidyakiranam’ earlier this month seeking support from individuals and groups for purchasing laptops for students. However, government sources said that the scheme was a non-starter. The state government had formed a committee comprising government officials and representatives of the Internet and mobile service providers to establish proper connectivity across the state. But the issue remains to be solved. Kerala general education secretary Mohammam Hanish told DH that the tendering process for the laptops was progressing. Once the rates of laptops are finalised, contributions and sponsorships from individuals, organisations and voluntary outfits were expected under the Vidyakiran scheme. A portal for the purpose was also launched. He also said that steps to ensure proper connectivity to around 3,000 wards in the state was progressing. Sources said that establishing connectivity at around 400 tribal hamlets was quite challenging as many hamlets were situated in deep forests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/net-connectivity-eludes-students-in-digital-kerala-1024399.html
28-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly passes resolution against three farm laws||Tamil Nadu Assembly on Saturday “unanimously” passed a resolution against three farm laws of the Union Government, amid a walkout by AIADMK and BJP. With this, Tamil Nadu becomes the seventh state ruled by the Opposition to pass resolutions against the laws.  Moving the resolution in the Assembly, Stalin said his government was according top priority to improving the lives of farmers by presenting a separate budget for agriculture. The DMK had in its 2021 Assembly election manifesto reiterated its opposition to the three farm laws of the Centre and promised to bring a resolution in the Assembly once it comes to power. “The Assembly unanimously passes a resolution against the three farm laws as they will not bring any good to farmers or agriculture growth in the country. The Assembly resolves that the Union Government rescinds the laws,” Stalin said, moving the resolution.  The Chief Minister also announced that all cases filed against farmers during their protests against the farm laws will be withdrawn. He also took a swipe at AIADMK for not supporting the resolution and punched holes in its claim that the party always stood for “farmer’s interests.” As Stalin moved the resolution, legislators from AIADMK and BJP staged a walkout opposing the DMK government’s move to bring a resolution against laws passed by Parliament. However, AIADMK’s ally PMK supported the resolution.  Deputy floor leader of AIADMK, O Panneerselvam, raised questions about the Assembly passing a resolution when petitions against the farm laws were pending before the Supreme Court.  As AIADMK members walked out of the House, Water Resources Minister Durai Murugan said Panneerselvam was opposing the Bill only to avoid a headline in newspapers that “father opposes a Bill supported by his son.” Durai Murugan was referring to OPS’ son O P Ravindranath supporting the Bill in Lok Sabha.  Tamil Nadu has now joined Opposition-ruled states – Kerala, West Bengal, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, and Punjab – in passing resolutions against the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-passes-resolution-against-three-farm-laws-1024447.html
28-08-2021||South||Social evils should be rooted out through organised movement: Kerala CM remembers Ayyankali||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday stressed the need for an organised movement with a definite political conviction to eliminate the menace like casteism, communalism and economic inequality rooted in the society. These social evils are still posing challenges to the progress of the land and peaceful life of people, he said in a Facebook post marking the birth anniversary of social reformer and renaissance leader late Ayyankali, who had fought for the rights of the Dalits. Ayyankali (1863-1941) was a social reformer who worked for the advancement of Dalits, who were considered as untouchables in the erstwhile princely state of Travancore. Casteism, communalism and economic inequalities are still posing challenges to the progress of the land and the peaceful life of people, he said. "We can find out a complete solution to the present social problems only by eliminating these evils. An organised movement with a definite political conviction should be evolved to root out such menace," Vijayan said. The history of Ayyankali would be a guiding light and inspiration in such a movement, he added. Remembering the fight of the leader, the CM said Ayankali was at the forefront of great personalities who had ushered the southern state to era of modernity by shedding the light of renaissance upon the darkness of feudalism, caste system and evil practices prevailed in the then society. Not just for Dalits, but he also fought for the rights of women, farmers and grassroot level workers, he said. The legendary struggles, he led against the injustices suffered by the Dalit people, who were treated as even worse than animals, had changed the course of Kerala's history, he added. In another Facebook post, he also reminisced about the contributions of Chattambi Swami (1853-1924), a Hindu sage and social reformer who is considered as one of the torch-bearers of renaissance movement in the state. "The history of Kerala's Renaissance cannot be written without mentioning the contributions of Chattambi Swamikal," he said in the FB post marking his birth anniversary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/social-evils-should-be-rooted-out-through-organised-movement-kerala-cm-remembers-ayyankali-1024466.html
28-08-2021||South||Congress urges Kerala CPI(M) to remove photos of Stalin from party offices||The opposition Congress in Kerala on Saturday urged the ruling CPI(M) to remove the photos of Soviet leader Joseph Stalin from their party offices in view of global media reports about the recent unearthing of thousands of skeletons of those who had allegedly been killed during his reign from Ukraine. Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly V D Satheesan alleged that the history of the Communist Party was a story of dictatorship and genocide and the news about the unearthing of skeletons had taken by surprise modern society, which is aware about the human rights and democracy. Former Communist ruler of Cambodia, Pol Pot was the one who had killed most number of people in the world, followed by Stalin and Adolf Hitler respectively, he said in a Facebook post. The skeletons found in Ukraine were the remnants of the terrifying face of the history of anti-democratic and dictatorial Communist ideology, he alleged. The leaders of the Communist parties in Kerala are those who still worship Stalin, who had allegedly massacred 15 lakh people, after placing his photos in their party offices. "If the Communist party leaderships in the state can recognise the value of democracy, they should be prepared to remove the images of a dictator like Stalin from their offices," Satheesan said. He also wished that it inspire the next generation of party sympathisers to walk the path of democracy without double standards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-urges-kerala-cpim-to-remove-photos-of-stalin-from-party-offices-1024558.html
28-08-2021||South||‘Die-hard’ Rajini fan code-names his IPO ‘Project SuperStar’||There was never any doubt about Tamil superstar Rajinikanth’s imposing influence on his fans. And on Saturday, a die-hard fan demonstrated what the film icon means to him by code-naming an initial public offering (IPO) by his US-based company as ‘Project Superstar’. The die-hard fan is none other than Girish Mathrubootham, co-founder and CEO of Freshworks, a software startup now based in the United States. The company has filed for a $100 million IPO whose code word is named after Rajinikanth. Through the IPO is being led by Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan Chase & Co and Bank of America, the company wants to list its shares on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Mathrubootham, who hails from Tiruchirappalli in Central Tamil Nadu, has never hidden his love for Rajinikanth — the actor who enjoys a demi-god status among millions of his fans. He had written a detailed blog titled ‘Dreams do come true’ in 2017 after meeting Rajinikanth along with his wife and kids. In the post-script of the filing document, Mathrubootham called Rajinikanth his 'maanaseega guru' (loosely translated into Godfather) and thanked him for being more than an inspiration.  “The code name for our IPO was Project SuperStar, named after the most successful movie star from Tamil Nadu, Rajinikanth. I want to express my love and gratitude to him for being my maanaseega guru. There is no comparable English word to express what this means,” he wrote in the document filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. “It is a mentor; a role model that lives in your mind, from whom you learn a lot by watching from afar. SuperStar is a man who is loved and worshipped by millions of fans globally. He is immensely successful yet humble and down to earth. Thank you, Thalaivaa,” the start-up’s founder further wrote. Freshworks, whose software products are used by more than 50,000 companies, was first launched in Chennai in 2010 in a 700 square foot warehouse before Mathrubootham moved to the US in 2019 to expand his start-up. Recalling the journey, the CEO said the company’s dream in 2011 was to get to $1 million in revenue and started dreaming of its second product – Freshservice in 2012.  “In 2014, we started dreaming of growing faster and building out an outbound go-to-market motion. Now, our dream is to be a disruptive player in the CRM market by breaking down the silos of marketing, sales, and customer support with a unified customer cloud. And in the future, we dream of breaking the silos of IT and HR, building a unified employee cloud,” Mathrubootham said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/die-hard-rajini-fan-code-names-his-ipo-project-superstar-1024587.html
28-08-2021||South||Tamil Nadu renames Sri Lankan refugee camps as rehabilitation camps||Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced that the refugee camps for Sri Lankan Tamils will be renamed as Rehabilitation Camps with Chief Minister M K Stalin asserting that his government would continue to work for their progress. Making a statement in the Assembly, Stalin said he also used the word refugee while announcing a special package for the welfare of Sri Lankan Tamils in the House on Friday.  “They are not orphans to be called refugees. We Tamils are with them and in that spirit, the government has renamed the refugee camps as rehabilitation camps for Sri Lankan Tamils,” the Chief Minister said.  Tamils in India and Sri Lanka have shared historical and cultural ties. Thousands of Sri Lankan nationals flocked to Tamil Nadu after the civil war in the island nation intensified in 1983. His announcement came a day after the DMK government made a slew of announcements like building over 7,000 new houses in refugee camps and free gas stoves and cylinders.  The Chief Minister had said 58,822 refugees are lodged in 822 camps in 29 districts, while 34,087 refugees live outside the camps after duly registering with the police. He also listed the initiatives that the previous DMK governments took to protect the interests of the refugees who began flocking to India in 1983 after the civil war in Sri Lanka intensified.  “Since many houses in the refugee camps are in bad condition, the government has decided to build 7,469 new houses at Rs 231.54 crore. In the first phase, 3,510 houses will be constructed and Rs 108.81 crore will be sanctioned for the purpose,” Stalin had said on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-renames-sri-lankan-refugee-camps-as-rehabilitation-camps-1024598.html
28-08-2021||South||'Why did Kerala CM not marry his daughter to member of SC community', asks Kerala Congress MP K Suresh||Congress MP Kodikkunnil Suresh has made a controversial statement that Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s stand on renaissance was a farce as he had not married off his daughter to a member from the Scheduled Caste community. “Vijayan became a renaissance leader after the Sabarimala women entry issue. But if Vijayan was sincere on his renaissance stand he should have married off his daughter to a member from the SC community. There are many young SC leaders within the CPM itself. Vijayan’s renaissance stand was just a farce,” Suresh, who is also the Kerala PCC working president, said while causing a stir in Thiruvananthapuram after seeking a CBI probe into alleged malpractice in SC-ST welfare and development funds distribution. Suresh’s statement was not backed by Congress leaders in Kerala. Leader of opposition V D Satheesan said that Suresh's statement was not the Congress’s stand.   Vijayan’s daughter Veena married Kerala Tourism Minister Mohammed Riyaz last year. Riyaz was then a DYFI national president and after winning in the Kerala Assembly elections, he was made a minister. It was both Riyaz and Veena's second marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/why-did-kerala-cm-not-marry-his-daughter-to-member-of-sc-community-asks-kerala-congress-mp-k-suresh-1024620.html
28-08-2021||South||Unrest in Kerala Congress; two leaders suspended||Close on the heels of the Congress national leadership announcing the new district Congress committee presidents in Kerala by Saturday evening, two party leaders have been suspended for openly flaying the selection of the new district presidents. Former MLA K Sivadasan Nair and former Kerala PCC general secretary K P Anilkumar were suspended from the party by Kerala PCC president K Sudhakaran. The charge against the two was that they violated the party discipline by making open statements against the selection of new district congress committee presidents during television channel discussions. Both of them alleged that the new district presidents were selected on the basis of loyalty to party leaders and not merit. Unrest has been brewing in the Congress over the last couple of weeks as the selection of new district presidents was progressing. Veteran leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala had reportedly conveyed to the national leadership that the state leadership did not consult them before finalising the nominations sent to the national leadership. The state was also witnessing poster campaigns against the party leaders. Congress sources said that more voices of resentment would come out in the coming days. After the setback suffered by the party in the Assembly election the state leadership was revamped mainly with the aim of ending groupism in the party. But even then party leaders were learnt to be pushing for their loyalists during the selection of district leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/unrest-in-kerala-congress-two-leaders-suspended-1024674.html
28-08-2021||State||Four arrested for rape of minor in Belagavi||Even as the state is still struggling to come to terms with a gang-rape of a college student in Mysuru, another dastardly incident of rape has surfaced. This time in Belagavi district, where a minor girl, aged 16, was allegedly raped by a gang of five persons at a village in Mudalagi taluk. The incident came to light on Thursday, 20 days after the heinous crime, after the survivor's parents lodged a complaint with Ghataprabha police.Acting swiftly, the police arrested four persons and the hunt is on to nab the fifth accused Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi told DH that the alleged incident took place over 20 days ago and a complaint was filed only on Thursday. The survivor's parents have named five persons in the complaint and cases under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act have been booked against the accused, he said. The SP, however, said that there's more to this (alleged incident) than what meets the eye. The police are investigating it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-arrested-for-rape-of-minor-in-belagavi-1024333.html
28-08-2021||State||IMD sounds alerts until August 30 in 8 districts of Karnataka||The monsoon activity over interior parts of Karnataka has gained momentum with heavy and widespread rainfall alerts issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD officials on Friday issued a forecast of moderate to heavy rainfall till the end of August. The officials also revealed that some districts might experience heavy rainfall during the weekend under the influence of a trough. C S Patil, scientist and director, IMD-Bengaluru said, “An offshore trough lies above the eastern Arabian Sea, off the coasts of Karnataka and Kerala. Due to the development, coastal Karnataka will receive widespread rainfall till August 31. North and south interior Karnataka will experience widespread rainfall on August 29 and fairly widespread rainfall on August 30 and 31.” The districts of Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar are likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next few days. The IMD has issued an orange alert in these districts on August 28 and 29 and an yellow alert on August 30. Many parts of the state have experienced widespread rainfall in the last few days. Agumbe in Shivamogga district has recorded 11.5 cm rainfall while Jigani and Rajanakunte in Bengaluru Urban district have recorded 8.75 cm rainfall, according to the data from Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). The rain spell in Bengaluru is expected to continue for the next two days. The city might receive rain and thundershowers during the weekend, the IMD has said. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada has been receiving widespread thundershowers, coupled with gusty winds, since Thursday night. Orange alert has been sounded in the distict for Saturday and Sunday. Beltangady recorded 25 mm of rain on Friday. Moodbidri expereinced 18 mm while Mangaluru city witnessed 15 mm of rain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/imd-sounds-alerts-until-august-30-in-8-districts-of-karnataka-1024342.html
28-08-2021||State||Dedicated clusters for ‘One District, One Product’ scheme: Shobha Karandlaje||Dedicated clusters will come up in each district under the ‘One District, One Product’ initiative of the Centre, Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Shobha Karandlaje said on Friday. The clusters will have all facilities to process, market, store and export the produce. Speaking at a media briefing, she said that the clusters are part of the Centre’s initiative to double farmers income. “Our focus in the coming days is export-oriented agriculture,” she said. In order to improve the quality of the produce, research and development facilities of central and state agriculture universities will be brought under one roof. The Centre is pushing to set up 10,000 Farmers’ Produce Organisations (FPOs) across the country. In Karnataka, 750 such FPOs will come up by next year, she said. On whether the Centre will heed to the demands of the farmers who have continued their protest demanding the government to withdraw the contentious farm laws, Shobha said there was no question of withdrawal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dedicated-clusters-for-one-district-one-product-scheme-shobha-karandlaje-1024345.html
28-08-2021||State||Eshwarappa calls on B S Yediyurappa in Shivamogga||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa called on former chief minister B S Yediyurappa in the latter's residence in Vinobnagar in Shivamogga city on Saturday,  Both had breakfast together. Shivamogga MP B Y Raghavendra, the elder son of Yediyurappa, was also present on the occasion.  Yediyurappa was given a rousing welcome by his supporters on Friday evening on his maiden visit to his home district after stepping down from the top post.  Later, Yediyurappa participated in local programmes. He is slated to leave for Shikaripur, home turf on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/eshwarappa-calls-on-b-s-yediyurappa-in-shivamogga-1024482.html
28-08-2021||State||Our govt will resist privatisation bid by Centre: Govindan Master||Excise and Rural Development Minister of Kerala M V Govindan Master said that the Kerala government would resist the privatisation bid by the Central government. He was speaking after inaugurating a national-level symposium on 'NREGA 2005 and Rural Workers' organised by All India Agricultural Workers Union (AIAWU) and Karnataka Prantha Krushi Koolikarara Sangha in Karnataka Sangha premises in Mandya on Saturday. He said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is against farm labourers, farmers and economically backward people. The government is conspiring to privatise government agencies that are helpful to needy people. Such attempts will not get support in Kerala. We will not allow privatisation of Central agencies and establishments in Kerala. We will fight against privatisation and will also support all those who fight against privatisation.” Master added,"A party was re-elected for power for the first time in the history of Kerala. Pinarayi Vijayan got a second term as chief minister in a row for working in the interest of the poor, the oppressed and labourers. The Kerala government has ably tackled the Covid-19 situation so far. The mortality rate in Kerala is the lowest in India.” AIAWU leader Suneet Chopra said that the Centre had conspired to scrap Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act 2005 (MGNREGA), which was beneficial to rural and needy people. “Modi had once described MGNREGA as useless. He increased the wages under MGNREGA during the second wave of Covid. It was MGNREGA that helped the people to survive during the Covid crisis. If Modi terms MGNREGA as useless again, people will dump him as useless,” he warned. AIAWU general secretary B Venkat said, "The Centre has no faith in MGNREGA that provides jobs to common and poor people. The government has reduced the budgetary allocation to MGNREGA to 2%. It is promoting discrimination among workers on the basis of caste and wages. Bharat Bandh will be observed against the anti-people policies of the Centre on September 25,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/our-govt-will-resist-privatisation-bid-by-centre-govindan-master-1024593.html
28-08-2021||State||Urgent asphalt road as ‘gift’ for Pralhad Joshi's daughter's wedding triggers row||Re-asphalting of a road connecting Hubballi airport to Keshav Kunj, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarters via Hotel Denissons in Hubballi has snowballed into a controversy after residents of Akshay Colony and Congress leaders charging that the road is being relaid for the VVIPs attending Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi daughter's wedding. The Congress leaders have charged that the work has been taken up in spite of the model code of conduct in place for the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) elections, voting of which is scheduled to be held on September 3. However, Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited (HDSCL) officials, who are executing the work, and Joshi said, it is a mere coincidence that the work is being taken up now, and has nothing to do with the September 2 wedding at Hotel Denissons. The officials claimed that there is no violation of the poll code as work order for this was issued in 2019 and taken up now as rain has given a breather. Highly placed sources in the Police Department informed DH that at least six Union ministers including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman, BJP national president J P Nadda, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, and other dignitaries are expected to attend the wedding. ‘Concern for only VIPs’ Vidyanagar Block Congress President Rajath Ullagadimath said, the residents of Akshay Park Colony had been demanding for the fixing of this main road, which had several potholes, for almost two years now. However, the officials who did not respond to the residents' demands all these days woke up one fine day and started fixing the road, just because they were under pressure from Union Minister. “Nearly 70% of the roads in Hubballi are in bad shape. The officials have no time to fix them. But, have money and time to relay only this road,” he noted. He also charged that the BJP leaders are violating the poll code by implementing development work while HDMP polls are underway. Old work HDSCL Managing Director C W Shakeel Ahmed said, they had taken up the relaying of Akshay-Park Colony to Keshav Kunj under the Package-Six of Smart City project. The tender for the project was called in 2019, and various works related to the project were being implemented earlier also. “It is just a coincidence that we took up this road work last week and the wedding venue also happens to be on this stretch,” he said and added that there is also no poll code violation as it's an ongoing project. However, residents refute Shakeel’s claims and say that unlike other road package works where the HDSCL has also implemented drainage, paver, shifting public utility underground, and others; here they have just asphalted the road. The officials are also spraying water on the Airport Road to ensure that dust does not rise during the VVIPs movement. Haven’t asked for Nevertheless, Joshi said, he had not instructed any official to relay the roads or improve them. “I am not even aware under which project they have taken up the work. Unnecessary controversy is being created by linking things to my daughter’s wedding,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/urgent-asphalt-road-as-gift-for-pralhad-joshis-daughters-wedding-triggers-row-1024595.html
28-08-2021||State||VHP to launch Gita lessons in Karnataka on August 30||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Saturday announced a campaign to help people learn all 700 verses of the Bhagavad Gita in 140 days. This will be open to people from other religions as well, it said.  VHP central general secretary Milind Parande told a news conference that the campaign will be launched on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami and the VHP’s foundation day on August 30 at the Vishwa Shanti ashram in Nelamangala. The campaign will be inaugurated by Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwaprasanna Teertha.  “Akin to the ancient gurukul system, the verses will be recorded on video that will be uploaded on our website and other social media platforms. Everyone can take part in this,” Parande said.  VHP’s regional secretary Jagannath Shastri said the focus of the campaign will be on pronunciation of the verses. “Most of the shlokas are in the Anshuman Chandassu. Every shloka has 32 letters. To begin with, each of the Sanskrit verses will be divided for easy pronunciation,” he said, adding that each verse will be taught thrice. “To make the Gita popular, online classes will be held in all languages.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/vhp-to-launch-gita-lessons-in-karnataka-on-august-30-1024639.html
28-08-2021||State||Civic agency's 'gift' for Pralhad Joshi's daughter's wedding triggers row||Re-asphalting of a road connecting Hubballi airport to Keshav Kunj, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarters via Hotel Denissons in Hubballi has snowballed into a controversy with residents of Akshay Colony and Congress leaders charging that the road was being relaid for the VVIPs attending Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi daughter’s wedding. The Congress leaders have charged that the work has been taken up even as the model code of conduct in place for the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) elections, voting for which is scheduled for September 3. However, Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited (HDSCL) officials, who are executing the work, and Joshi said, it’s a mere co-incidence that the work was taken up now, and had nothing to do with the September 2 wedding at Hotel Denissons. The officials claimed that there is no violation of poll code as work order for this was issued in 2019, and taken up now following a rain breather. Highly placed sources in the police department informed DH that at-least six Union ministers, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, BJP national president J P Nadda, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, and other dignitaries are expected to attend the wedding. ‘Concern for only VIPs’ Vidyanagar Block Congress president Rajath Ullagaddimath said, the residents of Akshay Park Colony had been demanding for the fixing of this pothole-riddled main road for almost two years now. However, the officials who did not responded to the residents demand all these days started fixing the road under pressure from Union Minister, he charged. “Nearly 70% of the roads in Hubballi are in bad shape. The officials have no time to fix them. But, have money and time to relay only this road,” he noted. He also charged that the BJP leaders are violating the poll code by implementing a development work while HDMP polls are underway. Old work HDSCL Managing Director C W Shakeel Ahmed said, they had taken up the relaying of Akshay-Park Colony to Keshav Kunj stretch under the Package-6 of Smart City project. The tender for the project was called in 2019, and various works related to the project were being implemented earlier also. “It is just a co-incidence that we took up this road work last week and the wedding venue also happens to be on this stretch,” he said, and added that there is also no poll code violation as its an on-going project. However, residents refute Shakeel’s claims, and say that unlike other road package works where the HDSCL has also implemented drainage, paver, shifting public utility underground, and others; here they have just asphalted the road. The officials are also spraying water on the Airport Road to ensure that dust does not rise during the VVIPs movement. ‘Haven’t asked for’ Meanwhile, Joshi said, he had not instructed any official to relay the roads or improve them. “I am not even aware under which project they have taken up the work. Unnecessary controversy is being created by linking things to my daughter’s wedding,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/civic-agencys-gift-for-pralhad-joshis-daughters-wedding-triggers-row-1024645.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Justice Nagarathna’s teary-eyed farewell to iconic red building of Karnataka High Court||Justice Nagarathna could not hold back tears during her farewell speech while recollecting her association with the iconic red-building (High Court building). She thanked all her staff and the family members who for the last 34 years, as an advocate and as a judge, ensured that she never had to bother about daily chores as a co-member of the family. “It is said that behind every successful man there is a woman, but behind every successful woman there is a family,” she said. She said returning from Delhi, after her law degree, was one of the best decisions in her life. “One of the best decisions of my life was to return from Delhi to Bengaluru to enrol myself as an advocate in the Karnataka Bar Council and commence my practice here. This was in order to maintain the highest traditions of the judiciary as much as I did not wish to reside in the government accommodation allotted to my father Justice E S Venkataramaiah, who was then a Judge of the Supreme Court at Delhi, and practice there,” she said. Justice B V Nagarathna’s message to women advocates was to never let go of access to the right opportunities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/justice-nagarathna-s-teary-eyed-farewell-to-iconic-red-building-of-karnataka-high-court-1024329.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||386 fresh Covid cases in Bengaluru Urban, 248 in Dakshina Kannada||Karnataka on Friday reported 1,301 new Covid-19 cases. With this, the tally of Covid cases rose to 29.45 lakh.  Also, the death toll mounted to 37,248 with 17 additional fatalities. The day also saw 1,614 people being discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 28,88,520. The number of active cases in the state stood at 18,970. Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 386 cases and two fatalities while Dakshina Kannada (DK) remained a major hotspot with 248 fresh infections and one death. Other districts too reported fresh cases, including Hassan 117, Udupi 106, and 78 in Kodagu. Raichur district reported zero infections. Twenty districts reported zero fatalities. A total of 1,86,900 samples were tested in the state on Friday, taking the cumulative number of samples tested so far to 4.28 crore. Vaccination feat Close to touching the State’s Yoga Day vaccination record, Karnataka on Friday vaccinated a record 10,39,398 till 8.55 pm taking the total doses administered to 3,99,50,503.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/386-fresh-covid-cases-in-bengaluru-urban-248-in-dakshina-kannada-1024332.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government goes after suburban properties to mop up taxes||Lakhs of properties in rural areas are either not liable to pay any tax or their bill is not more than a paltry sum of Rs 100 annually, an internal audit has found, prompting the government to initiate a crackdown.  For instance, authorities found 80,732 properties on the outskirts of Bengaluru whose tax demand is ‘zero’ or less than Rs 100, which they said was “ridiculous” given the rapid urbanisation taking place in the city’s suburbs.  Several commercial and industrial establishments, including IT services major Infosys, fall under gram panchayat limits in the Bengaluru Urban district.  In all, 8.62 lakh such properties were found across the state.  Gram panchayats are empowered to levy taxes on residential, commercial, industrial properties as well as vacant plots, hoardings, mobile towers among others.  “It is a serious administrative lapse and carelessness that so many properties were not being taxed,” Rural Development & Panchayat Raj principal secretary L K Atheeq, who took stock of this on Friday, told DH.  “After a month-long crackdown, we managed to reduce the number of properties that had a tax demand of ‘zero’ or less than Rs 100 in Bengaluru Urban,” he pointed out. Around this time, last month, the 95 gram panchayats in Bengaluru Urban collected Rs 12.04 crore in property tax. This has gone up to Rs 30.55 crore.   Further, the total tax demand from suburban properties in Bengaluru Urban has been revised to Rs 275 crore from Rs 233 crore.  Atheeq explained that properties that come under e-Swathu, the rural database, should ideally reflect in Panchatantra, the RDPR taxation software. “This hasn’t happened,” he said.  Online tax payment The undermining of the tax potential of rural properties could be linked to officials trying to bypass the online payment system that the government has rolled out.  “Since we are receiving complaints that some of the panchayats are discouraging people from paying online, we wish to take up a campaign to promote online tax payment,” Atheeq said.  Rural property owners can visit bsk.karnataka.gov.in to pay tax. “We have received Rs 1.56 crore in online taxes this financial year,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-goes-after-suburban-properties-to-mop-up-taxes-1024334.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CET at 530 centres across Karnataka from today||Twelve Covid positive students are appearing for the Common Entrance Test (CET) 2021, being held for admission into professional courses, across the on Saturday and Sunday. Of the 12 candidates, who have updated their test report to the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA), 10 are from Bengaluru and one each from Shivamogga and Kolar. These students will be allowed to write the test at the dedicated Covid-19 care centres identified at the district levels by providing them with transportation facilities to reach the centre. Meanwhile, the candidates with Covid-19-like symptoms will be allowed to appear for the test from isolated rooms dedicated at the respective centres. Speaking to media persons after examining the arrangements to conduct CET, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said on Friday that the students, appearing from border districts, have to follow the instructions given by the concerned district authorities. “This year considering the Covid-19 pandemic, we have made updating of documents and verification of documents both online,” he said. The candidates were given options to change their test centres this year. The test will be conducted at 530 centres across the state and 2,01,816 candidates have registered for the test to be conducted with all the Covid-19 protocols and safety measures in place.  “For the strict vigilance of safety protocol, we have requested the Home Department to depute a sufficient number of police personnel at all the examination centres,” he said. The deputy commissioners of all districts have been asked to appoint one Observer of Assistant Commissioner cadre to each examination centre. “Besides, a total of 530 Observers, 1060 Special Invigilation Squad Members, 530 Custodians and around 8409 Invigilators and a total of 20415 Officers/officials will be deployed,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cet-at-530-centres-across-karnataka-from-today-1024337.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Make realistic estimation of oxygen demand, HC tells Karnataka government||The High Court on Friday asked the state government to realistically estimate the requirement of oxygen to face the possible third wave of Covid-19.  A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar directed the state government to inform the court whether the Supreme Court’s direction for maintaining the buffer stock of oxygen has been implemented in the state. In the affidavit the state government submitted that as on August 23, 2021, a total of 3.69 crore doses of vaccinations have been administered. Of the 4.97 crore target population, 2.83 crore have received the first jab (59.7%) and 86.46 lakh have received the second dose (17.4%). It was also informed to the court that 1.35 crore beneficiaries out of targeted 3.26 crore beneficiaries, in the age-group of 18-44 years, have received the first dose, while 13.28 lakh beneficiaries in the same age-group have received both the doses. In the category of 45 years age, out of 1.71 crore target beneficiaries, 1.30 crore have received the first dose, while 62.77 lakh have received both the doses. In regard to the availability of oxygen, the state government submitted that as on August 24, 2021, the buffer stock of LMO available in private hospitals is 4,709 MT and the buffer stock of LMO in government hospitals is 147.4 MT. The bench has posted the next hearing to September 8. The state government has been directed to submit recent data on vaccination as well as the proposal to establish 241 oxygen plants. The court asked the state government to submit whether the quantity estimated is sufficient to cater to the need as estimated by the expert committee at 1,200 MT per day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/make-realistic-estimation-of-oxygen-demand-hc-tells-karnataka-government-1024338.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka judiciary has potential to be best in the country: Justice Oka||The legal fraternity on Friday gave an emotional farewell to Justices Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and B V Nagarathna, who have been appointed as judges of the Supreme Court. Addressing the audience in a virtual farewell, Justice Oka said that the judiciary in Karnataka has a potential to become the best in the nation, provided concentrated and consistent efforts are made by all the stakeholders. Almost one year out of two years and three months of Justice Oka’s stint as the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court was overshadowed by the first and the second waves of Covid-19. Justice Oka said it was also a blessing in disguise for it prompted the judiciary to take recourse to measures such as e-filing, e-payment of court fee, e-payment of process fee and even the facility of e-certified copy. He said the efforts to dispose of all cases that are more than five years old could not be achieved due to Covid-19. However, if all the stakeholders co-operate and work hard, it can still be achieved by the end of 2022, he said. Known for his working into the late and early hours of the day, Justice Oka thanked his registrars who were always ready to receive his phone calls, right from early in the morning till midnight. “I salute the resilience shown by all the stakeholders of the judiciary. All of us are hoping that there will not be a third wave of Covid-19. But I can assure citizens of the state that even if there is a third wave, the courts in Karnataka will continue to function,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-judiciary-has-potential-to-be-best-in-the-country-justice-oka-1024340.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New Delta mutation AY.4 dominant in Karnataka: Scientists||A sublineage of the Delta variant known as AY.4 has been found to be the dominant variant in Karnataka among Covid-19 samples sequenced in June and July, with researchers noting that the variant had mutated further and reentered the country. Among the 523 sequences studied, AY.4 was found in 41.1% of them (215), overtaking even the baseline Delta (210 sequences 40.2%) that was responsible for the deadly second wave in the state. The next highest was the AY.12 variant (72 sequences 13.8%). Genomic scientists said AY.4 is mostly from the UK while AY.12 is from Israel, where cases are rising despite 60% of its population being fully vaccinated. The sequencing was done by labs part of INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics) and uploaded to GISAID, an open access genomic database of influenza viruses. Associate Dean of HCG Centre for Academics and Research Dr Vishal Rao, who is also a member of the State Covid-19 Genomic Surveillance Committee, said, "GISAID data indicates Delta sublineage B.1.617.2.4 or AY.4 is on the rise and is the dominant variant in Karnataka now. It is being studied across the world. The Delta variant has 13 mutations and AY.4 is one of them." The committee has proposed studying its link to breakthrough infections, hospitalisations and deaths. When researchers studied the changes between the last few months and now, they found that just 11% (78) of the 715 sequences in Karnataka had AY.4 in March-April. "AY.4 is rising in the US, Israel and India, specifically in Karnataka," Rao cautioned. "When we compared Kerala and Karnataka, it was in the latter that it had increased in the last two months. In Kerala, baseline Delta is dominant." According to Rao, this meant that "certain states can see a rise in specific mutations". "This has implications with regard to vaccine-escape mutations, breakthrough infections and also hospitalised patients. We're hoping to correlate this with seroprevalence and R0 (reproductive number). The UK is already undertaking research on this," Rao added. Researchers are hoping that the genomic sequencing results of around 300 hospitalised Covid patients in the state, which could be available by Saturday, to shed light on the emerging dominant variants in them. Amid the development, State Health Commissioner Dr Trilok Chandra said travellers coming from the US should compulsorily have a negative RT-PCR certificate done within the last 72 hours before boarding. "All travellers shall upload the certificate in the Air Suvidha portal. Only then, the airlines will allow them to board the flight," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-delta-mutation-ay4-dominant-in-karnataka-scientists-1024341.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's private schools seek extension of admission date||Private school managements have requested the Department of Public Instruction to extend the last date to enrol students for the current academic year. In a request submitted to the commissioner to the department, the Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said, “As per the earlier order from the department, the last date to admit students was August 30. But considering the fact that the offline classes for primary grades have not been opened yet in the state, we request the department to give one month time from the date of resumption of offline classes for grade1 to 8.” The Association also made the following request: “We request the department to issue directions for parents to pay the school fees, enrol students and to attend classes compulsorily”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-private-schools-seek-extension-of-admission-date-1024347.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Remove neta ads or face music, officials told||The Urban Development Department (UDD) has warned officials of disciplinary action if they fail to remove advertisements that have photographs of elected representatives on projects implemented by the government. According to the High Court and the Supreme Court directions, images of the President of India, Prime Minister, Chief Justice of India, Governor, Chief Minister or Mahatma Gandhi can be used while advertising for the projects or schemes implemented by state or central governments using public money, the UDD said in a circular. “Apart from these, (the court has directed that) images of no other leader or political party can be used in the advertisements,” the circular said. All urban local bodies have been directed to ensure that there were no violations in the guidelines issued by the court, as the state was expected to file a compliance report shortly. Officials of urban local bodies were directed to file FIRs at the local police station under Karnataka Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act against any individuals who violate the guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/remove-neta-ads-or-face-music-officials-told-1024349.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Bommai confident Mysuru gang-rape case will be 'cracked as early as possible'||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Saturday exuded confidence that the police would crack the Mysuru gang-rape case as early as possible and apprehend the culprits. He said five police teams are investigating the case. "Police have taken the Mysuru case very seriously", Bommai told reporters. "I am confident that the police will succeed in cracking the case as early as possible." The victim, a student in Mysuru, was gang-raped near Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysuru on August 24. The culprits assaulted her male friend who was with her. The gang members demanded from them Rs 3 lakh not to make the video of the rape public, police sources said. DG & IGP of Karnataka Praveen Sood is overseeing the investigation into the gang-rape which has sparked massive outrage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-bommai-confident-mysuru-gang-rape-case-will-be-cracked-as-early-as-possible-1024448.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government planning to frame stringent laws for rape cases: Eshwarappa||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa stated that there is a need to frame stringent laws that would trigger fear in the minds of people who indulge in heinous crimes like rape.  Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, he said the gang-rape incident in Mysuru is unfortunate and the government condemns it. Recalling a past incident, he mentioned that a child was raped in the state when K J George was home minister in the Congress-led government. Since then there were attempts to amend the existing laws to ensure that rapists get severe punishment. But the attempts did not materialise. He also claimed that the state government was seriously thinking of amending the laws to trigger fear among people about police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-planning-to-frame-stringent-laws-for-rape-cases-eshwarappa-1024475.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysuru gang-rape case: Conviction is the next step, says Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra||Following the arrest of five people accused of gang-rape in Mysuru, Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra on Saturday said the next challenge was to get them convicted in the court. Jnanendra also said that the rape survivor, a student, was yet to give a statement to the police. She was allegedly gang-raped near the Chamundi foothills on the outskirts of Mysuru on August 24. The police Saturday arrested five people in Tamil Nadu.  “Our police have successfully conducted an operation and five people have been taken into custody,” Jnanendra said, congratulating the police team that investigated the crime.  “Conviction is the next important step. The woman is still not in a position to issue a statement and we can't pressurise her. Based on technical and scientific evidence, the investigation was carried out,” Jnanendra said, adding that this was “a challenging case” for the police. He could not confirm if the rape survivor had left the state. “Even in the Nirbhaya and Manipal rape cases, the victims were not in a position to give their statement. In this case, if we had the victim’s statement, maybe the case could have been cracked sooner,” the minister said.  He further specified that the five people arrested are labourers and not students as was initially believed. Going forward, the minister said the government would consider measures to tighten the Tamil Nadu and Kerala border that touches Mysuru. “People travel daily and new people come in. But, we can’t impose curbs like it’s done at international borders. We will see what can be done,” he said.  Following the incident, the government has directed the police to increase patrolling and checks. “I have directed the police to make special bandobasts and take up regular patrolling in the [Chamundi Hills] area, which has already started,” he said. “As much as possible, the public will not be allowed there after sunset. Those who must go will be given protection,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysuru-gang-rape-case-conviction-is-the-next-step-says-karnataka-home-minister-araga-jnanendra-1024486.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Subject rapists to police encounter: MLA||An MLA, belonging to Janata Dal (secular), on Saturday suggested subjecting those involved in the rape of a college student here to a police enounter. The MLA Sa Ra Mahesh said the case of gang-rape has made the cultural city of Mysuru in Karnataka hang its head in shame. "I know there is a legal hurdle in this. In bitter incidents like these, the police-government have to take stringent action," the legislator, representing Krishnarajanagara in the city, said. "I press the Mysuru police and the police department of the State to show boldness to subject such people to encounter and the government to issue appropriate direction," Mahesh said. Karnataka DG & IGP Praveen Sood said five people from neighbouring Tamil Nadu were arrested while another one is absconding in connection with the rape of the student on the outskirts of Mysuru on August 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/subject-rapists-to-police-encounter-mla-1024579.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs 1,229 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,229 new Covid-19 cases, and 13 deaths on Saturday. Bengaluru reported 310 of these cases. While the total number of positive cases in the state now stands at 29,45,993, the toll has reached 37,261. The day also saw 1,289 discharges taking the total number of recoveries to 28,89,809. Dakshina Kannada reported 207 cases and five deaths, Udupi 146 cases and Hassan 103. The positivity rate stood at 0.66%, while the case fatality rate was 1.05%. The state now has 18,897 active cases. As many as 1,83,642 samples were tested on Saturday, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 4,30,15,998. A day after the state vaccinated 10.61 lakh people, on Saturday, the health centres vaccinated 6,42,731, taking the total doses administered to 4,07,09,727.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-1229-new-covid-19-cases-13-deaths-1024610.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KCET results by Sep 20, counselling in October: Ashwath Narayan||The results of the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) will be announced in 20 days and counselling will begin in the first week of October. Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan announced this during his visit to a few of the test centres here on Saturday. “We are planning to announce the KCET results by September 20 and the counselling process will begin in the first week of October. On day one, the test was conducted without any discrepancies with all safety measures and Covid protocols in place,” said the minister. Of the 12 Covid positive registered for KCET, four candidates tested negative later and wrote the exam with other candidates. “They were allowed to write examinations with other candidates. However, those who tested positive were allowed to write exams from the Covid care centres identified by the district administrations,” Ashwath Narayan said. Despite the weekend curfew in border districts like Dakshina Kannada, Chamarajanagar, Mysuru and Kodagu, the test went off smoothly.  On day one of the test, 2,01,816 students wrote the exams. The students attempting the test were happy about both the question paper and the safety measures in place. On Saturday, the test was conducted for Biology and Mathematics. Papers easy Speaking to DH, Rakshith C N, a student, said, “Both the papers were easier than expected.” “I was scared to enter the premises due to Covid pandemic, but the arrangements at the test centre were excellent and helped us to write the exams without any tension,” said Gagan S Rao, an engineering seat aspirant. However, some students and faculties raised objections over a few questions in the Mathematics paper. Following the complaints from students, the faculty at Narayana PU college in Ramamurthy Nagar, Bengaluru, have decided to write to the Karnataka Examinations Authority. Some errors “The issue raised by students was correct. The answer options provided for question number 23 and 28 in B2 series were wrong and question number 60 itself was wrong,” said a Mathematics faculty.  These questions carry one mark each. “We will file objections for the same when they release key answers,” said a student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kcet-results-by-sep-20-counselling-in-october-ashwath-narayan-1024640.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Judicious mind essential while taking cognisance: Karnataka HC||The High Court said that application of judicious mind becomes essential while taking cognisance of a case, notwithstanding the ‘B’ closure report. Quashing the order of a magistrate court rejecting the ‘B’ report only based on the statement of the complainant, the high court said that reasons will have to be recorded in such circumstances. The petitioner was the successful bidder in an auction sale by the Karnataka State Financial Corporation (KSFC) in 2009. A complaint under IPC section 506 (criminal intimidation) was filed by the person connected to the property and after an investigation the police filed the ‘B’ report. When this was challenged by the complainant, the Additional Civil Judge and JMFC, Udupi, directed the police to register a criminal case. Justice M Nagaprasanna said that merely because a complainant files a protest petition against filing of the ‘B’ report, the magistrate ought not to be swayed away by such protest petitions. The court noted that the complaint was filed by a frustrated litigant, who wanted to settle scores against the petitioner, who was an innocent purchaser in the auction process. The court also observed that there have been several instances of registration of criminal cases by handiwork of certain disgruntled complainants.   “Merely because the property belonged to the complainant and it having been sold in public auction, the criminal trial could not have been set in motion. It is in such cases, the magistrate before whom the proceedings are instituted must have exercised care and caution while taking cognizance of the allegation of such offence,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/judicious-mind-essential-while-taking-cognisance-karnataka-hc-1024641.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sedition law shouldn't be misused, but no choice when nation's interest is harmed: Araga Jnanendra||Home Minister Araga Jnanendra faced his first big challenge with the Mysuru gang-rape case. The 4-time MLA even courted controversy after blaming the victim for going to a deserted place, a comment he subsequently withdrew. The debutant minister tells Araga Jnanendra Shruthi H M Sastry his plans and the way forward. Excerpts: A first-timer, you were made home minister. Did this come as a surprise to you?  I believe it was a reward for my experience and sincerity. I’ve been in public life for 45 years. The organisation recognised my efforts. Home is a unique portfolio meant to ensure peace. I want to work towards it. What are your focus areas? Tackling drug menace is on top of the list. The second is to address the system where some police officials have normalised harassing the public. This should stop and strict action has to be taken against such officials. I also want to ensure that overstaying foreigners are dealt with as per law. Be it the Rohingyas or any other community... there’s always an aspect of sympathy that they’re here for livelihood. But, it also becomes a challenge to monitor nefarious activities, if any. The coastal region has been communally sensitive. Will you take special measures there?  I recently visited Mangaluru and spoke to officials there. The coastal areas have ‘foreign’ concerns and officials have to be stern. There are cultural ties with Pakistan, including marital relations, which isn’t a problem. But, we need to be alert about other activities. Police have to work effectively. BJP leaders want ‘false cases’ against pro-Hindu activists to be withdrawn. Such cases have piled on over the years. During the Siddaramaiah-led Congress regime, we saw many instances. Police would have filed an FIR to induce fear. There’s no point in dragging these cases if the accused don’t have any criminal record. Appearing before the court can often be humiliating and civilians should not be harassed like that. We’ll review all fit cases for withdrawal. It’s alleged that several people were slapped with false cases in the DJ Halli-KJ Halli riots. We’ll definitely review. But, in this incident, the police have gone by CCTV footage and there were no random arrests. Eight of the accused are still absconding. We’ll continue our search. I believe the police did a good job. The drug menace continues in spite of several arrests over the years. What’s your approach to tackling it? The drug racket has grown complex over the years. It has reached a stage where the police are unable to pin down the guilty. We can’t think that we’ve solved it by arresting a few. We have to dig deeper with thorough research. Racial profiling, especially of Africans, is a concern when it comes to drug cases. Don’t you think the police need sensitisation?  No. People from certain countries are more involved in this racket. I’m not generalising, but citizens from certain countries don’t have other sources of income. Drugs have become profitable for them. The police are cracking down on such individuals. There are demands to repeal the ‘sedition’ law as it is often misused. I agree that the provision must not be misused. But, when people act against the interest of the nation, there’s no choice, but to seek recourse in the existing legal provision. However, it doesn’t mean that you randomly file (sedition) cases against people. Cyber crimes are rising. What measures will you take?  On September 6 and 7, I’m visiting Gujarat with senior police officials. In Ahmedabad, we’re signing an agreement for a training programme on cyber crime. We’ll strengthen our cyber cell division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sedition-law-shouldnt-be-misused-but-no-choice-when-nations-interest-is-harmed-araga-jnanendra-1024643.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Let Karnataka govt specify Ganesha festival norms: D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar is non-committal on whether or not the government should relax Covid-19 restrictions for the upcoming Ganesha Chaturthi festival.  "I won't state my party's stand right now. Ganesha is the god to ward off evil. Our wish is that the festival should be celebrated in every house. How this should be done is something the government should specify by issuing guidelines. Let’s wait for that," Shivakumar told reporters on Saturday.  The government has already banned public celebrations of the Ganesha festival by setting up pandals. "People must celebrate the festival in their homes and no procession will be allowed while bringing the Ganesha idol or during the immersion of the idols," a recent order stated. But Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is under pressure from his party colleagues to relax norms for the festival. He has said that the issue will be discussed at a meeting of experts scheduled on August 30.  Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar has said that dharmic sentiments must be kept in mind before imposing restrictions while BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has warned Bommai against "troubling" Hindus during the Ganesha festival.   On Saturday, Vishwa Hindu Parishad regional secretary Jagannath Shastri said the government should allow public celebration of the Ganesha festival and even warned of protests.  "Permission was given last time with restrictions. This time, too, 40-50 people should be allowed to celebrate," he said. "Just as permission has been given for people to offer community prayers at mosques and churches, Hindu festivals should be permitted for celebrations. Otherwise, we will have to agitate against the government," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/let-karnataka-govt-specify-ganesha-festival-norms-d-k-shivakumar-1024652.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccination for Afghan children against Polio in Karnataka||In a circular issued on Friday, National Health Mission Director Dr Arundhathi Chandrasekhar instructed vaccinating all children arriving from Afghanistan at all ports of entry in Karnataka against polio. Every child, aged zero to 15 years, will be given polio drops in Karnataka. In January, more than 60 lakh children of Karnataka, aged 0-5 years, got polio vaccine in the state. There has been no case of polio in India in the last 11 years. But neighbouring countries, like Pakistan and Afghanistan, are still not polio-free. So, as a preventive measure, India is still conducting a polio vaccination drive every year. As per the circular, every person, who enters Karnataka from Afghanistan, needs to be given Polio vaccine (via the intradermal route or subcutaneously). Also, they have to be screened for polio by taking stool samples. These samples have to be sent to the National Institute of Virology in Bengaluru, the Mission director said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccination-for-afghan-children-against-polio-in-karnataka-1024660.html
28-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KSPCB bats for eco-friendly Ganesha Chaturthi in Karnataka||Ahead of Ganesha Chaturthi, the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has started creating awareness on the sustainable celebration of the festival, especially with regard to the immersion of the idols. Last year, the Board launched a campaign for an eco-friendly idol, including video clips on making turmeric idols. To encourage more people to switch from painted idols, the Board has now allowed the public to upload photographs of their turmeric idols from September 8 to 10. The Board is uploading video messages by leading personalities who speak against the commercialisation of the festival and making of idols from organic materials, including flour, turmeric and dissolvable materials. KSPCB member secretary Srinivasulu said the campaign focuses on clean and safe Ganesh Chaturthi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kspcb-bats-for-eco-friendly-ganesha-chaturthi-in-karnataka-1024661.html
28-08-2021||West||15-year-old girl rescued from under debris after 2-storey building collapses in Pune||A portion of a single-storey house collapsed in Fugewadi area of Pimpri Chinchwad in Pune district of Maharashtra on Saturday, officials said, adding a teenage girl trapped under the debris was rescued safely. "Some portion of an old house fell this morning. Congested houses in the old areas made the task difficult for officials. During the rescue operation, some more portions of the house started crumbling. However, rescuers managed to pull out a teenage girl trapped under the debris safely," a fire brigade official told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/15-year-old-girl-rescued-from-under-debris-after-2-storey-building-collapses-in-pune-1024451.html
28-08-2021||West||Talks about Constitution, secularism will last only till Hindus in majority in India, says Gujarat Dy CM||Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel has said that talks about India's Constitution, laws and secularism will last only as long as Hindus are in majority in the country, and none of the country's "courts, Lok Sabha, Constitution, secularism" will remain in case Hindus are reduced to a minority. "Those talking about the Constitution, laws, secularism will continue to do so only as long as Hindus are in majority in this country. May god prevent this from happening, but if in another 1,000-2,000 years, the number of Hindus reduces, and (the number of) people from another religion increases, there will be no courts, Lok Sabha, Constitution, secularism...they will all vanish in thin air, nothing will remain," he said. Addressing an event on Friday to mark the idol installation ceremony at a temple of goddess Bharat Mata in Gandhinagar organised by Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), he added that he was not talking about all the Muslims or Christians, as a large number of them are patriots. "I do not talk about all of them. Thousands and lakhs of Muslims, Christians are patriots. Thousands of Muslims are in the Indian Army, hundreds of Muslims are in Gujarat police force. They are all patriots. But (I am talking about those) who are not," he said. Patel criticised a Muslim organisation (Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind) for challenging the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Act, 2021 - that seeks to stop religious conversions through interfaith marriages using force - and wondered why it was troubled by the law even when it is not religion-specific. He said that the government brought an amendment to the Act after much deliberation due to the concerns raised over cases of "love jihad". "I have to ask those who have moved writ in the court, will you still challenge the Act if somebody (from another religion) takes away your daughter (for forcible marriage and converts her religion)?...I have to ask that organisation as to what is their objection to Hindu girls marrying Hindus, Muslim girls marrying Muslims, Christian girls marrying Christians, Sikh girls marrying Sikhs," he said. Patel said that when the law applies equally to a Hindu boy forcibly entering into a marriage and converting a Muslim girl, then why only the Muslim organisation was troubled by the law. The Gujarat High Court had recently stayed several sections of the controversial Act till the pendency of the case. "People of their community should (rather) issue public statements, hold press conferences, and thank (state Home minister) Pradipsinh (Jadeja), the BJP government, and say they support and welcome the law for ensuring the unity, safety of Gujarat and protection of its daughters from every religion. Why are they troubled, this I do not understand," he said. The BJP leader said that because of the landmark works of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah at the Centre, like removing Article 370, ensuring construction of Lord Ram temple, strengthening every religion. Patel also thanked Jadeja for ensuring that Lord Jagannath Yatra in Ahmedabad and 157 other Yatras across Gujarat were taken out this year by taking precautions so that the number of Covid-19 cases do not go up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/talks-about-constitution-secularism-will-last-only-till-hindus-in-majority-in-india-says-gujarat-dy-cm-1024527.html
28-08-2021||West||Mysuru gang rape: Yuva Sena demands action||The Shiv Sena and its youth wing Yuva Sena has requested Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai  to render help to an MBA student from Mumbai who was gang-raped in Mysuru.  The Yuva Sena also sent out appeals to Karnataka Director General of Police Praveen Sood and Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant. Expressing deep anguish, Yuva Sena Secretary Durga Bhosle-Shinde, Core Committee members Suprada Phatarpekar, Sheetal Sheth and Subhashini Thevar said: “The victim's condition is critical, as reported by media. An assault on a woman anywhere is an assault on humanity”. Meanwhile they also urged to provide her the best medicare, besides urgent and strict action against the perpetrators.  They further said that the victim's male friend was also brutally assaulted and there have been arrests in the incident which happened on Thursday and resulted in a huge political furore.  "The police must treat this incident with the utmost urgency and take all relevant steps to arrest the accused as soon as possible. Any delay will make it even more difficult to ensure justice to the survivor," the letter states.  Meanwhile, in a related development, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturved condemned the statement of Karnataka Home Minister Araga Jnanendra and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti. “After Karnataka Home Minister’s disgusting comments now another Minister,Umesh Katti says rapes are not uncommon and can’t be helped,rapes shouldn’t occur but there’s nothing we can do about them….shameful…. Will the Chief Minister act on these ministers?,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mysuru-gang-rape-yuva-sena-demands-action-1024550.html
28-08-2021||West||Negative RT-PCR report must for international passengers arriving in Maharashtra||All international passengers arriving in Maharashtra will have to carry a negative RT-PCR report even though they are fully vaccinated, the state government has said. “All international passengers arriving in Maharashtra, including those from the European countries, Middle Eastern countries and South Africa, will be in line with the above-mentioned guidelines issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare,” said the order issued by Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte on Friday night.  The Maharashtra government later issued a statement mentioning that fresh rules of the Central government mandate a negative RT-PCR test report before arriving in India. “Same rule is applicable for international passengers arriving in Maharashtra. Although the passenger has taken two doses of vaccine against Covid-19, the negative report of RT-PCR is mandatory,” the statement said. Maharashtra on Friday reported 4,654 new coronavirus cases and 170 fresh deaths, taking the infection tally to 64,47,442 and the toll to 1,36,900, a state health official had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/negative-rt-pcr-report-must-for-international-passengers-arriving-in-maharashtra-1024566.html
28-08-2021||West||TV actor Gaurav Dixit remanded to NCB custody till August 30||A court here on Saturday remanded television actor Gaurav Dixit, arrested in connection with a drug case, in the custody of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) till August 30. Dixit was arrested by the Mumbai zonal team of the NCB on Friday, and was produced before a magistrate court here. The NCB, represented by special public prosecutor Advait Sethna, submitted that the case pertains to recovery of commercial quantity of contraband and hence Dixit's custodial interrogation was required. Appearing for the accused, advocate Kushal Mor argued that the recovery was of small quantity and Dixit must be released on bail. After hearing both sides, the court remanded the accused to the custody of the NCB till August 30. The NCB had been on the lookout for Dixit for the past few months after his name cropped up in the interrogation of actor Ajaz Khan and some other persons in April this year. The probe agency had searched Dixit’s home in Lokhandwala at the time and drugs were seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tv-actor-gaurav-dixit-remanded-to-ncb-custody-till-august-30-1024582.html
28-08-2021||West||NCB raids Bollywood actor Armaan Kohli's residence||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) conducted a raid at Bollywood actor Armaan Kohli's residence here, an official said on Saturday evening. The action followed the arrest of TV actor Gaurav Dixit by the central anti-drugs agency the day before. The raid was underway at Kohli's house, the NCB official said without divulging any details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-raids-bollywood-actor-armaan-kohlis-residence-1024600.html
28-08-2021||West||Discussed only OBC quota during my meeting with CM: Devendra Fadnavis||Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said his one-on-one meeting with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was regarding OBC quota in local bodies and no other topic was discussed. After attending an all-party meeting on Friday, the Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly and Thackeray met behind closed doors for ten minutes, triggering speculation amid a raging political feud between BJP and ruling Sena over the arrest of Union minister Narayan Rane on Tuesday for his controversial remarks against the Sena chief. “It is true that I held discussions with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after the all-party meeting on OBC quota in local bodies. The discussion during our meeting was only about the OBC quota in local governing bodies. Thackeray asked my cooperation and I responded positively,” Fadnavis told reporters. “No other topic came up for discussion during our meeting,” he added. The meeting between Fadnavis and Thackeray, whose parties had shared power in Maharashtra from 2014 to 2019, had generated intense political interest amid speculation that leaders of BJP and Sena have agreed informally to go soft on each other especially in the wake of the Rane episode. The all-party meeting was held at the Sahyadri Guest House of the state government here on the issue of restoring the reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in local governing bodies. CM Thackeray had said all political parties agreed to restore the reservation for OBCs in local governing bodies and a decision would be taken in a week. The state government is trying to find a way to restore political reservation for OBCs in Maharashtra after the Supreme Court read down the earlier provision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/discussed-only-obc-quota-during-my-meeting-with-cm-devendra-fadnavis-1024604.html
28-08-2021||West||Independent MLA Jignesh Mevani installs oxygen plant in his constituency||Independent MLA Jignesh Mevani on Saturday inaugurated the oxygen plant in his constituency Vadgam in Banaskantha district in north Gujarat. Mevani said that the plant, set up at a cost of nearly Rs1 crore from his MLA fund and one of the biggest in the state, will cater to hospitals located in several nearby constituencies. "After a struggle of more than three months and wading through the red tape of a hostile state government, the efforts have finally brought concrete results and with the whole-hearted support of the people, we have finally set up Gujarat’s biggest oxygen plant for people in Vadgam constituency," the independent legislature said in a statement. He told DH that this plant has a capacity to refill over 800 jumbo oxygen cylinders per day which can cater to hospitals in around his constituencies. In the inauguration, Mevani invited religious priests from different faiths to send a message of communal harmony. The development comes nearly four months after the state charity commissioner froze the bank account of an NGO for whom Mevani had appealed for donation for the purpose of setting up the oxygen plan. The bank account was seized in the middle of a fundraising campaign during the peak of the second wave of coronavirus in his constituency and also on social media which attracted lots of donors including actor Prakash Raj. The bank account was frozen on the grounds that Mevani, despite not being a trustee of the NGO, was appealing for the funds. The matter is still under dispute. Meanwhile, Mevani had also moved Gujarat high court seeking permission to allow him to use the Member of Legislative Assembly Local Area Development Scheme funds (MLALAD) for setting up the oxygen plant. While the matter was in the high court, the state government issued a notification allowing the MPs MLAs to use the development funds to spend on health infrastructure in view of the covid-19 pandemic.  "Oxygen shortage claimed innumerable lives during the second wave of Covid-19 and put state governments across the country in a difficult position. To avert any possible shortage of oxygen that might emerge from the anticipated third wave, independent MLA Jignesh Mevani has now set up Gujarat's biggest oxygen plant with state-of-the-art technology for the people in his constituency and nearby districts," read the statement Mevani released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/independent-mla-jignesh-mevani-installs-oxygen-plant-in-his-constituency-1024612.html
28-08-2021||West||Tomato price crash forces farmers to dump produce in Nashik||Tomato prices have crashed by at least 50 per cent at the wholesale market in Nashik and are being sold at Rs 2.5-9 per kg due to higher production this season and lower exports, according to traders. Tomatoes in some areas have also got damaged due to adverse weather conditions, forcing farmers to dump their produce on roads, they added. Nashik APMC Secretary Arun Kale said the prices of tomatoes have come down to Rs 50-180 per crate, 20 kg each, this season (June-January), depending on the quality compared to Rs 300-350 per crate in the previous season. "Lack of exports, higher production in the area and uneven distribution of rainfall affecting the quality of the produce that made it highly perishable than before, especially the Kesar variety, forced many farmers to dump their produce on roads," Kale told PTI. Additionally, he said that higher fuel prices have made the input cost much more than the wholesale prices, which is another reason that farmers are finding it difficult to transport their produce to the mandis and instead dumping it. Balasaheb Patole of Nashik APMC further noted that till now, around 1,000-1,500 crates of tomatoes have been dumped by farmers. However, things have been improving for the past 1-2 days as the arrivals have slowed down and better quality of tomatoes are arriving in the mandi. "Things are improving, however, we cannot say when the prices will normalise," he added. Rahul Avhad, a farmer, said the production had gone up as last year, the tomato prices were very good, and the yield this year is very high. "We are unable to get even the minimum cost, including the labour as well as the transport, that we had invested for the crop due to the price crash. So, instead of spending more to bring our produce to the mandi, we are dumping them," he stated. Now, he said the farmers are harvesting less and leaving the crop instead, which has resulted in slowdown of arrivals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tomato-price-crash-forces-farmers-to-dump-produce-in-nashik-1024615.html
