29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||A contest turns into a treasure trove of seeds||A competition for collection of seeds of fruit-bearing trees, organised jointly by the National Environment Care Federation (NECF) and the Universal Knowledge (UK), to instill curiosity among children, ended up reaping dividends. In the past two months, more than 400 children had collected seeds of fruit-bearing trees and submitted to the NECF. A few children with a creative bent of mind had prepared sachets of seeds with explanations on the uses of fruits and also its medicinal values. One student had even collected and sent seeds of more than 30 rare wild fruits, informs Shashidhar Shetty of NECF. The seeds of ‘Hebbalasu’, ‘Nurukallu’, ‘Pannerale’, ‘Uppage’, ‘Kaadubaale’, ‘Eaachalu’, ‘Kepula’, ‘Guddegeru’, black grapes, watermelon, musk melon, chikkoo, moosambi, papaya, ramphala, seethaphala, rambootan, cocoa, echalu, papaya, dates, plum, gooseberry, passion fruit and others, have been deposited in the NECF’s seed bank. “The competition was organised to make children love environment with visit to forest regions and hilly areas. Children, while collecting seeds, improved their knowledge and even sought information from elders also,” Shashidhar said. Among the seeds received, 30 per cent were of normally available one like mango, jackfruit, so on, and 70 per cent belonged to wild fruits. Using the seeds, the NECF has plans to set up a nursery and raise saplings. When the time is ripe, these saplings are planted during the campaign of greening the Western Ghats -- observed on every Sunday. Shashidar says about 12 varieties of seeds received, were on the verge of extinct in the Western Ghats. Some of these seeds are grown in bushes, creepers and were sources of food to the birds. “Thus, such saplings on the verge of extinction, will be developed and will be planted on vacant lands across the district. Thus, plants which are on the verge of extinct, can be revived,” adds Shashidhar. Students not only from Karnataka, even from neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra, took part in the competition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/a-contest-turns-into-a-treasure-trove-of-seeds-1024699.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Teacher sent on compulsory leave for not taking Covid vaccine||Jewargi Block Education Officer Venkayya Inamdar has sent Subhashchandra, who was working as teacher at Government Higher Primary school at Sonna village of taluk, on compulsory leave for not receiving Covid-19 vaccine.  Subhashchandra remained absent unauthorisedly on August 24 and had put out an application seeking permission the same day to attend the school.  "During an enquiry, it came to my notice that the teacher has not received Covid vaccine. Hence, he has been sent on compulsory leave until he gets two doses of the vaccine", Venkayya said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/teacher-sent-on-compulsory-leave-for-not-taking-covid-vaccine-1024785.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Woman opposes encroachment clearance, consumes poison||A woman allegedly made an attempt to end life by consuming poison when officials tried to clear a house constructed on encroached land at Hullenahalli village in the taluk on Sunday. Hombalamma, 55, wife of Honnaiah, consumed poison in front of the officials when they tried to clear the building constructed on gramthana land. Taluk and gram panchayat officials visited the spot where the house was constructed on two feet gramthana land based on a complaint filed with the Lokayukta. Hombalamma sought some time to clear the encroachment. The officials visited the spot on Sunday and tried to clear the construction as she failed to clear the encroachment. The officials rushed her to the taluk hospital and later admitted to Adichunchanagiri hospital for further treatment. No police complaint has been lodged, according to sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-opposes-encroachment-clearance-consumes-poison-1024862.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid vaccination drive in Mysuru on Aug 30||Mysuru Beedi Mazdoor Association and the Management of Central Hospital for Beedi workers have organised a Covid-19 vaccination drive for beedi workers and the general public at Farooqia Girls High School, Azeez Sait Nagar, on August 30. The drive will be held between 10 am and 5 pm. All above 18 years olds may get vaccinated, according to K C Showkath Pasha, Secretary, Mysuru Beedi Workers Association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-vaccination-drive-in-mysuru-on-aug-30-1024863.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cage kept to trap crocodile in Srirangapatna||Forest department has placed a cage to trap a crocodile that had attacked and killed two goats near Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary in Srirangapatna taluk in Mandya district on Sunday. The crocodile is said to have moved into a pond at a stone quarry near Virija canal about 200 metres from the Sanctuary. The net used to capture leopards did not help to catch the crocodile. It also ripped apart the net used to catch stray pigs. A cage has been placed near the quarry to trap the crocodile. The crocodile, which attacked and killed a goat last week, attacked another goat three days ago. The crocodile has been attacking the goats grazing near the Virija canal. Now, it has moved into a pond in the nearby quarry, said department personnel. Range Forest Officer of Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary, K Surendra said, "The crocodile has moved into Virija canal from the nearby River Cauvery. The attempts made to catch it using nets have failed. A cage has been placed and chicken laid as the bait. There is a possibility that the crocodile would be trapped."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cage-kept-to-trap-crocodile-in-srirangapatna-1024871.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru prepares to manage possible third Covid wave||Mysuru, DHNS: The district administration and the Health department are fully prepared to tackle the possible third wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The experts warn the pandemic is likely to hit the district in a few days. The district administration and the Health department are now aware of tackling the situation. They have better experience as they handled the first and second wave. The authorities have stored sufficient medicines, equipment, oxygen and also beds. As per the study conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), about 65 % people in Mysuru are infected with the virus during the first and the second wave and remaining 35% would be affected in the third wave. The children below six-years old and college students face the threat of infection. The Health department is preparing to tackle the third wave based on the data from the second wave. The district administration is implementing programmes to ensure safety of the people as per the national Covid-19 guidelines. Oxygen units The district administration has established 14 oxygen concentrator units in order to ensure sufficient supply of medical oxygen. The units are established at Mysuru medical college, superspeciality hospital, K R Hospital, District Hospital, taluk hospitals and at community health care centres. Liquefied oxygen required for the ICU beds have been stored. Necessary beds have been arranged in case of any outbreak. Special arrangements have been made at Cheluvamba Hospital and District hospital to treat children. Five beds each in taluk hospitals have been reserved. District Health Officer Dr K H Prasad said,"As many as 460 ICU and ventilator beds are reserved for children. In addition, 140 beds are reserved at private hospitals." The district has a total of 7,500 beds and the number of ambulances has been increased. The Health department has sought cooperation from other departments during emergencies and also decided to intensify vaccination drives. The Health department has commenced the process of recruiting temporary doctors and there will be no shortage of medical professionals to attend to Covid patients. The existing staff are well trained and it has been planned to utilise the service of medical and nursing students during the pandemic, if needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-prepares-to-manage-possible-third-covid-wave-1024877.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||PM Modi implemented anti-farmer policies during Covid crisis: All India Kisan Sabha leader||All India Kisan Sabha leader Hannan Mollah on Sunday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had failed to fulfill promises he made to the farmers during the elections. "There is no anti-farmer leader like Narendra Modi in the history of India," he alleged. Speaking at an interaction programme in Mandya on the farmers' protest in Delhi, he said, "Narendra Modi promised to implement the recommendations of Swaminathan Commission report during the election rally at around 400 places, but betrayed the farmers. Despite the Supreme Court questioning this, the BJP government submitted an affidavit saying that it is not possible to provide support price for the crop as per Swaminathan Report and betrayed the farmers." "There are more than 90 crore farmers in the country and 25 crore agricultural labourers. Around 80% of them are small and micro farmers and 15% medium and 5% large scale farmers. Around 50 farmers are ending their lives by suicides in the country every day, unable to bear losses due to crop failure. The agriculture labourers are also facing the worst," he said. The government implemented anti-farmer policies when the country was reeling under Covid situation. It had been favouring capitalists sounding a death knell to the farmers, he alleged. Regional Raitha Sangha state vice president Venkatachalaiah, Mandya district unit president Puttamadhu, Janawadi Mahila Sangha state president Devi, Rajya Raitha Sangha district unit president Badagalapura Nagendra were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pm-modi-implemented-anti-farmer-policies-during-covid-crisis-all-india-kisan-sabha-leader-1024889.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rape accused 'hangs self' in police lock-up; Home minister orders CID probe||A 37-year-old man, arrested on charge of raping a minor girl, allegedly hanged himself at the lock-up of Sindagi police station on Sunday morning. Devendra Bhimraya Sangogi was arrested on late Saturday. He was found hanging from the ceiling of the toilet in the police station. The staff rushed him to Vijayapura district hospital, where he failed to respond to treatment and died, Vijayapura Superintendent of Police H D Anandkumar told DH. The SP clarified that the police did not torture the rape accused and that he died by suicide. "Normally, the lock-up deaths are subjected to CID probe. Will submit a report on the incident to higher ups," the SP added. Sangogi was arrested following a complaint by victim's father. The family members of the accused on Sunday staged a protest in front of the police station, blaming police torture for Sangogi's death. Meanwhile, Home Minister Araga Jnanendra has ordered a CID probe into the lock-up death at Sindagi police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rape-accused-hangs-self-in-police-lock-up-home-minister-orders-cid-probe-1024929.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru heist case: 1 suspect nabbed from Indo-Pak border||One of the accused in the robbery and shootout case at a jewellery shop in Mysuru, reported on the evening of August 23, was taken into custody from a village bordering India and Pakistan, sources said. The police nabbed the suspect from a village in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, which is just 10 km away from the line of control. The accused has been brought to Mysuru. After the crime, all the accused reached Mumbai through different modes of transport and met there. They shared the looted valuables before dispersing to different states. While one accused was arrested from West Bengal, two each were arrested from Mumbai and Rajasthan, while one was nabbed from Jammu and Kashmir. The police had formed special teams consisting of 120 personnel. A team led by inspector Naveen nabbed the suspect from Rajouri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-heist-case-1-suspect-nabbed-from-indo-pak-border-1024931.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four brothers hacked to death over property dispute||In a spine-chilling killing spree, four brothers of Madhurakhandi village in Jamkhandi were hacked to death with sharp weapons by a gang of unidentified assailants on Saturday night. The police have identified the deceased as Hanumanth Mudareddi (45), Basavaraj Mudareddi (37), Eshwar Mudareddi (35) and Mallu Mudareddi (33). The shocking incident occurred at their farmhouse on Sanneri road. Sources said Mudareddi and Putani families were at loggerheads over a disputed property for the past few years. The warring families had physical altercations in the past. Police suspect the rivals might have roped in outsiders to murder the Mudareddi siblings. The Jamkhandi Rural police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-brothers-hacked-to-death-over-property-dispute-1024932.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Court remands Mysuru gang-rape suspects in 10-day police custody||The police have intensified the investigation in the gang rape case reported near Chamundi Hill on August 24. It is said that the five accused in the case are habitual offenders. The police, who are investigating the case in which a 22-year-old college student was raped by a gang, produced all the five arrested before the 3rd JMFC court. The suspects were remanded in police custody for 10 days. The accused were subjected to medical tests and their samples of hair and skin were collected by the police. The samples have been sent to the forensic sciences laboratory for examination. According to police sources, all the five accused have criminal background. They were involved in crimes like theft and robbery. Some of the accused have cases registered against them in different police station limits of Tamil Nadu. A police officer said the gang used to visit Mysuru to enjoy and used to commit crimes before leaving the city. They used to target couples, youths and lone women.  While two of the suspects used to harass women, others indulged in looting money and valuables from their targets. They used to blackmail the victims and demanded money from them.  It is said that the Mysuru police had arrested one of them six months ago in a sandalwood theft case but he was released on bail. Police have refused to share details. Mother’s tears A video clip of a woman, said to be the mother of an accused, shedding tears and claiming that her son is innocent has gone viral. “Police took him away without any reason when he was asleep,” she said. The family members of another accused have left the village, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/court-remands-mysuru-gang-rape-suspects-in-10-day-police-custody-1024933.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa to tour Karnataka to achieve Mission 140||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa said that he would tour the state after the Ganesha festival with State BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel and other leaders to achieve Mission 140 in the next assembly polls. He was speaking at taluk-level BJP workers meeting in Shikaripur, his home turf, on Sunday. Referring to media reports, he said some newspapers reported that he alone would tour the state after the Ganesha festival. Denying reports, he said that he would tour the state with other leaders too. His tour is aimed at bringing BJP back to power in Karnataka in 2023 on its own without depending on others. The respective district in-charge ministers and legislators would also join him on his state-wide tour. He exuded confidence that BJP would win around 130 to 140 seats in the next assembly polls and the party would come back to power in Karnataka. "You (workers) already know how BJP suffered set back by relying on others to come back to power." He made it clear that there was no political pressure on him to step down from the top post. He voluntarily quit the top post to pave the way for another leader to head the government.  Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is giving importance to development, Yediyurappa said and asked the people of the state to extend co-operation to Bommai as they did for him. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-to-tour-karnataka-to-achieve-mission-140-1024841.html
29-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Under BJP, Karnataka ranked first in Covid-19 corruption: D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar charged that Karnataka ranks first in corruption that occurred during the Covid-19 pandemic and the large-scale corruption resulted in chief minister B S Yediyurappa losing power. Speaking to media persons on Sunday, Shivakumar said the BJP leaders should explain to the people of Karnataka why a chief minister was forced to submit his resignation with tears in his eyes. “The BJP leaders have been claiming that they have done a wonderful job in managing Covid-19. If so, why was Yediyurappa shunted out?,” he questioned and said the level of corruption in the government had become untenable, forcing the central leadership to act against Yediyurappa. Shivakumar also charged that both the state and the Union governments have failed to come to the aid of sectors and individuals affected by the pandemic. “The Union government announced Rs 20,000 crore package and the state government Rs 1,600 crore package for the Covid-19 affected people. Release the list of beneficiaries, who have received the compensation,” he demanded and added that the state BJP government has left the affected people to suffer. ‘Devil’s chant’ Responding to charges of Shivakumar, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said, the Congress and Shivakumar talking about corruption is akin to the devil reciting the Bhagavad Gita. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/under-bjp-karnataka-ranked-first-in-covid-19-corruption-d-k-shivakumar-1024886.html
29-08-2021||National||Jaishankar, Blinken discuss situation in Afghanistan||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the United States Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, discussed the situation in Afghanistan during a phone call on Saturday. Jaishankar and Blinken discussed “a broad range of shared priorities, including continued coordination on Afghanistan and in the United Nations”, Ned Price, the spokesperson of the US State Department, said. They agreed to remain closely coordinated on shared goals and priorities to deepen the US-India partnership. This was the third call between Jaishankar and Blinken after the Taliban militants marched into Kabul on August 15 after occupying many provincial capitals in a swift blitz across Afghanistan. “Spoke to US Secretary of State @Secblinken. Continued our discussions on Afghanistan. Also exchanged views on the agenda of UNSC (United Nations Security Council),” Jaishankar tweeted after his phone call with Blinken. India is currently a non-permanent member of the UNSC and held the rotating presidency of the council for the month of August. New Delhi has been coordinating with the US for operating the evacuation flights from the capital of Afghanistan. The Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul has been under control of the troops of the US and its NATO allies. India also coordinated with the governments of Tajikistan, Qatar, Uzbekistan and Iran for using their airports and airspace for securing transit and overflight permissions for its evacuation aircraft, which avoided the airspace of Pakistan. Though India could evacuate most of its citizens willing to leave Afghanistan, some were still left in the country, where the Taliban’s swift blitz led to the collapse of President Ashraf Ghani’s government in Kabul. The ones still left in Afghanistan included about 20, who could not reach the airport to board the aircraft that left for India nearly 12 hours before the twin explosions near the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul on Thursday killed over 100 people and made the US and others pause evacuation. The US and some other foreign nations resumed operating evacuation flights from the airport in Kabul on Friday. New Delhi, however, has not done so yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-blinken-discuss-situation-in-afghanistan-1024677.html
29-08-2021||National||Agency denies reports about Taliban militants getting hands on Afghan passports with Indian visas||An agency hired by the Embassy of India in Kabul to issue visas to Afghans apparently opened a new account on Twitter on Saturday to deny reports about its office being raided by the militants of the Taliban. The ‘denial’ from the Shahir Travel Agency came a day after the Ministry of External Affairs in New Delhi lent credence to the speculation that the militants of the Taliban might have got their hands on some of the passports issued by the Afghan Government affixed with the visas granted by the Embassy of India in Kabul. The agency opened a new account, @ShahirIvac, on Twitter to issue the ‘denial’ on Saturday, instead of using its old, @Shahirtravels, which had been opened in June 2017, but had not been used to tweet after July 5, 2017. “We have come across false news in Indian media that Shahir Travel Office in Kabul was raided and property stolen. I would like to state that this news is not true and totally fake. We have only been provided security by personnel in charge, all property are SECURE,” the Shahir Travel Agency posted on Twitter, using the account @ShahirIvac. It also stated that its office remained open and was functioning. “We look forward to begin accepting visa applications on behalf of Indian Embassy as soon as the Diplomatic Mission recommences operations again in Afghanistan”. “Dear Sirs, Kindly note that Shahir India Visa Centre was not 'raided' but VISITED by officials currently in power as all offices in Kabul were. All our property is safe and functional. We look forward to working with GoI (Government of India) again soon.” The circumstances in which the Shahir Travel Agency had to issue the denial are, however, not clear. After the militants entered Kabul on August 15 and President Ashraf Ghani’s government collapsed, some “groups of people” had purportedly raided the office of the Shahir Travel Agency, which the Embassy of India in the capital of Afghanistan had hired to process visa applications by the Afghans and issue them visas after its approval. “Once the security situation deteriorated immediately after August 15, there were reports of groups of people, who had access to or who raided one of our outsourcing agencies, where the Afghan passports with Indian visas were there,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs, said in New Delhi on Friday. The incident put New Delhi on alert and immigration officials at the international airports in India were asked to remain vigilant to make it sure that no unwanted person could enter the country using the Indian visas affixed on Afghan passports lost in Kabul. Bagchi was responding to a query on deportation of Rangina Kargar, a member of Parliament of Afghanistan, soon after her arrival at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi from Istanbul on August 20. She came to New Delhi to consult a physician in the national capital of India and had a ticket for returning to Istanbul on August 22. But the immigration officials deported her from the airport itself and she was sent back to Istanbul via Dubai. “So in the light of the loss of Afghan passports containing Indian visas. Our authorities were in a state of high alert. We were also moving to the e-emergency visa system,” said the MEA spokesperson. “It appears that all these could have led to some confusion which in turn led to the unfortunate incident of the denial of entry to a particular Afghan national.” New Delhi, however, over the past few days evacuated 112 Afghans, mostly Afghan Sikhs and Hindus, including Narender Singh Khalsa and Anarkali Kour Honaryar, two members of the National Assembly of Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agency-denies-reports-about-taliban-militants-getting-hands-on-afghan-passports-with-indian-visas-1024697.html
29-08-2021||National||Steroids: The double-edged sword of the drug world||Unlike the known public health crisis due to indiscriminate use of antibiotics, the misuse of steroids is lesser known even though the consequences are debilitating and can even be fatal. One of the magic drugs of modern medicine, steroids have been around for more than 60 years, but scientific evidence on the extent of their inappropriate use in India is sparse. The ballooning of mucormycosis, or black fungus, infections during the second surge of the Covid-19 epidemic has turned the spotlight on unsupervised use of glucocorticoids — steroids in scientific parlance — leading to serious health consequences. According to the National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, there were nearly 41,000 cases of mucormycosis and 3,100 plus deaths till June end. More than 50% of these patients had a history of steroid misuse and diabetes — the commonest side effect of being on high-dose steroids for an extended period. "Steroids are life-saving drugs, but given in wrong environment and wrong doses, there could be dangerous side effects ranging from crippling osteoporosis, multiple fungal infections, thinning of skin, elevation of blood pressure and sugar, unwanted fat deposition and insulin resistance,” said Krishna Sheshadri, a senior endocrinologist at Apollo Hospital, Chennai. Experts said before prescribing steroids, a doctor should find out whether steroids are indicative of the problem for which it is being prescribed, the shortest period of time to give the drug safely and what precaution should be taken. The Indian realities, unfortunately, are different. Self-medication In 1987, a review of drug prescriptions in numerous locations around India showed that glucocorticoids are inappropriately prescribed for presentations such as fever and infections with great frequency. Nearly 10% of private prescriptions and 5% of self-medicated drugs may include a steroid. Close to 40% of the self-medicated oral steroids were hidden in fixed-dose oral preparations with an antihistamine or bronchodilator as a combination. "Overuse of steroids is a problem in India as many general practitioners give them because of the medicine’s ability to make symptoms disappear and give pain relief. Also, given in small doses, it imparts a sense of well-being because of which patients want to continue, and the doctors comply. And then suddenly the patient collapses,” said Nihal Thomas, a professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore, and co-author of one of the few Indian studies on steroid misuse. Thomas and his colleagues Philip Finny, Lois Armstrong and Chandan Nalli from Duncan Hospital at Raxaul conducted a study in north Bihar a decade ago to understand the extent of such unsupervised use of steroids in the hinterlands. Since seeking medical help for chronic health problems like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, joint pains and skin diseases was not an option for the poor, they either self-medicated or were given steroids by local practitioners (quacks). In a few cases, private doctors also prescribed steroids, but many such doctors were unaware of the long-term consequences of steroid use. They found that glucocorticoids are easily available over the counter. Prednisolone and dexamethasone were most commonly misused. While the regularity and duration of drug use are of concern, what matters to the poor is that these drugs are cheap and available over the counter. Prolonged use of steroids, Thomas says, can also make one dependent on the drug. It then becomes even more difficult for a doctor to take the person off steroids, which can’t be done all of a sudden. The tapering-off has to be a gradual process as sudden halt can be fatal. In many cases, doctors have to settle for a low-dose steroid for life in the bargain. Judicious use "Steroids must be used judiciously. Even in the ICU, its use should be stopped after three-four days once the inflammation is under control. But we do see cases where a doctor asks a patient to use it for 10 days and come back. The patient doesn’t return but continues to use the steroids for six months, triggering adverse effects,” observed V Mohan, chairman at Dr Mohan’s Diabetes Specialities Centre. Skin diseases are another area where inappropriate use of steroids is widespread. “They are considered a panacea by lay persons for anything on the skin. Topical corticosteroids are the most widely sold topical drugs and an overwhelmingly large population buys them without any prescription,” said S B Verma, a veteran dermatologist based in Vadodara. Topical corticosteroids used in combination with antifungal agents are very often potent molecules. They are available over the counter and are grossly abused, which includes buying over the counter and applying at will for weeks, months and sometimes years. This is thought to contribute significantly to the development of  chronic, difficult to treat dermatophytosis (ringworm infection) which has been causing havoc in India for the past 8-9 years. To prevent over-the-counter (OTC) sale of such skin ointments — there were 1,066 brands in 2014 and the numbers must have grown significantly in the last seven years — the Centre changed the rules to ensure that such drugs are sold only on prescriptions from November 1, 2018. "But barely anybody follows the rules. Such medicines are still sold OTC. There is a virtual epidemic of fungal infections fuelled by such cocktail creams,” Verma said. The side effects of unsupervised use of topical corticosteroids include discolouration and thinning of the skin and local growth of hair. Life-saving drug Notwithstanding its inappropriate use, doctors are unanimous on the benefits of steroids as a valuable medicine when used cautiously. There are diseases wherein deficiency of glucocorticoids happen as a result of pituitary or adrenal disease and in such cases life-long glucocorticoids are required in small doses to save their lives. In fact, the spurt in mucormycosis happened when doctors realised steroids can improve the condition of Covid-19 patients low on oxygen saturation. As oxygen became scarce, many doctors resorted to using moderate to high doses of steroids, hoping it would help. "The misuse happened when doctors prescribed high doses of steroids even when oxygen saturation level did not fall below 93-94. But they were also under tremendous pressure during the second wave,” said Arunaloke Chakrabarti, a professor at the Post Graduate Institute for Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, and one of India’s foremost experts on fungal diseases. Even before Covid, mucormycosis were present due to India’s love for sweets and apathy for blood sugar control. Major hospitals used to report nearly 50 cases a year. But the huge spike seen during the second wave, affecting the face and nose in many cases, was scary. Chakrabarti said there had been an increase in Aspergillus and Candida infections too due to steroid misuse, but there was no comprehensive data. It’s time the government started collecting such data and bring in policies to control the use of steroids to save the country from such dreaded infections in future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/steroids-the-double-edged-sword-of-the-drug-world-1024704.html
29-08-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Pipe dreams'||Congress leader Sachin Pilot lashed out at the Centre on Wednesday over its asset monetisation programme, saying the central government should help the poor and the middle class instead of giving away the assets created in the past 70 years to the private sector at throwaway prices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pipe-dreams-1024712.html
29-08-2021||National||Over 31K Covid-19 cases from Kerala drive India's single-day infections to 45,083||India reported 45,083 new coronavirus cases on Sunday with 460 more people succumbing to the virus, according to data from Union Health Ministry. Of these, Kerala alone accounted for 31,265 Covid-19 infections and 153 deaths. The country's recoveries in the past 24 hours are 35,840 and active cases stand at 3,68,558. The death toll has climbed to 4,37,830 with 460 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The active cases comprise 1.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.53 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 8,783 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,55,327 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 51,86,42,929. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.57 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 34 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.28 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 65 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,18,88,642, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 63.09 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Sunday morning.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. More than 73.8 lakh doses have been administered in a 24 hours span, according to the ministry. The 460 new fatalities include 153 from Kerala and 126 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,37,830 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,026 from Maharashtra, 37,261 from Karnataka, 34,856 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,807 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,466 from Kerala and 18,417 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-31k-covid-19-cases-from-kerala-drive-indias-single-day-infections-to-45083-1024743.html
29-08-2021||National||Is Priyanka proving to be a troubleshooter for Congress post Ahmed Patel?||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hopped from 10 Janpath, residence of party president Sonia Gandhi to 12 Tughlak Road, to residence of Rahul Gandhi on Friday during the meeting with Bhupesh Baghel. At the end of the three-hour meet, it's status quo in Chhattisgarh and there is no word on leadership change in the state. Priyanka was seen exiting from 10 Janpath and entering and exiting from Rahul Gandhi's residence to formalize a middle path in the state but there is no official announcement of any formula, and the Chhattisgarh CM did not answer on the rotational chief ministership. It's being said in political circles that Priyanka Gandhi's intervention and Bhupesh Baghel's involvement in Uttar Pradesh saved the day. Baghel maintains good relations with the Congress General Secretary in-charge of UP as about 50 people from the state are being put in UP to train the cadre by Bhupesh Baghel's team and recently about 100 workers from UP were trained in Raipur. The Chhattisgarh Chief Minister has put in all the resources in UP, before that he was campaign in charge of Assam. It is not the first time Priyanka Gandhi has intervened in a crucial decision-making process, she was instrumental in the appointment of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Punjab Congress President when he was sulking and was about to jump the ship. Before that when Sachin Pilot led a revolt in July 2020 it was Priyanka Gandhi who pacified Pilot and saved the government last year in Rajasthan, however, she was unable to stop the revolt of Jyotiraditya Scindia which led to the collapse of the government in Madhya Pradesh while Jitin Prasada who worked closely with her also left and joined the BJP. While Scindia is a Union Minister, Jitin Prasada is expected to get a reward soon. Last year when G-23 leaders wrote a letter, after passing away of Ahmed Patel, she defused the tension by arranging a meeting between the group and Sonia Gandhi. Since then, there have been individual statements, like one from Kapil Sibal and others but no collective movement has started. For the party, it was AP, as Ahmed Patel was popularly called, the chief troubleshooter, but after his untimely demise due to Covid, the party was feeling the gap but PG (Priyanka Gandhi) has stepped in his shoes, and along with Kamal Nath she has been talking to leaders and working to solve problems, a close aide points out. Coming back to Chhattisgarh, she, in her intervention, has asked the Chief Minister to placate sulking T S Singhdeo and it's expected that final decision may be taken after Rahul Gandhi visits the state next month while the Chief Minister has shown his strength by rallying support of more than 50 MLAs, which has not gone down well in the party. On Friday, Bhupesh Baghel had a three-hour meeting with Rahul Gandhi, after which, Baghel said that he has invited Gandhi to visit the state. "I have apprised him of everything and discussed political as well as administrative issues... have requested Rahul Gandhi to visit Chhattisgarh," he said. After the meeting Baghel went to Akbar Road, the party headquarters, to meet the MLAs camping in support of him. The Congress high command had summoned Baghel to Delhi on Friday to take a final call whether the powerful OBC leader should be allowed to continue as the Chief Minister or be replaced by T S Singh Deo, scion of the Surguja royal family. Political temperature within the Congress in Chhattisgarh has all of a sudden soared as 56 party MLAs are openly backing Baghel and paraded before the party high command in New Delhi. The issue in the state boiled after the two leaders were called to Delhi on Tuesday and both Singhdeo and Baghel met Rahul Gandhi in Delhi and were summoned again on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-priyanka-proving-to-be-a-troubleshooter-for-congress-post-ahmed-patel-1024748.html
29-08-2021||National||New Bharat Series 'BH' mark for vehicle registration: All you need to know||The Centre introduced a new vehicle registration mark called the Bharat series or 'BH' in all vehicles this week, a move aimed to ease the process of transferring registration of vehicles when a vehicle owner moves within the country. The new series will not require any transfer of registration and will be valid throughout India. The BH series is available on a voluntary basis to Defense, central and state government employees. Those working for private companies which have offices in four or more states can also use this facility. A vehicle bearing the BH series mark will not require the assignment of a new registration mark when the owner transfers to a new state. The format of the registration is YY BH #### XX, where YY stands for year of first registration, BH is the code for Bharat series, #### is a randomised number between 0000 and 9999 and XX are letters from the alphabet. Under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, an owner cannot keep his vehicle in a state other than the one where it was registered for more than a year. The owner needs to get a new registration from the respective state's authority within this time frame. The owner also has to produce a no-objection certificate for the assignment of new registration in another state and pay the road tax on a pro-rata basis. With the new law, people having jobs with a high transfer rate will benefit the most as they will be saved from this hassle. MORTH has introduced a new registration mark for new vehicles – Bharat series (BH-series). A vehicle with BH mark will not require a new registration mark when the owner shifts from one State to another.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-bharat-series-bh-mark-for-vehicle-registration-all-you-need-to-know-1024754.html
29-08-2021||National||Chidambaram slams ICHR for omitting Nehru's photo from poster celebrating India's Independence||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday hit out at the ICHR for omitting the photograph of Jawaharlal Nehru from the first digital poster to celebrate the 75th year of India's Independence and said the explanation given is ludicrous. He accused the member secretary of the Indian Council for Historical Research (ICHR) of bowing to hate and prejudice and asked him whether he would omit Henry Ford while celebrating the birth of the motor car or Wright brothers while celebrating the birth of aviation. Ford was the first to invent the motor car and the Wright brothers were credited for building and flying the world's first aircraft. "ICHR Member-Secretary's explanation for the omission of Jawaharlal Nehru from the first digital poster to celebrate 75 years of independence is ludicrous," he said on Twitter. "After bowing down to prejudice and hate, it is best the Member-Secretary shuts his mouth," he also said. "If he was celebrating the birth of the motor car, will he omit Henry Ford? If he was celebrating the birth of aviation, will he omit the Wright brothers? If he was celebrating Indian science, will he omit C V Raman," Chidambaram asked in a series of tweets. The exclusion of Nehru's image from the poster of the 'Azaadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebrations by the ICHR has triggered a controversy with opposition parties slamming the government for it and dubbing it as "petty and atrocious".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chidambaram-slams-ichr-for-omitting-nehrus-photo-from-poster-celebrating-indias-independence-1024758.html
29-08-2021||National||DGCA extends ban on international commercial flights till Sept 30||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Sunday extended the ban on international commercial passenger flights to and from India till September 30. The ban was earlier in effect till August 31. The suspension, however, does not apply on international cargo flights and those specifically approved by the DGCA, a circular by the aviation body said. Scheduled international passenger flights were suspended in India in March last year due to the Covid pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-extends-ban-on-international-commercial-flights-till-sept-30-1024759.html
29-08-2021||National||Touching cheeks of child without sexual intent not offence, says Bombay High Court||Touching cheeks of a child without sexual intent would not attract the offence of sexual assault, the Bombay High Court said while granting bail to a 46-year-old man accused of sexually abusing an eight-year-old girl. A single bench of Justice Sandeep Shinde on August 27 granted bail to the accused Mohammad Ahmed Ulla arrested on July 2020 by the Rabodi police in the neighbouring Thane district. "In my view, touching the cheeks without a sexual intent would not attract the offence of 'sexual assault', as defined under Section 7 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act," the high court said. "Primary evaluation of the material on record does not suggest that the applicant allegedly touched the cheeks of the victim with a sexual intent," it added. Justice Shinde, however, clarified in the order that the observations made by him should be construed as the opinion only for bail in this matter and the same shall not in any way influence the trials in other matters. According to the prosecution, Ulla allegedly called the girl inside his meat shop where he touched her cheek, opened his shirt, and was about to open his pant. A woman, who had seen the accused taking the girl to his shop, went to the spot after growing suspicious. An FIR was registered and Ulla was arrested. He is presently lodged at the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai. He was booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSOA). Ulla in his bail plea said he was falsely implicated in the case by his rivals in business. He claimed that he had no criminal antecedents and was running the meat shop and living in that area for since long.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/touching-cheeks-of-child-without-sexual-intent-not-offence-says-bombay-high-court-1024763.html
29-08-2021||National||President, PM lead country in congratulating Bhavinaben Patel for winning Paralympic silver||President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the country in congratulating paddler Bhavinaben Patel for winning a historic silver medal, India's first, in the ongoing Paralympic Games in Tokyo here on Sunday. Patel on Sunday became only the second Indian woman to win a medal at the Paralympics after she signed off with a historic silver following a 0-3 loss to world number one Chinese paddler Ying Zhou in the women's singles table tennis class 4 final. "Bhavina Patel inspires the Indian contingent and sportslovers winning silver at #Paralympics. Your extraordinary determination and skills have brought glory to India. My congratulations to you on this exceptional achievement," President Kovind tweeted. The 34-year-old Patel's impressive run at the Games ended with a fighting 7-11 5-11 6-11 loss to Zhou, a two-time gold medallist, in the women's singles summit clash which lasted 19 minutes. With this medal, Indian team opened its account at the Games. Prime Minister Modi said Patel's feat is a motivation for youngsters. "The remarkable Bhavina Patel has scripted history! She brings home a historic Silver medal. Congratulations to her for it. Her life journey is motivating and will also draw more youngsters towards sports. #Paralympics," he tweeted. Modi also spoke to Patel and congratulated her on the remarkable feat. He also wished her the very best for her future endeavours. Patel hails from Sundhiya village in Vadnagar, Mehsana in Gujarat and Modi told her that he's been to Sundhiya often and enquired if her family is still there. Bhavina told him that her Parents are still there. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also took to the social networking site to wish Patel on her success. "Congratulations #BhavinaPatel on winning the Silver medal in #ParaTableTennis. Your perseverance and success shall shall as motivation for many," Sitharaman wrote on her handle. Rahul Gandhi added: "Congratulations to Bhavina Patel for winning the #Silver . India applauds your achievement. You've done the nation proud." India's first individual gold medallist shooter Abhinav Bindra also saluted Patel's "mental resilence". "Fantastic performance by @BhavinaPatel6 to bag a silver and open India's account in the #Tokyo2020 @Paralympics. Wonderful show of skill and mental resilience. Extremely proud! #Praise4Para," he tweeted alongwith a letter. Deepa Malik, who is the current president of Paralympic Committee of India (PCI), was the first Indian woman to win a medal in the Paralympic Games when she had claimed a silver in shotput at Rio five years back. Congratulating Patel for her medal, Malik said: "It is absolutely stunning to see Bhavina's performance, the way she has played the competition it has absolutely stunned the opponents. "Her game, skill, patience, her coming back, the way she has kept her focus, it is beyond words, it is world class. "This is the skill and calmness that has made her achieve the feat of silver at Paralympics and our silver girl has given this gift to the nation on national sports day, which is the most apt day to create history for any sports person." Malik said Patel has shattered the taboos around disability. "On a personal level, I feel it is a passing on the baton. I always wanted women participation to come forward..so that we can create inclusively, shatter this stereotype and taboo around disability and Bhavina has just done that." Former cricketers Virender Sehwag, VVS Laxman and Anil Kumble also congratulated the wheelerchair paddler for her historic medal. "Congratulations to #BhavinaPatel for creating history by winning India's first silver medal in women's singles class 4 table tennis event at the ongoing #TokyoParalympics. A wonderful display of focus , hardwork and mental strength," Sehwag wrote. Laxman tweeted: "Silver medal for India. Many Congratulations to #BhavinaPatel who has created history by becoming the first Indian para-paddler to win a medal in #Paralympics history." Kumble added: "Congratulations #BhavinaPatel Proud of you."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-pm-lead-country-in-congratulating-bhavinaben-patel-for-winning-paralympic-silver-1024766.html
29-08-2021||National||Forces inimical to India trying to create atmosphere of instability: Rajnath Singh||Ever since the nation became independent, it has all along been the endeavour of forces inimical to India to create an atmosphere of instability domestically, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Sunday. Addressing officers at the Defence Services Staff College at Wellington near Ooty, he said changes in spheres like the military power, trade, communication, economy and political equation could be clearly seen. In this era of globalisation, no nation could be left untouched by these changes happening around the world, he said. In such a situation, keeping the nation's security preparedness in proportion to these changes or a step ahead of them is the need. "Ever since our country became independent it has been the endeavour of enemy forces to create an atmosphere of instability within the country through one or the other means. Taking the history of the last 75 years, it seems that we have inherited the challenges." Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forces-inimical-to-india-trying-to-create-atmosphere-of-instability-rajnath-singh-1024786.html
29-08-2021||National||College students will develop satellites: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said he was confident students across the country would develop satellites in the future and benefit from the space sector reforms unveiled by the government. Addressing his monthly ‘Mann ki Baat’ program, Modi said space sector reforms had caught the imagination of the younger generation and several college students and people working in universities and the private sector have come forward enthusiastically. “I firmly believe that in the coming days, a large number of satellites would be those developed by our youth, our students, our colleges, our universities, students working in labs,” the prime minister said. Last year, the government unveiled space sector reforms by opening up the production of satellite launch vehicles and satellites to the private sector. Until recently, the role of private sector companies had been limited to supply of components and sub-systems, and fabrication of launch vehicles and satellites. Some companies had evinced interest in developing their own satellite launch vehicles, with ISRO offering space at its launch station at Sriharikota to set up their launchpad. The government set up New Space India Limited (NSIL) and Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre. The NSIL has received bids from three companies to build five Polar Satellite Launch Vehicles (PSLVs), the first instance when a launch vehicle would be entirely developed by the private sector. The Prime Minister also appreciated the start-up sector in the country that is "spreading its wings in smaller cities". The prime minister touched upon a host of topics, including India's rich spiritual tradition and the boost the sporting culture has received after its performance in the Tokyo Olympics, in the address and also paid glowing tributes to hockey legend Dhyan Chand, saying he conquered the world of hockey for the country. Modi asserted that the young population's mindset has undergone a sweeping change and it was now keen on new destinations and new goals by taking new paths and having new aspirations. The momentum sporting culture has received must be further advanced, he said, calling for having sports competitions at the village level. Modi also urged people to continue to take Covid-19 precautions and underscored the need to take forward the Swacch Bharat Abhiyan. “More than 62 crore vaccine doses have been administered in the country, but still we have to be careful, be vigilant,” the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/college-students-will-develop-satellites-pm-modi-1024787.html
29-08-2021||National||NGOs tweak skilling programmes to cope with Covid-19 times||Priyanka Pawar of Maharashtra's Kharghar had to discontinue her studies owing to her family's financial constraints and found it difficult to land up a job due to the Covid-19 pandemic due to her lack of skill sets required. Nitin Baliyan in Delhi too had to discontinue his studies as his father and two brothers who supported him financially lost jobs during the pandemic. With Covid-19 playing havoc with the lives of millions and impacting the job market, it was difficult for them to find jobs but a change by the non-profit sector in their skilling programmes helped youth, including Pawar and Baliyan, find jobs. Pawar now works as an accountant after gaining knowledge in mutual funds, shares and insurance while Baliyan has landed up as a General Duty Assistant who deals with patient skincare, bed sores management, patient safety and handling biomedical waste. Those involved in the NGO sector say that several of their skilling programmes, which had to do more with physical contact like beautician courses, had to be shelved as Covid-19 rampaged, since people preferred not to engage with such professionals fearing contracting the virus through physical contact. "The pandemic has changed the job landscape and the non-profit sector also has to look at helping its beneficiaries. We had to tweak our skilling programmes to incorporate jobs that have less to do with physical contact like digital marketing, BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance) etc. That was a challenge before us," Santanu Mishra, co-founder and Executive Trustee of Smile Foundation, said. With changing times, Mishra's NGO introduced business process outsourcing course, e-logistic course in management of flow of goods and digital marketing course among others. He said Smile Foundation has trained over 47,000 youth through its e-learning programmes and more than 28,000 of them have been placed in over 200 brands through 95 operational projects across India. Those involved with the non-profit sector said that there is an upsurge in demand for workers in health sector, a point emphasised by the Union Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, which has launched the 'Customized Crash Course Programme for Covid-19 Frontline Workers'. The Ministry plans to train about one lakh Covid-19 warriors in six healthcare-related job roles as well as about 2,800 drivers for handling and transportation of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngos-tweak-skilling-programmes-to-cope-with-covid-19-times-1024790.html
29-08-2021||National||Sports Minister Thakur launches Fit India Mobile App on National Sports Day||Sports Minister Anurag Thakur on Sunday launched the Fit India mobile app, a personal trainer-cum-fitness guide, on the occasion of the second anniversary of the Fit India Movement here. Thakur said the app was a gift from the government to the people of India on the National Sports Day, which is celebrated to mark the birth anniversary of hockey legend Major Dhyan Chand. "The Fit India app is a tribute to Major Dhyan Chand who is an icon to country's sportspersons," Thakur said at a function at the Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium here. The event was also virtually attended by bronze medal-winning Tokyo Olympics hockey team captain Manpreet Singh. "The app is a must for sportspersons to remain fit and they are expected to follow the app rigorously. This is an effort to keep new, young India fit because a fit youth can make a great India," he added. "We don't give enough importance to fitness. What we need to devote is just half an hour of our time in a day to fitness. This app is fun and free and anyone can test and monitor their fitness anywhere." Hockey captain Manpreet too vouched for the app. "This app is very helpful and easy to use. I am already using it and I hope it will help me in improving my fitness more," he said. The event was also attended by Minister of State for Sports Nisith Pramanik, Sports Secretary Ravi Mittal, Sports Authority of India Director General Sandeep Pradhan, among other dignitaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sports-minister-thakur-launches-fit-india-mobile-app-on-national-sports-day-1024804.html
29-08-2021||National||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot discharged from hospital after angioplasty||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot was discharged from Sawai Man Singh (SMS) hospital on Sunday two days after undergoing an angioplasty. Gehlot had underwent angioplasty at hospital here on Friday. There was 90 per cent blockage in one of his coronary arteries and a stent was placed successfully. The 70-year-old Congress leader has been advised to take rest for the next few days and he will be under the supervision of doctors at his residence. While at the hospital, the chief minister met some patients to know about their health and after being discharged, thanked his staff, doctors, and others. "I have reached my official residence safely. I would like to thank all the staff including all the doctors, nursing staff, ward boys, sweepers of SMS Hospital who took good care of me," Gehlot tweeted. He further said, "I have seen that the hospital staff deserves praise for the effort made in SMS to serve all the patients well." Angioplasty is a procedure to open clogged heart arteries. Gehlot had tested positive for coronavirus in April this year and after recovery in May, he was facing post-Covid issues. Gehlot had complained of heaviness in his chest and pain in neck following which an ECG was conducted and it was normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-discharged-from-hospital-after-angioplasty-1024808.html
29-08-2021||National||First commercial batch of Covaxin released from Bharat Biotech's new plant in Gujarat||The first commercial batch of Covaxin was released on Sunday from the new plant of Bharat Biotech at Ankleshwar in Gujarat's Bharuch district by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. "Vaccination is the most important thing to strengthen the country's fight against coronavirus. Released the first commercial batch of #COVAXIN from Bharat Biotech's plant at Ankleshwar, Gujarat today. This will increase the supply of vaccine in the country and will help the vaccine reach every Indian," Mandaviya tweeted soon after the event. The government had earlier this month given approval to Bharat Biotech's Ankleshwar-based manufacturing plant to produce Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. In May, Bharat Biotech announced that it planned to produce an additional 200 million doses of Covaxin at its subsidiary's Ankleshwar-based facility. The Hyderabad-based firm had noted that it would utilise the manufacturing plant of its wholly-owned unit, Chiron Behring, to add another 200 million doses of Covaxin. India administered 63.09 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccination in a nationwide drive till Sunday morning, as per the data released by the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-commercial-batch-of-covaxin-released-from-bharat-biotechs-new-plant-in-gujarat-1024812.html
29-08-2021||National||Delhi riots: Investigation standard 'very poor' in large number of cases, says court||A court here has said that the standard of investigation in a large number of 2020 northeast riots cases is “very poor” and sought the intervention of the Delhi Police Commissioner. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav made the observations while framing charges against one Ashraf Ali for allegedly attacking police officials with acid, glass bottles and bricks during the communal violence on February 25, 2020.   “It is painful to note that in a large number of cases of riots, the standard of investigation is very poor,” the Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ) said, adding that in a majority of cases investigating officers (IOs) have not been appearing in court. Furthermore, ASJ Yadav said the police hardly bother about taking the investigation to a logical end after filing half-baked charge sheets, due to which the accused, who have been named in multiple cases, continue to languish in jails.   “This case is a glaring example, wherein victims are police personnel itself, yet the IO did not bother to collect the sample of acid and to have its chemical analysis. The IO has further not bothered to collect the opinion about the nature of injuries,” he noted in an order dated August 28. Besides this, the judge said that IOs of the riot case have not been briefing the prosecutors for arguments on charges and are merely e-mailing pdf of the charge sheet to them on the morning of the hearing.  He also directed the copy of the order in this matter to be sent to the Commissioner of Delhi Police “for his reference and directing the taking of remedial steps”.    The sessions judge further said that it is high time that the DCP of North-East District and other higher officers take notice of the observations taken by him and take immediate remedial action required in the matters.  “They are free to seek the assistance of experts in this regard, failing which there is a likelihood of injustice being caused to the persons involved in these cases,” Vinod Yadav added.  Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi in February 2020, after violence between those supporting and opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-investigation-standard-very-poor-in-large-number-of-cases-says-court-1024815.html
29-08-2021||National||Unitech's Chandra brothers shifted from Tihar to Mumbai jails||Former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra have been shifted from the Tihar Jail here to Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Central Jail, following a Supreme Court order, officials said on Sunday. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel confirmed that the brothers were shifted on Saturday. "Sanjay and Ajay Chandra both were taken under police escort to Mumbai by train on Saturday morning. They reached Mumbai and were lodged in the jails there in the early hours of Sunday," Goel said. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah had said that two reports of the Enforcement Directorate about the conduct of Sanjay and Ajay Chandra and the connivance of Tihar Jail staff in flouting orders and undermining the jurisdiction of the court have raised some “serious and disturbing” issues. "In the circumstances, we order and direct that both the accused, Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra be shifted from Tihar Central Jail to the premises of Arthur Road Jail, Mumbai and Taloja Central Jail, Mumbai, respectively,” the bench said in its 27-page order. It directed the Delhi Police commissioner to personally hold an inquiry into the conduct of Tihar Jail staff in regard to the Chandras and submit a report to the court within four weeks. "In this backdrop, we are of the view that the Commissioner of Police must make an immediate enquiry into the contents of the communication dated August 16, 2021 addressed to him by the Directorate of Enforcement so that all the officers and staff of Tihar Central Jail who may be complicit in the violation of law are held accountable," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unitechs-chandra-brothers-shifted-from-tihar-to-mumbai-jails-1024819.html
29-08-2021||National||Bharat Biotech scouts international Covid-19 vaccine partners||Bharat Biotech is seeking international manufacturing partners as it targets a billion doses of its Covid-19 vaccine each year, the company said on Sunday. Covaxin, the company's home-grown Covid-19 vaccine approved for emergency use in India, is one of two shots driving the country's massive vaccination programme. But Bharat Biotech has struggled to boost output, missing supply commitments to the Indian government, which is also relying on a version of the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India and Russia's Sputnik V vaccine. On Sunday, the company rolled out the first batch of Covaxin shots from a facility in Ankleshwar in western India that has the capacity to produce more than 10 million doses per month. Bharat Biotech said it was exploring opportunities with its international partners who have expertise in commercial-scale manufacturing of inactivated viral vaccines. "We want to ensure that Bharat Biotech can ably meet the demand for Covaxin such that individuals across the country, and the globe, have access to the vaccine," chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said in a statement. Last month, Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya told parliament that Bharat Biotech would supply 25 million doses in July and 35 million in August, less than half what the government had initially expected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotech-scouts-international-covid-19-vaccine-partners-1024820.html
29-08-2021||National||Ease of doing business still cumbersome at grass-root level: CII CEOs Poll||Cumbersome ease of doing business at the grass-root level and high cost of doing business is affecting the animal spirits of the private sector, according to a survey by industry chamber CII released on Sunday. However, it said that significant recovery in corporate performance is expected in 2021-22 as the government's pro-growth initiatives and announcements have helped nurture the animal spirits of the sector, according to a CII survey. "Responding to the question on what is affecting the animal spirits of the private sector, majority of the CEOs (51 per cent) indicated that ease of doing business was still cumbersome at the grass roots, followed by cost of doing business (other than capital cost) being high, as indicated by 32 per cent of the CEOs," CII said in a statement. About one-third of the CEOs indicated that the current capacity is still in excess of demand, it added. The survey also said about 46 per cent of the 117 CEOs, who participated in the survey, expected more than 10 per cent revenue growth of their respective company in the first half of the current fiscal as compared to the first half of pre-pandemic year 2019-20. "The CEOs' poll clearly indicates significant recovery in corporate performance with both topline (revenue) and bottomline (profit) growth expectations to be better than the pre-pandemic levels. "The government's pro-growth initiatives and announcements have helped nurture the animal spirits of the corporate sector which has seen the worst economic shock of our lifetime," it added. On exports, it said the majority of the CEOs polled indicated that countries including the US and Canada will post significant growth in the first half of the current fiscal year, followed by Europe, Middle East and Africa and Asia-Pacific. "About 70 per cent of the CEOs polled expected inflation to be up to six per cent during the year 2021-22, which is within RBI's inflation range and should help RBI retain low interest rates to promote growth," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ease-of-doing-business-still-cumbersome-at-grass-root-level-cii-ceos-poll-1024822.html
29-08-2021||National||Need to create right ecosystem for sports, games, says Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday underlined the need to create the "right ecosystem" for sports and games to thrive from schools to universities by building the necessary infrastructure at every level.   India is fortunate, Naidu said, to have the world's largest youth population apart from a vast pool of talented and aspirational sportspersons.  Therefore, there is no reason why the country cannot make a mark on the world stage in the field of sports, he felt.  "We need to develop a serious sporting culture right from school days to ensure satisfactory results on a sustained basis in this highly competitive field," the vice president said.   In a Facebook post to mark the National Sports Day, Naidu said India has no dearth of talent in any field. What is required is the early identification of this talent and proper grooming and encouragement.  "In the absence of an enabling ecosystem, many of our stars tend to fade into oblivion without realising their full potential. We end up losing full many a gem of purest ray serene to obscurity due to lack of proper grooming and support," the vice president lamented.  This year's National Sports Day assumes special significance on two counts—the all-time highest medal tally at the just concluded Tokyo Olympics and the renaming of the Khel Ratna Award after the legendary hockey player Major Dhyan Chand, he said.  "Both these developments mark an important milestone in the journey of Indian sports. While our athletes scripted history with their performance at the Tokyo Olympics and gave wings to the hopes of over a billion Indians, the renaming of the highest sporting award after Dhyan Chand is a fitting tribute to one of the greatest sensations in the history of Indian sport," Naidu wrote. India's performance at Tokyo Olympics has rekindled tremendous interest in various sports, especially among youngsters, he felt.  "This bodes well for the future of Indian sport. Needless to add, this is an opportune time for us to promote sports across the length and breadth of the country.  "We need to create the right ecosystem for sports and games to thrive from schools to universities by building the necessary infrastructure at every level," said.   The vice president also flagged the issue of mindset of people towards sports. "I have come across many instances where parents discourage their children from seeking a career in sports. While the anxiety of parents is understandable to a large extent, it should be noted that more and more industries, as well as governments, are providing employment to sportspersons," he noted and called for more job avenues in government and corporate sector for sportspersons. "If we can effectively make sports a financially rewarding and secure career option, many young men and women would be encouraged to shed their inhibitions to take up sports as a full-time activity," he said. The country's sole focus in sports should not remain on increasing medal tally alone, he felt.  "Rather we have to create an overall ecosystem where sports become an intrinsic part of our daily lives. This would be an important step towards creating a healthy and fit India. For such a sporting culture to take root, we also need to revive our traditional Indian sports," Naidu wrote.  He said he was happy that the government, under its flagship Khelo India scheme has created an exclusive component for promotion of 'rural, indigenous and tribal games' including Kalaripayatu, Silambam, Kabaddi and Archery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-create-right-ecosystem-for-sports-games-says-venkaiah-naidu-1024826.html
29-08-2021||National||FinMin extends deadline for making payments under Vivad se Vishwas scheme till Sept 30||The government on Sunday extended by a month the deadline for making payments under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas till September 30. The scheme provides for settlement of disputed tax, interest, penalty or fees in relation to an assessment or reassessment order on payment of 100 per cent of the disputed tax and 25 per cent of the disputed penalty or interest or fee. The taxpayer is granted immunity from levy of interest, penalty and institution of any proceeding for prosecution for any offence under the Income Tax Act in respect of matters covered in the declaration. In a statement, the finance ministry said, "Considering the difficulties being faced in issuing and amending Form no 3, which is a prerequisite for making payment by the declarant under Vivad se Vishwas Act, it has been decided to extend the last date of payment of the amount (without any additional amount) to September 30, 2021". The ministry had in June extended the deadline for making payments under the scheme till August 31. However, taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31, with an additional amount of interest. "It is, however, clarified that there is no proposal to change the last date for payment of the amount (with additional amount) under Vivad se Vishwas Act, which remains as October 31, 2021," the ministry said on Sunday. Earlier this month, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary informed Parliament that over 1.32 lakh declarations entailing disputed tax of Rs 99,765 crore has been filed under the scheme. The last date for making a declaration under the scheme was March 31, 2021. Payments of Rs 53,684 crore have been received by the government against disputed tax till August 9, and more is expected to come in based on the declarations already filed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finmin-extends-deadline-for-making-payments-under-vivad-se-vishwas-scheme-till-sept-30-1024827.html
29-08-2021||National||Supreme Court issues fresh SoP for physical hearings from September 1||After a gap of 17 months, the Supreme Court has decided to begin physical hearings of cases from September one in limited form, while continuing to conduct proceedings along through virtual mode. In order to gradually facilitate the resumption of the physical hearing, the final hearing or regular matters listed on non-miscellaneous days (other than Mondays and Fridays) may be heard in the physical mode, with hybrid option, a senior official said. A fresh set of standard operating procedures (SOP) was issued by the Supreme Court for the final hearing of cases in physical mode. The top court has been conducting hearing through virtual mode since March 2020 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, lawyers associations have time and again demanded resumption of physical hearings in view of hardships faced by junior counsel. The SoP said the decision to conduct hearing in physical form may be taken by the bench concerned, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the courtrooms, he added. "Further, any other matter may be heard in physical mode on such days, if bench directs likewise. All other matters, including those listed on miscellaneous days, shall continue to be heard through video/teleconferencing mode," it added. According to the SoP, Advocates-on-record are required to register themselves on the top court's portal and submit their preferences for appearing before the court concerned either through physical mode or through video/teleconferencing mode.   The SOP stated that in a matter listed for physical hearing, one AoR (or his nominee), one arguing counsel and one junior counsel per party will be allowed entry; one registered clerk per party, as may be chosen by the AoR, shall be allowed entry to carry paper books /journals, etc of the counsel up to the courtrooms. The SOP further added that once hearing through physical mode is opted by the AoR or petitioner-in-person, hearing through video/teleconferencing mode to the party concerned will not be facilitated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-issues-fresh-sop-for-physical-hearings-from-september-1-1024832.html
29-08-2021||National||9 new Supreme Court judges to be sworn in on August 31||Nine newly-appointed judges of the Supreme Court, including three women judges, would assume the office on Tuesday. All the judges would be sworn by the Chief Justice of India at 10.30 am on August 31 in a ceremony organised at the auditorium in the Supreme Court's additional building. The oath-taking ceremony earlier used to be held at the Chief Justice's courtroom.  Justices A S Oka, Vikram Nath, J K Maheshwari, Hima Kohli, B V Nagarathna, C T Ravikumar, M M Sundresh, Bela Trivedi and senior advocate P S Narsimha would join the bench after taking the oath. Of these nine judges, Justices  Vikram Nath, and B V Nagarathna and Narsimha would don the role of CJI in future. With this, the strength of judges in the Supreme Court would rise to 33 with just one vacancy. The appointments to the top court came after a hiatus of over 21-month due to lack of consensus in the Collegium of five senior-most judges over the names as Justice R F Nariman, who retired on August 12, reportedly insisted on including Tripura High Court chief justice Akil Kureshi's name in recommendations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9-new-supreme-court-judges-to-be-sworn-in-on-august-31-1024850.html
29-08-2021||National||Railways follows up on PM Modi's I-day announcement, floats tender for 58 Vande Bharat rakes||The Railways has floated a tender for 58 rakes of Vande Bharat Express trains, following up on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Independence Day announcement that 75 such trains will be launched in 75 weeks to connect different parts of the country. Currently, only two such Shatabdi-type semi-high speed trains are in operation. These coaches will be manufactured at the Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, Modern Coach Factory, Rae Bareilly and Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala. The closing date for the tender is October 20. A pre-bid meeting will be held on September 21 with the cut-off date for submission of pre-bid queries being September 14. The tender floated on August 28 has invited bids for the design, development, manufacturing, integration and testing of traction propulsion electrics for the 58 rakes of Vande Bharat trains. In his speech from the ramparts of the Red Fort on August 15, Modi had said that in the 75 weeks of ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ being celebrated to mark the journey of 75 years of Independence, the Railways will launch 75 Vande Bharat trains to connect far-flung areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-follows-up-on-pm-modis-i-day-announcement-floats-tender-for-58-vande-bharat-rakes-1024859.html
29-08-2021||National||Now Uddhav Thackeray's close aide Anil Parab gets ED notice||In a sensational development, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s close aide and state’s transport minister Anil Parab has been served an Enforcement Directorate notice. The details of the notice to Parab is not yet known. However, reports indicate it is vis-a-vis the allegations involving former state home minister and senior NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut confirmed the ED notice to Parab. Earlier in the day, BJP Rajya Sabha member and Union MSMEs Minister Narayan Rane during an interaction with a Marathi TV news channel on the sidelines of the Jan Aashirwad Yatra, said that several leaders are on the radar of ED and CBI. Parab has been asked to appear before the ED’s Mumbai office on Tuesday. “The Jan Ashirwad Yatra concluded today and immediately Anil Parab received the ED notice,” said Raut. It may be mentioned that Parab is the guardian minister of Ratnagiri district and he was seen in a video apparently instructing police officials to arrest Rane for his “tight-slap slur” against Thackeray. “The epicentre of the (political)  earthquake (vis-a-vis Rane's arrest) was Ratnagiri and Parab is the guardian minister of that district,” said Raut. It needs to be mentioned that Parab is also the state’s Parliamentary affairs minister and he was one of those who played a key role in forming the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. It may be recalled that dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze had claimed that Parab had called him to his official bungalow and insisted him to initiate primary talks to get Rs 50 crore from a prominent trust in order to close an enquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-uddhav-thackerays-close-aide-anil-parab-gets-ed-notice-1024865.html
29-08-2021||National||Centre to take complete control of DMF funds||The Centre has decided to take complete control of the district mineral foundation (DMF) funds, bypassing the state's right to sanction or approve any expenditure out of the funds. The move by the Ministry of Mines to control the funds, which is collected from mandatory contributions from mining lease holders, is likely to trigger a political storm and states may accuse the NDA government of encroaching upon their fiscal rights, threatening the federal structure. Defending its decision, the Ministry of Mines officials said the Centre took control of funds spending after complaints of diversion of money by the states instead of using it for the purpose which it was meant for. According to the Ministry of Mines, total Rs 50,499 crore has been collected in the DMF since its inception in 2015-16 out of which Rs 47,288 crore has been sanctioned and Rs 24,499 crore has been spent on various projects. DMF fund collections have been the highest in mineral-rich Odisha (Rs 13,728 crore), followed by Chhattisgarh (Rs 7,151 crore), Jharkhand (Rs 6,974 crore). In Karnataka, a total Rs 2,712 crore collected out of which Rs 994 crore spent so far for different projects. The Ministry in its order dated July 12, 2021 said "No fund shall be transferred in any manner from the District Mineral Foundations to the state exchequer or state level fund (by whatever name called) or Chief Minister's Relief Fund or any other funds or schemes." The order further said, "No sanction or approval of any expenditure out of the fund of the District Mineral Foundation shall be done at the State level by the State Government or any State level agency.” However, the Ministry of Mines order says, "move was necessitated as there are instances where a part of the funds of the DMF are being transferred to the treasury/consolidated fund of the state or state level funds (by whatever name called) or Chief Minister’s Relief Fund or other funds or schemes,” thereby “defeating the very purpose” of the creation of the DMF. As per the MMDR (Amendment)  Act 2015, the state government must set up DMFs in all districts for the welfare of mining affected persons to which contribution is made directly by the holders of mineral concession, apart from royalty. The money from the DMFs are required to be used for the welfare of persons and areas hit by mining-related operations which includes drinking water, education and infrastructure development. The scheme implemented under DMF is called Pradhan Mantri Khanij Kshetra Kalyan Yojana. Though the MMDR Act has a provision, where the Ministry of Mines can give direction to the states about the utilisation of the funds, the latest order deprived the states discretion in the utilisation of funds, said an official from the state government. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-take-complete-control-of-dmf-funds-1024874.html
29-08-2021||National||Recruitment of volunteers for trial of Covovax Covid vaccine on children begins||Recruitment of volunteers for the phase 2/3 clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax among children aged 2 to 17 years began on Sunday at the Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research here. The trial would be held across 10 sites and would cover 920 children, 460 each in the age groups of 12-17 and 2-11, according to official sources. Indigenously developed Zydus Cadila's needle-free Covid-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D has received emergency use authorisation from the drug regulator, making it the first vaccine to be administered in the age group of 12-18 years in the country. India's drug regulator in July had granted permission to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting phase 2/3 trial of Covovax on children aged 2 to 17 years with certain conditions on the basis of the recommendations of the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) on Covid-19.  In the application submitted to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), SII's director (government and regulatory affairs) Prakash Kumar Singh and director Prasad Kulkarni had stated that globally, all adults aged 18 and above are being vaccinated and after this population is protected against Covid-l9, children will remain the most susceptible group. "There have been reports of severe disease, including deaths in vulnerable children. It has also been predicted that the third wave of the pandemic may affect children in the country.  "Moreover, until all age groups, including children, are covered under vaccination, the SARS-CoV-2 virus may remain in circulation, thus keeping everyone at risk of severe disease," the company had said in the application. Considering all these factors, several companies have already started evaluating the safety and immunogenicity of Covid-19 vaccines in the paediatric population, the Pune-based pharmaceutical company had stated. SII had informed that their collaborator, Novavax Inc. of the US, has already generated a large amount of data in adults in different countries and that the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity data on Novavax are very robust which includes a safety database of more than 50,000 adults from Australia, South Africa, the UK and the USA and preliminary safety data in 2,248 children. "Further in the ongoing Phase 2/3 study in India, more than 1,400 participants have received at least first dose of the vaccine with no safety concerns reported so far," the application stated. In August 2020, US-based vaccine maker Novavax Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recruitment-of-volunteers-for-trial-of-covovax-covid-vaccine-on-children-begins-1024876.html
29-08-2021||National||NDDB-developed e-Gopala app launched to help dairy farmers||The National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) has launched the web version of the e-GOPALA application and IMAP web portal which provides real-time information to dairy farmers for better productivity of dairy animals. It was launched by Parshottam Rupala, Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying in presence of Shri Meenesh Shah, Chairman, NDDB. Speaking on the occasion, Rupala said in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of ‘Digital India’, NDDB is promoting technology-driven activities for the milk producers. NDDB Chairman Meenesh Shah said the e-GOPALA platform helps farmers manage their livestock including buying and selling of disease-free germplasm in all forms (semen, embryos, etc); informs about availability of quality breeding services (Artificial Insemination, veterinary first aid, vaccination, treatment etc) and guides farmers for animal nutrition, treatment of animals using appropriate ayurvedic ethnoveterinary medicine. There is a mechanism to send alerts (on due date for vaccination, pregnancy diagnosis, calving etc) and inform farmers about various government schemes. Similarly, NDDB’s IMAP web portal is meant for geographical presentation of project coverage featuring INAPH (displays state as well as district wise animal registration coverage against animal population), PSK Service (displays ticket status against various services i.e. animal registration, artificial insemination, pregnancy diagnosis, calving, vaccination, animal treatment & follow-up), NAIP (Geographically displays Government of India initiated projects related to artificial insemination) and NADCP (Geographically displays Government of India initiated projects related to Animal disease control). This portal will also facilitate real-time checking of coverage and progress of various projects and government schemes, he added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nddb-developed-e-gopala-app-launched-to-help-dairy-farmers-1024887.html
29-08-2021||National||Plea in SC seeking exemption for lawyers from wearing black coats, gowns during summer||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking exemption for lawyers from wearing black coats and gowns in the apex court as well as the high courts across the country during summer. The plea has sought a direction to state bar councils to amend their rules and decide the time period when lawyers would be exempted from wearing black coats and gowns depending upon the fact as to when the summer peaks in the particular state. The plea has been filed by lawyer Shailendra Mani Tripathi. Wearing coats during torrid summer makes it difficult for lawyers to move from one court to another, it said. Lawyers' dress code is governed by the Bar Council of India Rules under the Advocates Act, 1961, and they make it mandatory for an advocate to wear a black coat with a white shirt and a white neckband. Under the rules, wearing an advocate's gown is optional except when the lawyer is appearing in the Supreme Court or in a high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-seeking-exemption-for-lawyers-from-wearing-black-coats-gowns-during-summer-1024888.html
29-08-2021||National||Why so-called liberals silent on Taliban's mistreatment of Afghani women, kids? BJP Mahila Morcha chief asks||BJP's Mahila Morcha president Vanathi Srinivasan on Sunday asked why India's "so-called liberal society" has been silent over the issue of mistreatment of Afghanistan's women and children by the Taliban in the name of religion. She was talking to reporters in Indore. "By watching the videos coming out these days, we can find out how the Taliban is treating the women and children of Afghanistan in the name of religion. Why is the so-called liberal society (in India), which talks loudly about women's freedom and their rights, not raising its voice?" she said. Srinivasan said that although law and order is a state subject, such people criticise Prime Minister Narendra Modi when there is any incident against women in any part of the country. "But as far as Taliban's mistreatment of Afghan women and children is concerned, every person in the so-called liberal society has kept their mouth shut," she said. She blamed international factors and the policies of the previous Congress government in the country for the rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. The crisis arising out of the Covid-19 outbreak has also left a bad impact on the exchequer, but the government has continuously been providing ration and other help to the poor in this period of crisis, she said. Srinivasan, who is from Tamil Nadu, said that she was trying to learn Bhojpuri language along with Hindi with the help of party leaders. The ruling party's women's wing chief was in Indore in connection with a meeting of the party organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-so-called-liberals-silent-on-talibans-mistreatment-of-afghani-women-kids-bjp-mahila-morcha-chief-asks-1024891.html
29-08-2021||National||Congress plans to take asset monetisation issue to people; leaders to hold pressers across country||Upping the ante against the government over its asset monetisation pipeline scheme, the Congress plans to take the issue to the grassroots level with a series of press conferences by its leaders across the country. The opposition party alleged the Union Government resorting to selling "family silver" proves the "gross incompetence" of the Modi Cabinet in effectively managing the Indian economy. "The country is talking about friend-monopoly," Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said with the hashtag "IndiaOnSale" on Twitter to attack the government. Speaking in the same vein, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to the welfare of his "crony friends". "The aim is to profit crony friends. Modi ji is committed to welfare of his friends and the assets of the country are no more in safe hands," he said. He also alleged that to rub salt on the wounds of common people who are suffering amid a declining GDP growth, the prime minister has been extracting hard-earned money from their pockets and filling his own coffers. "He has now decided to sell the country's valuable assets worth Rs 6 lakh crore -- roads, rail, mines, telecom, power, gas, airports, ports, sports stadium and whatnot," the Congress spokesperson alleged. As part of its nationwide plan to take the issue to the common people, Congress leader Mukul Wasnik will address the media in Guwahati in Assam on August 31 and Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on September 1 in Hyderabad, party sources said, The series of press conferences started with Rahul Gandhi holding the first in Delhi earlier this week. Besides Wasnik, another prominent member of the 'Group of 23' leaders who wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking a Congress overhaul - Shashi Tharoor - has also been roped in and he will address the media in Kashmir. Another leader Sachin Pilot, who revolted against the party's own government in Rajasthan, will address the media in Bengaluru, while Milind Deora will hold a press conference in Cochin. Senior leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram will hold a press conference on September 3 in Mumbai while Ajay Maken in Raipur on the same day. A host of other Congress leaders will address the media including Bhupesh Baghel in Lucknow and Digivjaya Singh in Patna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-plans-to-take-asset-monetisation-issue-to-people-leaders-to-hold-pressers-across-country-1024893.html
29-08-2021||National||Govt extends deadlines for various I-T compliances, GST relief||The government on Sunday extended the deadline for various compliances under the income tax law and availing relief under the GST law to help taxpayers tide over difficulties in filing such forms. While the income tax compliances, including filing of statement for equalisation levy and remittances, reporting by multinational enterprises etc, have been extended mainly due to difficulties in electronic filing on the new I-T portal, the deadline for GST amnesty scheme and also filing of GST return electronic verification code (EVC) have been extended until November 30 and October 31 respectively to assist taxpayers in the time of Covid-19 pandemic. The deadline for filing the Equalisation Levy statement in Form-1 for the Financial Year 2020-21 has been extended till December 31, against the original due date of June 30, the income tax department said in a statement. The quarterly statement in Form 15CC to be furnished by dealers in respect of remittances made for June and September quarter, can now be filed by November 30 and December 31, respectively. The original due date for filing this statement was July 15 and October 15, respectively. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on consideration of difficulties reported by the taxpayers and other stakeholders in electronic filing of certain forms it has been decided to further extend the due dates for e-filing of these forms. In a separate statement, the CBDT announced extending the deadline for making payments under the direct tax dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas (VsV) by a month till September 30. However, taxpayers have the option to make payments till October 31, with an additional amount of interest. Also, the due dates for electronic filing of forms related to intimation by pension funds and sovereign wealth funds too have been extended. Intimation to be made by Pension Fund and sovereign wealth fund in respect of investment made in India for the June and September quarter, which is required to be furnished by July 31 and October 31, would now have to be furnished by November 30 and December 31 respectively. The CBDT also extended the due date for uploading of declarations received in Form 15G/15Hfor the June and September quarter till November 30 and December 31 respectively. The original due dates were July 15 and October 15 respectively. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said considering the technical glitches in the new Income tax portal, taxpayers have been facing a lot of problems in meeting compliance timelines under various provisions, be it filing of Equalization Levy return, making application for registration of charitable trusts and other institutions for income tax exemption, quarterly statements by authorised dealers in respect of foreign remittances, filing of necessary intimation by Sovereign wealth funds, CbCR reporting by multinational enterprises etc. "Thus, the due dates for all such compliances have been extended by the Government. The extension has been made not only to address immediate filing requirements due within August/ September 2021, but also a medium term relief has been given to taxpayers for some compliances, which were due in the month of November/ December 2021," Kumar said. The extension will provide much-needed relief to taxpayers and will also save them from penal consequences for not being able to comply with the earlier timelines due to technical glitches in the IT portal, he added. Technical glitches marred the functioning of the Infosys-developed income tax portal www.incometax.gov.in since its launch on June 7. The Finance Ministry had last week "summoned" Infosys CEO Salil Parekh to explain why issues continued to plague the portal developed by the software major. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in the meeting with Parekh on August 23, expressed "deep disappointment" over persisting glitches for more than two months after portal launch and gave him time till September 15 to resolve all issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-extends-deadlines-for-various-i-t-compliances-gst-relief-1024897.html
29-08-2021||National||Covid-19: Maharashtra Dy CM says Centre advising festival restrictions while allowing BJP yatras||He also said that Kerala, which recently celebrated a festival in a grand way, was now the top state in the country in terms of daily coronavirus detection. "Since festivals like Dahi Handi, Ganpati Utsav, Navratri and Diwali are coming up, the Centre has advised states that there should be no crowding. The Centre has done its part, and now the state will do its part," he said. However, Pawar said, the Union government, on the other hand, had allowed four Union ministers to hold Jan Ashirvad Yatras in Maharashtra. "We will see the effect (in terms of Covid-19 cases) in the places where these yatras were held. In case the tally goes up, the Centre should ponder on who is responsible for it," the NCP leader said. Earlier, in a letter to the Maharashtra chief secretary, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said the trajectory of daily new cases had shown a decline over the last month but some districts in the state were showing early signs of an upsurge in infection count and positivity. In his letter, Bhushan said the Union Home ministry had issued directions under the Disaster Management Act on focused containment measures. "In light of this order, and in view of mass events and public gatherings expected during the celebration of upcoming festivals (including Dahi Handi and Ganpati Utsav) in Maharashtra, it is advised that the state may consider imposing and enforcing local restrictions in public observation of these festivals and mass gatherings," Bhushan had said in the letter. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-maharashtra-dy-cm-says-centre-advising-festival-restrictions-while-allowing-bjp-yatras-1024928.html
29-08-2021||National||AAP takes out Tiranga Yatra in Agra; Sisodia slams UP govt over law and order, education, healthcare||AAP workers took out a 'Tiranga Yatra' here on Sunday led by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia who slammed the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the state's law-and-order, education, healthcare and employment situation. Ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the Aam Aadmi Party plans to take out Tiranga Yatras in Ayodhya, Lucknow and Noida to mark the 75th year of India's Independence. Sisodia said his party would carry out 'Tiranga Yatra' in Ayodhya on September 14 and later in 403 assembly segments of Uttar Pradesh. In Agra, the 'Tiranga Yatra' started from the GIC ground around 4 pm and ended at the Shaheed Smarak in Sanjay Place. Besides Sisodia, Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh and other AAP leaders took part in the yatra. Interacting with reporters at the circuit house in Agra, Sisodia said, "This government is failing to provide good education to the children of the poor, employment to the youth, and a good amount of crop to farmers." "Because of unavailability of the beds in hospitals, a pregnant woman had to deliver a baby on road in this state. They feed salt and roti in mid-day meal and act against the reporter if they try to raise the issue." Sisodia was referring to a journalist booked in 2019 for allegedly doing the "despicable work" of maligning the image of the Uttar Pradesh government by recording a video of school children being served salt and roti in mid-day meal. The journalist was, however, later given clean chit in the case. "Even after 75 years of Independence, the government in Uttar Pradesh is operating by advertisement and suppression by the administration for raising questions." "This useless government, which has damaged the pride and honour of the Tricolour, must be uprooted and that is the aim of the yatra," Sisodia said. AAP MP Sanjay Singh said the 'Tiranga Yatra' would be held in Noida on September 1. "We will provide 300 units of free electricity in UP and equip government schools of the state with swimming pool, air-conditioned rooms and hockey ground etc if AAP comes to power in the state," he said. "In every village, there should be facilities like the mohalla clinics of Delhi while women would get free rides in state-run buses," Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-takes-out-tiranga-yatra-in-agra-sisodia-slams-up-govt-over-law-and-order-education-healthcare-1024956.html
29-08-2021||National||BJP's Swamy, TMC's Sukhendu take digs at Modi government's approach on Taliban in UNSC||A tweet by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s MP, Subramanian Swamy, on Sunday fuelled speculation about India’s participation in a purported move at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) to pass a resolution without referring to the Taliban of Afghanistan as a terrorist organisation. “I am surprised to hear that India as Chairman of the UN Security Council is going to pilot a Resolution on Afghanistan in the UNSC tomorrow after deleting the word Terrorist to describe Taliban. Already knees are knocking?” Swamy, who often crosses party lines to express his views, posted on Twitter, apparently taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government. I am surprised to hear that India as Chairman of the UN Security Council is going to pilot a Resolution on Afghanistan in the UNSC tomorrow after deleting the word Terrorist to describe Taliban. Already knees are knocking? His tweet came a day after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, spoke over phone and discussed about the situation in Afghanistan and exchanged views on the agenda of the UNSC. India, currently a non-permanent member of the UNSC, has been holding the rotating presidency of the council since August 1. It’s current term as the UNSC president will end on Tuesday, although it will continue to be a member of the council till December 2022. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla reached New York on Sunday. He will attend the wrap up sessions of India’s UNSC presidency on Monday and Tuesday. India also at present chairs the UNSC’s 1988 Sanctions Committee, commonly known as Taliban Sanction Committee. “If difficulty in calling Taliban terrorists, let India move resolution in Security Council terming Afghanistan a rogue state under IS-Taliban axis power, where from even her own citizens trying to flee, not to speak of non-Afghans still trapped inside,” Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, an MP of the Trinamool Congress, posted on Twitter, criticizing the Modi Government. Ever since the Taliban took over Kabul on August 15 after occupying many provinces in a swift blitz across Afghanistan, speculation was rife about the status of the UNSC’s curbs on the militant organization. France and the United Kingdom are likely to move a draft resolution at the UNSC on Monday, asking the Taliban to facilitate a safe zone run by the civilians at the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul to allow continued evacuation of people keen to leave Afghanistan. The UNSC on August 16 “reaffirmed importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan to ensure the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to threaten or attack any country and that neither the Taliban nor any other Afghan group or individual should support terrorists operating on the territory of any other country.” The council, however, avoided a direct reference to the Taliban in another statement issued last Friday, after twin explosions killed over 100 near the airport in Kabul. “The Security Council reiterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan to ensure the territory of Afghanistan should not be used to threaten or attack any country, and that no Afghan group or individual should support terrorists operating on the territory of any country,” it stated in a statement issued by India’s envoy to the UN, T S Tirumurti, as the president of the council. India on August 19 refrained from directly criticizing the Taliban, but conveyed concerns over heightened activities of its ally, Haqqani Network, which sent hundreds of gun-toting militants from Pakistan to Afghanistan over the past few weeks. New Delhi has over the past few months informally reached out to the Taliban, anticipating that it may return to power in Kabul after withdrawal of troops by the United States and its NATO allies from Afghanistan and Pakistan may try to use it to get a strategic edge over India in the region. India will decide on its engagement with the new regime in Afghanistan after taking into account whether it will be born out of an inclusive and broad-based power sharing arrangement or solely run by the Taliban, the government told the leaders of the political parties on August 26. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-swamy-tmcs-sukhendu-take-digs-at-modi-governments-approach-on-taliban-in-unsc-1024958.html
29-08-2021||National Politics||Other posters will have Nehru's image, unnecessary controversy over issue: ICHR official||"We are not trying to undermine anyone’s role in the movement," a top ICHR official said, dismissing criticism on the issue, and added the poster was one of the many released as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. ICHR, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Education, has been running a series of lectures and seminars on the theme of the Independence struggle under the ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebration. "This is only one of the posters released as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. There will be several others and Nehru will be featured in them... controversy around this is unnecessary," the ICHR official told PTI. As part of the lecture series, the council has invited various historians and academicians to speak on different topics related to India’s freedom movement. Opposition parties had targeted the government for the exclusion of the image of the country's first prime minister from the poster and suggested that it had been done deliberately. Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor and Pawan Khera were among the Congress leaders, who took to social media and shared the screenshot of the ICHR website showing photographs of Mahatma Gandhi, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Bhagat Singh, B R Ambedkar, Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Rajendra Prasad, Madan Mohan Malviya and Veer Savarkar while Nehru's picture was missing. Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday hit out at the ICHR, accusing it of bowing to hate and prejudice, and asked whether it would omit Henry Ford while celebrating the birth of the motor car or Wright brothers while celebrating the birth of aviation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/other-posters-will-have-nehrus-image-unnecessary-controversy-over-issue-ichr-official-1024811.html
29-08-2021||National Politics||New plan of home minister to remit all cases through ED to harass opposition: TMC’s Derek O'Brien||Trinamool Congress MP Derek O'Brien on Sunday slammed the Centre for harassing the opposition, alleging that the Union home minister has drawn up a plan for remitting all cases through the Enforcement Directorate. O'Brien’s comments came a day after the ED summoned TMC's Diamond Harbour MP and national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife for questioning in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam. "A sparrow in Delhi tells me that new CBI chief may have directed a few top officials not to act too brazenly. Harassing the opposition only benefits one party. So HeMan (HM) has a new plan. “He is now remitting all cases through the Extremely Dedicated (ED) director who obeys HM,” the TMC national spokesman said on Twitter. Reacting to his remarks, BJP West Bengal spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said O'Brien was casting aspersions on the CBI in an unfair manner. He also said the ED is a “highly credible” independent organisation. "The TMC sees the invisible hand of the BJP in everything," Bhattacharya said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had on Saturday also accused the Centre of letting loose its agencies on her nephew Abhishek in the coal scam case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/new-plan-of-home-minister-to-remit-all-cases-through-ed-to-harass-opposition-tmc-s-derek-obrien-1024852.html
29-08-2021||National Politics||Uddhav vs Rane to turn into Saamana vs Prahaar?||Amid repeated attacks through Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana, union MSMEs minister Narayan Rane threatened to hit back through writings in Prahaar, the family-owned newspaper of the BJP Rajya Sabha member. Rane during his Jan Aashirwad Yatra has been targeting Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. In the weekly column RokhThok that appears in Saamana, its executive editor and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut accused Rane’s two sons - Dr Nilesh Rane and Nitesh Rane of using unparliamentary language against the Shiv Sena leadership. He wondered why the BJP is protecting the Ranes. “Apart from Maharashtra BJP leaders - leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state BJP president Chandrakant Patil, central leaders like BJP national president JP Nadda and home minister Amit Shah had reportedly called up Rane to express their support to him,” Raut said. Raut also accused Rane’s sons of damaging their father’s political career. "Fadnavis and Patil will meet the same fate due to the sons of Rane," he said. "If this is true then it is an insult to Maharashtra''s self-respect and pride. Why does Delhi stand in support of those who insult Maharashtra''s pride and self-respect?" Raut pointed out. In his hometown of Kankavli in Sindhudurg district, Rane hit out at Raut. "If this continues, I will start a series of write-ups through my newspaper Prahaar,” he said. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uddhav-vs-rane-to-turn-into-saamana-vs-prahaar-1024864.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||Toddler with head stuck inside pressure cooker freed by doctors in UP’s Agra||A toddler who got his head stuck inside a pressure cooker while playing with it was extricated following two hours of painstaking efforts by a team of doctors at a private hospital. The doctors, however, had to beckon a mechanic who arrived with a grinder machine and helped the team in cutting the utensil. According to the family members, the one-and-a-half-year-old boy was playing at his maternal uncle's house in Khatipara in Lohamandi locality in the city on Saturday when he got his head stuck inside the cooker. The family members tried to extricate the head at home but failed. They then took the boy to SM Charitable Hospital where Dr Farhat Khan and his team were able to save child after two hours of painstaking efforts. "The cooker was cut with the help of a grinder while following all safety norms… We were able to extricate the child safely," Khan said. The family members expressed gratitude to the team for saving the child. "We express our sincere thanks to the team of doctors. It’s because of their efforts that the child was saved," said a family member.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/toddler-with-head-stuck-inside-pressure-cooker-freed-by-doctors-in-up-s-agra-1024760.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||President visits Ayodhya temple construction site, offers prayers to Ram Lalla||President Ram Nath Kovind Sunday offered prayers to Ram Lalla, visiting the site where a Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya, a city which he said was nothing without the deity. "Without Ram, Ayodhya is not Ayodhya. Ayodhya exists where there is Ram. Lord Ram resides permanently in this city, and hence in the true sense, this place is Ayodhya," he said while inaugurating a Ramayan Conclave, shortly before visiting the temple construction site and offering his prayers. The president was accompanied by his family members, Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel, Union Minister of State for Railways and Textiles Darshana Vikram Jardosh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, and his deputies Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma. They also offered their prayers to Ram Lalla amid chanting of slogans by priests at the makeshift temple. A shawl and a miniature replica of the upcoming Ram temple were also presented to Kovind who interacted with the priests briefly and planted a sapling. Before he went there, Kovind, who is on his first visit to Ayodhya after the landmark 2019 Supreme Court verdict paved the way for the construction of the temple, also offered prayers at the Hanumangarhi shrine, about 2 km away. The president was presented with a pink-coloured turban at the Hanumangarhi temple. Earlier in the day, the president reached Ayodhya by a special train from Lucknow on the last day of his four-day visit to Uttar Pradesh. Speaking after opening the Ramayana Conclave and laying foundation stones of various projects of the Department of Culture and Tourism, the president said, "We should try to see Ram and Sita in everyone. Ram belongs to all, and Ram is in all." Apparently referring to the word 'Ram' in his name, Kovind said, "I feel that when my family members named me (Ram Nath Kovind), they were possibly having the feeling of respect and affection towards Ram Katha and Lord Ram, which is seen in the common public." Elaborating further on Ayodhya, the president said, "The literal meaning of Ayodhya is the one who is impossible to wage a war against. Owing to the courage and power of Raghuvanshi kings Raghu, Dileep, Ajj, Dashrath and Ram, their capital was considered unconquerable. Therefore, the name of this city as ‘Ayodhya’ will always remain relevant.” Highlighting the love of Lord Ram towards tribals, he said, "During his days of exile, Lord Ram did not call the armies of Ayodhya and Mithila to fight the war. He gathered the Khols, Bheels, Vaanars and formed his army. In his campaign, he included 'Jatayu (vulture)'. He strengthened love and friendship with the tribals." Paying respect to the Ramcharitmanas, he said it instills hope, generates inspiration and spreads the light of knowledge. "Ram Katha is enacted in many countries of the world. The Ramlila of Bali island of Indonesia is famous. Non-resident Indians have kept the Ram Katha and Ramlila alive in many countries including the Maldives, Mauritius, Trinidad and Tobago, Nepal, Cambodia and Suriname," the president said. He also referred to Ayutthaya, a city in Thailand. "In public life, Mahatma Gandhi had imbibed the ideals of Lord Ram. Gandhiji in his conceptualisation of an ideal India, had named it as 'Ramrajya'. The name of Lord Ram was very important for Mahatma Gandhi," Kovind said. The president said the projects related to the Ramayan circuit being developed under the 'Swadesh Darshan Scheme' of the Centre which were inaugurated today, would provide various amenities to tourists and devotees. He noted the Tulsi Smarak Bhawan project would help in the ongoing global research on Ramayana and Ram Katha. He also noted that an extensive encyclopedia is being prepared under the aegis of Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan which would be a collection of material related to Ramayana and Indian culture available across the world. He lauded the UP government for making efforts to take the Ramayans to the masses through art and culture by organising Ramayan Conclave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/president-visits-ayodhya-temple-construction-site-offers-prayers-to-ram-lalla-1024784.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||Farmers assured peaceful protest, but stones hurled at cops: Khattar on police action in Karnal||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has defended the police action against protesting farmers in Karnal, saying assurances of a peaceful protest were given, but stones were hurled at cops and a highway was blocked. Talking to reporters in Karnal on Saturday evening after the meeting, Khattar said the protesting farmers had earlier assured the government that their protests will be peaceful. “If they had to protest, they should have done so in a peaceful manner, no one would have any objection to that. They had earlier assured that they will hold peaceful protests. But if they hurl stones at police, block highway, then police will take steps to maintain law and order,” said Khattar. Referring to the BJP meeting in Karnal, Khattar said it was a state-level meeting of the party and “I condemn the call which they (farmers' outfits) had given to oppose it." "Obstructing the function of any organisation, on account of any reason, in itself is anti-democratic,” he added. Haryana's Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk had earlier said only four protesters were injured, while ten cops sustained injuries in the incident. He said some protesters pelted stones at the cops and tried to attack them. Karnal Police IG Mamta Singh had said, “We used mild force because they were blocking the highway. Some stones were also pelted towards the police. Mild force was used to disperse the protesters”. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday met some of the injured protesters in a hospital in Karnal and condemned the “brutal lathicharge” by police. Tikait said the conspiracy to attack the farmers in Karnal is clear from “the orders of the Duty Magistrate, who is ordering the police to break the heads of farmers and lash them with sticks”. “The government is using lathis to suppress voice of farmers, but it is mistaken,” Tikait said. Haryana BKU (Chaduni) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni said a meeting of farmers' outfits will be held in Karnal on Monday to discuss futue course of action in the wake of alleged lathicharge. To protest the lathicharge incident, he said the call for road blockade was until Saturday evening and added further course will be decided on Monday. Farmers protesting against the central farm laws have been opposing public functions of the BJP-JJP combine in Haryana. Several farmers had gathered at the Bastara toll plaza near Karnal, responding to a call given by the BKU. The use of force by police had invited severe criticism from opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-assured-peaceful-protest-but-stones-hurled-at-cops-khattar-on-police-action-in-karnal-1024793.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||Transgender community gets separate toilets at Delhi Metro||With a view to make metro accessible for transgender passengers, the DMRC has allowed them to use toilets which were till now meant only for disabled commuters, officials said on Sunday. Transgender commuters who wish to use gender-based toilet as per self-identified gender can also continue to do so, they said. At present, Delhi Metro has 347 such separate toilets across its stations, a senior official said. "In its efforts to provide safe space and prevent gender discrimination against transgenders, Delhi Metro on a priority basis has designated its existing toilets meant only for 'Divyangjans' so far, to be accessible for the transgenders too," the DMRC said in a statement. To guide transgenders to these toilets, bilingual signages (English and Hindi both), along with symbols for both categories -- 'Persons with Disability' and 'Transgenders' -- have been installed adjacent to these toilets. The provisions of section 22 of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, mandates adequate welfare measures for the transgender persons at all public buildings including public toilet facilities. The Delhi Metro network spans about 390 km with 285 stations (including the Noida–Greater Noida Metro Corridor and Rapid Metro, Gurgaon).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/transgender-community-gets-separate-toilets-at-delhi-metro-1024803.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||2022 Punjab polls: Akali leader refuses to contest from seat announced by SAD||Former minister and Akali leader Sikander Singh Maluka on Sunday refused to contest from Rampura Phul constituency after his name figured in the list of three candidates announced by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for the upcoming assembly polls. Maluka said the ticket should be given to his son Gurpreet Singh Maluka. The SAD on Sunday announced the names of three candidates for the 2022 assembly elections. It fielded Sikander Singh Maluka from Rampura Phul, Parkash Singh Bhatti from Bathinda Rural and Darshan Singh Kotfatta from Bhucho assembly seat. These three seats fall in Bathinda district. “SAD President Sukhbir Singh Badal has announced three more candidates for Vidhan Sabha election. Mr Sikandar S Maluka from Rampura Phul, Parkash Singh Bhatti from Bathinda Rural & Darshan Singh Kotfatta from Bhuchon assembly constituency,” said SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema in a tweet. After his candidature for Rampura Phul seat was announced, Maluka said his son Gurpreet Singh Maluka has been working in this constituency for the last one year and the ticket should be given to his son. He said the party did not consult him before announcing his name for the Rampura Phul seat. Maluka said he should be fielded from Maur seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2022-punjab-polls-akali-leader-refuses-to-contest-from-seat-announced-by-sad-1024806.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC pulls up prison authorities over failure to place correct facts of rape convict's case before SRB||The Delhi High Court has asked the prison authorities to file an affidavit stating why the correct facts relating to a man's conviction being modified from gang rape to the offence of rape were not placed before the Sentence Review Board (SRB). The court directed the Delhi Prisons director-general to file the affidavit also indicating the reasons why the SRB was informed that the case was for the offences of gang rape and robbery. "In view of the fact that complete and correct facts were not brought to the notice of the SRB, Director General (Prisons) is directed to ensure that while putting up the case of the petitioner before the SRB in its next meeting, the judgment of conviction passed by the trial court as also the judgment of this court in appeal, whereby, the petitioner has been convicted only for the offence punishable under section 376 IPC and the gist thereof will be placed before the committee," Justice Mukta Gupta said. The man's counsel told the court that though he was convicted for the offence of gang rape, the high court later modified the charge to rape based on an appeal but maintained the life imprisonment. The counsel said the man's case was repeatedly being rejected by the SRB as correct facts were not placed before it by the authorities. He further said the man's conduct in prison was exemplary, and he has not misused the concession granted to him in the form of parole and furlough. The court asked the authorities to file a status report with the outcome of the next SRB meeting before the next hearing in the case on October 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-pulls-up-prison-authorities-over-failure-to-place-correct-facts-of-rape-convicts-case-before-srb-1024818.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||J&K cops cracking down on 'white-collar jihadis', term them 'worst terrorists'||The Jammu and Kashmir Police is cracking down on cyber terrorists, also known as "white-collar jihadis", as it feels that they are the "worst kind of terrorists" who remain anonymous but cause an "immeasurable" amount of damage and brainwashing of youngsters, officials said here. According to an assessment provided by Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh, senior army officers and officials from the security establishment, there is a fear that these "white-collar jihadis" could trigger a communal clash or influence some youths by manipulating news on social media while they themselves live comfortably in faraway countries. The battleground is new where conventional weaponry and the fighting zones of a warren of narrow streets and forests are replaced by computers and smartphones to wage war from just about anywhere -- in Kashmir or outside, safe inside their homes or out on the streets, from a nearby café or even just a convenient roadside. A senior army officer termed them "white-collar jihadis" who mislead the youth and general population by peddling lies on social media and twisting the situation to suit the separatists or terrorist groups. The Jammu and Kashmir Police recently arrested five suspected "white-collar jihadis" who were behind a campaign to spread falsehood about the sovereignty of the country. They, according to the police, were tasked with preparing a strategic hit list of government officers, journalists, social activists, lawyers and political functionaries to instil fear among people. "A cyber terrorist is actually deadlier than an actual terrorist because first, he is in hiding and second, he is absolutely unknown -- unknown till you get into certain very specific details," DGP Singh said. "It is very difficult to find out those kinds of details to locate them and who is actually using that particular identity in the virtual world. People have taken advantage of anonymity in the cyber world and that is why they indulge in such kinds of activities," he said. Singh has been laying special emphasis on putting a check on cyber terrorists as he feels that they are the "worst kind of terrorists (as) they are not seen but the amount of damage they do and the amount of pollution of the mind of the youth they do are immeasurable." He says they are the people who are responsible for recruitment, they are the ones who would make some sort of comments and statements on social media which would create a communal wedge between various communities, between Hindus and Muslims and others. "Therefore, taking care of them and hitting them is very very important so we are working on that front and achieved some success in some areas. More work and more focussed work is needed. We will continue to do whatever is needed in this regard," Singh told PTI recently. The police chief cited an encounter earlier this year in Nowgam and said suddenly there was a tweet claiming that a minority community person had given information about terrorist presence there to the security agency. "It was absolutely false, fraud and nonsense," Singh said, adding the use of social media was only aimed at creating a communal divide. He referred to the recent cases wherein a jeweller, the son of the owner of a popular eatery and some others were targeted by terrorists and said "details suggest that these kinds of targets are picked only after some kind of misinformation is spread." However, senior officials in the security establishment say that it takes a long time to trace white-collar jihadis. "It is like finding a needle in a haystack. Millions of people are on social networking sites and it is too difficult to locate that one person," an official said. The Jammu and Kashmir Police has started registration of private citizens as volunteers to police the internet and report suspected cyber crimes to the government. The initiative launched in February this year provides for three categories of volunteers -- 'Unlawful Content Flaggers', 'Cyber Awareness Promoters' and 'Cyber Experts'. According to the police, unlawful content flaggers will play a role in "identifying online illegal/unlawful content like child pornography, rape/gang rape, terrorism, radicalization, anti-national activities." Cyber awareness promoters will create awareness about cyber crime among citizens, including vulnerable groups like women, children and the elderly, rural population, while cyber experts will deal with specific domains of cyber crime, forensics, network forensics, malware analysis, memory analysis and cryptography among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-cops-cracking-down-on-white-collar-jihadis-term-them-worst-terrorists-1024823.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||IMD issues yellow alert for 5 Madhya Pradesh districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a yellow alert of likely 'heavy rainfall' in five districts of Madhya Pradesh, this expected to be the third wet spell in the state for August. The alert has been issued for isolated places in Vidisha, Sagar, Betul, Chhindwara and Balaghat districts. The IMD also said thunderstorm accompanied by lightning was likely in some places in the districts of Bhopal, Jabalpur, Rewa, Shahdol, Hoshangabad, Sagar and Chambal divisions. The forecast is valid till Monday morning, an official said. "A monsoon trough passing through Gwalior and Sidhi districts in the state is causing rain. Monsoon activity is expected to continue over the next week. With this, MP is in for a third wet spell in August," said IMD Bhopal's senior meteorologist PK Saha. As per IMD data, Ambah in Morena district recorded the highest rainfall of 33 millimetres in west MP, while Bichhai in Mandla district received the highest rainfall of 39.4 mm in east MP in the last 24 hours ending 8.30 am on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/imd-issues-yellow-alert-for-5-madhya-pradesh-districts-1024831.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Muslim man forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram', cops arrest two men||A Muslim scrap dealer was allegedly threatened and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' by two men at a village in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain district, following which the police have arrested the accused duo, an official said on Sunday. The incident occurred on Saturday and two purported videos of it have gone viral on social media. Talking to reporters, R K Rai, Sub Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP), Mahidpur, said, "The incident happened on Saturday when scrap dealer Abdul Rasheed, a resident of Mahidpur town who has been doing this business here for a long time, went to Sikli village under Jharda police station area to collect some scrap in his mini truck." However, Rasheed was forced to leave the village and also threatened against doing his scrap business in the area. When he left the village, two men intercepted him at Pipliya Dhuma, manhandled him and forced him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. The man somehow got out from there after giving in to their demand, he said. Jharda police station in-charge Vikram Singh Ivne said that an offence was registered against the two accused, identified as Kamal Singh (22) and Ishwar Singh (27), for disturbing communal harmony, and they were arrested. The duo was booked under IPC sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion), 505 (2) (public mischief), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), among others. Meanwhile, two videos of this incident went viral on social media, which drew the ire of several netizens. In one purported video, the two men were seen throwing scrap from the victim's four-wheeler and asking him not to enter the village again, while another video shows them threatening and forcing him to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. It shows them asking him how he dared to enter their village and the victim chanting the slogan as told by the accused. Reacting to the incident, Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath said that similar incidents had earlier occurred in Indore and Dewas in the state. "Has it been happening under a specific agenda? The government is watching everything as a mute spectator. An atmosphere of anarchy is being created in the entire state and the law is being mocked," he said while demanding a strict action against the accused who are "disturbing peace" in the state. Minister for Medical Education Vishvas Sarang said the state government was taking strict action in all such incidents. "We are committed to taking action and preventing such incidents. But the questions remain as to why such videos are being made viral from the social media department of Congress. Whether the Congress is behind making such videos and spreading them?" he said. It is a matter of investigation whether these incidents are planned, the minister added. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-muslim-man-forced-to-chant-jai-shri-ram-cops-arrest-two-men-1024833.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||Haryana officer asks cops to 'crack heads' of protesting farmers; Dy CM promises action||Farmer leaders on Sunday slammed the Haryana bureaucrat ordering police to “crack the heads” of protestors as ‘Sarkari Talibani’ even as Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala promised action against the officer. Chautala’s remarks were contrary to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who defended the police action contending that the law enforcers responded only after the farmers started throwing stones at them. “They (farmers) had earlier assured us that they will hold peaceful protests. But if they hurl stones at police, block highways, then the police will take steps to maintain law and order,” said Khattar. Farmers’ groups blocked roads and highways in Punjab to protest against the police action on ryots in Haryana. At a farmers’ meeting in Nuh in Haryana, Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait demanded action against the IAS officer who had asked policemen to “crack the heads” of farmers protesting near a meeting venue of Haryana chief minister and BJP leaders at Karnal. “On Saturday, an officer ordered policemen to hit farmers on their heads. They call us Khalistani. If you would call us Khalistani and Pakistani, we would say Sarkari Talibani has occupied the country. They are Sarkari Talibanis,” Tikait said. Chautala promised action against the IAS officer but also condemned the stone pelting at the police by farmers at Karnal. “The 2018-batch IAS officer’s video has gone viral. Using such a language by an IAS officer is condemnable,” said Chautala, who leads the JJP, which is a coalition partner in the state government. He said the officer's remarks clearly do not meet the ethical standards which are expected from such officers. “Definitely, whatever action is deemed fit, the government will take it,” he said. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the organisation spearheading the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, has called for a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Muzaffarnagar on September 5 to further sharpen the nine-month agitation against the three farm laws. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-officer-asks-cops-to-crack-heads-of-protesting-farmers-dy-cm-promises-action-1024839.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police SI suspended over video showing men drinking liquor in lock-up||A sub-inspector of Delhi Police Special Cell has been suspended after a video purportedly showing some men consuming liquor and snacks inside a lockup surfaced on social media earlier this week, officials said on Sunday. The sub-inspector was suspended after he was found responsible for allowing people to meet the accused in the lock-up, officials said. A video surfaced on Wednesday in which the men were seeing having liquor, snacks and cigarettes inside what appeared to be a lock-up with the people sitting on a mattress and one of them making the video. The video was allegedly shot at the Special Cell office at Lodhi Colony in the national capital. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-si-suspended-over-video-showing-men-drinking-liquor-in-lock-up-1024883.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||Family of deceased woman who had accused BSP MP of raping her provided security||The family members of a 24-year-old woman who had alleged rape by BSP MP Atul Rai have been provided security after they expressed threat to their lives, a police officer said on Sunday. The woman died on August 24 after she and her friend Satyam Rai set themselves afire outside the Supreme Court complex on August 16. Rai died on August 21. Yogendra Bahadur Singh, the SHO of Narhi police station in Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh, said one gunner and four policemen have been deployed for security of the woman's family. The grandfather of the woman has expressed threat to the lives of family members from the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP and his aides. The victim, a resident of Ballia district, was a college student in Varanasi. A case of rape was lodged against the MP at the Lanka police station there in May 2019 on her complaint. In connection with self-immolation by the victim and her associate before the Supreme Court on August 16, the government had set up an inquiry committee, Director General of Police (DGP) Mukul Goel said in a statement Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/family-of-deceased-woman-who-had-accused-bsp-mp-of-raping-her-provided-security-1024892.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||MoEF favours six Uttarakhand hydropower projects six months after flash flood disaster||Six months after the Dhauliganga flash flood that killed nearly 200 persons, the Union Environment Ministry has informed the Supreme Court that it favours going ahead with six hydropower plants in ecologically sensitive Uttarakhand including the 520 MW Tapovan-Vishnugud project that was washed away by the devastating flood. In an affidavit before the SC, the MoEF said that the Ministry of Jal Shakti, Ministry of Power and Uttarakhand government were on board in allowing these projects after incorporating certain design improvements as considerable investment has already been made. The affidavit doesn't have any reference to a 2019 PMO decision on not having any more hydro-power plants on Ganga and its tributaries. The PMO decision was taken when environmentalist G D Agarwar was on fast to save the mighty river. Seeking to delink the February accident with the Kedarnath disaster, the ministry now said the calamity was triggered by hydro-meteorological conditions (heavy snowfall followed by a warmer climate) that triggered the rock avalanche and there was no evidence of a glacial lake outburst flood. In the wake of the Kedarnath disaster caused by one such flood in 2013, the apex court put a halt on all hydropower projects in Uttarakhand. The MoEF affidavit didn’t discuss whether the construction of hydropower plants had impacted the ecology of the river basins as claimed by the ecologists over the years. It cited an expert committee report that suggested going ahead with the hydropower plants after certain design modifications. The committee headed by B P Das was formed in 2015 – a year after the Narendra Modi government was sworn in – following the rejection of six other hydropower plants by an expert panel headed by environmentalist Ravi Chopra and a consortium of the IITs. "The mandate of the BP Das committee was to suggest design modifications for the hydro-power plants and not to examine whether such projects are sustainable,” Mallika Bhanot, who works at Uttarakhand-based NGO Ganga Ahvaan told DH. The biggest of the six projects that were rejected by those two panels was a 300 MW unit of GMR. But the units that are now being favoured by the MoEF include the much larger Tehri Stage-II (1000 MW), Tapovan-Vishnugad (520 MW) and Vishnugad-Pipalkote (444 MW) in the Alaknanda basin. These projects were under construction when they were stopped by the court. Other projects being pushed by the ministry are Phata-Buyong (76 MW), Kaliganga-II (4.5 MW) and Madmaheshwar (15 MW). Being small hydro projects, the last two don’t need environmental clearance while others have such an approval in place. A seventh project (Singoli-Bhatwari) has already been commissioned. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/moef-favours-six-uttarakhand-hydropower-projects-six-months-after-flash-flood-disaster-1024902.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||Assault on media covering Covid vaccination programme in UP: FIR against 18 people, 4 arrested||An FIR has been registered against 18 people for allegedly beating up media persons who were recording a Covid-19 vaccination programme wherein vaccines reportedly brought from Shravasti were administered here, in violation of rules, police said on Sunday. Four people have been arrested in connection with the incident, they said. "Four people have been arrested in connection with beating up of media persons, who were covering the vaccination drive in which ‘illegally’ brought vaccines were being used. A case has been registered against 18 named people and around 12 unidentified people in this connection,” Superintendent of Police Jamuna Prasad said. According to police, the vaccination programme was held at Maanpur Dehua village under Zaidpur police station area on Saturday. A total of 150 villagers were present for the inoculation. The health worker administering the vaccines there said he was posted in Shravasti district, and that he had brought the vaccines from there. Empty and filled vials of Covaxin were found at the spot. When the media started recording the vaccination drive, the health workers and villagers got agitated. They then locked the media people in a room and threatened to kill them, they said. In the complaint lodged with the police, the media persons alleged that they were beaten up and their cameras were broken. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/assault-on-media-covering-covid-vaccination-programme-in-up-fir-against-18-people-4-arrested-1024922.html
29-08-2021||North and Central||Mob of over 100 thrashes pastor at his house in Chhattisgarh, raising 'stop conversion' slogans||A group of over 100 people allegedly beat up a 25-year-old pastor after barging into his house at a remote village in Chhattisgarh's Kabirdham district on Sunday, during which they were heard raising slogans against religious conversion, a police official said. The mob also vandalised his property and manhandled his family members before fleeing from the spot, he said. The incident took place around 11 am in Polmi village under Kukdur police station limits when a prayer was underway at the house of pastor Kawalsingh Paraste, said Kabirdham Superintendent of Police Mohit Garg. "As per the preliminary information, a crowd of over 100 people stormed into his house and allegedly damaged articles of worship and household items, and tore scriptures," he said. "They allegedly beat up Paraste and manhandled his family members, including women, and then escaped," he said, adding the attackers were heard raising slogans to stop religious conversion. Soon after being alerted about it, a police team was rushed to the spot, he said. A case is being lodged in this connection and further action will be taken accordingly, Garg said. Meanwhile, president of Chhattisgarh's Christian Forum, Arun Pannalal, has accused the police and the state government of not taking appropriate action in cases of attacks on Christian places of worship. "This is a very dangerous trend, which has become prevalent in the state and the government has failed to stop this. We are pained by the helplessness of this government," he said. "In the last 15 days, at least 10 such attacks allegedly occurred at our religious places across the state, but in none of the cases action police took any action. We just want justice. but repeated occurrence of such incidents indicates that the government has been favouring those who are involved in vandalism,” he added. Pannalal further said various denominations of Christian community in the state recently held a meeting in Bilaspur and decided to form a squad to defend the places of offering prayers. The forum is also going to file a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Supreme Court with all evidence citing police's alleged inaction in cases of vandalism of churches in different districts of the state, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mob-of-over-100-thrashes-pastor-at-his-house-in-chhattisgarh-raising-stop-conversion-slogans-1024959.html
29-08-2021||Opinion||Afghanistan: Political consensus building on foreign policy||The Afghanistan conundrum has caught the world in a bind. The uncertainty over the fate of those living in that country and the challenge of ferrying thousands of foreigners stuck there after the Taliban took control engages everyone's attention.  Amid an ever-changing ground situation in the war-torn country, at an all-party meeting on August 26, the Narendra Modi Government articulated its approach to this new challenge in India's extended neighbourhood. In keeping with India's tradition of evolving consensus on international issues, the External Affairs Minister characterised the meeting as everyone approaching the issue "with the spirit of national unity". Over the years, bi-partisanship remains a hallmark of India's foreign policy, with successive governments taking leaders of political parties into confidence on issues the country faces. During the early years when the country became free, leaders questioned the government's moves. These ranged from allowing veto powers to the permanent five on the United Nations Security Council to routine executive action of posting envoys and the thought process behind selecting delegations for overseas engagements. Those were early days, and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, who laid the foundation of the country's foreign policy, patiently responded to issues raised by members during debates and Question Hour and set a template. Interactions during debates and informal meetings such as the one held on Thursday allow governments to bring parties up to date with the latest information on international developments, share an assessment of the situation, the trajectory it could take and the way forward. These meetings also allow the government to acquire a sense of what different allies and opposition have to offer and respond to concerns. Opposition and criticism Over these years, the policy framework of the governments came in for a critical evaluation, with members in Parliament and political parties taking positions that were at variance with what the government of the day did. These primarily arose due to different perceptions. Yet, in the end, the effort was to evolve a broad consensus. Expectedly, at the meeting on the situation in Afghanistan, leaders of various parties flagged issues of concern. From the pace of evacuation of Indians from the country, future of the operations post-August 31 deadline of withdrawal of American troops, possible rise of terror in the region or India's attitude towards a new regime in Kabul. The sudden development in Afghanistan erupted days after the Monsoon session of Parliament ended. Had the Houses been in session, a significant development such as the change in Kabul would have taken precedence in the form of a discussion and debate. Different viewpoints would convey the concern and afford an opportunity for the government to clarify its position and justify its action. Iraq war and Indian position The last time a major interaction took place on developments in the region was in early 2003 when Atal Behari Vajpayee was the prime minister. President George W Bush of the United States had launched a military offensive on Iraq against the regime of Saddam Hussein ostensibly to prevent the country under the military dictator from acquiring weapons of mass destruction. War in the neighbourhood in a country in West Asia with which it maintained political, economic and cultural links put India in a dilemma. Around this time, the United States sought Indian troops for deployment in Iraq. Opinion on the issue in India stood divided both in the highest echelons of the government, with the majority of political parties opposed to committing boots on the ground. On the other hand, the relations with the United States entered a fresh new friendly phase and some strategic analysts favouring India take a favourable view of the American suggestion. In his quest to explore a common meeting ground, PM Vajpayee called all-party meetings in March 2003. In his opening remarks, PM Vajpayee noted he always tried to maintain the tradition of consultations with major political parties on critical international issues. "This has helped strengthen the national consensus on our foreign policy." Later, a resolution deploring the US action was adopted.  On the crucial question of sending Indian military detachment, Vajpayee used domestic opposition. India preferred to explain its decision in a manner that raised counter issues while not rejecting the American proposition. There is an interesting tale in the development often narrated by the late CPI general secretary AB Bardhan. He and CPI-M general secretary Harkishan Singh Surjeet were invited by PM Vajpayee to take their view on the deployment of troops in Iraq. The Communist leaders were vehement in their opposition, and after hearing them, Vajpayee told them: "Comrades, speak louder (on the issue)." Having got the cue, the Left parties raised the pitch. The rest, as the saying goes, is history.  (The writer is a journalist) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/afghanistan-political-consensus-building-on-foreign-policy-1024780.html
29-08-2021||South||Heavy rains in Kerala, IMD issues Orange alert||Heavy rains continued to lash Kerala with some areas receiving around 10 cms of rainfall in the last 24 hours, as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an Orange alert for Sunday in nine districts of the state. The weatherman on Sunday afternoon issued Orange alert, predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall in Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kannur districts. All other districts have been issued a Yellow alert. The IMD has also warned the fishermen against venturing into the sea till August 30. "Strong wind speed reaching 40-50 Kmph gusting to 60 Kmph is likely over the South-west and West central Arabian sea. Fishermen are advised NOT TO venture into these sea areas," the IMD website read. It also said the southwest monsoon has been vigorous over Kerala and rain occurred at most places in Kerala and Lakshadweep. Heavy rainfall was reported at Vaikom in Kottayam district where 10 cm rain was recorded, followed by Kakkayam in Kozhikode district and Vellarikkundu in Kasaragod district with eight cm each. The IMD has also issued a Yellow alert for a few districts tomorrow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-in-kerala-imd-issues-orange-alert-1024828.html
29-08-2021||South||Minor girl, father harassed in public by women police by falsely accusing them of mobile theft||The Kerala Police's Pink Police unit that was introduced to specifically ensure the safety of women and children has put a minor girl along with her father to severe mental harassment, accusing them of stealing a mobile phone from a police vehicle. A woman police personnel has been transferred from the Pink Police on Sunday after the incident triggered widespread public ire and the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights registering a case against the police. The incident took place at Attingal, about 30 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city, on Friday. The child went to the town with her father Jayachandran to witness a trailer carrying a huge consignment to the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre in Thiruvananthapuram as the movement of the huge cargo along the national highway had received much attention. Jayachandran parked his vehicle near a Pink Police patrol's vehicle. Later a woman police personnel accused the father and daughter of stealing her mobile phone kept in the police vehicle. Her theory was that Jayachandran lifted the mobile phone and handed over it to his daughter. As the police interrogation in the public started, Jayachandran, who is a rubber tapping worker, and his daughter, who is a third-standard student, pleaded ignorance. The police even reportedly frisked the father and daughter in public. Some onlookers had captured the police interrogation on their mobile phones. Later the ‘stolen mobile phone’ was found in the police vehicle itself. This triggered public ire against the police. But the women police justified their act stating that they only ruled out suspicion and did not harass the father and daughter. With the video of the incident going viral, the police higherups conducted a probe and a woman civil police officer was transferred out of the Pink Police patrol unit on Sunday after the allegations were found to be prima facie true. Further actions are likely to be taken against her, said sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/minor-girl-father-harassed-in-public-by-women-police-by-falsely-accusing-them-of-mobile-theft-1024857.html
29-08-2021||South||Kerala to ramp up Covid testing amid rising cases||With Kerala recording over 30,000 Covid-19 cases in the last four days, Health Minister of the State Veena George on Sunday said the government has renewed its plan to test more number of people than before. The Minister, in her post on Facebook, said new centres and clusters would be created based on the outcome of the sample testing methods. In districts of the State where the first dose of vaccine has been administered, she said RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) is recommended for individuals with symptoms such as sore throat, cough and diarrhoea. Rapid antigen tests (RATs) would be done on people who frequent shops, malls, offices, institutions, and transit sites, the Minister said. RAT would be enough to assess the Covid-19 situation in a district and the method would be adopted in areas where the first dose of the vaccine has been given to more than 80 per cent of the people there. She said the earlier methods of testing would continue in areas where the first dose of the vaccine has been given to less than 80 per cent of the people. In cases where two weeks have elapsed since the second dose and if an individual is asymptomatic, they would not be subject to the tests. Those diagnosed with the coronavirus in the past two months would also be excluded from the tests, she said. She further said the collected samples would be sent to laboratories soon and stringent action on them would be taken if th results were not uploaded in time. The quality of RT-PCR and RAT testing kits would be checked by the District Health Department Officers, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-ramp-up-covid-testing-amid-rising-cases-1024858.html
29-08-2021||South||Covid-19 TPR in Kerala hovers around 20%; experts question logic of night curfew and Sunday lockdown||Even as the number of fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Kerala on Sunday remained slightly below the 30,000 mark, the test positivity rate was close to 20 per cent. While 29,836 fresh cases were reported when 1.51 lakh samples were tested, the TPR was 19.67 per cent. During the last three days, the number of fresh cases has been above 30,000.  The number of active cases that crossed the two lakh mark on Saturday reached 2.12 lakh by Sunday. However, only 30,055 were admitted to hospitals while the remaining were either in the home or institutional quarantine. Around 50 per cent of hospital beds in the state are still free.  Even as the state government resumed the lockdowns on Sundays and decided to impose night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am from Monday, many experts feel that those were very unscientific measures. Speeding up the vaccination drive even by engaging the private hospitals of the state has been suggested to be the most effective way out of Covid’s grip. Public health expert and WHO former technical officer Dr. S S Lal said that already it has been proved that the weekend lockdowns are not helping in curbing Covid-19 spread in the state. Even then the state government is going ahead with such unscientific measures. He said that vaccination drive in the state could be enhanced by engaging private hospitals also. Already the state government has received huge contributions through a 'vaccine challenge' campaign after it announced that it would provide free vaccines to all. In the present context, that amount could be also used to directly purchase vaccines and administer them to the people free of cost as the Centre's vaccine supply would have its normal delay. Though private hospitals are now giving vaccines, it is on a payment basis which many low-income groups could not afford. Meanwhile, government sources said that any further total shutdown would be imposed in the state as an extreme measure only, as the lockdown imposed in May had prolonged for around three months and badly hit the life of many, especially traders. A meeting of experts from within the state and outside to be held on September 1 will sort out the measures to be taken to contain the Covid-19 surge in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tpr-in-kerala-hovers-around-20-experts-question-logic-of-night-curfew-and-sunday-lockdown-1024878.html
29-08-2021||State||Karnataka CM Bommai to personally supervise Bengaluru's mega projects||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said he will personally monitor the progress of mega projects in Bengaluru and will be dedicating the first working hour of his day to supervise them. "We have got a very big vision for Bengaluru, the greatest challenge is whether we will be capable of keeping up the timeline in implementing the projects. Therefore early planning, perfect planning, as well as the perfect implementation of the plan is very important," Bommai said. Speaking at an event here, he said accountability of all the major projects is more important than anything else. "The first decision that I have taken, as far as Bengaluru is concerned is that I will personally supervise the progress of all mega projects in Bengaluru, from CMO (Chief Minister's office). Within the next 20 days, my dashboard will be ready, day-to-day updates will be there and I will dedicate my first working hour of the day for supervising the progress of mega projects in Bengaluru," he said. The mega projects that he will personally be supervising include metro, outer ring road, high-speed train from the international airport to the city centre. Bengaluru International Airport will be unique in the world as it will be connected by metro, sub-urban and high-speed trains. The CM was speaking after inaugurating the extended Purple Line of Bangalore Metro on Mysuru Road here. Noting that not only the infrastructure, his government also has plans to develop the slums in the city and thereby improve the living standard of the people there, Bommai said, "we will have special authority for health infrastructure in the city, and regarding traffic we have decided to work on 12 high-density roads for seamless traffic movement, also seamless signalling with artificial intelligence." The government has plans for all-round development of the city that include core areas under the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), about 110 villages that were added to it, and also "showcasing" the Central Business District (CBD). He said, "Bengaluru has a potential for another 3-4 CBDs- north, east, south and west, this is part of our vision." Observing that Bangalore Metro should increase its potential to carry people, Bommai said, "I have directed Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) officials to complete the metro works under Phase II by 2024, one year earlier than the present deadline of 2025. They said it is difficult, but I say we have to struggle and overcome that difficulty."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-bommai-to-personally-supervise-bengalurus-mega-projects-1024849.html
29-08-2021||State||Hasiru Bhoomi Prathishtana plants flower-bearing saplings||Sathyamangala Lake Development Committee along with Hasiru Bhoomi Prathishtana planted more than 400 flower-bearing saplings on a stretch of 3 kilometres from Dairy Circle to Gundegowdana Koppal in Hassan city on Sunday. Gowdegowda, who was in-charge of the Lake Development Committee and maintenance of the Ring Road donated the plants. "The blooming flowers on the plants creates awareness among the people on maintaining cleanliness on roads," he said. "Saplings are planted on all the main roads of the city with the campaign 'Namma Raste Namma Hone', 'Namma Swachha Nagara'," he said. More than 100 volunteers from Bharat Jnana Vignana Samiti, Jayanagara unit, Munjane Mitraru and others participated in the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hasiru-bhoomi-prathishtana-plants-flower-bearing-saplings-1024853.html
29-08-2021||State||Mysuru gang-rape: Two suspects still at large||The police continued their search for two other suspects in the Mysuru gang-rape case. The police have so far arrested five persons. During interrogation, the suspects said that a gang of seven people was involved in the crime. One of the suspects had been arrested by the Nazarbad police in connection with sandalwood theft. However, he was out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-gang-rape-two-suspects-still-at-large-1024930.html
29-08-2021||State||Murugesh Nirani inaugurates Centre for Excellence in Bengaluru||The Centre for Excellence established at the Nitte Meenakshi Institute of Technology, to bridge the gap between industry and academia, was inaugurated by Murugesh Nirani, Minister for Large and Medium Industries. The press statement issued by the institute states that the Centre will provide both theory and practical training in plastic and metal 3D printing technology, software, materials and industrial applications.  The course offered at the Centre will be certified by the EOS, GmbH Germany and Additive Manufacturing Society of India and also increases employment opportunities for engineering graduates, reads the communication. Prof N R Shetty, Chancellor Central University of Karnataka, Dr H C Nagaraja, principal of the college, Dr L Jyotish Kumar, president of Additive Manufacturing Society of India, Prakasam Anand, country manager, EOS GmbH, Maltesh, managing director, Supercraft 3D Pvt Ltd, Rohit Punja, administrator of Nitte Education Trust, were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/murugesh-nirani-inaugurates-centre-for-excellence-in-bengaluru-1024939.html
29-08-2021||State||Engineering fees in Karnataka may go up by 5-10% this year||The fees for engineering courses for the current academic year is likely to be increased by 5% to 10%. Sources from the higher education department said they might consider increasing the fees by 5% to 10%, following a demand from private engineering college managements in the state. "It's been three years since the fees for engineering courses were hiked. The college managements are demanding a fee hike, citing the increase in salaries for staff and other expenditure. They are demanding a 30% hike, but the government may consider up to 10%," said sources in the department. "Looking at the fees for medical courses, which the government is increasing every year, the engineering colleges are placing demands," the sources said. Higher Education Minister Ashwath Narayan said he will call representatives from private college managements for talks in the second week of September. "We have not decided anything yet. We will call the representatives of college managements to discuss the matter in the second week of September," said the minister. Private engineering colleges in the state have demanded for a 25% to 30% fee hike for undergraduate engineering courses this year. A group of them even met former chief minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard. The delegation was led by a senior BJP leader from coastal Karnataka. Existing fees Under lower fees category:- KCET quota: Rs 65,360- COMEDK quota: Rs 1,43,748 Under higher fees category:- KCET quota: Rs 58,806- COMEDK quota: Rs 2,01,960 Seat sharing:45% for KCET quota, 30% for COMEDK quota, 25% for NRI and management quota||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/engineering-fees-in-karnataka-may-go-up-by-5-10-this-year-1024940.html
29-08-2021||State||3 decades into service, Panchayat Raj Engineering Dept to probe forged documents of engineer||The Panchayat Raj Engineering Department is probing the case of one Prabhakar P M, who served in various capacities at the Panchayat Raj Engineering Department for close to three decades allegedly without the required engineering qualification. A red flag was raised in the Department after the accused submitted his service records earlier this year for an audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General. According to Chief Engineer of the Department, Vijayakumar Chavadannavar, preliminary probe has hinted that the accused forged documents to claim that he had completed his engineering degree from Chhattisgarh University to serve in the Department. Sources said that there is a lack of clarity on how he was hired by the Department in the first place, adding that a detailed probe was essential to unearth all those involved. A complaint was filed against Prabhakar on July 22 by the Office of Superintending Engineer, Panchayat Raj Engineering Department, after discrepancies were seen in the service records submitted by him earlier this year. According to the complaint, accessed by DH, Prabhakar was appointed junior engineer along with one B Raghuram Shetty on May 7, 1991. In 2008, Shetty was promoted as Assistant Executive Engineer, while Prabhakar remained in the same position. In the same year, Prabhakar sought advice from Shetty about completing an engineering degree through distance education. This has raised suspicions among his colleagues about his qualifications. In 2010, the Department sought an explanation from him on why he had not sought promotion since 2004-05. Prabhakar attributed it to the delay exercised by the varsity in providing the certificate, adding that it was issued only in 2009. However, his service records submitted in January this year were tampered with. The records claimed that he had completed his engineering in 2004, while the certificate submitted by Prabhakar to the Department showed that he passed out in 2005. This went against the claim made by him in 2010 that he had not sought promotion as he was awaiting his certificates. Speaking to DH, Vijayakumar said that prima-facie, documents appear to have been forged. “Preliminary inquiry is under progress. Based on its findings, a departmental inquiry will be initiated,”he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/3-decades-into-service-panchayat-raj-engineering-dept-to-probe-forged-documents-of-engineer-1024943.html
29-08-2021||State||28 nursing students from Kerala test positive in Kolar Gold Fields||As many as 28 students of a private nursing college at Andersonpet, all from Kerala, have tested positive for Covid-19. The infected students have been admitted to BGML Hospital on Sunday. The samples of 13 first-year students and 15 second-year students have returned positive for Covid-19. Around 300 students from Kerala are pursuing nursing course at the college here. A batch of first-year students had returned to college hostel only three days back. A few contacts of the students have also contracted the infection, said taluk health officer Dr Sunil. The nursing college and the hostel have been sealed. All primary and secondary contacts of the students are being subjected to Covid tests, the THO said. Last week, 21 students from Kerala, enrolled in a private nursing college in Hassan had tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/28-nursing-students-from-kerala-test-positive-in-kolar-gold-fields-1024945.html
29-08-2021||State||No pressure to step down from Karnataka CM's post: B S Yediyurappa||Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday made clear that there was no political pressure on him to step down from the top post. At the taluk-level BJP workers’ meeting at his home tur, Yediyurappa said he voluntarily quit the chief minister’s post to pave the way for other leaders to head the government.  He said Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is giving importance to development and made an appeal to the people to extend co-operation to Bommai as they did for him.  Yediyurappa reiterated that he would tour the state after the Gowri-Ganesha festival with state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel and other leaders to achieve the ‘Mission 140’ in the next Legislative Assembly polls.  Referring to media reports, he said some newspapers reported that he alone would tour the state after Ganesha festival.  “It is not true as I will tour the state with other leaders. The tour is aimed at bringing BJP back to power in Karnataka in 2023 on its own without depending on others,” hesaid. Yediyurappa said the respective district in-charge ministers and legislators would also join him on his state-wide tour. He exuded confidence that BJP would win around 130 to 140 seats in the next Assembly polls and the party would come back to power. “You (workers) already know how BJP suffered setback by relying on others to come back to power,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-pressure-to-step-down-from-karnataka-cms-post-b-s-yediyurappa-1024946.html
29-08-2021||State||Two drown in Tungabhadra river in Haveri||Two persons met a watery grave when they went for fishing in Tungabhadra river near Chowdayyadaanpura village in Ranebennur taluk of Haveri district on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as Fakkiresh Honnappa Mannur (23) and Yallappa Fakkeerappa Kumbar (34), both residents of Guttal town in Haveri taluk. The duo had caught some fish and had piled them on the river banks. Later, they got into the river for a bath, when one of them drifted away. The other tried to rescue him, and both of them drowned, the police said. A case has been booked at the Ranebennur rural police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-drown-in-tungabhadra-river-in-haveri-1024952.html
29-08-2021||State||Ajai Kumar Dubey named Railway Wheel Factory chief||Ajai Kumar Dubey, an IRSS officer of 1985 batch, has taken charge as General Manager of Rail Wheel Factory, succeeding Rajiv Kumar Vyas. Dubey has served as Additional Divisional Railway Manager (ADRM) at Lucknow, DRM at Solapur and other capacities. He was working as principal chief materials manager in Eastern Railway before coming to RWF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ajai-kumar-dubey-named-railway-wheel-factory-chief-1024957.html
29-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Classes 6-8 can be reopened: TAC to Karnataka government||The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has told the state government that physical classes for grades 6 to 8 “may be considered from September 13”, a move that comes amid mixed response to offline classes for grades 9 to 12 in rural and urban areas. Experts from TAC kept in mind Ganesh Chaturthi while making the recommendation, which was put forward in a meeting held on Thursday. The timing will help authorities take an informed decision after assessing the situation in the next few days as well as post-festival. This assessment will consider the number of children testing positive for the coronavirus, their clinical presentation, severity and their management, response of parents, teachers, school management. The final announcement will be made by CM Basavaraj Bommai on Monday. “The Chief Minister is holding a meeting on Monday (Aug 30) at 4 pm with the experts of TAC to discuss the recommendations,” a source said. According to authoritative, non-TAC sources, the recommendation to open these grades was made on the strength of two points: one was that the opening classes for 9 to 12 went largely by the book, with the SOPs being adhered to by students and teachers. The second factor was that even though Covid-19 infections were reported among students in these classes, none required hospitalisation, a source said. A detailed study of child Covid-19 infections had determined that 40% of all cases reported in recent days in districts were those aged under 18. “Despite this, and the fact that some were symptomatic, none were hospitalised,” an official said. TAC is set to issue recommendations for the Ganesha festival this coming week, a government source said, adding that the committee will next review the Covid-19 situation in the state and in children on September 8. ‘School bubble’ To ensure safe return of pupils to face-to-face learning, the Technical Advisory Committee has recommended introducing “school bubbles”. Conceptually, such bubbles are a simple yet rigid grouping of a small number of pupils, who tend to remain as a group during school hours. If any pupil tests positive within the bubble, only the affected bubble will self-isolate instead of the whole class.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/classes-6-8-can-be-reopened-tac-to-karnataka-government-1024681.html
29-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 1,262 new Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,262 fresh Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 29,47,255 and the toll to 37,278. The day also saw 1,384 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,91,193. Out of 1,262 new cases reported on Sunday, 361 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 334 discharges. The total number of active cases stood at 18,758. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.70 per cent, the CaseFatality Rate (CFR) was 1.34 per cent. Bengaluru Urban topped in the number of deaths (6), Dakshina Kannada reported three and Hassan two, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 361, Dakshina Kannada 202, Udupi 96, Mysuru and Kodagu 86, while the rest were scattered in other areas. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,37,286, followed by Mysuru 1,75,879 and Tumakuru 1,19,199. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 12,13,959, followed by Mysuru 1,72,542 and Tumakuru 1,17,423. Cumulatively a total of 4,31,94,662 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,78,664 were on Sunday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-1262-new-covid-19-cases-17-deaths-1024869.html
29-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No social impact study for 495 acres of Yettinahole project land||The state government has planned to sidestep social impact assessment (SIA) for the acquisition of 495 acres of land, in an apparent bid to expedite the long-pending Yettinahole project. The land in question is spread across 17 villages in Tumakuru, the nerve centre of the Yettinahole project. Officials believe that skipping the SIA will save them at least one year's time. SIA is a prerequisite for land acquisition as per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. However, in 2019, the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition amended the state Act, giving the government the power to skip SIA for projects broadly classified under irrigation, drinking water, educational institutions, among others. The Yettinahole project aims to provide drinking water to Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagar, Chikkaballapur and Kolar districts from the Netravati river in Hassan district. The project has specially seen stiff resistance from farmers in the region over land compensation, leading to challenges in acquisition. Earlier this year, the government gave a similar SIA exemption to acquire 53 acres of land to construct the Gouribidanur gravity feeder under the same project. Speaking to DH, an official in the water resources department said the exemption was given in the interest of expediting the project. "We can save at least one year if we skip the assessment. More importantly, these are small parcels of land that will neither impact the villages nor anyone's house," the official said. However, the government's approach has been met with scepticism by farmers. S N Swamy, secretary of the Yettinahole Horata Samithi and state committee member of Raitha-Krushi Karmikara Sanghatane, said the government was cheating farmers by taking shelter under this amendment. "The land acquisition Act provides for rehabilitation and resettlement under the second schedule of the legislation. While as per the first schedule, the land owner is merely compensated for the land lost, under the second schedule, the aggrieved party is eligible for a one-time settlement or a house or employment, among other compensatory measures depending on the context. The whole premise for applying the second schedule is the social impact assessment," he explained. Further, whether the land portion is small or big is entirely subjective, Swamy contended. "For a person who owns only 2 acres, losing one acre is half of his property and loss of means of subsistence. Hence, this needs an impact assessment study."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-social-impact-study-for-495-acres-of-yettinahole-project-land-1024934.html
29-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kerala’s surging Covid cases raise alarm in Dakshina Kannada||A surge of Covid-19 cases in Kerala, coupled with discoveries of fake RT-PCR negative certificates by travellers coming into Dakshina Kannada (DK) has highlighted the precarious position of the border districts. As per data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, during 11 out of the last 26 days in August, Dakshina Kannada has recorded more new Covid-19 cases than Bengaluru Urban, which has been a traditional mainstay for infection in the state. In August, so far, Dakshina Kannada has recorded 8,582 new cases, just behind the 8,890 cases in Bengaluru Urban. No other districts have recorded such numbers. “The problem is that we have more than 42 border crossings into the district from Kerala. Although we have delegated teams made up of revenue officers, police and other government staff to man the border crossings, just 17 crossings are actively monitored. Complicating matters further is the fact that the district has some 80 entry points from Kerala,” Dr Rajendra K V, IAS, Deputy Commissioner, said. The issue of fake negative RT-PCR certificates has become a thorn in the side of officials. Multiple instances have been recorded. “Earlier we used to send back people with fake certificates, now we have started filing FIRs - and this, we hope, will serve as a deterrent,” Dr Rajendra said. Four people were arrested at the district’s Talapady border on Thursday when they produced fraudulent RT-PCR certificates. They showed a negative RT-PCR certificate on their mobile phone, but when the QR code of the digital certificate was scanned, it was found to be fake,” the DC explained. Quarantine being considered Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health), told DH that the issue of fake certificates is prompting Karnataka to consider quarantining interstate travellers, especially those coming to hostels, for a period of five days. “This is still in the thinking stage,” he said. Even though Kerala is considering a renewed lockdown to curb its high Covid-19 caseload, there is widespread skepticism that it will prevent that state’s outbreak from spilling over into Dakshina Kannada. Akhtar added that Karnataka has doubled its testing targets in border districts to catch cases and that it is in the process of executing a plan to saturate people living in a buffer zone 10 km from the border with vaccinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kerala-s-surging-covid-cases-raise-alarm-in-dakshina-kannada-1024935.html
29-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Good turnout on Day Two of KCET||Day Two of the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) 2021 held on Sunday has witnessed an attendance of 95.91% for Physics and 95.88% for Chemistry subjects. Of the 2,01,834 candidates registered for KCET 2021, 1,93,588 appeared for Physics and 1,93,522 appeared for Chemistry, which includes 12 candidates who have tested positive for Covid-19.  The candidates who attempted the test, felt that the Physics paper was a bit lengthy, with some stating that they ran out of time to complete the paper. Maithri Murali Krishna, student of Deeksha, said, "The Physics paper was a little difficult, but I managed to complete it on time." "Some concept-based questions were difficult, but as I had solved previous years year's papers, I could answer all the questions," said another student. Milind Chippalakatti, Head of Academics Deeksha said, "Though the paper was easy to moderate and involved calculations. Some students might have found it difficult to complete in one hour. There were 25 easy questions, 28 moderate and seven difficult questions. The paper was slightly difficult compared to last year." However, the students find Chemistry paper a bit tricky. "Though the paper was easy, I found it a bit tricky," said Ruhina, a student. The KCET has been held at 530 locations across the state without any hassles with all the centres adhering to all the Covid-19 protocols. Kannada test On Monday, the compulsory Kannada test for candidates from Horanadu and Gadinadu region will be held for which 1,682 candidates have registered. The Kannada test will be conducted at Bidar, Belagavi, Ballari, Vijayapura, Mangaluru and Bengaluru centres, as per the schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/good-turnout-on-day-two-of-kcet-1024941.html
29-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||5.6% dip in Karnataka's weekly Covid cases despite increased testing||The state’s novel coronavirus outbreak continued its downward spiral in the past seven days, with Karnataka registering 5.6% fewer cases this week than it did the previous week. As per official data, the state recorded 8,639 cases last week, between 23 to 29 August. Out of these 1,262 new cases were recorded on Sunday. In comparison, Karnataka recorded 9,152 new cases the week before (16 to 22 August). At the same time, the number of tests being done increased by 16.7% last week, from 1.05 lakh tests conducted in the previous week to 1.22 lakh tests conducted last week. In comparison to the seven-day overall decline recorded in the state, Bengaluru Urban actually showed a slight increase: a total of 2,250 new cases were found in last week, which is 5.4% higher than the 2,134 new cases found the week before. On Sunday, 361 new cases were found in Bengaluru Urban. Although the city was being overshadowed in the number of new cases by Dakshina Kannada, it has once again assumed its place as the district with the highest number of daily new cases in Karnataka since August 22. Dakshina Kannada came in second with 202 new cases on Sunday, followed by 96 in Udupi district and 86 each in Mysuru and Kodagu districts. The state also discharged 1,384 people, which leaves Karnataka’s active caseload at: 18,758 cases. Since mid-August, it has been taking the state between three to four days to decrease the active caseload by a thousand people. The rate of decline was steeper in July, when it took between one to two days. Health officials also announced 17 new Covid-19 deaths. Seven fatalities had happened on Saturday and one on Friday. One was a 49-year-old man who had died at home in Bengaluru on August 17 without ever being diagnosed and another was a 55-year-old-man who had been brought dead to a private hospital in the city on August 20. The youngest of the new fatalities was a 26-year-old man who died at a private hospital in Dakshina Kannada on August 27. He had been suffering from symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), but had no recorded comorbidities. He died three days after being diagnosed with the disease. Vaccination scenario In the last seven days, the state administered 40.55 lakh doses, which increased the state’s first dose coverage to 62.24% and its second dose coverage to 20.05%. Owing to increased vaccine supplies, the state has been administering an average of 5.7 lakh doses daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/56-dip-in-karnatakas-weekly-covid-cases-despite-increased-testing-1024944.html
29-08-2021||West||Gujarat: Villagers celebrate Bhavina Patel's historic silver in Paralympics with 'garba'||Family members and friends of paddler Bhavina Patel broke into traditional "Garba" dance, burst firecrackers and smeared each other with 'gulal' at her native Sundhiya village in Gujarat's Mehsana district soon after she won a historic silver medal at the Paralympic Games in the women's singles class 4 final in Tokyo on Sunday. Patel on Sunday became only the second Indian woman to win a medal at the Paralympics after she signed off with a historic silver following a 0-3 loss to world number one Chinese paddler Ying Zhou in the women's singles table tennis class 4 final. The 34-year-old Patel's impressive run at the Games ended with a fighting 7-11 5-11 6-11 loss to Zhou, a two-time gold medallist, in the women's singles summit clash which lasted 19 minutes. "She may be 'Divyang' (differently-abled), but to us, she never appeared to be so. For us, she is 'Divya' (divine). We are very happy that she has brought a silver medal for our country," her father Hasmukh Patel, told reporters after her victory. Patel runs a small grocery shop in the village. People at Patel's native village had set up a big screen to watch her match live from Tokyo. They started gathering in front of the screen early this morning as the game began. Although Patel went down 0-3 to Zhou in her maiden Paralympic Games, it did not dampen the celebration spirit. As soon as the game ended, people started dancing, burst crackers and threw 'gulal' on each other. "As you can see, we have been playing Garba since this morning after Bhavina won the silver medal. We are making full preparations for her grand welcome," said one of her relatives. They said they are very happy over her achievement and feeling proud of her victory. "She is a jewel for not just our village but for the entire country," said another villager. Patel, who was diagnosed with polio when she was 12-month-old, had defeated world no 3 Miao Zhang of China 7-11 11-7 11-4 9-11 11-8 in the semifinal showdown on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-villagers-celebrate-bhavina-patels-historic-silver-in-paralympics-with-garba-1024769.html
29-08-2021||West||At least 14 injured in cylinder blast at Mumbai's Dharavi||15 people were injured in a cylinder blast at Dharavi in Mumbai on Sunday. Mumbai police, civic and fire brigade teams were rushed to the spot. The blast took place at 12:28 pm on a tenement off the Mubarak Hotel at Shahu Nagar in Dharavi. Of the five persons who have suffered critical injuries in the incident, one is an eight-year-old boy, the fire brigade official said. "An LPG cylinder kept just outside one of the shanties exploded and led a level one (minor) fire. Fifteen persons suffered burn injuries and they were admitted to the nearby Sion Hospital. Three fire engines that were rushed to spot brought the blaze under control," the official said, adding that police personnel and civic staff are present at the spot. "Out of the 15 injured, 10 persons - seven males and three females - are out of danger, but five others are in a critical condition and two of them have suffered 50 to 60 per cent injuries," he added. (With inputs from PTI) More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-least-14-injured-in-cylinder-blast-at-mumbais-dharavi-1024778.html
29-08-2021||West||Gujarat govt to give Rs 3 cr to Paralympic silver medallist Bhavina Patel||The Gujarat government on Sunday announced a Rs 3 crore reward for paddler Bhavina Patel for her historic silver medal win at the Tokyo Paralympic Games. Patel, who hails from Sundhiya village in Gujarat's Mehsana district, on Sunday went down 0-3 to world number one Chinese paddler Ying Zhou to win the silver medal in her maiden Paralympic Games. "Chief Minister Vijay Rupani has congratulated Bhavina Patel, daughter of Mehsana district of Gujarat, for making the country proud by her outstanding achievements in table tennis at the Paralympic Games," the Chief Minister's Office said in a note. It said the CM has announced an award of Rs 3 crore as an incentive to Patel under the state government's 'Divyang Khel Pratibha Protsahan Puraskar Yojana' for making Gujarat and India proud at the global level with her sports skills. Patel, who was diagnosed with polio when she was 12-month-old, had defeated world no 3 Miao Zhang of China 7-11 11-7 11-4 9-11 11-8 in the semi-final showdown on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-govt-to-give-rs-3-cr-to-paralympic-silver-medallist-bhavina-patel-1024796.html
29-08-2021||West||Why temples not reopened in Maharashtra? asks Hazare; assures support for protest||Social activist Anna Hazare has questioned the Maharashtra government's stand to not reopen temples in the state and said he would extend his support if agitation is held for lifting curbs on temples. Hazare pointed out "big queues" outside liquor shops to question the MVA government's refusal to reopen temples. Speaking in Ralegan Siddhi village in the Ahmednagar district on Saturday, Hazare said a delegation of some people demanding reopening of temples had met him. "Why the state government is not opening temples? What danger the state government sees in opening temples for people? If Covid-19 is the reason, then there are big queues outside liquor shops," he said. Hazare, 84, said he had assured the delegation of his support and told them that he will be with them if they stage an agitation demanding reopening of temples. The Uddhav Thackeray-led government reopened many sectors and also allowed common people, who are fully vaccinated, to travel in local trains in Mumbai as the coronavirus scenario improved over weeks. However, the state government is still wary about reopening religious places fearing the spread of coronavirus especially when a third wave of the pandemic is being projected. Notably, the opposition BJP has been demanding that temples be reopened for people. Maharashtra on Saturday reported 4,831 new coronavirus cases and 126 deaths, taking the infection tally to 64,52,273 and death toll to 1,37,026, a state health department official had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-temples-not-reopened-in-maharashtra-asks-hazare-assures-support-for-protest-1024800.html
29-08-2021||West||BJP brass siding with people who insult Maharashtra's pride?: Sanjay Raut||Amid a bitter feud between his party and Union minister Narayan Rane, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday wondered whether BJP leadership is supporting those people who insult Maharashtra's pride and self-respect. Raut, the executive editor of the party mouthpiece Saamana, said in his weekly column that apart from Maharashtra BJP leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Chandrakant Patil, Central leaders like BJP president JP Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah had reportedly called up Rane to express their support to him. "If this is true then it is an insult to Maharashtra's self-respect and pride. Why does Delhi stand in support of those who insult Maharashtra's pride and self-respect?" Raut asked. Rane, a BJP MP, was arrested on August 24 after his "would have slapped Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence" remarks kicked up a huge row. The remarks triggered violent protests by Shiv Sena cadres who vandalised offices of BJP in some cities and clashed with supporters of Rane. In the write-up, Raut accused Rane and his sons- former MP Nilesh Rane and BJP MLA Nitesh Rane- of using "derogatory and unparliamentary" language against the Sena leadership. "A Union minister speaks of slapping the state's chief minister and BJP leaders look around helplessly," he wrote. Raut expressed surprise over BJP leaders terming Rane's arrest, which he said was done legally, unconstitutional. "Nobody has the right to insult the posts of PM, President and Chief Minister. Rane has been committing this crime often. If anybody thinks that taking action in this regard is a crime, then it is like belittling the Constitution," he said. Raut stated that Rane's sons have damaged the political career of their father the most. "Fadnavis and Chandrakant Patil (Maharashtra BJP chief) will meet the same fate due to the sons of Rane," he said. Meanwhile, Rane addressed a press conference on his home turf Kankavli as part of the 'Jan Ashirwad Yatra'. He hit out at Raut for targeting his sons and cautioned the Sena MP to refrain from launching personal attacks. "If this continues, I will start a series of write-ups through my newspaper Prahar," the MSME Minister said, adding his sons love and respect him. "They are well educated and well mannered, " he said. On the contrary, Raut is responsible for Sena's slide, he added. Describing his Yatra success, Rane said his ministry will focus on developing entrepreneurship and employment opportunities. "I will focus on the development of the Konkan region, rest of Maharashtra, and the entire country," he said. Speaking about the Yatra, Rane said he received a rousing welcome wherever he went "barring a bad omen incident" which he didn't want to talk about, apparently referring to his arrest on Tuesday and subsequent release on bail. To a question on whether he will help Shiv Sena MPs if they approach him for development-related work, Rane quipped, "I will do their work and also persuade them to come to the BJP." Queried whether he has toned down his rhetoric after a one-on-one meeting between Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and CM Thackeray, Rane said, " I am still the same and will continue to be aggressive".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-brass-siding-with-people-who-insult-maharashtras-pride-sanjay-raut-1024814.html
29-08-2021||West||Maharashtra health survey: Prime focus on Covid-19, staff shortage affected patients most||The survey was carried out in July this year and covered 122 primary health centres (PHCs), 24 rural hospitals and 14 sub-district hospitals in 17 Maharashtra districts, namely Akola, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Osmanabad, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Thane, Nandurbar, Parbhani, Palghar, Pune, Beed, Yavatmal, Solapur and Hingoli, the JAA release informed. At least 11 hospitals that were surveyed did not treat accident cases due to the pandemic, 22 rural and sub-district hospitals stopped performing C-section procedures and and 12 did not perform a wide range of surgeries, forcing many to rush to private hospitals and bear the resultant high costs, it said, adding that cataract operations, minor surgeries and sterilisation procedures were also postponed. Highlighting the shortage of staff at health facilities, the survey report informed that only 51 per cent of the surveyed PHCs had one permanent medical officer, which meant only one doctor for around 30,000 people, and only 53 per cent had permanent nurses. "Around 46 per cent rural hospitals and 30 per cent sub-districts hospitals do not have specialist doctors. As many as 81 per cent posts for psychiatrists, 63 per cent posts for surgeons, 47 per cent posts for anesthetists, 26 per cent posts for gynecologists, 23 per cent posts for pediatricians and 47 per cent posts for dentists are lying vacant in rural hospitals,” the report said. JAA activist Girish Bhave said poor rural health infrastructure was a matter of concern as people there are excessively depended on government facilities, while activist Shailaja Aralkar said the pandemic showed public sector health facilities are the mainstay of people, especially in rural and tribal areas, and these must be strengthened. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-health-survey-prime-focus-on-covid-19-staff-shortage-affected-patients-most-1024845.html
29-08-2021||West||Controversy over purported 'clean chit' to Anil Deshmukh||Hours after a purported report of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) giving clean chit to Anil Deshmukh went viral, the federal investigation agency clarified that investigations were in progress against Maharashtra’s former home minister and senior NCP leader. Hours after the report went viral the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government lashed out at the BJP for misusing central agencies.  The CBI, however, issued a statement clarifying that no clean chit has been given to Deshmukh and investigations were in progress.  The case pertains to allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner and now commandant general of Home Guard Param Bir Singh who had said that Deshmukh had fixed Rs 100 crore “collection target” for assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze.  Incidentally, Vaze, who is now dismissed, is the main accused behind the planting of a gelatin sticks-laden Scorpio near the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. The purported CBI report that went viral states - “...Preliminary enquiry revealed that a cognizable offence is made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance for public duty...” "A number of media queries have been received regarding a CBI case registered against the then Maharashtra Home Minister and unknown others. It may be recalled that the Bombay High Court had ordered the registration of a Preliminary Enquiry in the said matter based on several PILs filed before the court,” the CBI said. On completion of this preliminary enquiry, the competent authority directed registration of a regular case based on evidence collected during enquiry and the legal opinion.  "The FIR registered by CBI on 21.04.2021 has been available on CBI website since 24.04.2021. Investigation into the matter is ongoing,” it said.  The statement also pointed out that the same officer whose report is circulating in the media is a complainant in the FIR, a copy of which is available on the CBI website. NCP chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said that the CBI must come out clean on the issue. “It shows political vendetta and blatant misuse of centre probe agencies,” he said. The Maharashtra Congress has demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the report.  “Conspiracy of Modi govt to target Anil Deshmukh and defame MVA has been exposed. The Investigation officer of CBI in PE had concluded that there is no role of this in so-called Rs 100 crore collection allegation by Singh and had closed the inquiry. "We demand SC monitored inquiry into this conspiracy to find out at whose behest the CBI changed its stand by overriding the IO report? HC had only asked for PE but filing FIR by misguiding HC is a huge crime of CBI,” state Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said.  He also demanded that union home minister Amit Shah must take responsibility and resign.  "The Centre is misusing its agencies for political purposes," Shiv Sena Lok Sabha MP Arvind Sawant said. Check out latest videos from DH:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/controversy-over-purported-clean-chit-to-anil-deshmukh-1024866.html
29-08-2021||West||65.88% voter turnout in second phase of zila parishad, panchayat polls in Rajasthan||A voter turnout of 65.88 per cent was recorded in the second phase of zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections in six districts of Rajasthan on Sunday, according to the State Election Commission (SEC). Polling was held in Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bharatpur, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa and Sirohi districts. The highest voter turnout was recorded in Jodhpur, where 77.02 per cent of voters exercised their franchise in Aau panchayat samiti, the SEC said. State Election Commissioner P S Mehra said polling was held to elect 536 members of 28 panchayat samitis and their respective zila parishad members. In the second phase of elections, 10 panchayat samiti members were elected unopposed. Mehra said of the more than 25.60 lakh voters in the second phase, over 16.86 lakh exercised their franchise at 3,459 polling stations. He said the third and final phase of the elections will be held on September 1. Votes for all three phases will be counted at district headquarters on September 4. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/6588-voter-turnout-in-second-phase-of-zila-parishad-panchayat-polls-in-rajasthan-1024919.html
