30-08-2021||First Edit||Save Nandi Hills from ruin||The recent landslide on Bengaluru’s popular tourist spot Nandi Hills should be a warning call to the government which has permitted stone quarrying and crushing activities in the vicinity, ignoring protests from environmentalists. Though authorities blame heavy rains that lashed the area non-stop for over six hours, greens say rampant quarrying and deforestation have destabilised the soil leading to the incident. Unless this is stopped, there could be a threat to other hillocks as well, leading to a catastrophe similar to the one in Kodagu a few years ago. The landslide of such a magnitude, the first such incident in recent memory, washed away a part of the road, though, fortunately, no lives were lost or private property damaged. In Kodagu, hundreds of acres of coffee estates were buried under the mud with many losing their lives, but the government has done nothing to check the unbridled flow of tourists who far exceed the district’s carrying capacity. Authorities have also failed to put brakes on construction activities that destroy the natural contours of the landscape besides loosening the soil. Unless the administration takes some corrective steps, Nandi Hills, which faces the onslaught of excessive tourism and uncontrolled developmental activities, may meet the same fate. The Hills, which is a popular destination given its proximity to Bengaluru, attracts thousands of tourists, especially on weekends. Many of the tourists have scant respect for their surroundings and litter the entire area, leaving around 30 tonnes of trash, mainly plastic and liquor bottles, on its precincts every year. The Hills are believed to be the origin of six rivers, including Arakavathy. But today, the hilltop and foothills face an acute shortage of drinking water as most water sources have dried up due to rapid urbanisation or have become polluted. Environmentalists have suggested that all encroachments should be cleared, lakes revived and flow channels cleaned up, but the government has adopted the easy way out by deciding to draw water from Bengaluru. Nandi Hills, which had all along been maintained as a biodiversity spot by the horticulture department, has now been handed over to the tourism department. It is also home to a fortress built by the Ganga dynasty and was later strengthened by Tipu Sultan. Considered impregnable, the fort was stormed by Lord Cornwallis in 1791 during the first of the three wars against Tipu, a significant development in history. In 1986, the Hills also hosted the SAARC summit. While there is nothing wrong in promoting sustainable tourism, the government should, at the same time, maintain the ecological balance and protect the character of the hills as a historical and heritage centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/save-nandi-hills-from-ruin-1024975.html
30-08-2021||In Perspective||The return of PHCs post-pandemic||We are at a critical juncture of our social and economic life as a nation, having completed 74 years of independence and 30 years of economic liberalisation. There is now a growing realisation both in government and the general citizenry that post-liberalisation, the health and primary education sectors are not in good shape and have to be set right if India has to take its place in the comity of nations. Indeed, all the institutions connected with the health sector are found to be operating sub-optimally. There are around 25,650 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) across the country with 61% of them having only one doctor and 7.6% of them having none. There is a growing feeling that the government has to take back its responsibility for providing for the healthcare of its citizens. Without this, the demographic dividend that we often boast about will become a liability. Hence, we welcome the intention of the Government of Karnataka to upgrade the PHCs in the state which were in a limbo all this while. Perhaps, the pandemic served as a wake-up call. In December 2020, the Health and Family Welfare Department of Karnataka decided to upgrade its network of 2,380 PHCs in the state. The minister concerned stated that the existing six-bed PHC will be upgraded to a 12-20 bed facility, more health centres will be established, the number of doctors per PHC will be increased and every PHC will have a radiology section. Not only this, accommodation will be provided to doctors and nurses. In addition, Community Health Centres will also be upgraded and taluk and district government hospitals modernised. The Basavaraj Bommai government has reiterated that 2,900 sub-centres and 750 PHCs will be upgraded. It is hoped that this is not a pipe dream and the government will follow up on its promise. The pandemic, especially the second wave, has dramatically brought home the importance of the PHC in the healthcare system. It was found that Covid-19 cases could be monitored and recorded best at the PHC level rather than at the higher levels of healthcare. Here, it may be pointed out that the three-tiered government healthcare model consists of a clutch of sub-centres, PHCs and Community Health Centres. These institutions act as a sifting mechanism so that most patients are taken care of at the PHC itself and do not feel the need to go to hospitals directly as is happening at present, resulting in a hospital overload. Tax-funded revenues It is imperative that PHCs, which are the first line of contact between the patient and the healthcare system, are established and strengthened throughout the state. In 1946, the Bhore Committee had recommended the setting up of such institutions throughout the country. It envisaged a comprehensive, universal, healthcare system free at the point of delivery based on a government-led service to be paid from tax-funded revenues. The Alma Ata Declaration of 1978 underlined the universal importance of primary healthcare to be provided by governments the world over. However, the following decades were the lost decades of the PHC in India. These institutions were neglected and side-lined in favour of the setting up of secondary and tertiary level healthcare facilities consisting of taluk and district hospitals by the private sector. This led to a steep increase in out-of-pocket expenses. While the world average of such expenditure is 18.2%, in India it is 62.8%. It resulted in catastrophic expenditure on health problems and the consequent loss of assets and indebtedness of families. The pandemic has made us even more aware of the problem. Lakhs of rupees are spent on securing a bed in the ICU, an oxygen cylinder and a ventilator in private hospitals. The wholesale commercialisation of healthcare does not bode well for the public or the nation. Healthcare as a public good will be accessible to all. India now needs to go back to the drawing board and recast its healthcare system in favour of a bottoms-up approach of PHCs designed on the lines of the Bhore Committee report. Adequate funds have to be made available for this exercise. At present, a paltry sum of a little over 1% of the GDP is spent by the government on healthcare. Without the backing of funds, the lofty schemes are only wishful thinking. Only a healthy and robust citizenry can drive economic growth. One of the unintended consequences of the pandemic has been the revival of the PHC. Many of us, who had never been inside a PHC, now found ourselves taking our Covid vaccinations in one of them and it has been a pleasant experience. It is hoped that these institutions have come to stay and will continue to serve the health needs of the people even after the pandemic. (The writer is Senior Research Fellow, Institute of Social Sciences, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-return-of-phcs-post-pandemic-1024977.html
30-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||11.50 lakh people administered first dose of vaccine in Dakshina Kannada||A total of 15,30,465 vaccines have been administered in Dakshina Kannada district since the drive was launched on January 16. Of the target population of 18 lakh in the district, 11,50,976 have been administered first dose, thus, covering 63% of the target and 3,79,489 have been administered second dose as on August 28, according to the statistics of Department of Health and Family Welfare. The district has reached the target in administering vaccines to frontline workers by vaccinating 15,854 beneficiaries from police, revenue and other departments. The district has covered 98.1% of the target by administering the first dose to 2,07,709 beneficiaries, in above 60 years group. Similarly, the district has achieved 96.6% of the target, by administering the first dose to 50,784 healthcare workers in the district. In the frontline workers category, nearly 54% have received the second dose. In the age group of 18 to 44 years, 5,41,750 beneficiaries have received their first dose, thus reaching 50% of the target while, 74,275 have received their second dose covering 13% of the target. On the other hand, 3,31,662 beneficiaries have received first dose in the age group of 44 to 60 years, thus reaching 80% of the target while 1,40,958 (42%) have received the second dose of vaccine. According to the officials, the vaccination drive will be intensified as the government has started supplying more doses. The district has administered 36,573 doses of vaccines on a single day on August 27 and 47,175 doses on August 28. On August 24, the district had administered vaccines to 20,854 beneficiaries. In Udupi In Udupi district, the target is to inoculate 10,33,870 beneficiaries. A total of 9,28,488 vaccines have been administered in the district as on August 28. So far, a total of 6,73,374 beneficiaries have been inoculated with first dose and 2,55,114 with second dose. As many as 2,89,978 have been administered with first dose and 43,358 with second dose in the age group of 18 to 44 years. In the age group of above 45 years, 3,51,750 were administered with first dose and 1,87,512 with second dose of vaccine. With the intensifying of vaccination drive, the district has vaccinated 40,330 beneficiaries on a single day on August 27, according to a Facebook post of Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1150-lakh-people-administered-first-dose-of-vaccine-in-dakshina-kannada-1025054.html
30-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heavy rain in parts of Bidar, Kalaburagi districts||Several parts of Kalaburagi and Bidar districts received heavy rainfall on Monday. A buffalo was struck dead by lightning at Matakhed village in Kamalaganar of Bidar district and a hanuman temple collapsed at Navadagi village in Bhalki taluk. Stream water has entered houses at Gorat village in Hulasur taluk and Enakur village in Khatakchincholi hobli of Bhalki taluk. While Bemalakhed in Chitaguppa taluk has received the highest rainfall of 81 mm, Dubalagundi in Humnabad taluk has received 67 mm rainfall. Karanja dam and Chulakinala and Upper Mullamari reservoirs too have filled to the brim. Several parts of the Kalaburagi district too received rainfall from Sunday night to Monday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heavy-rain-in-parts-of-bidar-kalaburagi-districts-1025231.html
30-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wild elephants destroy crops in Karnataka's Kambibane||Farmers in Suntikoppa have complained that the wild elephants have ruined the crops. The grown paddy saplings in the field belonging to Manjunatha Rai of Hosagadde mane in Upputhodu village in Kambibane gram panchayat have been destroyed. He claimed that a loss of Rs 40,000 has occurred. Elephants have been moving around in the region for the past several months and have not been leaving the coffee plantation. The plantation owners and local residents have urged the forest department to conduct an operation and drive elephants to the forest. The labourers are hesitating to work in the plantations as the elephants are moving in the region in the broad daylight, they said. Farmers Vasant, Ravi and Ramaiah said that the compensation provided by the forest department is petty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wild-elephants-destroy-crops-in-karnatakas-kambibane-1025239.html
30-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shooting of buffalo: 7 held including plantation owner||The police arrested seven men for allegedly shooting down a buffalo at Kotekar in Ullal police station limits. The men alleging that the buffalo was straying into their plantation, had shot dead the buffalo. The arrested men were identified as Plantation owner Jayaram Rai (58), Ummar (37), Mohammed Sinan (22), Umar Farooq (42), Mohammed Suhail (26), Mohammed Kalander (43) amd Ilyas (38), Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said. The owner of the plantation had directed others to kill the buffalo and sell the meat. Six persons had made an attempt to capture the buffalo for the past two days. When they could not capture, they hired a gun from a person in Kodagu and shot the buffalo dead on Sunday. On hearing the cry buffalo, locals had rushed to the spot. The police had seized pick-up vehicle, scooter, gun, lethal weapons, rope, plastic bags and others, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shooting-of-buffalo-7-held-including-plantation-owner-1025261.html
30-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Irrigation projects: H D Kumaraswamy accuses Centre of double standards||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy alleged that the Union government is following double standards over the Krishna and Mahadayi irrigation projects of the state. Accusing the state government of inordinate delay in implementing these projects, he said the Union government is not issuing a notification to take up the works on the third stage of the Upper Krishna Project (UKP). “It is delaying the issuance of notification as Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have approached the Supreme Court over the Krishna River water sharing as a reason,” he charged.  “The Union government, however, had issued a notification though the hearing is pending between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu over the Cauvery River Water Dispute. Why did it adopt a double standard?” Kumaraswamy questioned while speaking to media persons. He said the Union government should release Rs 1 lakh crore by announcing the Upper Krishna Project as a national project. The third stage of the project should be implemented by increasing the height of Alamatti reservoir to 524 metres. The Centre should get permission from Forest and Environment Department to utilise 14 tmcft of water allocated under the Mahadayi project, he urged.  Kumaraswamy charged that development works are not taking place in the state. "A spare engine has been installed by replacing the main engine in the state. I am unable to get an appointment with the chief minister for the past two weeks. If it is fixed, I will discuss the irrigation projects," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/irrigation-projects-h-d-kumaraswamy-accuses-centre-of-double-standards-1025250.html
30-08-2021||Main Article||The poor record of NHRC||Paris Principles — adopted in 1993 by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) — guided the establishment of National Human Rights Institutions; Law Commission’s 152nd Report further empowered the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and State Human Rights Commissions (SHRCs) to intervene to stop custodial crimes. Now, after two and a half decades of their existence, it will not be a premature assessment of their position on custodial crimes, or for that matter, any other human rights violations. For this purpose, we shall use the data sets on custodial crimes listed from 1999 to 2019, accessed from the office of NHRC through Right to Information (RTI). For this period, the NHRC received a total of 29,845 cases of deaths in judicial custody, out of which 3,116 were yet to be disposed of. The figure for dismissal of complaints is 39 over a period of two decades, the maximum of which (15) were dismissed in 2016. A trend is observed for the cases involving SHRCs from 1999 to 2019 (0, 7, 12, 47, 227, 357, 307, 245, 85, 211, 240, 974, 109, 10, 7, 4, 7, 6, 2, 2, 17). It is unclear why a steep fall of 99 data points for such cases is observed between 2011 and 2012 while the trend continues to get narrower in consecutive years, though it is obvious that the number of pending cases would steadily increase with time; a familiar data trend is noticed from 1999 to 2019 (0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 2, 1, 8, 19, 84, 112, 174, 284, 528, 931, 971). Little deviations notwithstanding, the state-wise trend for cases related to judicial custodial deaths is largely conforming to human development indicators. Uttar Pradesh (5,917), Bihar (2,821), Maharashtra (2,496) and Punjab (2,178) recorded the majority of deaths in judicial custody. The figure of disposed cases also includes those in which the families of victims are either silenced or pushed to hostility. This, without any doubt, only would result in case closure. So, the reasons behind Delhi scoring the most contrasting fraction of pending cases against disposed cases, i.e., 112 v 502, are, evidently, its location and availability of legal resources and presence of statutory body in Delhi-NCR. This figure drastically falls for the relatively remote regions of Andhra Pradesh (92 v 1,076) and Odisha (93 v 910). Statistical trend is no different for police custodial deaths, albeit with a marginal data pool. Perhaps more important, an indicator to appraise police ethics, for the policing authorities have physical custody of the arrested individuals. The NHRC received 3,019 cases related to police custodial deaths out of which 2,651 had been disposed of so far; that is, 87.81% compared to 89.55% disposition of judicial custodial deaths. As witnessed in cases of judicial custody, this category also experiences the same trend on handling of cases by SHRCs (1, 1, 0, 13, 45, 37, 34, 22, 4, 7, 0, 5, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 3, 0, 1) during the aforesaid period. The picture is no different for state-wise data on police custodial deaths. Maharashtra (469), Uttar Pradesh (306) and Gujarat (261) topped the chart. A total of 13 death cases were disposed of with directions (DWD), for judicial as well as police custody. Surprisingly, the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir has zero pending cases for both kinds of custodial deaths — fulfilling ‘zero pendency project’. Does this mean that the NHRC takes such cases seriously? The probe into the custodial death of Rizwan Asad Pandit, still fresh in memory, offered a completely different picture, sadly. Data on deaths in defence custody and paramilitary custody is similarly uninformative. A total of 23 cases of defence custodial deaths were registered with the NHRC in the past two decades. Three cases pertaining to 2013, 2015 and 2016 were still pending. Eighteen cases of paramilitary custodial deaths were reported to the NHRC. The NHRC doesn’t comment on their data sets, let alone explain how they are located on socio-economic metrics, the fact that the victims of custodial crimes are invariably poor, which LC pointed out. That theoretical oasis of social justice, it is true, doesn’t comport with the reality when a so-called autonomous human rights body presents some data bereft of clarity. The NHRC’s Deputy Registrar, responding to this author’s RTI application, said that “NHRC (Procedure) Regulations, 1997 [Amendment] does not provide the categorisation of the cases under the category of conviction of cases of custodial deaths in the court of law. As such information sought is not available on the record of the Commission.” The NHRC also never responded despite generating an official diary number on a case, of custodial torture of one Zubair Khan Pathan in Gujarat, this author had filed, in May 2019. This is no mere coincidence. The NHRC still doesn’t have any special mechanism in place to bring the perpetrators of custodial crimes to justice. And if we go by NCRB’s data, ‘Crime in India’ 2019, we find, though not surprisingly, that the conviction rate for a total of 26 custodial death cases in Gujarat, between 2001 and 2016, was zero. The national picture is equally worrying. Out of 1,557 custodial deaths (2001-2016), 704 cases were registered. Of 294 charge-sheeted policemen, only 26 could be convicted. The way ahead If executives desire anything, no matter how much of a waste of time their squeamishness is, democracy, in the absence of checks and balances that institutions like the NHRC could facilitate, empowers even the most unsuitable persons to run the country, to make laws of selective interest, and to abnegate the fundamental tenets of humanity. Elevation of an accused of custodial crimes and fake encounters to the post in the government that has the de facto veto vote in the appointment of office-bearers of the NHRC is a case in point. Despotism cannot survive without violating human rights. Human rights institutions should come forward to protect human rights. Perhaps this is a way to end despotism, and in any case, a semblance of democracy is better than a fully-fledged despotism. (The writer reports on human rights issues)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-poor-record-of-nhrc-1024976.html
30-08-2021||National||Hosur in top gear as e-scooter firms line up||The bustling industrial city of Hosur, located just outside Bengaluru, and areas in the adjoining districts of Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri are fast emerging as a manufacturing hub for e-scooters and their accessories like batteries. Five companies, including Ola, have signed Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) with the Tamil Nadu government for setting up factories to manufacture e-scooters in and around Hosur in Krishnagiri district.  Ola, Ather, Sri Varu Motors, and Simple Energy will manufacture e-scooters from their brand-new factories, while Ampere will invest Rs 700 crore in its manufacturing unit in Ranipet. TVS Motor Company is rolling out electric two-wheelers from its sprawling unit in Hosur.  With e-scooter manufacturers lining up, the state government is now turning its gaze towards wooing top battery makers in the country, as it wants the entire e-scooter ecosystem based out of the region. A senior government official told DH that Guidance Tamil Nadu is in talks with big names in the sector like Exide and Amara Raja to set up their units to manufacture batteries for e-scooters. Lucas-TVS, ELETS, Li Energy and Stanadyne have already signed MoUs for setting up their units to produce batteries for electric two-wheelers.  “To create an eco-system, we need both scooter manufacturers and producers of accessories like batteries in the same region," the official said. "While we continue to woo more electric scooter companies, we are also focusing on getting more battery makers to send the right message to prospective investors. Once the big names come, others follow suit." Hosur is home to many two-wheeler majors and the state government wants to convert it into a hub for e-scooters, much like it transformed Chennai into India’s very own Detroit.  “Hosur is a developed town and is one of the favourite destinations for investors due to its proximity to Bengaluru. Another advantage for the state government is its agencies possess huge land banks in Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts. Most of the new units are coming up here,” the official said.  The state has had an exclusive EV policy since 2019 that offers sops like 100% reimbursement of SGST till December 31, 2030, 15% capital subsidy and 100% electricity tax exemption till December 2025. It also provides a 20% capital subsidy for EV battery manufacturing till December 2022.  Consortium of Indian Association (CIA) Convenor K E Raghunathan said the Tamil Nadu government should ensure that the entire value chain of electric vehicle manufacturing is in Tamil Nadu and that the state provides end-to-end solutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hosur-in-top-gear-as-e-scooter-firms-line-up-1024986.html
30-08-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee's entry in Assam will help BJP: Himanta Biswa Sarma||Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma said that West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and the TMC are welcome in the state as they will divide the votes of the Congress and help the BJP. During a trip to Siliguri, Sarma claimed that Banerjee's entry in Assam and Tripura will only help the BJP. He said that wherever Banerjee goes and does politics, she will divide the votes of Congress and help the BJP. "If she comes to Assam, we will give her a red carpet welcome," Sarma said, according to media reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjees-entry-in-assam-will-help-bjp-himanta-biswa-sarma-1025003.html
30-08-2021||National||Speak Out: August 30, 2021||Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma said that West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and the TMC are welcome in the state as they will divide the votes of the Congress and help the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/speak-out-august-30-2021-1025008.html
30-08-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Nehr..who?'||The missing frame of India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, from the banner of 'Azaadi ka Amrit Mhatosav' celebrations on the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) website, kicked up a huge political row with Opposition leaders slamming it as "petty" and "atrocious".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-nehrwho-1025010.html
30-08-2021||National||India logs 42,909 new Covid cases, 380 fatalities: Kerala continues to drive surge||India saw a single-day rise of 42,909 new Covid-19 infections, which took the total tally of cases to 3,27,37,939, while active cases registered an increase for the sixth consecutive day, according to Union health ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll has climbed to 4,38,210 with 380 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has increased to 3,76,324 and comprise 1.15 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.51 per cent, the health ministry said. It said active cases in the country increased by 7,766 cases in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said that 14,19,990 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far in the country to 52,01,46,525. The daily positivity rate has been recorded at 3.02 per cent. It is above three per cent after 35 days, it said. The weekly positivity rate has been recorded at 2.41 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 66 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has increased to 3,19,23,405, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 63.43 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Monday morning, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed two crore cases on May 4 and three crore cases on June 23. The 380 new fatalities include 131 from Maharashtra and 75 from Kerala. A total of 4,38,210 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,37,157 from Maharashtra, 37,278 from Karnataka, 34,878 from Tamil Nadu, 25,080 from Delhi, 22,818 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,541 from Kerala and 18,423 from West Bengal. The health ministry said that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-logs-42909-new-covid-cases-380-fatalities-kerala-continues-to-drive-surge-1025037.html
30-08-2021||National||RT-PCR test reports soon to be linked to Co-WIN to ease travel||In the latest move to make travelling easier for the citizens, the Government of India will soon link Covid-19 RT-PCR tests to the Co-WIN application to make the RT-PCR certificate digitally accessible. Currently, the Co-WIN application has the vaccination certificate linked to it. As several states in India and foreign countries also are seeking an RT-PCR test certificate, this move will help the people travelling to those places. Many countries are yet to approve Co-WIN as a vaccine passport to grant entry.  In his conversation with NDTV, Sharma mentioned that initially, attempts were made to make a multilateral agreement under which every country’s digital vaccination certificate will be accepted as a digital passport. However, that has not happened yet. “There is an attempt now on a bilateral basis — I accept your country’s passport and you accept mine. So those discussions are going on with our Ministry of External Affairs in both countries," he said. "The QR code is encrypted, the information which is required on a passport is actually there on the digital certificate vaccine certificate. So we have created a packet of all the information and this packet is given to the Ministry of External Affairs," he said. Sharma also said that the Civil Aviation ministry has collaborated in this. India’s vaccination certificate has aligned with the international standards from the beginning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rt-pcr-test-reports-soon-to-be-linked-to-co-win-to-ease-travel-1025053.html
30-08-2021||National||Eminent Bengali writer Buddhadeb Guha no more||Eminent Bengali writer Buddhadeb Guha, author of many notable works such as `Madhukari’ (Honey Gatherer), is no more. He was 85. Guha, died of post-covid complications at a private hospital here on Sunday at 11:25 pm after a massive cardiac arrest, his family said. The writer, whose works of fiction reflected his closeness to nature and forests of eastern India, was suffering from post-Covid complications and had been hospitalised earlier this month after complaining of breathlessness and urinary infection, his family said. He had earlier suffered from Covid-19 in April and had been hospitalised for 33 days. Guha was predeceased by wife, eminent Rabindra Sangeet exponent Ritu Guha in 2001, leaves behind two daughters. Born on June 29, 1936 in Kolkata, Guha had spent his childhood in Rangpur and Barisal districts of East Bengal (now Bangladesh). His childhood experiences and travels left a deep imprint on him , which were reflected in his works later on. His novels and short stories have been highly acclaimed by critics, winning him fans across the sub-continent and several awards including Ananda Purashkar in 1976, Shiroman Purashkar and Sharat Puraskar. His important works besides `Madhukari’, include `Koeler Kachhe’ (Near the Koel bird) and `Sobinoy Nibedon’ (Humble Offering). An award-winning Bengali film 'Dictionary' was made based on two of his works - `Baba Howa’ (Being a Father) and `Swami Howa’ (Being a Husband). He was also a popular children’s writer creating the fictional character Rijuda, a hunter-turned-conservationist and his side-kick Rudra. Said Rupa Majumdar, Editor of Nabakallol and Shuktara magazines and director of publishing house Dev Sahitya Kutir, whose magazine recently serialised Guha’s childhood memories in story form “He was a colossus, a literary star … people used to come just to watch him when he would visit our stall at any book fair. His books, some of which we published, were all best-sellers.” Majumdar said it was the duty of the publishing world and his heirs to have his works translated into other languages including English “so that the world at large realises his genius, which is so well recognised in Bengali literature.” A successful charted accountant, Guha was also noted classical singer and a proficient illustrator. "Buddhadev Guha is no more. He was blessed as to be one with the Divine on the night of Janmashtami (Lord Krishna’s birthday) 2021.Do join his family and friends in celebrating his life," his elder daughter Maleni B Guhaa posted in social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eminent-bengali-writer-buddhadeb-guha-no-more-1025056.html
30-08-2021||National||Covid-19 devastated many lives, heart-wrenching to see survival of children at stake: Supreme Court||Covid-19 has devastated many lives and it is “heart wrenching” that the survival of children who lost either or both parents during the pandemic is at stake, the Supreme Court said, but expressed satisfaction over schemes announced by the Centre and states to provide succour to them. The apex court said that “satisfactory progress” has been made by the Executive in identifying children who have either become orphans or have lost one of their parents during the Covid-19 pandemic. "We are glad that the UoI (Union of India) and the state governments/Union Territories have announced schemes to provide succour to the children in need. We have no doubt that the authorities concerned would leave no stone unturned to attend to the immediate basic needs of the crestfallen children,” said a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose. The top court, which was hearing a suo motu matter on 'Contagion of Covid-19 on children protection homes', noted in its order that over one lakh children have lost either or both parents during the pandemic. “The catastrophe caused by the cataclysmic Covid-19 has devastated many lives, especially children at a tender age who have lost their parents,” the bench said, adding that “it is heart wrenching to note that the survival of so many children is at stake.” It said inquiries by Child Welfare Committee (CWCs), in accordance with provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, have to be expedited to identify those children who are in need of care and protection. Immediate steps also have to be taken to ensure that benefits of schemes reach the needy minors, the bench said. The apex court said all children have a constitutional right to free and compulsory elementary education and the State has a duty and obligation to facilitate education for children. “We have no doubt that the State realizes the importance of continuance of education of the forlorn children,” the bench said in its August 26 order. The bench noted the submissions of Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, that education of eligible children up to 18 years is sought to be provided for under the ‘PM CARES for Children’ scheme launched for support and empowerment of Covid-19 affected children. Bhati told the bench that 2,600 children eligible for benefits under the scheme have been registered by states and out of these, 418 applications have been approved by district magistrates. The bench directed district magistrates to complete the process of approval of applications of the remaining children whose names have been registered for the 'PM CARES' scheme. “In case of necessity, fee and other expenditure of the 2,600 children, whose names have been registered for the 'PM CARES for Children' scheme, shall be taken care of by the government of India,” it said. The bench said for children, who have lost either or both parents after March last year, state governments shall confer with private schools to waive the fee of distressed children for the current academic year. “In case, the private institutions are unwilling to effectuate such waiver, the state government shall shoulder the burden of the fee,” the court said, adding, “In respect of those children amongst the 2,600 registered under the 'PM CARES for Children scheme', it is open to state governments to request the government of India to bear the fee and other expenses pertaining to their education, for the current academic year.” While perusing state-wise details placed before it, the bench said after completion of inquiries, CWCs may identify those children who do not need care and protection, and financial assistance from the states. “Such of those children need not be given the benefits that are announced by the state governments. It is only those children who are in need of care and protection, in terms of the (Juvenile Justice) Act, who have to be provided with assistance by the state governments,” it said. The bench has posted the matter for further hearing on October 7. In an additional affidavit filed last week, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) had told the apex court that over one lakh children are in need of care and protection as they are either orphan, have lost one of their parents or were abandoned during the pandemic since April last year. According to information uploaded on the ‘Bal Swaraj’ portal by states and Union Territories, there are 8,161 children who have become orphans, 92,475 have lost either of their parents and 396 have been abandoned between April 1, 2020 to August 23 this year. The apex court had earlier passed a slew of directions for care and protection of children who have become orphans or have lost one parent or were abandoned during the pandemic. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-devastated-many-lives-heart-wrenching-to-see-survival-of-children-at-stake-supreme-court-1025060.html
30-08-2021||National||India's Covid vaccine supply jumps, raising export hopes||India's rising output of Covid-19 vaccines and the inoculation of more than half its adult population with at least one dose are raising hopes the country will return as an exporter within months, ramping up from early next year. After donating or selling 6.6 crore doses to nearly 100 countries, India barred exports in the middle of April to focus on domestic immunisation as infections exploded, upsetting the inoculation plans of many African and South Asian countries. India's daily vaccinations surpassed 1 crore doses on Friday, with national vaccine production more than doubling since April and set to rise again in the coming weeks. New production lines have been set up, a vaccine developed by Cadila Healthcare won recent approval, and commercial production of Russia's Sputnik V is starting in India. The Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest vaccine maker, is now producing about 15 crore doses a month of its version of the AstraZeneca shot, more than twice its April output of about 6.5 crore, a source with knowledge of the matter said. "No fixed timeline on exports but the company hopes to restart in a few months," said the source, who declined to be named without approval to talk on the matter. SII, which has previously indicated exports could resume by year-end, did not respond to a request for comment. Global vaccine sharing platform COVAX hopes India will restart foreign sales sooner than later. "With successful national vaccination and the arrival of more products, we are hoping that Indian supply to COVAX will resume as quickly as possible," a spokesperson for the platform's co-lead GAVI told Reuters in an email. India, a major international producer of many other vaccines, could play a "similarly transformative role in the global response to Covid-19," the spokesperson said. India's health ministry and the foreign ministry, which coordinates vaccine exports, did not respond to a request for comment. Bharat Biotech, the maker of India's first domestically developed Covid-19 shot, on Sunday inaugurated a new factory with a production capacity of 1 crore doses a month. It said it was "marching towards" a goal of a total annual capacity of about 1 billion doses of the drug, Covaxin. Infections, meanwhile, are again rising in India after an explosive outbreak in April and May. But the country has administered more than 63.3 crore vaccine doses, with at least one dose to 52 per cent of its 94.4 crore adults and two doses to more than 15 per cent. A government source told Reuters in June the US experience showed that vaccinations tend to slow down after a big majority of people get their shots. That might give SII a chance to export excess output, said the source. The government said this month India could produce as many as 1.1 billion vaccine doses between September and December, enough to fully immunise all adults in the country this year. India has so far given emergency authorisation to six Covid-19 shots, four of which are being produced locally. One more domestic vaccine is expected to be approved soon while many more are going through mid-stage trials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-vaccine-supply-jumps-raising-export-hopes-1025068.html
30-08-2021||National||RLD workers burn effigy of Haryana CM over lathicharge on farmers||Several workers of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) burnt an effigy of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday to protest against the lathicharge on farmers in Karnal on August 28. The party workers gathered in Pinna village here and raised slogans against the Haryana government. Around 10 people were injured on Saturday as police allegedly lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a highway while heading towards Karnal in Haryana to protest against a BJP meeting. The police, however, said only four protesters were injured, while 10 cops also sustained injuries. The Haryana Police drew severe criticism for the action against the farmers, and several roads and highways, including toll plazas, were blockaded at different places in protest for hours on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rld-workers-burn-effigy-of-haryana-cm-over-lathicharge-on-farmers-1025069.html
30-08-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi hails Indian athletes' medal wins at Paralympics||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday hailed the multiple medal wins for India at the Paralympics and said another daughter has made India proud, after shooter Avani Lekhara became the first Indian woman to win a gold at the sporting event. Lekhara scripted history as she became the first Indian woman to win a gold medal at the Paralympics, firing her way to the top of the podium in the R-2 women's 10m Air Rifle Standing SH1 event in Tokyo. "Morning starts with the great news of Avni Lakhera winning Gold. Big Congratulations! Another daughter makes India proud," Gandhi tweeted. Two-time gold-winning javelin throw veteran Devendra Jhajharia clinched a stupendous third Paralympic medal, a silver this time, while discus thrower Yogesh Kathuniya also finished second as India surpassed its best ever medal tally at the Games on Monday. Sundar Singh Gurjar also chipped in with a bronze, finishing behind Jhajharia in the men's javelin throw F46 final. "Congratulations for the Silver to Yogesh Kathuniya! The nation stands proud of your inspirational achievements," Gandhi tweeted. "Devendra Jhajharia and Sundar Singh Gurjar have won Silver and Bronze  respectively in Men's Javelin Throw F46 event. Big congratulations! This has been a good morning for sports in India," the former Congress chief said in another tweet. Big congratulations! India had won four medals in the 2016 edition while the medal count stands at seven in the ongoing event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-hails-indian-athletes-medal-wins-at-paralympics-1025072.html
30-08-2021||National||ED notice a love letter for political workers, not death warrant: Sanjay Raut||Taking a swipe at the Centre, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday said a notice issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is not a "death warrant" but a "love letter" for political workers, a day after Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Anil Parab was asked to appear before the anti-money laundering agency. "Frequency of such love letters has increased after unsuccessful attempts to breach the wall of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) which is strong and impregnable," he told reporters. Raut said Parab was been targeted by BJP leaders. "He will respond to the notice and cooperate with the ED," he added. The ED summoned Parab for questioning on Tuesday in the money laundering case registered against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and others, officials said on Sunday. "Either a BJP man is a desk officer in the ED or an ED officer is working in the office of the BJP," Raut said. The Shiv Sena, a former ally of the BJP, shares the power with the NCP and Congress in Maharashtra. He also hit out at BJP for organising protests for the reopening of temples in Maharashtra which remain shut due to Covid-19 restrictions. "The Maharashtra government is following the directives of the Centre which has asked states to exercise caution ahead of the upcoming festivals and fear of the spread of coronavirus infection. We believe the central government is also 'Hindutvawadi' (pro-Hindus), he said. Queried about the lathicharge on farmers in Haryana by police, Raut said the BJP will have to pay a price for the blood that was shed by farmers. "A local SDM in Haryana gave orders to the police to lathicharge the protesting farmers till their heads break," he said. The officer, deputed as duty magistrate during the farmers' protest in Karnal, was caught on camera purportedly asking police to break farmers' heads. The video has gone viral, evoking sharp reactions from various political parties. At least 10 people were injured on Saturday when police lathicharged a group of farmers disrupting traffic movement on a highway in Haryana while heading towards Karnal to protest against a Bharatiya Janata Party meeting attended by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, state BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar and other leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-notice-a-love-letter-for-political-workers-not-death-warrant-sanjay-raut-1025085.html
30-08-2021||National||Infiltration bid foiled along LoC in J&K; militant killed||An unidentified militant was killed as the Army foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. A defence spokesman said in the wee hours of Monday, a militant from across the LoC made an attempt to infiltrate through the Poonch sector. “Alert Army troops detected the infiltration bid by effective use of the integrated surveillance grid. On being challenged by Army troops, there ensued a fierce firefight with the militant in which one militant was neutralised and his body along with an AK-47 rifle has been recovered,” he said. The spokesperson said the operation is still in progress and “this action by alert troops displays the resolve of the Indian Army to thwart any misadventure along the LoC.” On August 6, the army killed two militants in the Pangai area of Thanamandi in neighbouring Rajouri district. In the past few weeks, several encounters have taken place in Rajouri and Poonch districts in which several militants have been killed. Early this month, J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh said that the infiltration from launch pads across the border has resumed. “The training camps and launch pads being run by the Pakistani army are full to their capacity. We generally assume the number of terrorists at such camps remains between 250 and 300 who are trained and ready for launching into Jammu and Kashmir,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/infiltration-bid-foiled-along-loc-in-jk-militant-killed-1025088.html
30-08-2021||National||Why Mahasweta Devi's Draupadi discomfited Delhi University||Almost a month ago, a friend who teaches English in a Delhi University college expressed apprehension of an imminent move by the Academic Council to remove Mahasweta Devi's landmark short story, 'Draupadi', from the undergraduate syllabus. Her fears came true on Tuesday, August 24, when the Council did indeed drop the story in its syllabus revamp drive,which is part of the implementation of the 2020 National Education Policy. The fact that 'Draupadi' has been part of the English undergraduate syllabus since 1999 makes one curious about the narrative surrounding the move. Taught to students for more than two decades, what was it about the story that suddenly fell out of favour with policymakers? Whether you agree with her views or not, Mahasweta Devi is not an author to be taken lightly. Her work, deeply rooted in her association with Adivasi populations, has been the proverbial thorn in the side of governments of all ideological affiliations. Her stories and essays have turned the glare on structures of power promoting violence and injustice among those on the margins of social life. Set against the Naxal upsurge of 1971, the story of 'Draupadi' (translated by Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak) centres on Dopdi, a member of the Santhal tribe in the backyards of Bengal. Alongside her husband, Dhulna, Dopdi murders wealthy landlords to gain access to wells, the only water source in her parched, drought-stricken village. "No water anywhere, drought in Birbhum. Unlimited water at Surja Sahu's house, as clear as a crow's eye," she writes. On the run, Dopdi is captured by government forces. Hoping that torture would force the captive to reveal other insurgents in the network, Mr Senanayak's (the officer in charge) men gangrape Dopdi through the night, at his bidding. In the morning, when she is summoned to the Burra sahib's tent, her rapists order she clothes herself when she refuses to. The story ends with the powerful image and words of Dopdi, who tears up her clothes and walks naked toward Senanayak's tent. "Senanayak walks out surprised and sees 'Draupadi', naked, walking towards him in the bright sunlight with her head high." "There isn't a man here that I should be ashamed of. I will not let you put my cloth on me. What more can you do?" Dopdi asks in defiance. The conclusion of the story brings to mind another evocative image—of 12 mothers from across Manipur, known as imas, in Meitei, taking off their clothes in protest outside the Assam Rifles headquarters in 2004. Their radical action expressed the mothers' collective outrage over the brutal killing of 32-year-old Manorama Thangjam by the Assam Rifles 17 years ago. The Delhi University Academic Council's decision denying students an acquaintance with 'Draupadi', a story layered with aspects of the realities of everyday tribal life, is suspicious on many counts. What is it that Academic Council members (many of them did put in dissent notes since a vote was not allowed) want to keep away from students? Beyond everyday violence on the fringes of urban centres, Devi's story is a dramatic representation of the custodial and gender violence endemic in Indian culture, exposing the edifice of structural violence against women and showing the ways in which women's bodies are turned into sites of violence. Much of this violence is perpetrated by those entrusted with stopping actions of violence. Earlier this month, at an event of the National Legal Services Authority of India (NALSA), Chief Justice NV Ramana said: "The threat to human rights and bodily integrity are the highest in police stations." Coming from the highest judicial office, the Chief Justice's observation compels one to turn attention to the seriousness of the problem at hand. When enforcers of the law turn into its most blatant violators, where can citizens turn for justice? It's the job of academic institutions to provoke students to think about such difficult issues. The problems don't disappear by simply removing texts from syllabi; nor can one pull the wool over students' eyes this way. Rather, exposure to the realities of Indian life, however unpleasant they may be, is crucial. By foregrounding the use of violence by institutions rooted in patriarchy, 'Draupadi' serves an important purpose in this regard. On the one hand, the story hinges on structural injustices occurring along the axes of class and caste. The wells Dopdi and her husband fight to take out of Surja Sahu's control are described as "caste wells" in the story. On the other hand, the narrative places a tribal woman at its front and centre. The story revolves around her fearlessness in the face of unspeakable violence inflicted by custodians of law and order. In the end, Dopti dares the main perpetrator, Senanayak, to look her in the eye, to confront her bruised, exposed body: "And for the first time Senanayak is afraid to stand before an unarmed target, terribly afraid." A chilling fear strikes the powerful on realising their powerlessness, on realising their abuse and violence have produced the very opposite of what they intended. Torture renders its victims fearless. What is it that made policymakers squeamish about the story? Was it Mahasweta Devi's powerful description of a dehumanised woman's body? Was it Dopdi's refusal to obey the order of the very men who had stripped her, to cover herself? Was it her defiance in the face of patriarchal authority? Was it conveying the sense of stepping out of the boundary of fear and becoming truly free? It is disingenuous to treat rape narratives in feminist fiction, and not the prevalence of rape, as the real problem before us. Stories like 'Draupadi' not only force us to confront the ugly realities of sexual violence. They also speak powerfully to casteism, state violence, and cultures of subaltern resistance. On one level, then, the story's removal from the Delhi University syllabus is part of the wider culture of intolerance that is becoming increasingly common in India. (Monobina Gupta is the author of 'Left Politics in Bengal' and 'Didi: A Political Biography')||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-mahasweta-devis-draupadi-discomfited-delhi-university-1025089.html
30-08-2021||National||New JNU course says 'Jihadi terrorism' only form of fundamentalist-religious terrorism||The course was cleared by the Academic Council of JNU during a meeting on August 17. The Council is the university’s highest decision-making body for academic programmes. But JNU Teacher’s Association has alleged that no discussion was allowed in that particular meeting. One of the new course’s modules, titled ‘Fundamentalist-religious Terrorism and its Impact’, states: “Fundamentalist – religious inspired terrorism has played a very critical and dominant role in the spawning of terrorist violence in the beginning of the 21st century. The perverse interpretation of the Koran has resulted in the rapid proliferation of a jihadi cultist violence that glorifies death by terror in suicidal and homicidal variants. The exploitation of the cyberspace by the radical Islamic religious clerics has resulted in the electronic propagation of jihadi terrorism world over. Online electronic dissemination of Jihadi terrorism has resulted in the spurt of violence in non-Islamic societies that are secular and are now increasingly vulnerable to the violence that (is) on the increase.” Another module, titled ‘State-sponsored Terrorism: Its Influence and Impact’, states: “Terrorism has always a geographical base and support havens for its operations. State sponsored terrorism has been largely during the ideological war between the West and the Soviet Union and China. The Soviet Union and China have been predominant state-sponsors of terrorism and they have been heavily involved in terms of their intelligence agencies training, aiding and providing logistical support to Communist ultras and terrorists.” The course will be offered to students pursuing an MS with specialisation in International Relations after a BTech in Engineering, and the online classes for the monsoon semester will start on September 20. Arvind Kumar, Chairperson of the Centre for Canadian, US and Latin American Studies, has confirmed to The Indian Express that he had designed the course. “Because Islamic terrorism is a world-accepted thing. After the Taliban, it has gained momentum now,” he said when asked about the reference to only one religion in the module on “fundamentalist-religious terrorism”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-jnu-course-says-jihadi-terrorism-only-form-of-fundamentalist-religious-terrorism-1025097.html
30-08-2021||National||ILO seeks Centre's observations on complaints against law banning strikes in defence production sector||The ILO initiated the proceedings earlier this month seeking observations from the Centre while its Committee on Freedom of Association has also sought more information from the CITU and All India Trade Union Congress AITUC. In separate letters to CITU General Secretary Tapan Sen and his AITUC counterpart Amarjeet Kaur, ILO's Freedom of Association Branch chief Karen Curtis said the Committee on Freedom of Association would proceed with examining the substance of the complaints "even if the government's observations have not been received after a reasonable period of time".  Sen and Kaur had separately filed complaints against the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, last month, soon after the government listed it for passing in the Parliament. The Parliament passed the controversial bill during the Monsoon Session that concluded on August 11. The unions had complained that there have been recognised bipartite relations with the unions, which had successfully settled several wage negotiations and other issues through dialogue but the Bill has taken "severe" recourse to "crush" industrial actions. They also pointed out that Bill sought to unleash police force to arrest any person without showing any reason or without any warrant in violation of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Indian Constitution and UN Charter of Human Rights. The trade unions alleged that the Centre was actively moving towards privatising the defence production sector though the Ministry of Defence had earlier acknowledged that it would not do so, prompting the unions to withdraw the strike. "One of the reason behind calling strike or industrial dispute by the workers in defence sector is primarily due to threat of losing the job emerging out of privatisation and large threat of loss to exchequer of the government, which would no more gather profit and invest that surplus for greater need of the country," Sen had said in his letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ilo-seeks-centres-observations-on-complaints-against-law-banning-strikes-in-defence-production-sector-1025102.html
30-08-2021||National||Last mail delivered, Ram Sharan 'Postman' signs off from Parliament||Prime ministers changed as did ministers and there were new MP faces every five years but Ram Sharan ‘Postman’, assigned the Parliament beat, remained a constant – walking up and down the corridors of power for the last 21 years. Right till he delivered his last ‘daak’. The common man who found himself among India’s most powerful, Ram Sharan retires on Tuesday, content, he says, to have served “all with equal importance and without a single complaint”. “You don’t get to deliver mail inside the House for 21 years if you make mistakes and bring back complaints,” Ram Sharan told PTI, a day ahead of his final adieu from the postal service on Tuesday and three days after he dropped his last ‘daak’ in Parliament on Friday. Had Monday not been Janmashtami, today would have been his last working day “in Parliament”. After long hours of walking from one office to another to deliver mail inside the sprawling Parllament House complex, Ram Sharan said he would take a few moments to quietly sip tea outside the Red Cross building on Sansad Marg and reflect on the day that had been. “I never let anyone be disappointed. If anyone asked me about their mail not getting delivered, I’d make sure it reached them or at least knew where it was stuck. Be it a senior minister or an ordinary person like you or I, my job was to deliver their post which I did as best as I could,” Ram Sharan said. When he was posted at Parliament House in 2000, nobody wanted to take the “beat” because of its labyrinthian corridors and seemingly similar rooms and doors that appeared confusing to most. “People were afraid to be posted there. They would request to be shifted within two days. In the initial few days, I, too, was confused as the doors were the same, the rooms looked the same and some paths would end abruptly and you ended up at places you weren’t going to,” he recalled in a phone interview. The map was soon etched on his mind though, and he continued delivering mail to their recipients without error with the help of the House staff. Walking through the maze that is Parliament House, the postman said it was not unusual for him to come across ministers or their staff, who became familiar with the man with mail and helped him in small matters. “Prime ministers and ministers, all these people kept changing, but my focus was always on my duty. The post office gave me a duty and it was my responsibility to perform it with perfection,” said the 60-year-old. Much has changed since 2000 when he was given the beat. Back then, Mondays were the busiest as well as heaviest days. Every Monday, he would put three bags of mail, each weighing 50 kg, in the postal van, which then dropped the bags at the Parliament library. With the decreasing popularity of postal services -- as communications entered the e-age, and the definition of mail changed to emails -- the load has now reduced to one, maybe two bags on Mondays. The rest of the week, it’s barely 17 kg on average. There is a method in how every postman functions and Ram Sharan takes pride in the regimen he developed for himself. Talking about his day, Ram Sharan said he would reach Gol Dak Khana at 10 am from his home in Faridabad. For the next hour and a half, he would sort mail, make entries in the computer, load the mail and wheel out his cycle to make the one-kilometre journey to Parliament House.  “It’s a rule in every postman’s life to arrange your mail in a way that you don’t have to visit a place again. If you do that half your work is done. And the second is to be patient and courteous... because you spend about an hour in the office and the rest with the public,” he said. The soft-spoken postman travelled his route on cycle every day, till one evening in 2011 when he met with an accident while returning to office. “I injured my foot and was told to do office duty for two months. Even though my foot healed I still cannot carry heavy weight, so I had to let go of my cycle,” he remembered. In the last 10 years, he would hire an autorickshaw from Gol Dak Khana to Parliament Library (paying from his own pocket) and walk back to office in the evening. He worked with the Railway Mail Service from 1981 till 1989, also a department of India Post. In 1989, India Post put out a notice for postman vacancies, for which he applied and got through after writing an exam. Since 1989, after his stint with the Railway Mail Service, he has been covering areas around Mandi House, including Rabindra Bhawan, Sangeet Natak Akademi, Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan and the Indian Council of Historical Research before it was shifted to Connaught Place. “ICHR used to receive so much mail that it was heavier than me and the front wheel of my cycle would go up,” he laughed. As he hangs up his boots and readies for his farewell tomorrow, Ram Sharan said there are no regrets. It has been a lifetime of work well done The father of seven, all married and settled in their respective lives, now plans to become a member of the union of retired postmen. He believes it is important to keep meeting people and know new things “else your mind stops working”. “I was Ram Sharan Verma till school then I insisted on going without Verma. Now everyone knows me as Ram Sharan Postman. That is my identity.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/last-mail-delivered-ram-sharan-postman-signs-off-from-parliament-1025106.html
30-08-2021||National||Afghan situation raises new security questions: Rajnath Singh||The current happenings in Afghanistan have raised new security questions, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Monday, asserting the Central government is alert and capable of dealing with any situation. He also said no anti-national force should be allowed to encourage terrorism from across the border by taking advantage of the developments in Afghanistan. He was addressing the third Balramji Dass Tandon memorial lecture organised by Panjab University on the issue of national security. "What is happening in neighbouring Afghanistan is raising new questions in terms of security and our government is keeping a watch on the developments there," said Singh in his address delivered through video conferencing. Along with the security of Indians, Singh said, "Our government also wants that anti-national forces do not encourage terrorism from across the border by taking advantage of the development there." "We have some more concerns which can become challenges from the point of view of national security," he added. Singh said the Modi-led government at the Centre is alert and capable of dealing with any situation. The Taliban took control of Afghanistan on August 15, capturing all major cities in a matter of days, two weeks before the US was set to complete its troop withdrawal after a vexatious two-decade war.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-situation-raises-new-security-questions-rajnath-singh-1025107.html
30-08-2021||National||Illegal properties of Madhya Pradesh mob attack accused demolished: Report||The 45-year-old tribal man, Kanhaiyalal Bheel, was beaten up badly on Thursday over suspicion of theft. Following the assault, his feet were tied to a rope and dragged by a pick-up truck. Later, he was declared dead in the district hospital. Visuals of this horrific incident went viral on social media. The police were called by the accused claiming that they had caught a thief. Only when they arrived did the police see Kanhaiyalal's condition and took him to the hospital. Mahendra Gurjar, the village sarpanch’s husband, was among the people whose property was demolished by the district administration. Eight people have been identified in this case and the police have arrested five of them charging them for murder and other sections of the IPC including the SC/ST Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illegal-properties-of-madhya-pradesh-mob-attack-accused-demolished-report-1025113.html
30-08-2021||National||Tiranga Yatra: Sisodia, Sanjay Singh among AAP leaders booked by UP police for violating Covid norms||Police have registered a case against 17 AAP leaders, including Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh, for violating Covid protocols during the party's Tiranga Yatra here. The FIR also mentions 500 unidentified persons who were part of the yatra on Sunday from the GIC ground till the Shaheed Smarak in Sanjay Place, police said. Permission had been granted to organise the Tiranga Yatra while following Covid-19 protocols with a limit of 50 people, they said. But the number of people, who attended the march on Sunday, exceeded the permitted number and Covid-19 protocols were not followed, police said. Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) plans to take out Tiranga Yatras in Ayodhya, Lucknow and Noida to mark the 75th year of India's Independence. The AAP party will carry out this yatra in Ayodhya on September 14 and later in 403 Assembly segments of Uttar Pradesh, Sisodia had said on Sunday, as he attacked the BJP government in the state over law-and-order, education, healthcare and employment situations. Superintendent of Police (City) Vikas Kumar said that the case has been registered against 17 AAP leaders, including Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Rajya Sabha MP, and another 500 unidentified persons. They were part of the Tiranga Yatra carried out by the party's leaders on Sunday evening from GIC ground till Shaheed Smarak in Sanjay Place in Agra, he said. "For not following the Covid-19 protocol the FIR was registered at the Lohamandi Police station on Monday morning," the SP said. They have been booked under Indian Penal Code sections 188, 269 and 270, and under provisions the Epidemic Diseases Act for violation of Covid-19 protocols, police said. Section 188 pertains to disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant, while 269 and 270 pertain to whoever unlawfully, malignantly or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tiranga-yatra-sisodia-sanjay-singh-among-aap-leaders-booked-by-up-police-for-violating-covid-norms-1025119.html
30-08-2021||National||Man held for protesting against bangle seller incident has Pak links: Madhya Pradesh govt||The Madhya Pradesh government has found "evidence" that shows one of the men arrested in connection with a protest and for spreading inflammatory messages after the bangle seller incident in Indore has links with Pakistan through social media, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Monday. He also claimed the arrested person, identified as Altamash Khan, is associated with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) headed by Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi. Police arrested four persons, including Altamash Khan, on charges of spreading inflammatory messages on social media and conspiring to trigger riots in Indore city, on Saturday. “As per the evidence found (during the investigation), one of the arrested persons, Altamash Khan, who staged a protest at a police station (in Indore) after the bangle seller incident, has links with Pakistan through Whatsapp and Facebook,” Mishra told reporters. He said objectionable material, including videos and audios, were found from Khan which the latter had planned to release gradually. Mishra also said Khan is associated with the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) of Asaduddin Owaisi. “The objectionable material found with Khan was enough to disturb the peace in Madhya Pradesh. Interrogation of these four arrested people is underway,” he said. Police had said the arrested accused, identified as Altamash Khan, Mohammad Imran Ansari, Javed Khan and Syed Irfan Ali, all in the age group of 20 and 30 years, are inspired by a radical ideology. They spread inflammatory messages on social media related to a conspiracy to trigger communal riots at different places by creating a sense of discontent among people over some recent incidents in Indore city, police said. A case was registered against them under section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion) along with other sections of the Indian Penal Code, police said. The bangle seller, Taslim Ali, was thrashed in Govind Nagar of Indore on August 22 for using a 'fake'' name while selling bangles to women in the locality. Four persons were arrested in connection with the assault. Ali was later arrested for allegedly touching a minor girl inappropriately and also for forgery, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-held-for-protesting-against-bangle-seller-incident-has-pak-links-madhya-pradesh-govt-1025130.html
30-08-2021||National||Rajasthan govt announces cash rewards for Paralympic medal winners; shooter Avani Lekhara to get Rs 3 cr||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday congratulated three Paralympic medal winners from the state, announcing cash rewards of up to Rs 3 crore for each of them. Shooter Avani Lekhara, who has won a gold medal at the Paralympic Games in Tokyo, will be given a cash reward of Rs 3 crore, while javelin throwers Devendra Jhajharia and Sundar Singh Gurjar will get Rs 2 crore and Rs 1 crore respectively for winning silver and bronze medals. All the three players from Rajasthan have already been appointed to the post of assistant conservator of forest in the state forest department. "The players of the state have brought laurels to the country and the state by winning medals, we are very proud of them," Gehlot tweeted. Lekhara scripted history on Monday as she became the first Indian woman to win a gold medal at the Paralympics, firing her way to the top of the podium in the R-2 women's 10m Air Rifle Standing SH1 event. The 19-year-old from Jaipur, who sustained spinal cord injuries in a car accident in 2012, finished with a world record equalling total of 249.6, which is also a new Paralympic record. "Heartiest Congratulations to Jaipur's Avani Lekhara for winning first ever Gold for India in ShootingParaSport! What a superb performance by her in Women's 10m AR Standing SH1 Final as she created history! Entire nation is very proud of her. It's a great day for Indian sports!" Gehlot tweeted earlier in the day. Two-time gold-winning javelin throw veteran Jhajharia clinched a stupendous third Paralympic medal, a silver this time, while Gurjar won a bronze in the men's javelin throw F46 final. The chief minister congratulated the two, calling it a "marvellous moment". "We are so proud of Rajasthan's Paralympic javelin throwers Devendra Jhajharia, who grabbed Silver & Sundar Singh Gurjar for claiming Bronze at Men's Javelin Throw event, TokyoParalympics. It's a marvelous moment. Heartiest Congratulations to Dev Jhajharia & Sundar S Gurjar!" he said in another tweet. Gehlot also hailed Yogesh Kathuniya for winning a silver medal in Men's Discus Throw F56. "It's great news for all of us. The nation is so proud!" he tweeted. Kathuniya, a B.Com graduate from New Delhi's Kirorimal College, sent the disc to a best distance of 44.38m in his sixth and last attempt to clinch the silver.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-govt-announces-cash-rewards-for-paralympic-medal-winners-shooter-avani-lekhara-to-get-rs-3-cr-1025137.html
30-08-2021||National||Covid-19 Wrap-up: Focus shifts to Kerala, vaccine policy||Will mass vaccine efforts be able to stall or keep up with mutations and breakthrough infections? -- only time will tell.  On the international front, Japan's Covid-19 vaccination push has been dealt a blow by widening reports of contamination in supplies of Moderna Inc's Covid-19 vaccine. The suspension of Moderna supplies, affecting more than 2.6 million does in total, comes as Japan battles its worst wave of Covid-19 yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-wrap-up-focus-shifts-to-kerala-vaccine-policy-1025141.html
30-08-2021||National||SC warns states of action for not filling up vacancies in Info Commission||The Supreme Court has expressed its displeasure over failure of several states, including Karnataka, to fill up vacancies in the information commission, despite the 2019 judgement directing prompt actions in this regard. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari warned states of strict action over noncompliance of its February 15, 2019 judgement, delivered in the case of Anjali Bharadwaj. In a recent hearing, the court asked all states to file a status report including pendency of cases within four weeks. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that in Maharashtra, as of May 31, 2021 the pendency of the cases before the State Information Commission was about 75,000. Only four State Information Commissioners, inclusive of the Chief Information Commissioner, are working at present against the sanctioned strength of eight, though the judgement had favoured raising the strength to 11 officers. In Karnataka, the total sanctioned strength is a Chief Information Commissioner and 10 Information Commissioners. There was also an issue relating to providing supporting office staff and infrastructure to the Commission.  Advocate V N Raghupathy, appearing for Karnataka, submitted that out of the total sanctioned strength of 10 Information Commissioners, seven are working. An advertisement has already been issued for filling up three vacancies of Information Commissioners. The court, however, asked the Chief Information Commissioner to file the status report with regard to the office staff and infrastructure. So far as Odisha was concerned, the state counsel submitted that two more posts of Information Commissioners have been created after the judgement. As of now four Information Commissioners are working and they have advertised for filling up the post of Chief Information Commissioner and one Information Commissioner. However, as per the observations of this court, at least three more posts of Information Commissioners should have been created, the bench noted. Telangana State counsel, for his part, said the post of Chief Information Commissioner is lying vacant for the past year. He sought time to take instructions in this regard. He also submitted that four posts of Information Commissioners were filled up. The court gave him four weeks time to file a status report. Similarly, in Nagaland, it was pointed out to the court that the post of Chief Information Commissioner was lying vacant for the past six months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-warns-states-of-action-for-not-filling-up-vacancies-in-info-commission-1025145.html
30-08-2021||National||1993 trains blast case: SC irked as accused jailed for 11 years without framing of charges||"Convict him or acquit him," an anguished Supreme Court observed on non-framing of charges on an accused jailed for 11 years over serial blasts in multiple Rajdhani Express and other trains in 1993. Underlining the right to speedy trial, the top court sought a report from the special Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act court judge in Ajmer explaining why charges have not been framed against Hameer Ui Uddin. "The Special Judge, Designated Court, Ajmer, Rajasthan is directed to submit a report to this Court within a period of two weeks from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this order…The report shall clarify why charges have not been framed," a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah said. In its order passed recently, the bench said that to facilitate the submission of the report expeditiously, the registrar (judicial) will communicate a copy of the order to the judge directly as well as through the Registrar (Judicial) of the High Court of Rajasthan. During the hearing, advocate Shoeb Alam, appearing for Hameer Ui Uddin said the petitioner has been in custody since 2010 but charges have not been framed and trial is yet to commence. He said that detaining an accused indefinitely without trial is a gross abuse of rights of an individual under Article 21. Alam contended that the special TADA court ought to have granted bail to the petitioner as there is no prospect of the conclusion of the trial in the near future. "The allegations are yet to be proved in trial and there is no justification of pre-trial incarceration for 11 years," he said. Advocate Vishal Meghwal, appearing for the State, admitted that those charges have not been framed against the accused, but contended he was absconding for nearly 15 years. The bench then asked why the charges have not been framed when he has been in custody since 2010. "He is entitled to speedy trial. Convict him or acquit him, we have no problem with that but at least hold the trial. He cannot be kept in custody indefinitely without trial," the bench observed. Meghwal contended that the main reason for the delay in framing of charges is that one of the co-accused Abdul Karim Tunda is lodged in the Ghaziabad jail. "Then either you separate the trial or club the trial with his case but at least start the trial," the bench said. Alam said the Tunda case is not mentioned by the state in its counter-affidavit. In his plea filed through advocate Farrukh Rasheed, the petitioner has challenged the TADA court of March 27, 2019 rejecting his bail application. As per the prosecution case, on December 5-6, 1993, serial bomb blasts took place in Rajdhani express trains -- Bombay to New Delhi, New Delhi to Howrah, Howrah to New Delhi -- Surat-Baroda Flying Queen Express and Hyderabad-New Delhi AP Express. Two passengers lost their lives in the blasts and 22 suffered injuries. Five different cases were registered at respective police stations in Kota, Valsad, Kanpur, Allahabad and Malkaj-Giri. These cases were later transferred to the CBI and re-registered under TADA at Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Hyderabad. Investigation found that the bomb blasts were outcome of one single conspiracy and hence all cases were clubbed together. On August 25, 1994, the CBI filed chargesheet against 13 accused, who were arrested, and nine other absconding accused. Hameer Ui Uddin was shown absconding. The chargesheet alleged that he was one of the accused who carried bomb devices and explosive substances to Kanpur on December 5, 1993. Hameer Ui Uddin was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police and Lucknow Special Task Force on February 2, 2010 and was produced before the Ajmer TADA court on March 8, 2010 which remanded him to judicial custody. In 2010, an 8000-page charge sheet was filed against him under various provisions of TADA and Explosive Substance Act, Prevention of Damages to Public Property Act and the Indian Railways Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1993-trains-blast-case-sc-irked-as-accused-jailed-for-11-years-without-framing-of-charges-1025157.html
30-08-2021||National||Convict him or acquit him: Supreme Court irked as 1993 trains blast case accused jailed for 11 years without framing of charges||"Convict him or acquit him," an anguished Supreme Court observed on non-framing of charges on an accused jailed for 11 years over serial blasts in multiple Rajdhani Express and other trains in 1993. Underlining the right to speedy trial, the top court sought a report from the special Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act court judge in Ajmer explaining why charges have not been framed against Hameer Ui Uddin. "The Special Judge, Designated Court, Ajmer, Rajasthan is directed to submit a report to this Court within a period of two weeks from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this order…The report shall clarify why charges have not been framed," a bench of justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah said. In its order passed recently, the bench said that to facilitate the submission of the report expeditiously, the registrar (judicial) will communicate a copy of the order to the judge directly as well as through the Registrar (Judicial) of the High Court of Rajasthan. During the hearing, advocate Shoeb Alam, appearing for Hameer Ui Uddin said the petitioner has been in custody since 2010 but charges have not been framed and trial is yet to commence. He said that detaining an accused indefinitely without trial is a gross abuse of rights of an individual under Article 21.  Alam contended that the special TADA court ought to have granted bail to the petitioner as there is no prospect of the conclusion of the trial in the near future. "The allegations are yet to be proved in trial and there is no justification of pre-trial incarceration for 11 years," he said. Advocate Vishal Meghwal, appearing for the State, admitted that that charges have not been framed against the accused, but contended he was absconding for nearly 15 years. The bench then asked why the charges have not been framed when he has been in custody since 2010. "He is entitled to speedy trial. Convict him or acquit him, we have no problem with that but at least hold the trial. He cannot be kept in custody indefinitely without trial," the bench observed. Meghwal contended that the main reason for the delay in framing of charges is that one of the co-accused Abdul Karim Tunda is lodged in the Ghaziabad jail. "Then either you separate the trial or club the trial with his case but at least start the trial," the bench said. Alam said the Tunda case is not mentioned by the state in its counter-affidavit. In his plea filed through advocate Farrukh Rasheed, the petitioner has challenged the TADA court of March 27, 2019 rejecting his bail application. As per the prosecution case, on December 5-6, 1993, serial bomb blasts took place in Rajdhani express trains -- Bombay to New Delhi, New Delhi to Howrah, Howrah to New Delhi -- Surat-Baroda Flying Queen Express and Hyderabad-New Delhi AP Express. Two passengers lost their lives in the blasts and 22 suffered injuries. Five different cases were registered at respective police stations in Kota, Valsad, Kanpur, Allahabad and Malkaj-Giri. These cases were later transferred to the CBI and re-registered under TADA at Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Hyderabad. Investigation found that the bomb blasts were outcome of one single conspiracy and hence all cases were clubbed together. On August 25, 1994, the CBI filed chargesheet against 13 accused, who were arrested, and nine other absconding accused. Hameer Ui Uddin was shown absconding. The charge sheet alleged that he was one of the accused who carried bomb devices and explosive substances to Kanpur on December 5, 1993. Hameer Ui Uddin was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police and Lucknow Special Task Force on February 2, 2010 and was produced before the Ajmer TADA court on March 8, 2010 which remanded him to judicial custody. In 2010, an 8000-page charge sheet was filed against him under various provisions of TADA and Explosive Substance Act, Prevention of Damages to Public Property Act and the Indian Railways Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/convict-him-or-acquit-him-supreme-court-irked-as-1993-trains-blast-case-accused-jailed-for-11-years-without-framing-of-charges-1025162.html
30-08-2021||National||Jindal University offers fellowships for Afghan students||As tensions soar in Afghanistan, O P Jindal Global University has launched a special fellowship for students from strife-torn nations to explore credible educational alternatives. The Sonipat-based private university has announced that 10 fellowships will be awarded under the Afghan Nationals in Comprehensive Education (ADVANCE) Fellowships for Students from Afghanistan. The fellowship will be applicable from January 2022 semester and all Afghan students who have completed a Master’s programme or M.Phil. will be eligible to apply. The University will also provide suitable accommodation, dining hall facility and annual health insurance coverage to the research scholars in addition to the fellowship. “Our aim is to support and provide higher education opportunities to Afghan nationals whose pursuit of educational goals may have been disrupted due to the ongoing crisis in the region,” founding Vice-Chancellor of O P Jindal Global University Professor C Raj Kumar said. He said the fellowship aims to support, strengthen and empower students from Afghanistan to develop their research capabilities and intellectual competencies and provide them with a pathway for a career in academia. India has always been the most preferred destination for Afghan nationals in terms of higher education. Every year, an average of over 4,000 Afghan students enrol for higher education in India. JGU has been home to 14 Afghan students across its various schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jindal-university-offers-fellowships-for-afghan-students-1025175.html
30-08-2021||National||ED questions Jacqueline Fernandez as 'witness' in money laundering case||Bollywood actress Jacqueline Fernandez was on Monday quizzed by Enforcement Directorate as a "witness" in a money laundering case involving a "known conman" Sukesh Chandrashekhar. Officials said the actress, a Sri Lankan national, is not an accused in the case arising out of a multi-crore extortion racket allegedly operated by Chandrashekhar. The ED case is based on an FIR of the Delhi Police's Economic Offences Wing (EOW) against him and others in the extortion case running to around Rs 200 crore. On August 23, the ED had said that it has "seized a luxurious beach front bungalow located in Chennai, Rs 82.5 lakhs cash, 2 kg gold, 16 luxurious cars and other high end items" in connection with the case. Chandrashekhar has been allegedly running the racket from Rohini Jail in the national capital, where he is lodged. He has also been an accused in the Election Commission bribery case. The ED, in its statement on August 23, had called him a "known conman" and has been a part of the crime world since the age of 17. He has multiple FIRs against him and is presently lodged at the Rohini jail," it had said. Despite being in jail, it said, Chandrashekhar "did not stop conning" people. "He (with a cellphone procured illegally in the prison) with the help of technology, made spoofed calls to dupe people as the numbers displayed on the called party's phone number belonged  to senior government officers," it had said. He was arrested in the EC bribery case on 17 April, 2017 from Hyatt Hotel in south Delhi allegedly with Rs 1.30 crore and two cars -- a BMW and a Mercedes. Police had then claimed that Sukesh struck a deal for Rs 50 crore for helping the AIADMK faction led by TTK Dhinakaran keep the 'Two Leaves' symbol.  His first brush with police was in 2007, then 17 years, when he “cheated” a 75-year-old man  in Bengaluru of Rs 1.14 crore by promising him to get allocation of a site from Bengaluru Development Authority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-questions-jacqueline-fernandez-as-witness-in-money-laundering-case-1025184.html
30-08-2021||National||Exclusion of Nehru's image from ICHR poster shows Centre's narrow mindset: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said the exclusion of former prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru's picture from a poster released by the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) to commemorate the 75th year of India's independence reflects the narrow mindset of the Centre. In a statement, the chief minister also said the BJP-led central government will have to bear the brunt of trying to undermine Nehru's contribution to the freedom struggle and the people of the country will teach it a lesson at an appropriate time. The ICHR, an autonomous body under the Ministry of Education, has been running a series of lectures and seminars on the theme of independence struggle under the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebration. It has been facing flak from opposition parties for excluding Nehru's picture from a poster released to celebrate the 75th year of independence. However, the ICHR has said the controversy is "unnecessary" as other posters that will be released in the coming days will feature the first prime minister. "Not having the picture of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru in the poster of 'Amrit Mahotsav' issued by the ICHR is not only condemnable but also shows the narrow mindset of the central government," Gehlot said. He said the BJP government will have to bear the brunt of trying to undermine Nehru's contribution to the freedom struggle. The former PM devoted himself to the fight for freedom and laid the foundation of modern India. People will teach a lesson to the Modi government at an appropriate time, he added. Gehlot said Nehru went to prison nine times during the freedom struggle and spent 3,259 days of his life in jail. He boldly faced the action taken by the British when he opposed them. "Vinayak Damodar Savarkar started apologising to the British after only a year of being jailed and apologised six times. After being released from jail, he worked as a British informer, while Pandit Nehru stood like a rock in front of the British," he said. When three prominent commanders of the Azad Hind Fauj were prosecuted by the British, Nehru campaigned in their support throughout the country and formed the INA Defence Committee. He along with other lawyers fought the case and saved the soldiers from the noose, the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exclusion-of-nehrus-image-from-ichr-poster-shows-centres-narrow-mindset-gehlot-1025203.html
30-08-2021||National||Coal shortage at power plants: Centre constitutes panel to monitor situation||With some of the thermal power plants facing acute shortage of coal, the Ministry of Power has set up a Core Management Team (CMT) comprising representatives from the Ministry of Power, Central Electricity Authority (CEA) and Coal India Limited (CIL) to ensure daily monitoring of the stocks. Union Power Secretary Alok Kumar, who held a meeting with the CEA and the Ministry of Coal to review the coal supply position, also instructed the power plants to send their requests for priority loading and coal supply issues to the government to enable it to take up the matter with the concerned authorities. “The government is closely monitoring the current situations of coal stocks in thermal power plants and taking steps to ramp up the supply,” said an official in the Ministry of Power. According to the CEA, as on August 29, of the total 135 thermal power plants, 73 plants have stocks for eight days or less. About 50 plants are facing acute shortage of coal with stocks available only for three or even less days.   In the meeting, it was also decided that if coal stock is available at any power plant for more than 14 days of requirements, then the supply will be regulated for the next seven days. The freed up coal will be supplied to the plants under super critical category first and thereafter critical-category plants, so that an equitable distribution of coal stocks across all power plants is maintained, said an official in the Power Ministry. The present low coal stocks in certain power stations were encountered due to various reasons including an increase in power demand on account of opening up of the economy throughout the country and less generation from hydropower plants, which is currently being met by the coal-based power generation, the Ministry of Power said in the statement. The maximum peak demand of 200 GW was observed in July 2021 and now it is hovering around 192-193 GW, it said. Historically, maximum demand is observed in the month of September, the Power Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-shortage-at-power-plants-centre-constitutes-panel-to-monitor-situation-1025206.html
30-08-2021||National||SCBA objects to conditions on resuming physical hearing ||Supreme Court Bar Association on Monday objected to several conditions put for resuming limited physical hearings in the top court, saying those would be "non-starter" dissuading several lawyers to exercise this option. The top court, after a gap of 17 months, has decided to begin physical hearings of cases from September 1 in limited form, while continuing to conduct proceedings through virtual mode. It has issued a detailed Standard Operating Procedure for the purpose. In a letter to Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, SCBA President Vikas Singh, "The SOP prohibits entry of lawyers to the high security area without special passes which will, in turn, dissuade our members from applying for physical hearing." He wrote the SOP is a non-starter as members of SCBA would not like to take the option for physical hearings with so many conditions attached to it. He said the restrictions should be in place only with regard to going inside courtrooms and not with regard to entering the high-security area and every lawyer with a proximity card should be allowed to access high-security area. The SCBA also raised objection to limiting the number of people to 20 in every courtroom saying it is also "arbitrary as the size of courtrooms differs substantially". "The number of persons permitted to enter the courtroom should be based on the size of a courtroom and the number of twenty can be justified only in the smallest courtrooms. Moreover, the discretion given to a Judge to adjourn the matter last minute if the number in a particular matter increases more to than twenty people is also unjustified as this will disrupt a lot of hearings in the court," the letter stated. It also pointed out that as number of Covid-19 cases has fallen considerably in Delhi-NCR and positivity rate in the national capital is 0.4 per cent along with that large section of population has become immune to the disease - either through vaccination or antibodies, the normal functioning of the court should be resumed at the earliest. "The Supreme Court being the apex court of the country should be a guiding star for resumption of normal works in the courts in the country as High Courts and lower courts look upon us for such guidance," it said, adding the city has opened up completely and eased restrictions amid fall in its Covid-19 caseloads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scba-objects-to-conditions-on-resuming-physical-hearing-1025207.html
30-08-2021||National||Nine new Supreme Court judges to be sworn in today||Nine newly-appointed judges, including three women, of the Supreme Court would assume the office on Tuesday, in a first ever largest appointments in its history. All the judges would be sworn by Chief Justice of India at 10.30 am on August 31 in a ceremony organised at the auditorium in the Supreme Court's additional building. This is for the first time in the history of the Supreme Court of India when nine judges will be taking the oath of office in one go. In another first, the venue of the ceremony has been shifted to the auditorium and it will be telecast live.  "This is done keeping in view the need for strict adherence to Covid norms. Traditionally, oath to the new Judges is administered in the Court Room number one which is presided over by the Chief Justice of India," an official press release on Monday said. Justices A S Oka, Vikram Nath, J K Maheshwari, Hima Kohli, B V Nagarathna, C T Ravikumar, M M Sundresh, Bela Trivedi and senior advocate P S Narsimha would join the bench after taking the oath. Of these nine judges, Justices Vikram Nath, and B V Nagarathna and Narsimha would don the role of CJI in future. With this, the strength of judges in the Supreme Court would rise to 33 with just one vacancy. The appointments to the top court came after a hiatus of over 21 months due to lack of consensus in the collegium of five senior most judges over the names as Justice R F Nariman, who retired on August 12, reportedly insisted on including Tripura High Court chief justice Akil Kureshi's name in recommendations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-new-supreme-court-judges-to-be-sworn-in-today-1025210.html
30-08-2021||National||Haryana govt announces Rs 6 crore reward for Sumit Antil, Rs 4 crore for Kathuniya||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday announced a cash reward of Rs 6 crore for Sumit Antil who won a gold medal and set a world record in javelin throw at the Tokyo Paralympics. He also declared a reward of Rs 4 crore for Yogesh Kathuniya for winning the silver medal in discus throw F-56. Haryana government will also give government jobs to them, an official statement said here. The chief minister said that Antil has won the hearts of the people of Haryana as well as the entire nation by winning a gold medal with his "historic" performance.          The chief minister said that Yogesh Kathuniya, a resident of Bahadurgarh who won a silver medal in Discus Throw F-56, has brought laurels not only to Haryana but also to the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Antil after his victory and said his performance will inspire youngsters. The 23-year-old from Sonepat in Haryana, who lost his left leg below the knee after he was involved in a motorbike accident in 2015, sent the spear to 68.55m in his fifth attempt, which was a new world record. The PM also lauded Kathuniya and noted the help and support provided by the para athlete's mother in ensuring his success. "Delighted that he brings home the Silver medal. His exemplary success will motivate budding athletes. Congrats to him. Wishing him the very best for his future endeavours," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-govt-announces-rs-6-crore-reward-for-sumit-antil-rs-4-crore-for-kathuniya-1025228.html
30-08-2021||National||TN govt bars entry of public to beaches on Sundays, bans religious festivals||Tamil Nadu on Monday announced closure of beaches on Sundays for the public besides extending the ban on places of worship on weekends and also in holding religious festivals due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister M K Stalin at the Secretariat, which would be in effect till 06.00 am of September 15, an official release said here. "For the benefit of the public and to contain the spread of the virus, beaches will be closed on Sundays while the ban to visit places of worship on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays will continue. Holding of religious festivals also banned," the release said. The decision to ban entry of people to beaches on Sundays follows pictures of huge crowds which went viral in social media, with people not adhering to any Covid-19 protocols, posing a greater risk to virus spread. With the government deciding to ban religious festivals, Ganesh Chaturthi scheduled to be celebrated on September 10 is expected to be a low key affair, similar to last year. Meanwhile, the government directed district administrations to take 'appropriate measures' based on the prevalence of the virus in their respective districts. The government release clarified that there was no change in its earlier decision to open schools for Class nine to 12 and colleges from September 1 which was based on the views put forth by medical experts and academicians. Schools and college hostels run by government and private, 'working men and women hostels' are also allowed to operate, the release said, adding administration of the hostels should ensure that the staff were vaccinated. In view of the increasing Covid-19 cases in Kerala, the government said colleges should ensure that the students arriving from the neighbouring State were vaccinated and also hold a negative RT-PCR report. The Tamil Nadu government has already directed authorities in districts bordering Kerala to allow entry of only those who were vaccinated and have a negative RT-PCR report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tn-govt-bars-entry-of-public-to-beaches-on-sundays-bans-religious-festivals-1025254.html
30-08-2021||National||Jantar Mantar hate slogan case: Accused Hindu Raksha Dal chief talks of surrender in online video||A video has surfaced online in which Hindu Raksha Dal chief Pinki Chaudhary, accused of raising communal slogans at a rally in Jantar Mantar here, is seen purportedly denying all allegations against him and claiming that he would surrender before Delhi Police on Tuesday. In the video circulated on WhatsApp and some other platforms, he claimed that the charges against him are "false and baseless". A video showing anti-Muslim slogans being raised during a protest at Jantar Mantar here was widely circulated on social media earlier, following which the Delhi Police had registered a case in this connection. The Delhi Police has already arrested eight people -- Uttam Upadhyay, Ashwini Upadhyay, Preet Singh, Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar, Vinod Sharma, Vinit Bajpai and Sushil Tiwari -- in connection with the case. In the video, Chaudhary is heard saying that he will surrender at the Connaught Place police station on Tuesday around 12 pm and cooperate with the investigation. "I am still firm on my point. I and no worker of my organization did any wrong at Jantar Mantar. I respect the court. I will surrender tomorrow, on August 31, around 12 pm before the Connaught Place police station and will cooperate with the police. "I never ran away from being arrested. It is the right of every person to go to the court and I did the same. All the allegations against me are false and baseless. I have devoted my life towards Hinduism and Hindutva. As long as I have breath, I will continue to do the work of religion," he claimed in the video. The Delhi High Court on Friday had refused to grant interim protection from arrest to Bhupinder Tomar alias Pinki Chaudhary. Earlier this month, a sessions court here had dismissed Chaudhary's anticipatory bail application. Hundreds of people had attended the protest organised by 'Bharat Jodo Aandolan'. Shipra Srivastava, media in-charge of 'Bharat Jodo Aandolan', had said the protest was held under the leadership of advocate and former BJP spokesperson Ashwini Upadhyay. However, she denied any links to those who raised anti-Muslim slogans. "The protest was held against colonial laws and demanding to abolish 222 British era laws. We have seen the video, but have no idea who they are. The police should take strict action against the persons who raised the slogans," Srivastava had said. Upadhyay too had denied any involvement in the anti-Muslim sloganeering incident. The video of the incident had showed a group of people shouting inflammatory slogans and threatening Muslims during the protest at Jantar Mantar. Preet Singh is the director of 'Save India Foundation' while Deepak Singh, Deepak Kumar and Vinod Sharma are associated with different right-wing organisations. Sushil Tiwari is the chief of Hindu Army.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jantar-mantar-hate-slogan-case-accused-hindu-raksha-dal-chief-talks-of-surrender-in-online-video-1025258.html
30-08-2021||National||Study connects Konkan Roman Catholics to Gaud Saraswat Brahmins||The Roman Catholics of Goa, Kumta and Mangalore regions are the remnants of very early lineages of the Gaud Saraswat Brahmin community, a multidisciplinary study involving historical, anthropological and genetic information has concluded. The study by researchers from CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad and DST-Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences (BSIP), Lucknow has also found consequences of Portuguese inquisition in Goa on the population history of Roman Catholics. They also found some indication of Jewish component. The Roman Catholics are a distinct ethno-linguistic population group from the west coast of India, whose origin is much debated. While some historians and anthropologists relate them to the ancient group of Gaud Saraswat, others believe they are members of the Jews Lost Tribes in the first century migration to India. To settle the question of their origin and genetic history, CCMB and BSIP, cooperated by investigators from the Mangalore University, Canadian Institute for Jewish Research, and Institute of Advanced Materials, Sweden, took up the first such genetic study of the western India's Roman Catholics. The DNA of 110 persons from the Roman Catholic community of Goa, Kumta and Mangalore was analyzed and the researchers compared their genetic information with previously published DNA data from West Eurasia and that of about 350 ethnic groups of India. They then put this information alongside archaeological, linguistic and historical records. These examinations helped the researchers fill in many of the key details about the demographic changes and history of the Roman Catholic population of South West of India since the Iron Age (until around 2,500 years ago), and how they relate to the contemporary Indian population. “Our study has revealed that majority of the Roman Catholics are genetically close to an early lineage of Gaud Saraswat community, majorly with Indo-European-specific genetic composition,” said Dr Kumarasamy Thangaraj, chief scientist, CCMB, & Director, Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics, Hyderabad. “More than 40 percent of their paternally inherited Y chromosomes can be grouped under R1a haplogroup. Such a genetic signal is prevalent among populations of north India, Middle East and Europe, and unique to this population in Konkan region,” Dr Thangaraj, the study's senior author, states. Dr Niraj Rai, senior scientist, BSIP and co-corresponding author says that their study strongly suggests “profound cultural transformations in ancient South West of India.” “This has mostly happened due to continuous migration and mixing events of the last 2500 years.” These findings were recently published in Human Genetics. We are analyzing the nature of some of the population groups in Kerala, Dr Thangaraj told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/study-connects-konkan-roman-catholics-to-gaud-saraswat-brahmins-1025259.html
30-08-2021||National||India does not want forces inimical to it to get an edge after Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan: Rajnath Singh||India does not want forces inimical to it to get an edge after the Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday. Singh said that the “recent developments” in Afghanistan had posed a “new security challenge” for India. His comment came a fortnight after the Taliban militants marched into Kabul after occupying many provincial capitals in a swift blitz across Afghanistan – taking advantage of the withdrawal of the troops by the United States and its NATO allies. The Government is closely watching the recent developments in Afghanistan, as they have posed new security challenges for India. “The security of Indians is a cause of concern for the Government. We also do not want that anti-India forces to take advantage of the evolving Afghan situation for cross-border terrorism,” the Defence Minister said while delivering a lecture on national security. New Delhi has been concerned over the possibility of the change of regime in Afghanistan being exploited by Pakistan and its “iron-brother” China to gain a strategic edge against India. The Taliban and its affiliate Haqqani Network are known as creations of the military-security establishment of Pakistan, which has been keen to gain a “strategic depth” in Afghanistan. The Taliban’s links with the Lashkar-e-Tayyiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) as well as other Pakistan-based and anti-India terrorist organizations have been well documented. Singh, however, did not directly refer to the Taliban or its imminent return to power in Afghanistan. The Taliban’s return to power in Afghanistan particularly fuelled speculation about n imminent rise in terror attacks in India, particularly in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). But Singh on Monday said that the J&K would always remain an integral part of India. “The anti-India forces have understood that they are no longer in a position to do much in the Kashmir Valley, especially after the abrogation of the Article 370 (of the Constitution of India). I want to assure you that no power in the world can separate J&K from India,” said the Defence Minister. He lauded the Indian Army for responding with “bravery and restraint” to the unilateral moves by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army to alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between India and China – in eastern Ladakh. He said that any border dispute could only be resolved peacefully and through dialogue. He, however, also said that the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi would never compromise when it comes to the borders, honour and self-respect of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-does-not-want-forces-inimical-to-it-to-get-an-edge-after-taliban-s-return-to-power-in-afghanistan-rajnath-singh-1025264.html
30-08-2021||National||Delhi: Nominees to draw ration for card holders unable to go to shops due to age, medical reasons||Ration card holders not able to collect foodgrains from fair-price shops due to age or medical issues can now nominate another person to draw the same on their behalf as the Delhi government has issued an order introducing a new facility. The order, issued on August 26, says there will be a certain criteria regarding the eligibility of the beneficiaries to appoint a nominee to collect ration on their behalf. The national capital has implemented the e-POS system under which a beneficiary can collect foodgrains after thumb or iris authentication. The order says only those households can designate a nominee where the number of family members is equal to or less than four. According to the order, there are three scenarios in which a household can designate a nominee to collect ration on its behalf. "Age of all family members is either greater than 65 years or less than 16 years and not in a position to visit FPS themselves. All members of family are suffering from leprosy, differently-abled, bed ridden or affected by disease adversely affecting beneficiaries' mobility. Biometric authentication failure on e-POS device for all the family members, even if the Aadhaar number for each member is correct," the order issued by the food, supplies and consumer affairs department stated.  In special cases of leprosy patients, where the beneficiary is unable to designate a nominee, the circle food safety officer will authenticate his Aadhaar number, draw the ration and supply it to him, it added. The government said a nominee should also be a ration card holder and attached to the same fair-price shop as the beneficiary. In order to designate a person as nominee, the beneficiary will have to fill a nomination form and submit it along with copies of the ration cards and Aadhaar cards of both the nominee and the beneficiary. Delhi has 17.77 lakh ration card holders and 72 lakh beneficiaries. The city government distributes free ration to beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) through electronic point-of-sale (e-POS) devices. The national capital had suspended the use of e-POS in ration distribution in early 2018 following complaints of poor network leading to authentication failures and exclusion of genuine beneficiaries. It was restarted in July, along with the implementation of the One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) scheme. The Public Distribution System Welfare Association hailed the move and said it will help a number of beneficiaries. President of the association Shailendra Kumar said there are many people who live alone or cannot visit the FPS due to various reasons and hence, there was a need to introduce a system so that they could get ration. "Earlier, when ration was distributed manually, the foodgrains were supplied to such households. But in the e-POS system, ration distribution is done after biometric authentication, so it was necessary to develop such a facility," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-nominees-to-draw-ration-for-card-holders-unable-to-go-to-shops-due-to-age-medical-reasons-1025267.html
30-08-2021||National||CSIR to map groundwater sources in arid areas using latest tech: Jitendra Singh||Union Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh said on Monday the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) is using the latest technology to map sources of groundwater in arid regions that will help use it for drinking. This, in turn, will supplement the Jal Jeevan Mission, an ambitious programme of the Narendra Modi government aimed at providing piped potable water to all rural households, he said. Singh said the CSIR, along with National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), have undertaken high-resolution aquifer mapping and management in arid regions of northwestern India to augment groundwater resources.  The Heli-borne geophysical mapping technique of CSIR-NGRI provides a high-resolution 3D image of the subsurface up to a depth of 500 metres below the ground.  At a meeting of the CSIR attended by K VijayRaghavan, the principal scientific advisor, Shekhar Mande the Director General of CSIR and other chief scientists, Singh said the Ministry of Jal Shakti has entrusted CSIR-NGRI with the responsibility of mapping groundwater sources in arid regions. "The latest state-of-the-art technology is being employed by the CSIR for mapping groundwater sources in arid regions and which would help in using groundwater for drinking to supplement Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ambitious 'Har Ghar Nal Se Jal' scheme," Singh said. The minister said arid areas in north-western India spread over parts of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana and Punjab cover nearly 12 per cent of the total geographical area of the country and is home to more than 8 crore people.  With annual rainfall in the range of less than 100 to 400 mm, this area faces an acute shortage of water throughout the year. High-resolution aquifer mapping and management is cost-effective, precise and is useful to map large areas (districts/states) within a short period of time. The entire work will be completed by 2025 covering over 1.5 lakh square kilometres of an area with an estimated cost of Rs 141 crore. He said the aim of this project is to map the potential sites for groundwater withdrawal and conservation and results will be used to meet the broader objectives of aquifer mapping, rejuvenation and management of groundwater resources in the arid areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csir-to-map-groundwater-sources-in-arid-areas-using-latest-tech-jitendra-singh-1025276.html
30-08-2021||National Politics||Numbers won't be problem for 'PM material' Nitish Kumar: JD(U)||An "ally with differences" JD(U) once again touched a raw nerve within the NDA on Monday with its leader Upendra Kushwaha asserting that "numbers would be no problem" for the “Prime Minister material” Nitish Kumar even as he made it clear that the party was not staking claim to the post. The buzz about Nitish Kumar's larger plans at the national level got a fillip since Kushwaha, JD(U)'s Parliamentary Board Chairman on August 1 said Kumar has the potential and all the qualities to become the PM and that he should be called "PM material". It got a further boost during the August 29 national council meeting of JD(U) when party general secretary K C Tyagi said, "Nitish Kumar is not a candidate for the post of the prime minister... But he (Kumar) certainly is a PM material."  “Mission Nitish” was a key theme of the meet.  JD(U) has, in recent times, taken a contrarian stand from the BJP on a number of issues including caste census and population control Bill of Uttar Pradesh. After Nitish Kumar met INLD chief Om Prakash Chautala on August 1, Chautala said he would try to bring together all non-BJP parties and expressed confidence that some NDA allies, too, could join the Opposition bandwagon.   Amidst all this, some BJP leaders in Bihar reacted sharply to the "PM material" remark by the JD(U), who said that one needed the support of 272 MPs to become the PM, and that the JD(U) was unlikely to win as many seats on its own. Countering it, Kushwaha on Monday asked why it could not happen. "We are not making a claim to the PM’s post at present. We are with the NDA and acknowledge the leadership of Narendra Modi. But, if people talk about a hypothetical future, then nothing can be dismissed as impossible." JD(U) has also made a pitch for better coordination in NDA, a pitch earlier raised by Shiv Sena and Shiromani Akali Dal in Modi's first tenure. Both the NDA allies are out of the ruling alliance now. “The demand is right. There is a need for better coordination. It is true that we have been sharing power with the BJP for so many years. Yet, it does not look good when different people in the same party speak in different voices. Caste census is a case in point,” Kushwaha said. This was a day after Tyagi had said, "The party would welcome setting up an NDA coordination committee to resolve various issues. During the period of Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, several works were done after setting up the coordination committee. We will be happy if a similar coordination committee is formed again at the central and state levels for smooth functioning of the government and to put a stop to unwarranted comments made by leaders of alliance partners." Kumar was considered a potential challenger to Modi from the Opposition camp since he had walked out of NDA in 2013, snapping ties with BJP on the issues of the projection of Modi as that party's PM face and had defeated Modi-led BJP in 2015 Bihar Assembly elections after forging an alliance with RJD and Congress.  But in 2017, he was back to NDA. After 2020 polls, BJP-JD(U) ties are not that warm amid a thinking in JD(U) that the saffron party propped late Ram Vilas Paswan's party against Nitish Kumar to undermine him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/numbers-wont-be-problem-for-pm-material-nitish-kumar-jdu-1024972.html
30-08-2021||National Politics||Congress ties itself in knot on leadership issue in Punjab||Tying itself in knots over the Punjab internal dissension, Congress on Sunday said it will fight 2022 polls in the state under the leadership of Gandhis, days after it sort of declared that Amarinder Singh is the party captain for the Assembly polls. "We will definitely fight the election in the name of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. They are our identities. They are our leaders," AICC general secretary for Punjab Harish Rawat said. Five days ago, on August 25, Rawat had said "we will contest 2022 Punjab elections under the leadership of Captain Amrinder Singh", a remark which did not go down well with the Navjot Sidhu camp, which had made a big pitch for the removal of Captain Amarinder Singh as CM. As the remarks were being seen as a snub to the dissenters, Sidhu hit back saying "if you don’t let me take the decisions, I will also ensure total devastation''. Buffeted by pressures from both sides, Rawat, who is finding it difficult to resolve the Punjab crisis, also approached the leadership with a request to relieve him from the charge of Punjab, arguing that he needs to focus on poll preparations in Uttarakhand, where he is the party face. However, with the leadership not accepting his request immediately, Rawat will now be meeting both Chief Minister Singh and PCC chief Sidhu, and their supporters to broker peace. Pargat Singh, who belongs to Navjot Sidhu camp, reminded that the three-member committee that had gone into the Punjab party issue, had said that the polls will be fought under the leadership of Sonia, Rahul and questioned the reason behind Rawat announcing that polls will be held under the leadership of the Captain. Making a kind of course correction, Rawat said the party will also bank heavily on Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, PCC chief Navjot Sidhu as well as Pargat Singh. Pargat Singh has been critical of Amarinder Singh over unfulfilled poll promises in the past. The back and forth statements of Rawat point to the deep division in the Punjab Congress unity, which the party leadership has not been able to resolve despite setting up a three-member high level committee, which gave a report, and appointing Sidhu as PCC chief ignoring the Chief Minister's objections. The party's internal reports talk about a strong anti-incumbency against the Captain-led government while Sidhu is open to accepting the leadership of Captain even for the time being leaving the party leadership with very little legroom to plan any long-term strategy on the leadership issue. Even in 2017, Congress was not very keen to announce Captain as the CM face but had to do it towards the end of the campaign. This time, Congress is finding it difficult to name any of the two as the undisputed leader and the concern is growing in the rank and file that a divided party unit can give edge to the opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-ties-itself-in-knot-on-leadership-issue-in-punjab-1025112.html
30-08-2021||National Politics||Haryana CM Khattar, Punjab CM Singh engage in verbal duel over farmers' protests||The chief ministers of Haryana and Punjab were engaged in a war of words over the lathicharge on farmers at Karnal where they were protesting against the three farm laws. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh demanded the resignation of Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar who said the “strict” police action on farmers was necessary for maintaining law and order. “Who is he to demand my resignation? Instead, he should resign because farmers from Punjab are protesting in Delhi,” Khattar hit back at Singh. Khattar also accused the Punjab Chief Minister and other Congress leaders, including Bhupinder Singh Hooda of instigating the farmers who were protesting at Singhu and Tikri borders demanding repeal of the three farm laws. Singh slammed Khattar for defending the “criminal assault” on farmers protesting peacefully at Karnal and accused the BJP-JJP coalition government in Haryana of being “anti-farmer”. “Can’t you see that the farmers of your own state are angry with you for your apathetic attitude towards them and your party’s stubborn refusal to repeal the farm laws,” Singh asked. Khattar claimed that farmers from Haryana were neither at the Singhu border nor at the Tikri borders – the sites of the nine-month-long agitation against farm sector reforms at the doorsteps of the national capital. He accused the Punjab government of supporting the farmers' protests, claiming that farmers' leader Balbir Singh Rajewal was seen sharing sweets with the Punjab Chief Minister. “You repeal the farm laws and not just the farmers but even I will share ladoos with you,” Singh hit back, noting that the farmers had shared sweets with him after the resolution of the sugarcane growers' protests. Khattar claimed that farmers from Punjab were protesting at the Delhi borders and some from Haryana who were there harboured political ambitions. The Haryana chief minister said that the video of a sub-divisional magistrate asking policemen to “crack the heads” of protestors was from a different place, about 12 km away from where the lathicharge on farmers had taken place. Khattar said the IAS officer’s “choice of words was inappropriate” but defended the police action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/haryana-cm-khattar-punjab-cm-singh-engage-in-verbal-duel-over-farmers-protests-1025213.html
30-08-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi attacks govt, asks if Articles 15 and 25 of Constitution 'sold'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday attacked the government over the incident of a tribal man allegedly being tied to a vehicle and dragged as well as some other recent instances of mob violence, and asked if Articles 15 and 25 of the Constitution had been sold. Taking to Twitter, Gandhi shared a video collage which included a purported clip of a 40-year-old tribal man allegedly being thrashed by eight persons who tied him to the rear side of a vehicle with a rope that dragged him some distance in Madhya Pradesh's Neemuch district. The man died during treatment at the district hospital last week. The video collage also included a purported video of the incident in which a Muslim scrap dealer was allegedly threatened and forced to chant 'Jai Shri Ram' by two men at a village in Madhya Pradesh's Ujjain district. "Have Articles 15 and 25 of the Constitution also been sold?" Gandhi tweeted, tagging the video collage. Article 15 of the Constitution says that the state shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any of them, while Article 25 deals with freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-attacks-govt-asks-if-articles-15-and-25-of-constitution-sold-1025222.html
30-08-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand: 3 houses collapse in Dharchula after heavy rains; 3 children killed||Three children were killed and several others went missing after three houses collapsed in a village following heavy rains in Dharchula sub-division of the district, an official said on Monday.       The incident occurred in Jumma village late on Sunday night, Pithoragarh District Magistrate Ashish Chauhan said. The bodies of three children were recovered and a search operation was on for those still missing, he said. "The casualties could be higher as the affected village is on the top of a hill," Chauhan said. "We have made an aerial survey of the village by a helicopter and sent SDRF and NDRF teams, along with police and revenue teams, to the village to run relief and rescue operations on a war footing," the district magistrate said. Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami spoke to the Pithoragarh district magistrate to find out the extent of damage caused by heavy rains in Jumma village. He asked Chauhan to offer all possible help to the affected people. The district magistrate held a meeting with officials at the district emergency centre to discuss measures to transport relief material to villagers. A helipad is being built in the affected area for rescue operations by helicopters as roads there are damaged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-3-houses-collapse-in-dharchula-after-heavy-rains-3-children-killed-1025077.html
30-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi schools to reopen with 50% students per classroom, staggered breaks||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday issued guidelines such as mandatory thermal screening, staggered lunch breaks and alternate seating arragenments for the reopening of schools and colleges from September 1.  Delhi schools will open with a maximum of 50 per cent students inside a classroom. The body has advised schools to avoid guest visits and not allow teachers and other staff from Covid-19 containment zones.  The DDMA has announced phased reopening of educational institutions -- class 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions would reopen from September 1, while class 6-8 will start from September 8. Students can choose whether to come to schools or not. Those willing to attend physical classes would require their parents' consent. Timetables are to be prepapred as per occupancy limit of classrooms. "A maximum 50 per cent students per classroom may be called depending upon capacity. The seating arrangement should be done in such a way that seats are occupied in an alternate manner," the guidelines said. The educational institutions should stagger the schedule to avoid crowding in classrooms and at main entrance or exit, it said. Lunch breaks could also be staggered and preferably be held in open areas. Students should also be advised to not share lunch, books and stationery items. The DDMA said the vaccination centres and activities such as ration distribution at schools will continue but should be separated from the area that will be used for academic activities. The district administration should cordon off the area demarcated for the purpose, make separate entry and exit for the centres and deploy sufficient number of civil defense volunteers to avoid mingling of students with the persons coming with students, it said. On-campus counselling and guidance of students and teachers should be conducted to give emotional or trauma support for their readiness with new normal of stringent physical distancing, face mask guidelines and hygiene guidelines, it said. Mandatory thermal screening of everyone, thorough sanitisation of all buildings and proper handwashing arrangements should be arranged. "All schools and colleges are advised to ensure that a quarantine room is available for emergency use," the guidelines said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-schools-to-reopen-with-50-students-per-classroom-staggered-breaks-1025078.html
30-08-2021||North and Central||Fake death certificate case: Madhya Pradesh govt suspends 3 employees; FIR registered||Three employees of the Madhya Pradesh government were suspended and an FIR was registered against them in connection with the alleged withdrawal of money under a state scheme meant for construction workers by using fake death certificates of at least 23 villagers in Chhindwara district, as per an official order. Janpad Panchayat Chief Executive Officer (CEO) issued an order on Sunday suspending three employees of the Panchayat Department, including Bohnakhedi village's Panchayat secretary Rakesh Chandel, Gram Rojgar Sahayak Sanjay Choure and Panchayat Coordination Officer Sunil Andhwan, who are responsible for the approval and verification of the beneficiaries. "Following the complaint lodged by the Janpad Panchayat CEO, an FIR was registered against Chandel, Choure and others under Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 120-B (Criminal Conspiracy)," Chourai police station incharge Shashi Vishwakarma said on Monday. The Madhya Pradesh government on Saturday ordered a probe after money was allegedly withdrawn under a state scheme for construction workers using fake death certificates of at least 23 villagers from Bohnakhedi village of the district, Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel had said. Patel, who is the Minister in charge of Chhindwara, had stated the death certificates of 23 persons, who are still alive, were issued in Bohnakhedi village and money was withdrawn in their name under a scheme. Prima facie, an amount of Rs 2 lakh each was withdrawn using fake death certificates of 23 people, who are alive, under the Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Rules, officials had said citing reports. In the case of normal deaths, an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh is paid to the dependents of the deceased construction worker under these rules. According to officials, a total of 106 death certificates were issued during the past two years in Bohnakhedi village with a population of 2,800.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fake-death-certificate-case-madhya-pradesh-govt-suspends-3-employees-fir-registered-1025098.html
30-08-2021||North and Central||Man arrested in Mathura for threatening Muslim dosa seller for naming business after Hindu deity||Few days after the thrashing of a Muslim bangle seller at Indore in Madhya Pradesh, a Muslim youth was allegedly 'assaulted' in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura town for naming his 'dosa' shop after a Hindu god. According to the reports, the youth, identified as Irfan, had a 'dosa' shop in Vikas Nagar locality in the town. He had named his shop after Hindu god 'Shreenathji' (one the names of Lord Krishna). Reports said that some youths from the area came to Irfan's shop 'Shreenathji Dosa Corner' and after coming to know that he was a Muslim, assaulted him and tore the banner of his shop. ''The youths were angry at me for naming the shop after Hindu god despite being a Muslim,'' Irfan was quoted as having told the local media. A video of the incident showing the youths tearing the banner also went viral on social media platforms. A senior police official said in Mathura that a case was lodged in this connection and efforts were on to identify the accused persons. ''We will take stern action against the guilty,'' the official added. After the incident, the victim's helpers have changed the name of the shop to 'American Dosa Corner'. The incident comes close on the heels of thrashing of one Tasleem Ali, a resident of UP's Hardoi district, who used to sell bangles, by some youths in Indore town in MP a few days back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-arrested-in-mathura-for-threatening-muslim-dosa-seller-for-naming-business-after-hindu-deity-1025124.html
30-08-2021||North and Central||High-density apple farming brings smiles back on faces of Kashmir farmers||After witnessing a slump for the last few years due to unseasonal, heavy snowfall, scab, low prices and multiple lockdowns, high-density apple farming has brought back smiles on the faces of apple farmers in Kashmir. “High-density apple trees start bearing in the second year of planting and reach full production in the 4th year. These varieties were introduced at a right time in Kashmir as unseasonal heavy snowfall in 2018 and 2019 had uprooted thousands of apple trees,” said Waheed Ahmad, who has planted high-density apple trees on one hectare of land in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. Ahmad says 80% of apple trees in his orchard were uprooted due to November 4, 2018, heavy snowfall and he had given up hopes of recovery. “A friend of mine told me about the high-density apple farming and there has been no looking back since then. A normal apple tree would take 10-15 years to grow properly and yield fruit, but now there is no such worry,” he said. Apart from this, high-density plantations produce the highest ratio of A-Grade fruits which are qualitatively and price wise better. Ahmad said that the yield of high density is two to five times higher compared to the traditional varieties and consumes 70–80% less fertilizer and pesticides. Mian Ghulam Naqshband from central Kashmir’s Ganderbal district is another progressive farmer who has established a high-density orchard on a sprawling six acres of land in his native Baba Nagri village in Kangan. Mian, a computer graduate with a penchant for entrepreneurship, believes that high-density plantation is the future. “It is as good as a top-notch corporate sector job. Until 2017, I was into my family business. Then I heard about high-density farming,” he said. “High-density plantation gives farmers a return on investments within a period of three years. Besides, I don’t have to sell it anywhere, instead, the customers throng my farm. It is highly profitable,” Mian added. A senior officer at SK University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology (SKUAST) in Srinagar says the cultivation of high-density apples has transformed the scenario of apple production in the world and is also expected to give a boost to the apple economy in Kashmir as well. According to government figures, Kashmir exports around 20 lakh metric tons of apple every year, and the horticulture industry is pegged to be worth around 8000 to 9000 crore including the employment it generates. Kashmir produces 75% of the total apple production in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-density-apple-farming-brings-smiles-back-on-faces-of-kashmir-farmers-1025140.html
30-08-2021||North and Central||Viral fever, dengue claim 50 lives, including that of 40 children in Uttar Pradesh||As many as 50 people, mostly children, have died from viral fever and dengue in some districts in Uttar Pradesh in the past few days. According to the reports, 40 children have died from viral fever and dengue in Firozabad district alone in the past six days. BJP lawmaker from Firozabad Manish Aseeja said that scores of children were down with viral fever and dengue in the district and were being treated at different hospitals. ''I have reports of at least 40 deaths,'' he said. Deaths were also reported from the neighbouring Mainpuri and Mathura districts. Sources said that eight children have died at Koh village in Mathura. Medical teams had been rushed to the village to collect samples of the residents. Reports said that patients, mostly children, complaining of symptoms of viral fever and dengue were also admitted to hospitals in the Kanpur district. UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited Firozabad on Monday and inspected the medical facilities being provided to the affected people at hospitals. He attributed the spread of the disease to ''lack of awareness'' among the people and said that the district officials had been directed to provide every possible medical care to the patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/viral-fever-dengue-claim-50-lives-including-that-of-40-children-in-uttar-pradesh-1025150.html
30-08-2021||North and Central||UP: 70-year-old woman raped in Fatehpur district, rape attempt made on 98-year-old in Ballia||A 70-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a drunk man in Fatehpur district of Uttar Pradesh, while another man attempted raping a 98-year-old woman in Ballia district, police said on Monday, adding that both accused have been arrested. According to the police, the nonagenarian woman was in her house in Rasda area of Ballia when the 22-year-old accused tried to rape her on August 20. Rasda Police station SHO Nagesh Upadhyay said an FIR in the matter was registered on Monday and the accused, identified as Sonu, was arrested subsequently. Family members of the woman alleged that the police initially refused to register the case, but did it following an uproar on social media. According to the police, the woman allegedly raped in Fatehpur district was a beggar and she used to sleep in a primary school building in the Tharinav police station area. On Sunday night, accused Laxmi Lodhi (32) reached the school in an inebriated state and allegedly raped her, Tharinav police station SHO Nandlal Singh said. Lodhi has been arrested after a case was registered in the matter, the SHO said, adding that the woman has been sent to hospital for medical examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-70-year-old-woman-raped-in-fatehpur-district-rape-attempt-made-on-98-year-old-in-ballia-1025211.html
30-08-2021||Opinion||Will India's investments in Afghanistan amount to anything?||India has sunk billions into Afghanistan, hedging its bets with a combination of soft and hard power. Now, as nations desperately evacuate their troops, people and equipment, stunned by the Taliban’s quick takeover and attacks on those trying to flee, it’s worth examining what New Delhi’s strategic goals were and what the gains have been over the last two decades. In 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the new Afghan Parliament house, built by India at a cost of $90 million, describing it as his country’s tribute to democracy in Afghanistan. The following year, Modi unveiled the renovated 19th century Stor Palace in Kabul, that was home to Afghan King Amanullah Khan during his reign in the 1920s. In 2016, he inaugurated the Salma Dam, a significant infrastructure undertaking in the western city of Herat that allows water access to the surrounding districts and the irrigation of thousands of hectares of land. With its investments in other highway and building projects, in total, India has put around $3 billion into Afghanistan, making it one of the largest regional donors to the country. While the absolute amount may not be a huge sum compared to India’s $1.4 trillion domestic infrastructure promise this month, or even the hundreds of billions of dollars in losses from the teetering banking system that taxpayers have had to swallow, it’s hard to see what the policy achieved as images of the Taliban inside the parliament go viral. The Modi government’s “Neighborhood First” foreign policy approach focuses on keeping the peace and maintaining mutually beneficial relationships in the region. It invests billions of dollars into countries from Bhutan to Nepal through its external affairs ministry’s budget and other departments. A key goal of this approach toward Afghanistan has been to ensure the country “doesn’t fall into the hands of Pakistan supported Taliban or some such force,” as former ambassador V.P. Haran put it in his speech at an Indian external affairs ministry lecture series in 2017. Friendship and goodwill aside, India has always known what’s at stake. That fear has now become a reality India will have to reckon with. Its security establishment how has to assess whether Kashmir will once again be in play as it was three decades ago, when Islamist militants turned their attention to the region after the Soviet retreat from Afghanistan. India’s investment hasn’t put it in a position to manage this risk, though, because New Delhi failed to create the strategic foothold it badly needs in Afghanistan. While Modi’s administration has long said such diplomacy isn’t about reciprocity, the reality is that as Afghanistan falls into chaos, India doesn’t have any leverage to ensure the country doesn't become an even larger security threat across South and Central Asia. On Thursday, India’s external affairs minister S. Jaishankar said India had only invested in its friendship with Afghan people and insisted it would get the full value in return. For now, he noted, India will take a “wait and watch” approach. But if India’s strategy was meant to ensure it had a meaningful presence in a geographically strategic place, then it has fallen well short. Indeed, beyond its infrastructure investments, it has been unable to get significant projects off the ground, like the $11 billion Hajigak mine in Afghanistan’s Bamyan district. Friendship only gets you so far. Another key development, the Chabahar Port in Iran, was supposed to open up an important route to connect Afghanistan to Central Asia while bypassing India’s key rival, Pakistan. Already affected by Covid and the threat of more sanctions on Iran, the port is likely to face an even more difficult operating environment now the Taliban is in power. A lesson from China may be in order here. The Belt and Road-style build up across Africa, Eastern Europe and places like Sri Lanka and the Maldives has ensured China’s heft is front of mind. In Afghanistan, despite putting in very little, Beijing ensured it had a hold on some mining rights there, even though there’s been no output because of security considerations. It assessed the risk-reward. Part of China’s success has come from its strategic engagement with the Taliban. As a result, the world is now talking about how China could benefit from the recent turn of events, in the same breath that it mentions India’s geopolitical challenges. It’s clear New Delhi failed to change its diplomatic posture in line with the shifting balance of power on the ground in Afghanistan. In a working paper looking at India’s options once the U.S. completed its troop withdrawal, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace noted that “being more engaged in international negotiations, and even agreeing to talk to certain sections of the Taliban as part of a broader diplomatic initiative, are options that India can no longer afford to disregard.” India’s policy in Afghanistan was mostly about soft power. Along with the parliament and the dam, several community projects and schools were set up, and of course, Afghans do love their Bollywood. Yet, India’s middling path has turned into a diplomatic dead end. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-indias-investments-in-afghanistan-amount-to-anything-1025022.html
30-08-2021||Opinion||Google's push into India's retail banking is a threat to traditional lenders||By Andy Mukherjee Will banking meet the sorry fate of newspapers? With the tech industry creeping up on licensed deposit-taking institutions in India, it’s time to take the question seriously.  Alphabet Inc.’s Google already provides one of the two most popular payment wallets in the country. But now Google Pay wants to push time-deposit products of small Indian banks that don’t have much of a retail liability franchise of their own. According to a press release, Equitas Small Finance Bank will offer Google Pay customers up to 6.85 per cent interest on one-year funds as part of a “branded commercial experience” on the platform. The Mint newspaper, which has reviewed the application interface built by Setu, a Bangalore-based fintech, says other lenders may also sign up. The move has global significance. It shows the tenuous nature of the hold financial institutions have on a core operation like deposit-taking, and their vulnerability to an assault from online search, social media and e-commerce behemoths. Alphabet, Facebook Inc. and Amazon.com Inc. may pose a far bigger challenge to brick-and-mortar lenders than fintech startups that don’t have the scale of platform businesses. Just like in India, deposit-strapped challenger banks might throw the keys to tech intermediaries with hundreds of millions of active users. When the giants storm the fortress, even larger banks will lose control of banking.  China’s homegrown tech titans have already shown how easy it is to dislodge traditional lenders from lending. In a growing network of users, real-time nonfinancial data can be a more powerful predictive tool than credit scores relied upon by banks. Adding a layer of financial activity to an online platform brings in yet more information. Before Beijing stepped in to clip its wings, Jack Ma’s Ant Group Co. pursued this advantage to the hilt.  Silicon Valley never had a chance in China. However, it’s in a stronger position in the world’s second-most-populous nation, where everything to do with money is increasingly about plugging into an open network. Banks’ historic moat has been breached by tech innovation.  For instance, the government’s digital identification system for 1.3 billion people has made paper trails and physical presence redundant, and turned the banks’ cumbersome know-your-customer processes (verifying an address or being introduced by another account holder) into a cheap utility with standard protocols. A wallet can establish customer identity as easily as a bank and manage the process of seeking her consent.  Nor do India’s deposit-taking institutions have any special advantage left in moving retail money. Yes, they still hold the accounts for sending or receiving funds. But rather than transacting on their bank apps or cards, customers prefer to use Google Pay or Walmart Inc.’s PhonePe to pay one another and merchants. The two wallets were used to transfer 5 trillion rupees ($70 billion) last month, giving the duo an 85 per cent share of a market that has more than 50 apps, including from banks. That’s the power of platforms’ data-network-activity, or DNA, loop, as researchers at the Bank for International Settlements describe it. When Facebook’s WhatsApp Pay is fully ready, the half a billion Indian users of the messaging service are bound to give it a leg-up in financial businesses.  The environment is ripe for Silicon Valley to encroach into banking. Equitas doesn’t have a pre-existing relationship with the Google Pay customer to whom it’s marketing fixed-term products. Even after getting the money, the lender might not get to build long-term association with the saver. Once the deposit matures, the money will simply get swept back into whichever bank’s account it came from. Since it won’t even take two minutes for a platform to book deposits from scratch, if another lender offers a better deal, idle funds might go there next. Customer loyalty, which is often just plain inertia, will no longer ensure stickiness. Savers will gain. If the playbook is successful, the likes of PhonePe and WhatsApp Pay might also want to copy it. For a fee, platforms can easily extend their insights into consumer behavior and payment flows to influence deposit mobilization. The higher the commission, the lower the banks’ profit. India’s state-run lenders, in particular, will need to become more efficient. Or they’ll have to lobby with regulators to rein in the tech giants. Amazon, Google and Facebook were all competing to build a brand-new payment network in India, But the central bank has put the license on hold because of data safety concerns, according to a separate report in Mint last week. Globally, banks and regulators have been bracing themselves for the challenge from Diem, a Facebook-backed project that promises to replicate major global currencies to broaden financial inclusion. But lenders can be on a slippery slope even without new payment instruments. As Big Tech asserts control over the flow of yield-seeking savings, an imposing high-street presence will no longer serve as a ticket to cheap funding. Regulated institutions may be left holding a license to take deposits — and a thick rule book accompanying that privilege — but platforms will decide if a bank’s promotional offer is to be displayed prominently or buried in an obscure corner. The same slow, painful decline that gutted the print media after readers and advertisers moved online and publishers lost their sway over them may be waiting in the wings for banking, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/googles-push-into-indias-retail-banking-is-a-threat-to-traditional-lenders-1025032.html
30-08-2021||Opinion||UP polls: Yogi renames towns to win Lucknow and has eyes on Delhi||For a long time, even after the advent of the multiplex age, for traditionalist producers and directors, there was just one formula for success in Bollywood. Pick up one suitable-to-your-pocket heroic-looking young man, identify an also-suitable-to-the-budget svelte actress, add an antagonistic father, put in a bit of personal sob-background, scatter a few songs through the length of the film, think of an ingenuous climactic sequence, and you had a winner in the hand unless of course, it had a pathetic script and shoddy direction. As the next round of the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh approaches - due in the first quarter of 2022 - Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has identified what he presumes will turn out to be an unbeatable prescription to beat the odds stacked against him. Adityanath faces a challenge to his leadership from two sources: within his party and outside. Let's take the latter threat first. Try as much he wishes to build a fortress of denials; even the torrential monsoon waters gushing down the eternal Ganga river shall not wash traces of his misdemeanours during the second wave of the Covid-19. Coupled with this is the emerging shakiness of his party's formidable social coalition. He did not build it and has instead eroded it by establishing Rajput hegemony in the state. Then there is his none too impressive governance and the atmosphere of oppression that has pervaded under his watch in every layer of society. The second challenge he faces is from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s central leadership, which wishes all state governments and chief ministers, including their own, to be entirely subservient to the Centre. In contrast, Adityanath believes that the chief minister and his trusted aides must remain in complete command of state elections and local governance. This would mean there must be absolute synchronicity between sarkar and sangathan (government and party organisation) in the states, as it exists at the Centre. He is opposed to the "high command model" that the current regime has plucked out from the Congress book. Because this is not to the liking of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duo, Adityanath is living the old Hindi saying, "tu ser, toh main sawa ser" (I am one-up on you, or if you are base, I am ace). For every bit of political obscurantism and majoritarian agenda that the central leader has pushed into the body polity, Adityanath has gone one step further. The chief minister's decisions on divisive issues like restrictive guidelines for the meat trade, inter-faith marriages and relationships, population policy and introduction of disincentives for people with more than two children are instances of this tactic. Speculations over a ministerial expansion/reshuffle in Lucknow have gone on for so long that it has become an embarrassment for the all-powerful central twosome. This is where Adityanath has drawn on a political equivalent of the Bollywood formula. The state government's recently disclosed plans to rechristen several districts and cities, including Sultanpur, Mirzapur, Aligarh, Firozabad and Mainpuri, is one such. Reports also say Sultanpur will become Kush Bhavanpur, Aligarh renamed Harigarh, Mainpuri as Mayan Nagar, and Firozabad as Chandra Nagar. There are other lofty plans too in the making: Agra may get a new billboard of Agravan, Muzaffarnagar of Luxmi Nagar, and Miyanganj, a town in UP's Unnao district is likely to be renamed as Mayaganj. There are two important issues to note here. This is not the first time Adityanath has taken recourse to the politics of renaming and claim "success" on an issue that has zero impact on the lives or situations of people. Shortly after surprisingly emerging as the chief minister in 2017, Adityanath requested the Centre to allow his government to rename Mughalsarai Railway Station in Chandauli district as Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction. This was an old objective of the BJP because the Jana Sangh stalwart was found murdered in 1968 in a railway compartment in the station's yard. The process took a while, but by the time the clearances were given, despite opposition in Parliament, Adityanath was almost ready to roll out his next step - changing the name of Allahabad to Prayagraj. The raison d'être? Because almost 450 years ago, Akbar had named it Ilahabad - the abode of God. It was not considered that a railway station named Prayag existed separately, the name drawn from the surrounding locality. In 2018, Adityanath's decisions appeared laudable to the BJP central leadership for names of certain key roads in the Indian capital, named after Mughal Emperors, were changed post-2014. Adityanath, too had a past of changing names. In the years he was an MP from Gorakhpur, Adityanath developed the habit of declaring new street/locality names. Urdu Bazar started being called Hindi Bazar, Humayanpur to Hanuman Nagar, Islampur to Ishwarpur, Mian Bazar to Maya Bazar and Ali Nagar to Ayanagar. The politics of renaming has been enacted in India for a long time. Bombay became Mumbai, Madras into Chennai, Bangalore renamed Bengaluru and so on. On gaining independence, the then government straightaway changed names of several streets in Delhi. Kingsway Road became Rajpath, Queensway became Janpath, Irwin Road became Baba Kharak Singh Marg, and King Edward Road was renamed Maulana Azad Road. The renamings were also followed by the removal of statues of iconic British personalities and historical characters. These decisions were often followed up by state governments too. But, those decisions were driven by the idea of ridding the nation of the country's colonial legacy. Much later, between 2007 and 2012, when Mayawati was UP chief minister, she changed names of several districts from their traditional ones and gave new ones after iconic figures in Dalit politics. Amethi was hived off, and parts were renamed as Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Nagar and so on. The successor Samajwadi Party government, with Akhilesh Yadav at its helm, rescinded this order. Yet, previous decisions were not an instance of a state-sponsored majoritarian cultural assertion like the BJP's decisions have been since 2014. Earlier instances of renaming had merely a politico-electoral purpose. In contrast, the BJP's decisions are not just against the grain of ideal state policy in a pluralistic society but also motivated by its desire to impose its version of history, which theorises that the medieval period was one of "slavery to foreign rule" and making minorities feel insecure. Having already taken the politics of demonising Muslims a notch higher, Adityanath's latest move underlines that communal polarisation remains his principal hope for coming back to power in UP and thereby become a challenger to the throne at the Centre. (The writer is an NCR-based author and journalist. His books include The RSS: Icons of the Indian Right and Narendra Modi: The Man, The Times) Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/up-polls-yogi-renames-towns-to-win-lucknow-and-has-eyes-on-delhi-1025071.html
30-08-2021||Panorama||Redefining responsibility of industries towards environment||Economic development and human welfare is not possible without industrialisation and scientific innovation. Although agriculture contributed the maximum to India’s GDP and employed the maximum workforce all through the 20th century, the scenario in industrialised, modern India, is different. The industrial sector contributes 30% to the GDP while the contribution from the agriculture sector is 17%. The industrial ecosystem employs more skilled/unskilled and marginal workers compared to the agricultural sector. In addition to the GDP and employment contribution, the industrial ecosystem enhances land, resource value, infrastructure and facilitates international trade, thereby elevating the living standards of people. Despite its huge contribution towards the development of society and the quality of life, and also despite contributing more for overall GDP than the agriculture sector, the industrial ecosystem is not yet considered as the backbone of the Indian economy. People in and around industries are the ones getting the direct benefits of increase in real estate price, skilled/unskilled employment, benefits of better infrastructure facilities etc. Ironically, the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) receives the maximum complaints against industries by these very people, who are the real beneficiaries of escalated urbanisation resulting from the industrial ecosystem. Industrial activities are often associated with increased levels of pollution. Environmental pollution reduces the quality of natural ecosystem parameters like air, water and soil fertility — which are the basic needs for a safe and healthy living — thereby turning people against the industrial ecosystem in their neighbourhood. Any amount of economic benefit cannot compensate for the threatened ecological comforts of people. This may be a contributing reason why our society does not consider the industrial ecosystem as the backbone of the country. Every activity in the universe has a product and a by-product. If an animal is breathing, energy is the product and carbon dioxide is the by-product. If a plant is cooking, food is the product and oxygen is the by-product. The industrial ecosystem is no exception to this universal phenomenon. During the course of the industrial revolution, the buzzwords in the sector were ‘increase production, increase profitability, increase revenue’ and so on. Currently, when industries start experiencing shortage in natural raw materials, we see other buzzwords like ‘reduce per capita water, reduce per capita energy and reduce per capita labour’. Thus, industrial ecosystems always look at increasing or decreasing something, which is a completely linear approach. But the natural ecosystem that houses n number of activities, producing products and by-products, has been thriving for millions of years without an iota of pollution. If the by-product is not managed, it becomes a waste in the system. Hence, nature invents another activity to use these by-products as raw material. When that activity produces a product and a by-product, nature invents one more activity to use the by-product as raw material. These processes continue till the nth by-product becomes raw material for the 1st activity, ensuring a cyclic movement of products and by-products without polluting the environment. In this way, nature follows a cyclic mode of assimilating waste, maintaining a healthy ecosystem. Thus, in the ecosystem, we always observe cycles like carbon cycle, nitrogen cycle, water cycle, etc. Since the beginning of industrialisation, the industrial ecosystem has only paid attention to products, almost ignoring the accumulating by-products. The industry has not paid much attention to inventing diversification to use the by-products emanating from industrial activities as seen in the natural ecosystem. This continued negligence of industries, concentrating only on industrial revolution rather than diversification, has resulted in the accumulation of by-products in nature as waste, leading to pollution. Hence, there is an urgent necessity for the industry to shift from a typical linear approach ecosystem to a circular ecosystem approach as seen in nature. ‘Industrial diversification’ rather than ‘industrial revolution’ is the need of the hour where the by-product (waste) of one industry becomes the raw material for another industry, following the principles of 5 ‘R’s (reduce, reuse, recycle, recover and replenish). Brand value “Porsche and Audi Safety Recall: Over 45,000 Cars and SUVs” was the headline in a newspaper. We often see that a product will be called back from the market even due to a small damage and dissatisfaction of customers, despite the huge cost on the industry. The industry does not cut costs when it comes to brand value/customer satisfaction. However, the same industry will not show a similar attitude towards waste management. Most of the large industries outsource certain polluting activities to small-scale industries or their ancillary units to maintain the brand value of their product. There is a need either to encourage such industries to carry out the outsourced activity with efficient pollution control systems and resource conservation or support ancillary industries to provide efficient pollution control systems. Even though there are efficient pollution control systems, like ultra filtration, reverse osmosis, bio digesters/anaerobic digester, softeners, activated carbon filter, pressure sand filter, disinfection system to control water pollution and equipment like bag house, wet scrubber/venturi scrubber, bag filter, electrostatic precipitator etc to control air pollution, many a time, the industries look at the economics and feel that an investment on pollution control system will not yield direct profit/benefit, forgetting the tangible and intangible benefits accrued over a period of time on the environment. Since ecological parameters like the quality of air, quality of drinking water, fertility of soil etc are threatened, the public agitates against the existence of industries in their backyard, despite industries taking up initiatives to ensure the economic welfare of people. The industry must do everything to ensure that the quality of ecological parameters in their vicinity is maintained on par with other neighbouring areas without industries. Industries must become more responsible towards the community and nature by shifting their attitude from being economic-centric to environment-centric to achieve sustainability. They need to ensure that the quality of ecosystem parameters in and around the industry is maintained or enhanced. The industrial ecosystem should adopt principles of the natural ecosystem of cyclic approach rather than a linear approach. Only then will the society embrace industries with open arms and industrialisation will be viewed as a boon rather than a bane. (The writer is Member Secretary, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/redefining-responsibility-of-industries-towards-environment-1024979.html
30-08-2021||Panorama||An athlete’s torment: ACL Injury ||If you’re a football fanatic, the sight of an athlete falling to the ground writhing in agony while holding onto their knee is pretty common. But did you know that one of the leading causes is a significant ligament tear, making an individual scream in pain?   The particular part in question here is the Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL), one of the two cruciate ligaments in the knee area that provide knee stability. It is an essential structure in one’s body connecting the femur (thigh bone) to the tibia (shinbone of the lower leg) through the middle of the knee joint.  The ACL is about 1 to 1.5 inches long and about 10 mm wide. It prevents the tibia from moving forward on the Femur, thus holding the leg together and keeping the knee rotationally stable.  What happens when the ACL tears is that there is an immediate popping sound in the knee, followed by intense pain, throbbing and severe swelling. When the soreness subsides, the injured person can walk; however, the knee might give away, losing steadiness, causing the individual to fall.    Causes of ACL injuries: ACL injury is common amongst footballers, gymnasts, soccer and basketball players, etc. It frequently happens in fast-paced and high-impact sports. Non-contact injuries occur when the player plants a foot on the ground, puts all the bodyweight on it and tries to rotate. The ACL, if unable to bear the immense force from motion, ruptures with the pop sound. This is also known as ‘cutting and pivoting footwork’ in sports.  With significant sports tournaments taking place worldwide after a year of hiatus due to the pandemic, athletes are training hard to return to the field again. A lot of conversations are ongoing around a professional player’s well-being. Recently, one of the most serious risks they face, the ACL injury, is gaining awareness.  Recently, Italy faced off England in the much-awaited Euro 2020 final. One of the youngest talented Italian players, Nicolo Zaniolo, suffered ACL injuries on both his legs, preventing him from playing in the mega championship. Despite starting light training, a Dutch player and captain of the national football team, Virgil Van Dijk had to sit out Euro 2020 because of his ACL tear.   This year, Spanish badminton champion, Carolina Marin had to pull out of Olympic Games Tokyo 2020 due to an ACL tear in her left knee. In the 2016 Rio Olympics, she won against India’s P V Sindhu for the gold medal. These are just three athletes who have suffered a knee injury. Every year approximately, 2 million players have an ACL tear.   According to a Yale medicine study, female athletes are more prone to ACL tear than their male counterparts. The reason for the same is unclear, but experts suggest it is because of the difference in anatomy. Women have a broader pelvis that puts additional stress on the soft tissues supporting the joints. Multiple other research inferences have supported the above reason.   ACL injuries often affect a chunk of an athlete’s career, and sometimes even surgery cannot guarantee their return to the sport. There are possibilities of a re-tear after recovering. Recent studies have also determined that those who suffer ACL tear eventually develop Arthritis in the knee if not treated adequately.  Apart from this, ACL reconstruction surgery can bring changes in the brain structure, leading to a lapse in the player’s performance. The brain alters its communication to the body, joints, muscles, and changes the organ’s overall functioning mechanism. This happens post-surgery to adapt to the changes in the body. Hence, medical practitioners should focus on reviving swift movement in the knee and re-wiring the brain for smooth functioning.    The torn ligament is replaced with a tendon graft harvested from the patient. However, the crucial part lies in post-operation rehabilitation for satisfactory recovery. There are non-surgical treatment procedures as well, but those are for less active patients. Generally, young athletes require surgical reconstruction.   There are no absolute ways to prevent an ACL injury; it can happen to an athlete anytime in training or playing a match. Knee braces can provide increased stability to the player. Specific exercises which focus on strengthening, balance and stability can prove to be helpful.   (The writer is Director, Orthopaedics at a network of hospitals in Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/an-athlete-s-torment-acl-injury-1024980.html
30-08-2021||Right in the Middle||Incidents with ministers||Chitradurga district was like home. My first posting as AC was there, and after a promotion, I was once again posted there as DC. People had great love for me. This is the story of the visit of one of our best ministers and his enthusiasm for farmers, which resulted in his anger. The agriculture minister was one of our most respected leaders whose commitment to the welfare of people was well known. People used to consider him even as a Chief Ministerial candidate due to his commitment. The agriculture minister decided to visit Chitradurga during times of scarcity when fertilizers were to be distributed liberally among farmers along with seeds. He heard that the distribution was not being done properly. He took me along to one such office. Here, we found a number of agitated farmers. Inside, the officer in charge was playing cards along with his friends. The minister caught him by the neck and thrashed him twice, much to our shock. Without saying a word, the minister left with us. The media was not that strong those days and no journalist which meant that the incident was not publicised. The distribution of fertilizers went on. The young officer could have made some noise and crested some embarrassment, but he did nothing. Situated on the highway, Chitradurga was the favourite camping site and watering hole for many VIPs and ministers. They would start late from Bengaluru and reach the town, camp overnight after a good dinner at the cost of the local establishment. The fisheries minister would always go a step further. He would camp at Chitradurga or Hiriyur, have a lavish dinner and insist each time for the hotel to pack different fish delicacies in stainless steel vessels to take it home for his family to enjoy. The vessels were never returned. His staff was very powerful as well. Hence, the grassed officers of the fisheries department had to please them also by packing fish snacks. All this happened each time without exception. The Deputy Director of the fisheries department, who was a friend of mine, confided in me that he had to bear the cost from his contingency budget only.  The fisheries minister was only a small-time leader, his behaviour was also suited to that level. The small exploitation was also in tune with the existing tradition of such petty exploitations, though it makes interesting reading now. The reaction of the senior minister was unbelievable. Those who knew him and his furious temper will have no difficulty in believing it. They also will agree it was all in good faith out of his total commitment to the cause of the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/incidents-with-ministers-1024978.html
30-08-2021||Second Edit||Urgent need for jail, police reforms||The Supreme Court’s demand for a report on why charges were not framed against a TADA case accused for 10 years has framed a problem that has always haunted the country’s justice system. The court has sought the report from Ajmer’s TADA court on why a person from Lucknow, Hamiduddin, who was arrested in a case linked to serial blasts on the first anniversary of the Babri Masjid demolition in 1993, is still in jail without charges being framed. The man was arrested in 2010, but the case has not moved forward from that point. He has moved the court contending that speedy trial is part of the right to life and liberty guaranteed by the Constitution and it could not be denied to a citizen. The court has taken the matter seriously. The case of the Lucknow man is not an isolated one. Tens of thousands of people are incarcerated in jails without charges and without a chance to get bail. A tribal person from Assam, Machal Lalung, spent 54 years in jail without facing trial and was released in 2005 after his case was taken up by human rights groups. The tragic case of Stan Swamy received national attention recently. The Supreme Court said, in the Arnab Goswami case that no citizen should be deprived of freedom without due process even for a single day. But the reality on the ground is very different. There are several factors that cause delays. Investigations are not undertaken in time because the police forces are under-staffed, under-trained and under-equipped. Many cases do not reach the trial stage and even when they do, the trials go on for years because of judicial delays. The result is that large numbers of people waste their lives in jail. No one compensates people for their lost lives when they are acquitted of charges after spending years in jail. With 70% of jail inmates being undertrials, the massive scale of injustice can only be imagined. A suggestion was made to the Supreme Court recently that bail pleas of life convicts who have undergone 10 years’ jail term may be considered sympathetically. But imprisonment without charges and bail for an indefinite period are the worst punishment for any citizen, and most people who are thus punished are from the bottom rungs of society. Deep and extensive judicial and police reforms are needed to ensure that justice is not denied to people and to make justice humane, kind and caring. Jails, as they function now, and justice often do not go together, and the Supreme Court must ensure that those like Hamiduddin get a right to speedy and fair trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/urgent-need-for-jail-police-reforms-1024974.html
30-08-2021||South||Teenager jailed for 35 days on false charge of raping, impregnating minor||A teenager in Kerala had to remain in prison for 35 days on remand after a minor girl falsely accused him of raping and impregnating her. After the DNA test proved the allegations of impregnating the girl to be false, the youth was released on bail. 18-year-old Sreenath, hailing from a poor family at Thirurangadi in Malappuram district in Kerala, became victim of a false charge. A 17-year-old girl residing in a nearby locality had accused him of raping and impregnating her. The police held Sreenath last month from his house and was remanded to judicial custody. He did not get bail as the case was registered under the POCSO Act. Since Sreenath continued to plead not guilty, the DNA test was conducted on priority. It was found that Sreenath was not responsible for impregnating the girl. Hence, the court granted him bail. Sreenath is third among the four children of Rajan, a daily-wage worker, and Sreemathi, an Anganwadi worker. Sreenath’s uncle Suresh Kumar told DH that the family was literally shattered as neither Sreenath nor any other members in the family had any shady background. "Sreenath is just doing his plus-two and such a false charge against him would have spoiled his life. Many neighbours and friends started to distance from the family after Sreenath was arrested in sexual assault case and the family members suffered much humiliation," he said. He said that had the police done some basic verification on the girl’s version, the allegation could have been found false. The girl had alleged that Sreenath forcefully took her to his house and raped her. But the day of the alleged incident mentioned by the girl was a Sunday in April, and usually other family members stay in the house on Sundays. Sreenath maintained that he did not have much acquaintance with the girl who was his junior in school. Hence, it was quite surprising that the girl made such a "baseless" allegation against him, said Suresh adding that the family would explore legal option against the damages caused to the family. Meanwhile, the Thirurangadi circle-inspector, who is probing the case, said that the police only followed the due procedures in a POCSO case while arresting Sreenath on the basis of the girl’s statement. The girl would be subjected to further counselling to identify the accused.  Even as the DNA test found Sreenath not responsible for impregnating the girl, the rape allegation against him would still remain under probe if the girl sticks to her allegation, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/teenager-jailed-for-35-days-on-false-charge-of-raping-impregnating-minor-1025091.html
30-08-2021||South||Kerala records 19,622 new Covid-19 cases; TPR at 16.74%||Kerala on Monday reported 19,622 new positive cases and 132 Covid-19-related deaths, taking the caseload to 40,27,030 and the death toll to 20,673. State Health Minister Veena George said 1,17,216 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) was 16.74 per cent. Till now 3,13,92,529 samples have been tested in the state. Among the districts, Thrissur reported the highest number of cases today -- 3,177, followed by Ernakulam with 2,315 and Kozhikode 1,916.  "Out of those found infected today, 62 reached the state from outside while 18,436 contracted the disease through their contact. The source of infection of 1,061 is yet to be traced and 63 health workers are also among the infected," the minister said in a release. Meanwhile, 22,563 persons recuperated from the disease on Monday, taking the total cured to 37,96,317. Currently, there are 2,09,493 active cases. According to the health department, there are 353 wards under 70 local self government bodies in the state with a weekly infection population ratio of over eight per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-records-19622-new-covid-19-cases-tpr-at-1674-1025187.html
30-08-2021||South||Laxity in enforcement of norms aggravates Covid spread in Kerala homes||While laxity of the Covid infected in strictly following the social distancing norms while remaining on home isolation was considered to be a reason for Covid surge in Kerala, the enforcement agencies also seem to have lowered their guard in ensuring proper home quarantine. Earlier once a person was tested Covid positive and remained on home quarantine, the health workers and local police used swung into action by constantly ringing up the infected and enquiring about the health condition. All sorts of support like supply of essential commodities to households were also offered. But now such sort of vigil was not taking place, says some of the infected. A section of health and police officials said that as the Covid situation was prolonging for more than a year, the monitoring systems were exhausted and this was leading to laxity in the enforcement. As life returned to normalcy with easing of lockdown the police were again burdened with routine responsibilities. Hence it would be quite difficult to dedicate much time for vigil on those in home quarantine, a police officer commented. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Health Minister Veena George had been reiterating that laxity of the infected in strictly following the social distancing inside home was aggravating the present Covid surge in Kerala. A health department study also found that 35 per cent of fresh Covid cases being reported in Kerala now was due to spread from inside homes. Meanwhile, the fresh Covid cases reported in Kerala witnessed a fall to 19,622 however, the number of samples tested was also considerably low. The TPR of the day was 16.74 per cent. During the last few days around 30,000 fresh cases were being reported daily and the TPR was hovering around 20 percent. Samples tested during the day was 1.17 lakh, while it was around 1.7 lakh in the past few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/laxity-in-enforcement-of-norms-aggravates-covid-spread-in-kerala-homes-1025225.html
30-08-2021||South||Petroleum Ministry's miscue fuels Andhra Pradesh capital controversy||A Union Petroleum Ministry's reply in Parliament on petrol-diesel price hikes has fueled controversy around which is the capital city of Andhra Pradesh. The state's capital city matter is unsettled, with the Andhra Pradesh High Court reviewing a host of petitions challenging Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy's plan to set up three capitals for the state, executive at Visakhapatnam/Vizag, legislature at Amaravati and judiciary at Kurnool. In his reply on July 26 to a question in Lok Sabha on the impact of rising fuel prices on the country’s inflation and economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic, minister for petroleum and natural gas Hardeep Singh Puri laid a statement that included an annexure with state-wise break up of variation in levies and taxes from July 2020 to July 2021.  In this list, Visakhapatnam was shown as the capital of the state. At a time when Amaravati farmers-locals led and opposition TDP-supported agitation is going on to retain the area in Guntur as the sole mega capital of Andhra Pradesh as envisioned by former chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, the ruling YSRCP side saw this insertion as the Centre's acknowledgment of Reddy's plans. Interestingly, the ministry reply also showed Ambala as the capital of Haryana and Jalandhar for Punjab, when Chandigarh is the common capital of both states. However, in a clarification on Sunday, the ministry has stated that the capital column should be read as "reference city". “In the annexure, the details given in the third column mentioning the cities was only in the sense of giving a reference city for the purpose of state levies and duty prevalent in the concerned state. The heading of column number 3 may please be read as “Capital City/Reference City”. Lok Sabha secretariat is also being informed accordingly about the amendment in the reply,” a Press Information Bureau statement from Vijayawada said. A three judge bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court which met last week has adjourned the hearings in the capital shifting case to November 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/petroleum-ministrys-miscue-fuels-andhra-pradesh-capital-controversy-1025253.html
30-08-2021||South||Telangana to use drones for afforestation under ‘Hara Bahara’ campaign||The Telangana government has partnered with Marut Drones, a Hyderabad start-up, to launch a drone-based afforestation project named as “Hara Bahara". The joint initiative of the ITE&C and Forest Departments is touted as India’s first such kind of project, planting 50 lakh trees in about 12,000 hectares of forest land across all the 33 districts of Telangana. The Seedcopter Drone by Marut Drones was unveiled along with the poster launch of “Hara Bahara” campaign on Monday. The aerial seeding is for rapid and scalable reforestation. “The project uses drones to disperse seed balls over thin, barren and empty forest lands to turn them into lush green abodes of trees. The process begins with a field survey and mapping of the terrain area to understand the ecosystem and demarcate the areas needing urgent attention. This is used to determine the number and species of trees that can be planted in the barren land based on the soil, climate, and other parameters. The seed balls are prepared by the local women and welfare communities, which are dispersed via drones in the targeted areas. Further, the area is continuously monitored to track the growth of plants sown,” officials said. “Forests are essential to maintain a clean and habitable environment for human life, and emerging technologies have potential to support the afforestation efforts,” IT, Industries Minister K T Rama Rao said during the launch at the Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-to-use-drones-for-afforestation-under-hara-bahara-campaign-1025257.html
30-08-2021||State||Bengaluru Urban achieves 100% first dose vaccination, says Health Minister||Bengaluru Urban, excluding BBMP, became the first district in Karnataka to achieve 100 per cent first dose vaccination against Covid-19, state Health Minister K Sudhakar tweeted. He congratulated the health workers for making this possible. Karnataka reported 1,262 fresh Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 29,47,255 and the toll to 37,278.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-urban-achieves-100-first-dose-vaccination-says-health-minister-1025094.html
30-08-2021||State||Campus Front of India members protest against NEP 2020||Members of Campus Front of India staged a protest against National Education Policy 2020, during the inauguration of NEP,  at the Mangalore University campus on Monday.  The NEP 2020 was inaugurated by Minister for Higher Education Dr C N Ashwath Narayana.   Anticipating the protest, the police had strengthened security by blocking the main road leading to the University campus.  The protesters urged the government and Mangalore University not to implement NEP.  The police took all the protesters to custody and were taken to Konaje Police Station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/campus-front-of-india-members-protest-against-nep-2020-1025142.html
30-08-2021||State||Meeting to discuss revision of engineering college fees in September||Minister for Higher Education Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said that a meeting will be convened in the second week of September to discuss the revision of engineering course fees. The private engineering colleges have been seeking a fee hike for CET seats. The fee structure was not been revised for the past three years, unlike the medical and dental college fees. “We will look what best can be done keeping the interest of students also in mind,” he told reporters. To a query on the vaccination status of students and teaching faculties in colleges, the minister said that majority of the teaching, non-teaching faculties along with students had been vaccinated with atleast one dose of vaccine against Covid-19. Only those who have received the jab are allowed to attend classes. The notification of teaching faculties recruitment has been announced by looking into the workload in each college. To a query on the safety of women students inside the campus of universities and colleges, the minister said that universities had been asked to strengthen surveillance by installing necessary CC TV cameras, increasing patrolling and other security measures. The University of Mysore has already withdrawn its order asking women students not to venture out on campus after 6.30 pm. All efforts are being made to increase the gross enrollment ratio in higher education by strengthening government colleges and improving the quality of education, the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/meeting-to-discuss-revision-of-engineering-college-fees-in-september-1025159.html
30-08-2021||State||Justice Adi panel starts work on examining reservation demands||A committee headed by former Karnataka High Court Justice Subhash B Adi has started its work on examining reservation demands made by various communities, including the Panchamasali Lingayats, Vokkaligas and Kurubas. The committee, which has former additional chief secretary MR Kamble and Kannada Sahitya Academy chairperson BV Vasanth Kumar as members, has been given office space on the ground floor of Vikas Soudha (rooms 6 and 7). Social Welfare department joint director Sabir Ahmed Mulla is the committee’s member-secretary, the government said in a release. The committee has six terms of reference: Examining whether or not the Panchamasali Lingayats can be included under Category 2A, indicate how the Justice HN Nagmohan Das Commission report that reportedly favours hiking SC/ST reservation can be implemented, recommend how Kurubas can be included as ST, prescribe how Veerashaiva-Lingayats and Vokkaligas can be included in the central OBC list and any other suggestions. The panel held a meeting on August 27 where Justice Adi asked officials to furnish the required information. “More meetings will be held by the committee in the coming days,” the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/justice-adi-panel-starts-work-on-examining-reservation-demands-1025226.html
30-08-2021||State||Non-payment of dues: Cesc cuts power to 28 govt offices in Mysuru||The Chamundeswari Electricity Supply Corporation (Cesc) on Monday disconnected power supply to 28 government offices in Mysuru, including the deputy commissioner's office. Cesc is yet to receive payment for the bills amounting to Rs 479 crore. This includes Rs 200 crore due from the government offices in Mysuru city and Rs 120 crore from the office of the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam. Despite issuing notices a number of times, the bills were not paid. Hence, the power was disconnected on Monday. As the DC's office and a few other departments made partial payment, power was restored by evening. Power was also restored to the offices of the deputy conservator of forests and the tahsildar as the officials sought time to pay the bills. The remaining offices are yet to get back the power supply, said sources. This includes the sub-registrar's office, gram panchayat offices, PWD offices and Maharani's science college. This caused inconvenience to the public who visited these offices. Citing helplessness, Cesc managing director Jayavibhavaswamy said, since Cesc had to pay Rs 900 crore to the Central grid, power was not supplied to it. With Cesc slipping to 'B' grade, it is not possible to get loans from banks. There was no option but to disconnect the power supply due to the pending dues. However, installations for drinking water supply, lift irrigation, hospitals, the police department and offices providing essential services have been spared, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/non-payment-of-dues-cesc-cuts-power-to-28-govt-offices-in-mysuru-1025227.html
30-08-2021||State||Cops to yet to get Mysuru gang-rape survivor's statement||The Mysuru City Police are planning to file the charge sheet in the case of the gang-rape near Chamundi Hill on the basis of scientific and technical evidence, as the survivor, the girl, has switched off her mobile phone. Her friend, who was assaulted by the suspects during the incident, has also left Mysuru. The girl, said to be suffering from trauma, is yet to give her statement. The FIR was filed at Alanahalli Police Station on the basis of the complaint filed by the survivor’s friend. Meanwhile, the police took the suspects to the spot for a mahajar of the scene of the crime. They are also preparing for a narco analysis test of the suspects to gather more evidence. The police officials said a team is preparing to visit the girl’s place to get her statement on the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cops-to-yet-to-get-mysuru-gang-rape-survivors-statement-1025230.html
30-08-2021||State||Prof Rangappa elected president of former VCs forum||Former vice chancellor of University of Mysore Prof K S Rangappa has been elected as president of the Forum of Former Vice Chancellors of Karnataka State Universities. In the elections held recently to elect new body to the forum Prof K Narayana Gowda and Prof O Anantharamaiah have been elected as vice presidents, according to a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/prof-rangappa-elected-president-of-former-vcs-forum-1025233.html
30-08-2021||State||10 lakh eco-friendly turmeric Ganesha idols to be prepared in Karnataka||As a part of eco-friendly Ganeshotsava, Karnataka Rajya Vijnana Parishat has organised a campaign of preparing 10 lakh turmeric Ganesh idols in the state, said Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) Kodagu district environment officer G R Ganeshan. He was speaking during an awareness programme ‘Namma Nade Hasiredege’ organised by KSPCB, district administration and Rajya Vijnana Parishat, at the DDPI office in Madikeri on Monday. “The preparation of 10 lakh eco-friendly Ganesh idols is an attempt towards a world record,” the official said and requested the people to make the campaign a success. “The Eco-friendly Ganesha also signifies the importance of simple Ganeshotsava celebrations during Covid-19 pandemic. The KSPCB has been propagating eco-friendly Ganesha festival from the past several years. After performing the pooja, the Ganesha idol can be immersed in the water sources at home. The eco-friendly idol will not pollute the water,” he said. Releasing the posters and stickers on the campaign, DDPI A Sridharan said that awareness will be created among schoolchildren to prepare eco-friendly Ganesh idols, through the Eco Clubs, NSS units and School Development and Monitoring Committees. Rastriya Hasiru Pade district Nodal Officer T G Premkumar administered an oath towards the celebration of an eco-friendly Ganesha festival. Madikeri Block Education Officer H T Manjunath and Primary School Teachers’ Association state joint secretary H S Chethan were present among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/10-lakh-eco-friendly-turmeric-ganesha-idols-to-be-prepared-in-karnataka-1025234.html
30-08-2021||State||Karnataka teachers request Covid-19 aid to accounts by September 5||The Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka has requested the government to distribute soon the Covid relief fund announced for teaching and non-teaching staff working with private unaided schools in the state. In a request to Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh, the association requested to transfer the amount to the beneficiaries' accounts at least before Teachers' Day (September 5).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-teachers-request-covid-19-aid-to-accounts-by-september-5-1025240.html
30-08-2021||State||Justice Adi panel on reservation demands begins work||A committee headed by former High Court Justice Subhash B Adi has started its work on examining reservation demands made by various communities, including the Panchamasali Lingayats, Vokkaligas and Kurubas.  The committee, which has former additional chief secretary M R Kamble and Kannada Sahitya Academy chairperson B V Vasanth Kumar as members, has been given office space on the ground floor of Vikas Soudha (rooms 6 and 7). Social Welfare department joint director Sabir Ahmed Mulla is the committee’s member-secretary, the government said in a release. The committee has six terms of reference: Examining whether or not the Panchamasali Lingayats can be included under Category 2A, indicate how the Justice H N Nagmohan Das Commission report that reportedly favours hiking SC/ST reservation can be implemented, recommend how Kurubas can be included as ST, prescribe how Veerashaiva-Lingayats and Vokkaligas can be included in the central OBC list and any other suggestions.  The panel held a meeting on August 27, where Justice Adi asked officials to furnish the required information. “More meetings will be held by the committee in the coming days,” the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/justice-adi-panel-on-reservation-demands-begins-work-1025246.html
30-08-2021||State||Rebel candidates to be expelled from BJP: Kateel||State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said that rebels, who are in the fray for the election for Belagavi City Corporation, will be expelled from the party. "We have sought a list of rebels in the fray and disciplinary action will be taken against them," he told reporters here on Monday.  He said there was a time when BJP could not get candidates to contest elections and now, they have many aspirants indicating that the party had grown. "In the past few days, rebels have been asked to withdraw and retire from the contest. Those, who have defied the party and remain in the fray, will be expelled from the party on Tuesday after their list is made available," he said.  He predicted that BJP would win more than 45 seats in the Belagavi City Corporation based on the achievements of Prime Minister Narendra Modi government at the Centre and the state government, led by B S Yediyurappa and Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, he said. On KPCC president D K Shivakumar’s comment that BJP could not conduct last rites of former Union minister Suresh Angadi and inclusion of free last rites by BCC in the election manifesto, Kateel said, Congress has never allowed people to live and troubled them even after death. "Congress did not allow Dr B R Ambedkar’s last rites to be held in New Delhi or Mumbai. The BJP government decided to conduct the last rites of Angadi as per Covid-19 protocol that was in effect and a memorial has also been erected in his memory in New Delhi. Shivakumar does not respect laws, hence had been lodged in Tihar prison," he ridiculed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rebel-candidates-to-be-expelled-from-bjp-kateel-1025247.html
30-08-2021||State||Khadi must for Nrupatunga varsity students every Wednesday||The Nrupatunga Unitary University, Bengaluru, has made it mandatory for students and staff to wear khadi outfits once a week. To encourage the khadi industry and weavers, the university has introduced the concept of khadi every Wednesday. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Prof S Srinivas Balli, vice-chancellor of the university, said, "This is basically to promote Swadeshi concept among students and to introduce the Swadeshi movement to students as part of the 75th year celebration of our Independence." The university has also decided to hold a khadi exhibition on the university campus during September second week and October first week. During the exhibition, students and staff will be provided a 30% discount to buy khadi clothes. "On August 15, we had organised khadi exhibition for the staff on the university campus. In September and October, we are doing it again for students," he said. Every Wednesday, the university will hold the general assembly in the morning, where all students and staff will be seen in khadi outfits. "During the assembly, we talk about 'Be Indian Buy Indian' and 'Swadeshi' concepts to encourage students to buy Swadeshi materials," he said. The Karnataka State Law University was the first to introduce khadi outfits for students a few years ago. Among private colleges, Seshadripuram Group of institutions has introduced it in all colleges run by it. Free meals To encourage students to attend classes, the teaching staff of Nrupathunga university have decided to sponsor the meals of students from economically backward sections. As explained by the university officials, every day at least 200 students are availing the benefit. There is no need for students to prove themselves as poor. Any student in need of a meal can avail the token available at the administrative office by giving their details and eat at the university canteen. Courses under NEP During the 2020-21 academic year, the government elevated the Government Science College, Bengaluru, as unitary university and named it Nrupathunga University. For the current academic year, the university is introducing various courses under the National Education Policy (NEP). The university has also started School of Physical Sciences, School of Chemical Sciences, School of Life Sciences, School of Applied Sciences, School of Computer Sciences and Electronics, School of Mathematics and Statistics, School of Languages and Literature, School of Multi-disciplinary and Transdisciplinary studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/khadi-must-for-nrupatunga-varsity-students-every-wednesday-1025256.html
30-08-2021||State||5 cops suspended over 'lock-up' death in Sindagi PS||A day after a rape-accused hanged himself inside the lock-up of the Sindagi police station, Vijayapura Superintendent of Police H D Anandkumar ordered the suspension of the sub-inspector and four constables for dereliction of duty. Sindagi sub-inspector S H Hosamani, constables S B Naad, Gururaj Maashyal, Anand Patil and P L Patted have been placed under suspension. The Sindagi police had taken into custody Devindra Sangogi (37) on charge of raping a 13-year-old girl at a village in the taluk on Saturday. The accused was allegedly found hanging in the police station toilet. The family members of Sangogi had on Sunday protested in front of the police station blaming police torture for the death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/5-cops-suspended-over-lock-up-death-in-sindagi-ps-1025262.html
30-08-2021||State||Tuberculosis diagnosed in 104 recovered Covid patients, 51 of their contacts||Karnataka, during its campaign for finding Tuberculosis (TB) cases (August 16-31) among recovered Covid individuals (who recovered between January 1 and June 31) and their household contacts has identified 155 TB cases till August 29. TB was diagnosed in 104 recovered Covid patients and 51 of their household contacts. The health department may continue the drive after August 31 to cover the rest of the Covid-recovered individuals, but the coverage was a mere 31% till August 29.  During this period, peripheral health workers visited the houses of recovered Covid individuals and asked for TB-specific symptoms. If found symptomatic, sputum samples were collected. The samples were tested in TB PCR labs (Truenat) in all districts of Karnataka. Covid-19 and TB are respiratory diseases that manifest themselves with similar symptoms of cough, fever and difficulty in breathing. Studies suggest that the presence or history of TB increases the risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection and TB co-infection increases the risk of severe Covid-19 disease. TB/SARS CoV-2 co-infection is associated with rapid and severe symptom development and disease progression, with poor outcomes for both diseases. Both diseases require early detection and treatment to improve patient outcomes and reduce transmission among contacts and within communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tuberculosis-diagnosed-in-104-recovered-covid-patients-51-of-their-contacts-1025263.html
30-08-2021||State||PHANA cautions Karnataka govt on reopening schools||The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), which represents over 1,000 private hospitals in Karnataka, submitted its expert committee report to the health minister on Monday suggesting measures to prepare for the expected third Covid wave. It cautioned the state government over its decision to reopen offline classes. Citing the examples of what has happened in Israel, the USA and South Korea after the resumption of physical classes, the association suggested the government revisit the decision to resume physical classes. In a report released on Monday, PHANA stated that evidence is clear that it will be premature to open schools. The report said a hub and spoke model of the supply chain should be created where oxygen cylinders are supplied to hospitals without delay. It also suggested that every patient at home should be adopted by a Covid Care Centre and monitored through telemedicine. The committee headed by Dr Hema Divakar, Consultant ObGyn and Medical Director, Divakars Speciality Hospital, Bengaluru, recommended a three-pronged strategy of vaccination advocacy, research-linked data documentation and effective training of healthcare workers, for the private hospitals in the state.  "We need to put in place systems to accurately record key indicators such as cases, hospitalisations, mortality, the infection rate, R0 (the number of new infections generated by each case), and seroprevalence in a timely manner," the report noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/phana-cautions-karnataka-govt-on-reopening-schools-1025268.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's floral waste has a solution to dye for||Two independent cooperatives, working hundreds of kilometres from each other, are developing methods to extract natural colour dyes from floral waste, a development that can dramatically reshape the way the state deals with flowers that are no longer useful. According to data from government sources, Karnataka produces an average of about 1.3 lakh tons of flowers annually, the bulk of which constitute marigolds. As per Horticultural Crop Statistics, Karnataka had over 6,725 hectares devoted to growing marigold as of 2014 alone, with an annual production of 64,025 tons. Working out of Melukote in Mandya district, the Janapada Seva Trust Prakashana said it is working on methods to extract colours out of marigolds that can be used as clothing dyes. This has the twin benefit of reusing flowers destined for the trash heap while potentially curtailing the use of chemical dyes. Already, floral harvesting has continued unabated despite plummeting demand due to the pandemic. “While flowers are in great demand during festival seasons, floriculturists keep producing flowers throughout the year whether or not there is demand. This leads to huge quantities of waste,” said Santosh Koulagi of the Trust. He explained that the Trust has been harvesting natural yellows from about two tons of wasted marigolds annually. “We got into dye extraction after seeing massive quantities of flowers being discarded,” he added. Kadike cooperative Over 200 kilometres west, in Udupi district, another cooperative has also been experimenting with extracting dyes from discarded marigolds, obtained primarily from temples nearby. “There are limitations on which flowers we can extract dyes from because colours from flowers such as roses, jasmin or gerbera will not bind with yarn,” explained Mamatha Rai of Kadike Trust, adding that flowers treated chemically are also useless for dye extraction. The Trust also holds workshops for weaves and dyers. “The process of extraction is lengthy," Mamatha said. "It involves boiling petals, scouring the yarns of fabric to make them suitable for the dying process and using ‘mordanting’ to dye the fabric." Because of the arduous process, she felt that natural dyes cannot totally replace chemical dyes yet. "But it is an option to reuse some of the flower waste being generated daily,” she added. Massive floral harvest The quantities of floral waste being generated are massive. According to Srikanth Bolapalli, Director of the South India Floriculture Association, 7,500 hectares of land in and around Bengaluru is being used for flower cultivation, translating to about 30 million flowers being harvested daily. “Whole harvests were ending up in the trash heap until recently due to Covid-19,” he said. According to Dr A N Sringeswara, Curator of the Botanical Gardens at GKVK, there is also an environmental aspect to floral waste, as some commercial flowers have chemicals added to them, such as paraffin, to keep the flowers alive for longer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-floral-waste-has-a-solution-to-dye-for-1024983.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Amid vaccine hesitancy, Karnataka's rural areas may see door-to-door drive||The state government’s announcement to increase the daily vaccination target to five lakh doses comes as a relief, especially in rural areas where officials are struggling to inoculate the eligible population. Despite widespread campaigns on the benefit of Covid-19 shots, vaccine hesitancy, shortage of doses at rural primary health centres (PHCs) and the challenges faced by private hospitals in administering the jabs have made the process difficult. Local authorities say these factors could make the drive more challenging in the coming days and door-to-door vaccination might become necessary. In the villages of Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, many are yet to receive their first dose seven months into the vaccination campaign. “There are people who say vaccines are not safe. So, I have not got a shot,” says 62-year-old Rahmath (name changed) of Killur village. “Where is the virus? Covid is like any ordinary fever,” argues 48-year-old vendor Satish. Both of them are yet to receive their first dose. At the nearest PHC, vaccines are available only twice a week, says Zakir from Navoor. “I went once but didn’t get a shot as the vials allocated to the PHC were emptied by then. You can’t expect me to stand in front of the hospital and then not give me a shot. What about the day I lost,” the daily-wage labourer asks. Many private hospitals in the taluk administer vaccines only if 10 people register on any given day. Smitha, a resident of Belal, says she had to visit the private hospital thrice for the vaccine. “I had to return on two occasions as there weren’t enough people registering for paid vaccination,” she says. Hospital authorities say they administer vaccines only if there are 10 people registering on a day. “Or else, vaccines in the vial are wasted, against which there are specific directions.” A Panchayat Development Officer (PDO), under the condition of anonymity, admits that vaccine hesitancy is a problem. “Fake news has created a problem. We are convincing as many as we can to get their shots,” he says. However, it might become essential to do door-to-door vaccination especially in some rural pockets, he adds. Dr Kishore Kumar M, District Health Officer, Dakshina Kannada, says vaccine hesitancy is a smaller issue compared to vaccine availability. “Hesitancy is less. There have been some constraints due to vaccine availability,” he says, adding that the number of doses allotted to the district had increased over the past week. Vehicle arrangements were made for senior citizens who could not go to a vaccination centre. Door-to-door campaigns might be required in coming days, he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amid-vaccine-hesitancy-karnatakas-rural-areas-may-see-door-to-door-drive-1024984.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||JD(S)'s door always open, anyone can join or leave anytime: H D Kumaraswamy on buzz around Devegowda joining Congress||Amidst buzz that JD(S) MLA G T Devegowda may join the Congress, Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said on Monday that anybody can join or leave the party anytime as the JD(S) has kept its door open.  Kumaraswamy said the former minister himself has spoken about his decision and he will not react more in this regard. Stressing that the party reposes faith in its workers, he said, "Like the Congress and BJP, we are not standing in front of the leaders of other parties to lure them." He exuded confidence that the JD(S) will win atleast 20 seats in the upcoming polls to Kalaburagi Mahanagara Palike. He said, "We are confident that the party will come to power on its own in Kalaburagi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Belagavi Municipal corporation polls."  If the result becomes fracture, the party leaders will take a call with whom they should go, the JD(S) leader explained.  Clarifying that he has not said the party workers are not good, Kumaraswamy said that his statement has been manipulated in a section of media. "The party leaders had told me that the workers become inactive as soon as I returns from the visit. I have repeated the same. The party still exists because of lakhs of loyal workers and hence, I will not insult them", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jdss-door-always-open-anyone-can-join-or-leave-anytime-h-d-kumaraswamy-on-buzz-around-devegowda-joining-congress-1025127.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No cases against earlier crimes made us commit rape, Mysuru gang-rape accused tell cops||Shocking details are coming out in the investigation of the Mysuru gang-rape case. The accused, as per police sources, have told them that they were encouraged by the fact that after committing crimes, including molestations in Mysuru, no complaint was ever lodged against them by the victims. The gang-rape which took place on August 24 in Mysuru made national headlines. The accused dragged a college-going girl while she was with her male friend to an isolated place near the Chamundi foothills. They attacked her friend and demanded a ransom of Rs 3 lakh. The police arrested five accused on Saturday (August 28) from Tamil Nadu, including a juvenile and are investigating the crime. The victim, who came to study from Maharashtra, has not recorded her statement as she still continues to be in mental trauma. However, the free run of the accused could be halted after a woman, who lost her cell phone lodged a complaint two years ago, sources said. Sources also said that the detection of the criminals was possible as one of their victims had lodged a miscellaneous complaint for mobile robbery. The woman has asked the police to retrieve the SIM card. She had mentioned in the complaint that she did not want the handset as it was too old, sources add. After the gang-rape case, the investigators have collected all the information of robbery cases in the city and matched details. One of the accused was using the cell phone and it was traced as an IMEI number was available with the police, sources said. The police have produced the accused before the court and have taken them into custody. Their medical tests have also been conducted. The accused have told police that they presumed Mysuru to be the safest city to commit crimes as none of their victims dared to lodge a police complaint. Sources said the accused have confessed to the investigating team that they thought this gang-rape case victim would also not lodge a police complaint. The gang-rape accused have confessed to having committed many cases of road robberies and molestations in Mysuru. Police sources said, one of the accused rapists was jailed for murdering the father of a girl he loved in Tamil Nadu. Another accused turned psycho after being dumped by three of his girlfriends and indulged in molestation and sexual assaults on gullible women and girls all through. Meanwhile, the parents of a few accused persons in Tamil Nadu were not found to have any clue on the crime their sons had committed. The investigating team is expected to take the accused rapists to the scene of crime to conduct spot investigation on Monday. Further investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-cases-against-earlier-crimes-made-us-commit-rape-mysuru-gang-rape-accused-tell-cops-1025131.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai asks officials to expedite disposal of SC/ST atrocity cases||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday issued a slew of directions towards speedy disposal of atrocity cases against SC/STs, including witness protection measures, expediting investigation and beefing up prosecution. Bommai chaired a meeting of the state-level vigilance and monitoring committee formed under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.  “We found that in several cases, there’s a delay in investigation and after filing of the chargesheet, a delay in prosecution. The departments of home and law should take measures to address the delays,” Bommai told reporters after the meeting. Bommai also noted that witnesses in the atrocity cases often faced threats or inducements to become hostile. “Directions were issued to make sure the witnesses are given protection, even while attending court,” he said.  The additional advocate-general will be appointed to oversee the progress of the cases, it was decided. The committee also decided to review over 1.8 lakh applications in the state that have been rejected under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. These are applications seeking forest land rights by STs and other traditional forest dwellers. “These cases should be reviewed. Even the Supreme Court has said so. A state-level review committee will be formed for this that will have three people connected to this issue,” Bommai said.  On complaints of people bagging bogus SC/ST certificates, the committee directed officials to take action. “Even those officials who issued the certificates should face action,” Bommai said.  Further, the CM set a 4-month deadline to clear pending borewell and electricity connections to SC/ST beneficiaries.  The government will consider amending the law to extend the time limit for the dependents of the SC/STs who die due to atrocities to apply for government jobs on compassionate grounds. “It will be extended from one year to two years and up to three years for minors,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-asks-officials-to-expedite-disposal-of-sc/st-atrocity-cases-1025154.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka schools for classes 6-8 to start from September 6||The Karnataka government announced Monday that physical classes will start for classes 6 to 8 from September 6 with authorities relying on the ‘success’ of its earlier decision to reopen schools for classes 9 to 12.  The decision was taken at a meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, with ministers, experts and officials.  Briefing reporters, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that schools can start physical classes for classes 6-8 in taluks where the Covid-19 positivity rate is below 2 per cent. "Classes will start with all Covid guidelines in place. Classes will be held on alternate days and 50 per cent of the students will be allowed to attend on any day," he said. Noting that reopening of classes 9 to 12 evoked a good response, Ashoka said that while attendance was high in government schools, it was yet to pick up in private educational institutes.  There are 2,912 gram panchayats with zero positivity. Classes 6 to 8 can start in Bengaluru where the positivity rate is well below 2 per cent, Ashoka said.  "Of the 6,472 samples collected from children, only 14 were positive, indicating very low positivity among children," Ashoka pointed out and said this data point was crucial in the decision to reopen more classes.  A decision on starting classes 1 to 5 will be taken after a month. Institutional quarantine The state government has decided to enforce a seven-day institutional quarantine for people visiting Karnataka from the neighbouring Kerala where the Covid-19 positivity rate is 19 per cent. “After seven days, they will be made to take a Covid-19 test,” Ashoka said, adding that Kerala was reporting about 30,000 cases daily.   The government has also decided to continue the weekend curfew in only four districts - Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Hassan and Kodagu. Night curfew, meanwhile, will continue in all districts. Ganesha Chaturthi celebration decision deferred The government deferred a decision on allowing the Ganesha Chaturthi festival to be celebrated in public. There is pressure on Bommai from right-wing groups and party leaders to relax restrictions for the festival.  Ashoka said that the government was cautious on allowing celebrations for Ganesha Chaturthi festival as the threat of a third wave loomed large in Karnataka due to Covid-19 cases increasing in Kerala and Maharashtra.  "All Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police were directed to hold meetings with organisers of large Chaturthi events. There are about 30 locations in the state where the festival is celebrated in a big way,” Ashoka said.   The minister said many memorandums were submitted from festival organisers and elected representatives to relax norms and allow festivities. "Since there are complaints that relaxing norms in Kerala for the Onam resulted in a surge in Covid-19 cases, the government will hold another meeting to discuss which guidelines can be relaxed," Ashoka said. Based on the Covid-19 situation in the state and other data, Bommai will announce guidelines on September 5. The government has allowed convention centres to host marriages and other functions at 50 per cent capacity or 400 people. “The number of guests will be limited to 400 in large halls, while it is 50 per cent of the total seats at smaller choultries," Ashoka said, adding that owners of many convention centres had petitioned Bommai to relax norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-schools-for-classes-6-8-to-start-from-september-6-1025186.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka imposes 7-day institutional quarantine for people visiting from Kerala||The Karnataka government has decided to enforce a seven-day institutional quarantine for people visiting the state from neighbouring Kerala. “After seven days, they will be made to take a Covid-19 test,” Revenue Minister R Ashoka said, adding that Kerala was reporting about 30,000 cases daily.  Hotels, convention centres and other makeshift facilities will be used for accommodating people visiting the state from Kerala. This will be applicable for any mode of transport used to enter the state. Kerala on Monday reported 19,622 new positive cases and 132 Covid-19-related deaths, taking the caseload to 40,27,030 and the death toll to 20,673. State health minister Veena George said 1,17,216 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) was 16.74 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-imposes-7-day-institutional-quarantine-for-people-visiting-from-kerala-1025209.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After 22 weeks, Karnataka's daily Covid-19 cases drop below 1,000-mark||Karnataka on Monday reported less than 1,000 new cases for the first time in the second Covid wave. It reported 973 cases, a first since March 15 this year when 932 cases were reported. Bengaluru accounted for 264 of these cases. The state had a positivity rate of 0.64% on Monday and active cases now stand at 18,392 with Bengaluru accounting for 7,343 of them. Mysore Sanjeev, convenor, Project Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima, said that daily caseload dropping below 1,000 is a good sign. “It gives temporary relief for the administration. Sustaining this level of containment will be a challenge unless the active caseload drops below 10,000, not later than September-end.” On February 2, the state had 5,924 active cases which is the least active caseload the state had after the first Covid wave ebbed. “From there it went up gradually and on May 17 we had a peak active caseload of 6,03,639. So unless the active cases drop below 500 like in other states we cannot say the second wave has ended,” he said. “Notwithstanding whether case reporting is robust in these states or not, some of the other states have less than 500 active cases like for example, Punjab 392, Delhi 375, Uttar Pradesh 265, Gujarat 151, Rajasthan 108, and Madhya Pradesh has only 80 active cases. Punjab had a peak active caseload of 77,000 previously,” he said.   “We also need to remember that the state festival, Dasara, is round the corner. We need to learn lessons from last week Onam’s impact on Kerala’s Covid situation,” he added. Dr C N Manjunath, a member of the State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said, “We have to observe for three consecutive days. If till Wednesday, we observe less than 1,000 cases and have less than 1% (TPR) then we can say we’re at the fag end of the second Covid wave.” The number of tests remained high with 1,51,219 samples being tested on Monday. Fifteen deaths were reported in the state with three deaths each reported from Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi and Udupi. The toll has reached 37,293. The case fatality rate was 1.54%. After Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada reported the highest number of new cases at 193, Udupi 98, Hassan 74 and Mysuru 73. The total number of infections are now 29,48,228. As many as 1,324 discharges took the total number of recoveries to 28,92,517.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-22-weeks-karnatakas-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-below-1000-mark-1025216.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government defers decision on Ganesha Chaturthi celebrations||Karnataka on Monday deferred a decision on allowing full-fledged Ganesha Chaturthi celebrations for which BJP leaders and right-wing groups are mounting pressure.  A decision is expected on Ganesha Chaturthit celebrations on September 5. Briefing reporters after a meeting, chaired by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, with experts, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the government was cautious on allowing celebrations for Ganesha Chaturthi festival as the threat of a third Covid wave loomed large in Karnataka due to cases increasing in Kerala and Maharashtra. "All Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police were directed to hold meetings with organisers of large Chaturthi events. There are about 30 locations in the state where the festival is celebrated in a big way," Ashoka said. The minister said many memorandums were submitted from festival organisers and elected representatives to relax norms and allow festivities. "Since there are complaints that relaxing norms in Kerala for the Onam resulted in a surge in Covid-19 cases, the government will hold another meeting to discuss which guidelines can be relaxed," Ashoka said, adding that Bommai will announce guidelines based on the Covid-19 situation and other data. Of late, BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Energy Minister V Sunil Kumar, MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal and others have urged the government to allow Chaturthi celebrations in the state. On Monday, protests were also staged in Hubballi by Pramod Muthalik and other Sri Rama Sene workers over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-defers-decision-on-ganesha-chaturthi-celebrations-1025223.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ex-BBMP revenue officer sentenced to 4-year rigorous imprisonment in graft case||A special court for cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act has convicted a revenue official of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for graft. The convict is C Lingaiah, who was Assistant Revenue Officer at Rajajinagar sub-division in 2017. The prosecution case was that the complainant in the case had filed an application before Lingaiah for change of katha of a property he acquired by way of a gift deed. The accused demanded a bribe of Rs 3 lakh to change the khata. Lingaiah was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) officials while he was accepting the bribe amount. Special public prosecutor Santosh S Nagarale argued the case for the ACB. Special court Judge Lakshminarayana Bhat sentenced Lingaiah to rigorous imprisonment of four years and also ordered him to pay a fine of Rs 3 lakh. Lingaiah was convicted for the offences of demand of bribe under Section 7 and acceptance of bribe under Section 13 (1) (d) of Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ex-bbmp-revenue-officer-sentenced-to-4-year-rigorous-imprisonment-in-graft-case-1025236.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||54.7% of textbooks supplied, Karnataka High Court told||The Karnataka government on Tuesday informed the court that it needs some more time to supply textbooks to all students in the state. The status report submitted by the government said that 54.7% of books have been supplied to the students and the printing of the remaining books is in progress. The report also stated that around 70.8% of textbooks have been printed. The government advocate sought 20 days time to ensure that the printing is over and the rest of the textbooks are supplied to the children. A division bench headed by Justice Satish Chandra Sharma adjourned the hearing, granting time to the government. The PIL prayed for directions for providing online classes as well gadgets to underprivileged children and children studying in government schools. During the last hearing, the court had observed that attendance in schools will be meaningless without the supply of textbooks. The bench had directed the government to ensure supply of textbooks to students of class 9-10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/547-of-textbooks-supplied-karnataka-high-court-told-1025238.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Arun Singh in Karnataka for meetings with BJP units||BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of the party's affairs in Karnataka, arrived for a four-day visit in Bengaluru on Monday.  Singh is scheduled to hold meetings of Mysuru, Mysuru Rural and Chamarajanagar district office bearers of the party on August 31. On September 1, he will chair a meeting of the office-bearers of Hassan and Mandya units. On September 2, he will chair a meeting of Bengaluru North, South and Central units of the party. On the same day, he is scheduled to participate in an event in Hubballi, prior to his return to Delhi on the morning of September 3. Speaking to reporters at the Bengaluru airport, Singh said the state government was doing well. "The BJP will win a majority in the 2023 elections and return to power," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/arun-singh-in-karnataka-for-meetings-with-bjp-units-1025249.html
30-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP will return to power, old Mysuru region key for absolute majority in Karnataka: Arun Singh||BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh on Monday claimed the party will win a majority in the next state assembly elections and return to power. "The state government is functioning efficiently. BJP will win a majority in the 2023 elections and return to power," Singh said on his arrival at the airport here on a four-day visit. Earlier, speaking to reporters in Delhi ahead of his Karnataka tour, he said the old Mysuru region, where the party is "weak", was key for it to come back to power in the state, with absolute majority in the 2023 assembly polls. "We are weak in the old Mysuru region and I believe that for the party to come to power with absolute majority the region is important," Singh said. The party will make gains in the region, as it has shown good performance during the panchayat polls in Hassan and Mandya, and all efforts will be made to take it further. "Our aim is 2023 election, we want to have absolute majority in 2023. The goal of our party workers, leaders, MLAs and Ministers is we have to come back with absolute majority...before the election we will assess collectively and set a target (on number of seats to win)," he added. To a question on filling four vacant ministerial berths in the state government, Singh said the Chief Minister has to decide on it, and it is his prerogative. "...at the right time the Chief Minister will take the call. CM will decide on this with guidance of the central leadership," he said. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai earlier this month had expanded his new cabinet, by inducting 29 Ministers. Calling B S Yediyurappa a "tallest leader" of Karnataka, Singh said the party is fortunate to have him. Yediyurappa has announced he would tour the state with party leaders to bring BJP back to power in the next assembly polls. Asked about the future of Yediyurappa's younger son and state BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra, Singh said, "he is a good party worker and his political analysis is really good..he is working for strengthening the party." Singh is scheduled to hold meetings of Mysuru, Mysuru Rural and Chamarajanagar district office bearers of BJP unit on August 31. On September 1, he will chair a meeting of the office-bearers of Hassan and Mandya units, the party said, adding that on September 2, he will chair a meeting of Bengaluru North, South and Central units of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-will-return-to-power-old-mysuru-region-key-for-absolute-majority-in-karnataka-arun-singh-1025265.html
30-08-2021||West||Narayan Rane fails to appear before Raigad police; lawyer says he is unwell||Union minister Narayan Rane on Monday failed to appear at the office of the superintendent of police here in Raigad district of Maharashtra as directed by a court earlier due to ill health, his lawyer said. Rane's lawyer Sandesh Chikne appeared in the office of the local crime branch inspector Dayanand Gavde on behalf of Rane. He told the police that Rane couldn't come as he was not feeling well. In the morning, a posse of police personnel was deployed near the office of the superintendent of police in anticipation of the arrival of Rane, Gavde said, adding the situation is normal now. Chikne was accompanied by local leaders of the BJP. Rane was arrested on Tuesday afternoon from the Ratnagiri district following his remarks that he would have slapped Chief Minister Thackeray for what he claimed as the latter's ignorance of the year of India's independence. The Union minister was produced before a magistrate at Mahad in Raigad on Tuesday night. The court while granting bail to Rane on a surety of Rs 15,000 directed him to appear at the office of the Superintendent of Police in Alibaug (Raigad) on August 30 and September 13. Rane faces four FIRs in Maharashtra over his remarks, which triggered a political row and protests across the state on Tuesday. The FIR at Mahad was registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) Sections 189 (threat of injury to public servant), 504 (intentional insult to provoke break of public peace) and 505 (statements conducive to public mischief). Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/narayan-rane-fails-to-appear-before-raigad-police-lawyer-says-he-is-unwell-1025080.html
30-08-2021||West||ED raids Shiv Sena leaders Anil Parab, Bhavana Gawli||In what appears to be mounting pressure on the Shiv Sena, institutions and organisations linked to two of their ruling party’s top leaders - Anil Parab and Bhavana Gawli - were searched in separate cases by the Enforcement Directorate on Monday.  However, there is no official confirmation available from the ED.  Parab is a close aide of Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray and had played a major role in the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government.  Parab holds the crucial portfolios of Parliamentary affairs and transport and is the guardian minister of Ratnagiri district.  Last week, a video surfaced in which he was seen instructing police officials over phone to arrest union MSMEs minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane for “tight slap slur” against Thackeray.  “This (notice) is a legal matter….we will deal with it legally,” said Parab, who had been asked to appear before ED’s Mumbai office on Tuesday.  Gawli is a senior leader and five-time MP - two times from Washim and after delimitation, thrice from Yavatmal-Washim seat.  “I have not received any notice from the ED so far,” Gawli said. According to reports, ED raids are being carried out at places including Mahila Utkarsh Pratishthan, Balaji Sahakari Particle Board, BAMS College, Bhawna Agro Product Services Limited in the Risod area in Washim.  It may be recalled, recently, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya's convoy was targeted in Washim. "The BJP and ED are hand in gloves," said Raut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ed-raids-shiv-sena-leaders-anil-parab-bhavana-gawli-1025110.html
30-08-2021||West||Drugs case: Court extends NCB custody of actor Armaan Kohli, another accused till September 1||A special NDPS court here on Monday extended the NCB custody of Bollywood actor Armaan Kohli and alleged drug peddler Ajay Singh till September 1 in a drugs case. Both Kohli and Singh were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on August 28 following a raid at the actor's residence in Mumbai and booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. They were later produced before the special NDPS court which sent them in the NCB custody for a day. Seeking extension of their remand, the NCB told the court on Monday that it had seized more than one gram of cocaine from the actor's house during the raid and that it required further custody of both Kohli and Singh for questioning. Following the raid, Kohli was initially detained and subsequently arrested by the NCB under provisions related to contravention of small quantity of drugs, financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders, and other charges under the NDPS Act. According to the NCB, Singh is a drug supplier who had given information about the 49-year-old actor's alleged involvement in the narcotics case. Singh was booked by the Anti-Narcotics Cell of the Mumbai Police in 2018 in connection with the seizure of a huge quantity of Ephedrine, an official had said on Sunday. Kohli has featured in the Salman Khan-starter Prem Ratan Dhan Payo, among other Hindi, films and was also one of the contestants of TV reality show Bigg Boss.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-case-court-extends-ncb-custody-of-actor-armaan-kohli-another-accused-till-september-1-1025193.html
30-08-2021||West||Maharashtra BJP demands reopening of temples||Staging protests across Maharashtra, the opposition BJP came down heavily on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government and demanded reopening of temples with the Covid-19 situation easing.  However, the government seems to be taking no chances as it comes out of the second wave and prepares for the third wave, expected to hit in October-November.  It may be mentioned that in 2020, after the flattening of the curve first wave, the BJP staged protests and it resulted in a spat between Thackeray and state Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The government had reopened temples coinciding with Diwali festivities, however, ordered places of worship to be shut when the second wave hit in February-March 2021.  State BJP president Chandrakant Patil questioned the logic behind closure of temples. “What is the logic behind keeping temples shut but keeping liquor bars open?” asked Patil. In Mumbai, senior BJP leader and former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said that those who have taken two vaccines must be allowed to go to places of worship.   Couple of days ago, eminent Gandhian and social activist Anna Hazare has also questioned the government's stand to not reopen temples in the state and extended his support to any agitation for lifting curbs on temples. "Why is the state government not opening temples? What danger does the state government see in opening temples for people? If Covid-19 is the reason, then there are big queues outside liquor shops," he said. Throughout the day on Monday, protests were organised by the Aadhyatmik Aghadi (spiritual wing) of the BJP,  in Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, Nagpur, Pandharpur, Aurangabad and other places where agitators rang bells and blew conches. In a related development, activists of the Raj Thackeray-led MNS staged a protest in neighbouring Thane against the state government’s decision to not allow Dahi Handi celebrations on Tuesday. Meanwhile, state Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said, “We need to take learnings from Kerala which saw a massive spike in Covid cases, a whooping 31,000 cases a day after Onam. We have to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour.” He also said that the Centre has asked all precautions to be followed during the festive season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-demands-reopening-of-temples-1025202.html
30-08-2021||West||'Don't want to be another Stan Swamy': Sachin Vaze gets court nod for private hospital treatment||A special court on Monday refused to grant the NIA the custody of dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze for questioning in the Antilia bomb scare case and allowed him to get admitted at a private hospital for treatment of his heart ailment after he said he doesn't want to become "another Stan Swamy". Special judge Prashant R Sitre permitted Vaze (49), who is currently in jail under judicial custody, to get admitted to a private hospital in Thane for treatment for his heart ailment. The cost of such treatment is to be borne by Vaze and his family, the court said. Vaze, through his lawyer, senior advocate Sudeep Pasbola, had earlier told the court that three of his arteries had "90 per cent blockage" and that doctors had advised immediate surgery for the same. He urged the court to permit him to seek private medical treatment, saying he did not wish to "die in custody like (tribal rights activist and Jesuit priest) Stan Swamy". Swamy (84), an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case, had died on July 5 in a private hospital in suburban Bandra, while awaiting medical bail. Last week, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had filed an application before the special court seeking the custody of Vaze for two days, and of his co-accused and former police officer Sunil Mane for five days in the Antilia bomb scare case. Vaze and Mane, along with eight other accused in the case, are currently in judicial custody. The special court on Monday also refused to grant the NIA, Mane's custody. Previously, the central agency had Vaze in its custody for 28 days and Mane for 15 days. On Monday, the NIA sought further custody, saying it required to question Vaze and Mane to corroborate statements of witnesses. Advocate Pasbola, however, objected to the same and said doctors at government-run JJ Hospital in the metropolis, where Vaze had been taken from Navi Mumbai's Taloja jail prison earlier this month, had advised him to undergo a bypass surgery without any delay. Pasbola produced three medical reports to show Vaze's need for immediate medical aid. He said nothing was more important than a person's life and that the NIA's probe would be futile if Vaze died awaiting medical treatment. "Nothing is more important than the life of a person. The investigation will be futile if the person does not survive," Pasbola said. "We don't want him to become another Stan Swamy," he said. The judge then asked Vaze, who had been produced before the court, if he wished to say anything. Vaze said in Marathi then that he did not want to become "another Stan Swamy." The court, in its order, directed the Taloja prison authorities to take Vaze to the private SS Hospital and Research Centre in Bhiwandi town of Thane district for treatment. It also directed the Taloja prison Superintendent to submit Vaze's medical report before the court every 15 days if the former police officer was admitted to the hospital. An explosives-laden vehicle was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai residence on February 25. Mansukh Hiren, a Thane-based businessman, had claimed to be the owner of the vehicle. Hiren, who had said his vehicle had been stolen a week earlier, was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. The NIA claimed Vaze was involved in the planting of the explosives and Hiren's murder and arrested him on March 13. He was later dismissed from police service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-want-to-be-another-stan-swamy-sachin-vaze-gets-court-nod-for-private-hospital-treatment-1025224.html
