31-08-2021||First Edit||Welcome clarity on ‘creamy layer’||The Supreme Court’s ruling that economic criterion cannot be the sole basis to identify the “creamy layer’’ among the backward classes is a reiteration of the directions it had given in the Indra Sawhney judgement of 1992. It was the 1992 ruling that introduced the idea of creamy layer into the process of implementation of reservations for the Other Backward Classes (OBC). While upholding the grant of 27% reservations for the OBCs, the court had also directed that those who belonged to the creamy layer should not be given the benefit. It defined and explained the concept and has now reiterated the explanation in a ruling made last week that quashed two Haryana government notifications specifying the criterion for determining it solely on the basis of the annual income of the family. The notion that creamy layer is an economic concept is widely prevalent, and the court has done well to make its idea clear.  The court ruled that the Haryana government’s notifications were bad because they reduced the court’s criteria to a single measure. The Indra Sawhney judgement had laid down a set of criteria for identification, including being the children of high-ranking constitutional functionaries, government employees of a certain rank, those affluent enough to employ others or those that had significant property and agricultural holdings, along with an identified annual income. This derived from the idea of socio-economic backwardness which is the basis of reservations, as distinct from economic backwardness. The Haryana government had notified that the children of citizens who had a gross annual income of up to Rs 3 lakh were to be given preference in getting the benefit of reservation and what remained in the remaining quota would go to the children of those who earned more than Rs 3 lakh but less than Rs 6 lakh per year. There was no legal reason for reducing the criterion to income only and then dividing it. The Punjab and Haryana High Court had struck down the notifications, specifically mentioning that the sub-categorisation of the “non-creamy layer’’ was unconstitutional and unsupported by data. The Supreme Court has upheld the ruling. It has also told the state government to formulate fresh criteria on the basis of its ruling.  The current income ceiling for OBC reservations is Rs 8 lakh. There is a proposal to raise it to make up for depreciation by inflation. Backwardness as envisaged by the Constitution is a socio-economic condition and it should not be broken up into a solely social or a purely economic state. The criteria might change as society changes, and no set of criteria can accurately measure backwardness. But it is important not to make easy measurements and untenable innovations as the Haryana government did.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/welcome-clarity-on-creamy-layer-1025286.html
31-08-2021||In Perspective||Education is key to a healthy democracy||In a democratic country, people elect their representatives to work for a quality life and inclusive growth opportunities for them. The quality of the public representatives, in turn, depends on the quality of the people who vote for them. So, the root cause of problems as well as solutions lies with the voters. They must be properly educated to choose their leaders.   The New Education Policy points out that nearly five crore children in elementary schools do not have foundational literacy and numeracy skills. As per ASER 2017, a large portion of students surveyed had trouble with the foundational skills of reading and doing arithmetic, fared poorly in abilities of calculating and telling time. Only a little over 50% of children enrolled in schools make it to Class 12; less than half of them enter higher education. Millions of children in India do not follow NCERT syllabus, which includes study of literature, history, social science, geography, English and fine arts, etc., along with math and science; children are supposed to study those subjects to become rounded, responsible citizens. The government should ensure quality education up to Class 12 through a uniform NCERT syllabus for at least 70% of the population; it will have a positive impact on democracy, governance and self-employment. Retired government servants, senior teachers, educated youth and media should contribute to achieve this objective. Like poor education, poverty also allows democracy to malfunction. The poor feel that casting votes responsibly won’t change their lives. They have only one immediate worry -- how to survive with the bare minimum facilities they can access, forget about quality food, health and education. So, they fall victim to vote-bank politics for free food and freebies. The pandemic has intensified poverty and unemployment. According to a study conducted by Azim Premji University, the daily earnings of 230 million people slipped below the national minimum wage threshold of Rs 320. The Global Hunger Index (2020) — which is calculated on the basis of total undernourishment of the population, child stunting, wasting and child mortality — ranks India 94 among 107 countries.  The central government says it has spent Rs 1,15,570 crore in 2020-21 to provide subsidised food to 80 crore people, and disputes India’s low ranking in the Global Hunger Index. The government, instead of giving food subsidies, should create the right environment for people to earn income with self-respect. In the age of automation and artificial intelligence, it may be impossible to find quality jobs for 142 crore people in industry and IT and services sectors in cities. A mostly mono-sector-based economy will push millions of unskilled villagers into the urban slums. Tapping employment opportunities in agriculture, tourism, handicrafts, weaving, fishery, pilgrimage tourism, horticulture and animal husbandry, etc., will help achieve inclusive growth. When a large number of young people leave villages for menial work in cities, it creates poverty and unrest in both urban and rural areas; old people in the families become helpless. Many economic sectors that are woven around nature look deserted. Big financial poachers take advantage of this situation and grab fertile agricultural lands and other natural resources. Villagers should be properly guided to earn incomes from the natural sector economy. When their incomes rise, quality education comes to their doorsteps; with education, people become capable of exercising adult franchise and choosing their leaders responsibly. The intelligentsia, instead of lamenting over economic, social, political and cultural decadence, should spend time to educate children so that they grow into socially and politically conscious citizens.   After 75 years of Independence, caste, language and religious divides continue to be hurdles for our democracy. They do not allow people to cast their votes with free and independent minds. The caste leaders often manipulate their voting choices; national parties accommodate caste leaders only to remain in power. In recent years, the leaders of dominant castes such as Patidars, Marathas, Kapus, Jats and Brahmins have been demanding quotas. This does not augur well for democracy. Besides, the growth of minority and majority community vote-banks blurs the capacity of voters to choose good leaders. Genuine nationalist parties must work to cement the divisions in society, not tear them apart further. The non-participation of honest and educated people in politics has also made democracy sick. Most such people know they can’t beat politicians who have money and muscle power. But, despite these adverse circumstances, well-educated people must contest elections; even their defeat will create awareness among voters and strengthen democracy. Voter awareness will contribute to inclusive democracy, which will help elect good politicians. As per the 2011 census, about 8.15% of people in India are graduates; this is too small a number to support the world’s largest democracy. The nation should have at least 30% of its population as graduates. Quality education, economic diversity and participation of honest and educated people in the election process will make India a performing democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/education-is-key-to-a-healthy-democracy-1025287.html
31-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Reduce VAT, sales tax on aviation fuel: Dakshina Kannada commerce body tells CM Bommai||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry has appealed to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai to reduce the VAT, Sales Tax on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) from 28 per cent to 1 per cent In a representation to the CM, KCCI President Isaac Vas said that Mangaluru International Airport has been serving the people of Coastal Karnataka and Malnad region and also the State of Kerala up to Kanhangad. Reports indicate an uptick in the passenger movement at the airport this month, after the long standing Covid-induced restrictions. This augurs well for the local economy. With the opening of airports nearby, a lot of concessions have been given to different airlines in their respective states to start operating from those airports, thus ensuring more airline operations and maximum passenger traffic. As far as the tax on Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) is concerned, it is subsidised to as low as 1 per cent in Kerala while it is as high as 28 per cent in Mangaluru making it unattractive for new airlines to come and start their operations to various destination, he said. The KCCI has been advocating to rationalise/reduce VAT on ATF in Karnataka for a long time. In fact, Union Minister for Civil Aviation, Jyotiraditya Scindia, in his letter to the CM recently urged him to rationalise/reduce the VAT/Sales Tax on ATF to bring it on par with neighbouring states. In his letter, Scindia said “Presently, there is a huge disparity between States, and even within States, in terms of VAT being levied on ATF. He had emphasised on the need to reduce the existing VAT/Sales Tax on ATF to 1 per cent-4 per cent at all airports with immediate effect. Besides, it is worth noting that the revenue collected by the State on account of VAT on ATF is an insignificant proportion of the overall State finances. In any case, this will be more than offset by the positive impact of air connectivity to the State through the flow of economic activities,” the letter said quoting Scindia. Further, the KCCI President also urged the government to expedite the work on the acquisition of 36 acres of land for enhancing the runway for Mangaluru International Airport which is still pending. The extension of the runway will help in the overall development of the airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reduce-vat-sales-tax-on-aviation-fuel-dakshina-kannada-commerce-body-tells-cm-bommai-1025494.html
31-08-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two girls drown in agricultural pond in Mysuru district||Two girls slipped into an agricultural pond and drowned at Kitturu Doddegowdanakoppal village, near Bettadapura, Periyapatna taluk, Mysuru district, on Monday evening. The deceased are Nisha (10), daughter of Gopalegowda and Akshitha (10), daughter of Venkatesh of the village. According to sources, the girls were neighbours and had gone to the farm to watch tractors plough a field. They might have slipped and drowned while playing near the 10-feett deep pond dug to water the tobacco crop, it is said. When they did not return home till evening, the parents started searching for them in the village. When they went to search near the farm at around 8 pm, they found the bodies floating in the pond.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-girls-drown-in-agricultural-pond-in-mysuru-district-1025506.html
31-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||G T Devegowda’s demand to be discussed with top brass: Siddaramaiah||The Congress is said to be in a fix over Chamundeshwari MLA and former JD(S) minister G T Devegowda’s (GTD) demand to be given two tickets -- one for himself and another for his son -- as a prerequisite to join the party.  “We will have to talk to the high command about the demand for two tickets,” Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah told reporters.  “It’s true that (Devegowda) has spoken to me and (KPCC president) D K Shivakumar about him joining the party. I said we will discuss it with AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala,” Siddaramaiah said.  Devegowda emerged as a giant killer in the 2018 assembly polls when he defeated Siddaramaiah in the Chamundeshwari segment in Mysuru.  The Chamundeshwari MLA has reportedly sought a ticket for himself as well as his son Harish Gowda. Apparently, Gowda wants his son to contest from Hunsur, K R Nagar or Chamaraja constituencies in Mysuru district.  “No decision has been made yet,” Siddaramaiah said when asked if Gowda’s entry would ruin his own chance of returning to Chamundeshwari, which was once his home turf.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/g-t-devegowda-s-demand-to-be-discussed-with-top-brass-siddaramaiah-1025572.html
31-08-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sand transported illegally to Kerala despite surveillance: Mangaluru MLA||Mangaluru MLA U T Khader alleged that sand is being illegally transported to Kerala despite strict surveillance on the border. The illegal transportation of sand is carried out unabated, he told media persons and questioned the district administration for failing to act against illegal sand transporters. “We have an ‘out of order’ and ‘not reachable’ government,” he said. On one hand, the government has made RT-PCR negative certificate mandatory for those arriving from Kerala, on the other hand illegal transportation of sand is allowed, he alleged. He urged the government to frame foolproof Covid-19 guidelines which can be implemented effectively. The district administrations and health departments of Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod districts should convene a coordination meeting, Khader demanded. Stating that there is shortage of staff especially nurses and ambulance drivers in the district, he said that the service of 108 ambulance has been affected in the district. Though the government has launched mobile applications for the convenience of accredited social health activists (ASHA), they have not been provided with smartphones, Khader said. Allow Ganesha festival District Congress Committee president and MLC K Harish Kumar urged the Karnataka government to issue a circular for allowing the Ganesha festival in the state. When the government could permission for Janashirvada Yatra of the BJP, why are they following delayed tactics to allow the celebration of festival, he sought to know.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sand-transported-illegally-to-kerala-despite-surveillance-mangaluru-mla-1025613.html
31-08-2021||Main Article||Afghan anxieties, India’s choices||We need to make certain assumptions regarding Afghanistan since during these early days the situation remains confused. Whether it will settle in a couple of weeks or a couple of months remains to be seen, but Indian reactions are needed now rather than later. The first assumption is that the Taliban will establish their rule, if not over the whole country, at least over enough of it to be considered the governing authority. The second assumption is that at least in the early stages, they will need wide international recognition and legitimacy, and they will not try to proceed alone, as they did 25 years ago when they were recognised only by the UAE, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. The third assumption is that due to this, they will conduct themselves with reasonable propriety, within the framework of Sharia law, and distance themselves from the fanatics who ran Afghanistan from 1996 to 2001. The major problem is the presence of the Islamic State (IS), al-Qaeda, Lashkar-e-Taiba and other Islamist militants. The malign Haqqani Network is very much part of the Taliban leadership. Reference to the Taliban of 25 to 20 years ago is relevant because the Indian experience – when, too, the BJP was in power – was highly negative. The Taliban were considered an adjunct of the Pakistani army, suspected of terror activities in Kashmir, and they were involved in the Pakistani hijacking of an Indian plane which ended in Kandahar. Old memories lead to deep suspicions and aversion of the Taliban. India faces an adverse geopolitical situation. It was comfortable with the US and NATO attacks on the Taliban after 2001 and the US/NATO presence in Afghanistan thereafter, but the Americans have now departed. India has spent about $3 billion on civil infrastructure in Afghanistan for the benefit of the Afghan people, which is at risk of destruction or misuse. The Taliban leadership has been touring world capitals such as Doha, Moscow, Istanbul, Tehran, Beijing and Islamabad recently, but was based in Pakistan, which was instrumental in bringing them to the Doha talks with the US, at which we were not present. The Taliban practice orthodox Sunni Islam which, with the support of Pakistan to it, might have implications for India, especially in Muslim-majority Kashmir. There are hints that India has been in touch with the Taliban, but the Talibs were never invited to Delhi whereas they have been to all other regional capitals. We withdrew our embassy totally within hours of the Taliban takeover although all the other regional players and Russia remained in Kabul and held discussions with the Taliban. This places us at a serious disadvantage. Given the three assumptions, what are our options? The US presumed over the past two years that the Taliban would form the Afghan government. The Doha talks were predicated on that assumption, but we remained unprepared for the Taliban takeover. The supposed resistance in Afghanistan is wishful thinking and it will get nowhere without external support, which is doubtful. The Afghans only want peace after the endless war since 1980. Will the US invest again in the same merry-go-round? The threat to the Taliban will be from even more extreme militants, and countries may back the Taliban against the IS, al-Qaeda and other terrorists. For this, the Taliban will need foreign intelligence and material help. The second assumption concerned legitimacy. Diplomatic practice is that a group that controls the major part of any country is recognised, and the Taliban ‘emirate’ will qualify. No one has recognised the Taliban so far, but there are hints that recognition from China, Pakistan, Qatar, Turkey and Russia may be forthcoming. Paradoxically, the Taliban may be helped by the IS terror bombing in garnering support. Western countries and the UN will wait until assurances by the Taliban of peace, inclusivity and human rights are implemented. From India’s viewpoint, there is no urgency, and we can wait; probably, the Taliban will not expect early Indian recognition. The third assumption was that the Taliban would present a civilised front provided it is able to control its foot-soldiers, because it knows that legitimacy depends on this, and so do aid flows. China, Qatar and Pakistan alone cannot attend to the hunger, health and social problems of Afghanistan’s abject poverty. The past is never a good guide to the future. We have to forget what happened when the Taliban was last in power and judge whether engagement with them serves our interests. We do not need to trust the Taliban, but to observe their behaviour. We have relations with countries that have deplorable records, and we are not angels ourselves. It was a mistake to close our embassy. We need to be there in Kabul as the richest, strongest SAARC country, and Afghanistan is a SAARC member. Indians are the most popular foreigners for Afghan people because we never tried to dominate or oppress them. We should open a discussion with the Taliban on our interests and expectations, and their intentions. Pakistan is the most influential country now, but this will not last forever. There is no reason to abdicate our space to the Pakistanis or the Chinese. India’s opinion is important, its decisions are important. We cannot influence events by watching events from afar. We need to be in Kabul, have discussions with the Taliban and observe events on the spot. We have embassies in many other dangerous places, and Kabul was probably our best-protected embassy. We need to return to bilateral business as soon as possible. Our flag must fly in Afghanistan. This is not possible without having dealings with the Taliban. (The writer is a former foreign secretary)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/afghan-anxieties-india-s-choices-1025288.html
31-08-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru gang-rape accused arrested earlier in theft cases: Report||With this, the police are now looking at the possibility of the sandalwood theft gang’s involvement in other attacks and robberies in Mysuru. A key accused in the gang-rape of a student and assault on her male friend in Lalithadripura near Chamundi Hills road of Mysuru, Bhupathi, alias Keeri (24), a resident of Talavadi town in Tamil Nadu’s Erode district, was nabbed along with three others on January 8 after Mysuru police seized 40 kg sandalwood pieces worth Rs 5.5 lakh from a car with Tamil Nadu registration. "He was on the (police) radar, but not for crimes against women. He was out on bail," the officer added. In 2019, Bhupathi and an associate, Praveen Kumar, alias Thambi, 20, were accused of stealing sandalwood trees from the premises of Sandalwood Oil Factory and the Forest Department, respectively, in Mysuru. In another case registered last year, the duo was accused of stealing a sandalwood tree from the home of a Mysuru resident named Chirag Mehta on July 9-10 night. Bhupathi got bail in the latest sandalwood theft and smuggling case on January 30, while he was released on bail in the earlier cases on February 26 this year. According to the report, a bus ticket for travel between Talavadi in Tamil Nadu and Chamarajnagar, Karnataka, was a vital clue that led to the arrest of Bhupathi and four other suspects from Tamil Nadu on August 28.  Police sources told the publication that the ticket found at the crime scene and cell tower information of Tamil Nadu phones that were in use at the crime spot led police to the suspects. Bhupathi and Praveen Kumar were due to attend a court hearing in connection with the sandalwood theft cases on August 27 this year, as per the report.  “The accused are between 17 and 28 years. They have confessed to having committed similar crimes in the past and were confident they would not get caught because of fear of exposure among victims,” a source told the publication, adding that the police suspect the accused recorded videos and were blackmailing victims to prevent police reports. The Forensic Science Laboratory team is looking at the mobile phones of the accused, the source added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-gang-rape-accused-arrested-earlier-in-theft-cases-report-1025383.html
31-08-2021||National||India chairs discussion on UNSC draft bill not recognising Taliban takeover||India on Monday chaired a United Nations Security Council (UNSC) session, which discussed a draft resolution that stopped short of recognising the Taliban’s takeover of power in Afghanistan and requested the militant organisation to reopen the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul and ensure its security. The draft resolution moved by the United States, United Kingdom and France at the UNSC stated that the council would expect the Taliban to keep its promise to allow the citizens of Afghanistan to leave the war-torn country. It sought to request the Taliban that the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul should be reopened with adequate security. It also reminded the Taliban of its recent statement that the Afghans, who would like to leave the country, could do so with valid travel documents. The draft resolution has been discussed at the UNSC session, according to the latest report. India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla chaired the UNSC session at the headquarters of the United Nations in New York on Monday. India, currently a non-permanent member of the UNSC, has been holding the rotating presidency of the council since August 1. Its current term as the UNSC president will end on Tuesday, although it will continue to be a member of the council till December 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-chairs-discussion-on-unsc-draft-bill-not-recognising-taliban-takeover-1025315.html
31-08-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Break farmers' heads for PM's Sabka Prayas?'||Farmer leaders on Sunday slammed the Haryana bureaucrat ordering police to “crack the heads” of protestors as ‘Sarkari Talibani’ even as Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala promised action against the officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-break-farmers-heads-for-pms-sabka-prayas-1025330.html
31-08-2021||National||Govt returns 14 names recommended by collegium for elevation as HC judges||The government is learnt to have returned to the Supreme Court collegium names of 14 advocates it had recommended for elevation as high court judges. Sources in the government said all the names were returned with a request to reconsider within a span of one week sometime in end of July and early August. But the recommendations by the apex court collegium were made nearly a year ago. In some cases the recommendations were made over a year ago. The names for elevation were made for the high courts of Delhi, Calcutta, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka and Kerala, the sources said without elaborating. In written reply to a question in Rajya Sabha during the Monsoon session of Parliament, Law Minister Kiren Rijiju had said during the last one year, the Supreme Court collegium recommended 80 names for appointment as judges of various high courts, out of which 45 judges were appointed and the remaining proposals are under various stages of processing. He had said that between July 1, 2020, and July 15, 2021, the Supreme Court collegium made 80 recommendations for appointment of judges in various high courts. Out of these, 45 "recommendees" were appointed by the government as high court judges and the "remaining proposals are under various stages of processing with the government and the SC Collegium", Rijiju had said. India has 25 high courts with a sanctioned strength of 1,098 judges. The working strength as on August 1 stands at 643 -- a shortfall of 455 judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-returns-14-names-recommended-by-collegium-for-elevation-as-hc-judges-1025343.html
31-08-2021||National||UNSC resolution against terrorism in Afghanistan applies to JeM, LeT: Shringla||The UN Security Council has demanded that the Taliban should not allow terrorists to use its territory for attacks against other countries and this would apply to the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), according to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla. The resolution was adopted on Monday under India's presidency by a divided Council where China and Russia were the outliers who abstained on the vote on the resolution, but refraining from vetoing it in view of the overwhelming global support for the sentiments behind it. All the other 13 members voted for it. India played a "constructive and bridging" role at the Council and worked to the "extent possible for consensus-based" outcomes, Shringla said and this diplomacy was evident in saving the resolution proposed by the US, Britain and France from a veto by China and Russia, even as they expressed their opposition. "Today's UN Security Council Resolution, therefore, is a very important and timely pronouncement coming as it does during India's Presidency of the UN Security Council," Shringla told reporters outside the Security Council after presiding over the meeting on Afghanistan. The resolution also demanded that the Taliban uphold human rights, provide safe passage to those who want to leave Afghanistan and allow humanitarian aid. Shringla said that India was "extremely happy" with the resolution as it "highlights the will of the Council to take necessary steps that are very important for the international community in its engagement with Afghanistan." The Council action came while the clocks 10,000 km away in Afghanistan rolled past midnight into August 31, the deadline President Joe Biden had set for his country's withdrawal from there, and the last C-17 aircraft took off from Kabul International Airport. "Tonight's withdrawal signifies both the end of the military component of the evacuation but also the end of the nearly 20-year mission that began in Afghanistan shortly after September 11, 2001," declared General Kenneth McKenzie, the commander of the US Central Command. At UN, Shringla said, "I want to highlight the fact that the resolution makes it very clear that Afghan territory should not be used to threaten or attack any other country. In particular, it also underlines the importance of combating terrorism." "It also refers to those individuals and entities been designated under Security Council resolution 1267 (as terrorists)", he said, adding, "And in that context I may mention that the LeT and the JeM, are UN Security Council proscribed entities, terror entities that need to be called out, and condemned in the strongest possible terms." The Council is "unequivocal" on terrorism, he said. The resolution said that Afghanistan "not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts." "And I think that also reflects the views of council members, as we understand it from the discussions," Shringla said. Although they had differences with other aspects of the resolution, Russia's Permanent Respresentative Vassily Nenenzia and China's Deputy Permanent Representative Geng Shuang joined in demanding in very strong terms in their speeches after their vote that the Taliban not allow terrorists to operate from its territory. US Permanent Representative Linda Thomas-Greefield told reporters, "The Security Council reiterates its enduring call on the importance of counter-terrorism." "Afghanistan can never again become a safe haven for terrorism," she said. While the Council expects the Taliban to allow those who want to leave, she said that "this resolution also affirms the Security Council's enduring commitment to those who remain" adding that "we cannot airlift an entire country to safety. This is the moment where diplomacy has to step up." "We need to ensure Afghanistan respects the inalienable rights of its people e including women, girls, and minorities," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unsc-resolution-against-terrorism-in-afghanistan-applies-to-jem-let-shringla-1025355.html
31-08-2021||National||Daily infections fall as India logs 30,941 new Covid-19 cases, 350 deaths||With 30,941 people testing positive for coronavirus, India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 3,27,68,880, while the active cases declined to 3,70,640, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The death toll has climbed to 4,38,560 with 350 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Of these, Kerala alone reported 19,622 cases and 132 deaths. The active cases comprise 1.13 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.53 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 5,684 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 13,94,573 tests were conducted on Monday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 52,15,41,098. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.22 per cent.The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.51 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 67 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,19,59,680, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulatively, 64.05 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered under the nationwide vaccination drive till Tuesday morning. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 350 new fatalities include 132 from Kerala, 67 from Odisha and from 52  from Maharashtra. A total of 4,38,560 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,37,20 from Maharashtra, 37,293 from Karnataka, 34,899 from Tamil Nadu, 25,081 from Delhi, 22,820 from Uttar Pradesh, 20,673 from Kerala and 18,434 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.   Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/daily-infections-fall-as-india-logs-30941-new-covid-19-cases-350-deaths-1025362.html
31-08-2021||National||Nine new SC judges administered oath of office||For the first time in history of the Supreme Court, nine new judges, including three women, were administered the oath of office on Tuesday, taking the number of judges in the top court to 33. All the judges also joined the bench after the ceremony organised at the auditorium in the Supreme Court's additional building. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana administered the oath to the judges in order of seniority. For the first time, the venue of the ceremony, usually held in CJI's courtroom, was shifted to the auditorium and telecast live. According to the official sources, this was done keeping in view the need for strict adherence to Covid norms.  Justices A S Oka, Vikram Nath, J K Maheshwari, Hima Kohli, B V Nagarathna, C T Ravikumar, M M Sundresh, Bela Trivedi and senior advocate P S Narsimha took the oath one by one in the programme. Of these nine judges, Justices Vikram Nath, and B V Nagarathna and Narsimha would assume the office of the CJI in future.  Here are brief profiles of new SC judges: Justice Abhay S Oka: Born on May 25, 1960, he was enrolled as an advocate on June 28, 1983, and practiced in the Bombay High Court in civil, constitutional and service matters. He was appointed as an Additional Judge of the Bombay High Court on August 29, 2003, and as permanent Judge on November 12, 2005. He was elevated as Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court on May 10, 2019. As Chief Justice of Karnataka HC, he delivered several orders on civil liberties. He took the government to task during Covid-19 pandemic on the issue of migrant workers. He also passed orders to ensure potholes-free road in Bengaluru. Justice Vikram Nath: Born on September 24, 1962, he got enrolled as an advocate on March 30, 1987. He practiced in the Allahabad High Court in civil, revenue, constitutional, company and service matters and specialised in company, revenue and civil matters. He was appointed as an Additional Judge of the Allahabad High Court on September 24, 2004, and as Permanent Judge on February 27, 2006. He was appointed as Chief Justice of the Gujarat High Court on September 10, 2019. He would assume the office of CJI in 2027 for about seven months. As Chief Justice of Gujarat HC, Justice Nath took the path-breaking initiative of live streaming proceedings. He also headed the bench that recently stayed some provisions of Gujarat law related to check inter-faith marriage, saying it would not apply to alliances made without force, allurement or fraudulent means. Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheshwari:  Born on June 29, 1961, he was enrolled as an advocate on November 22, 1985, and practiced in Madhya Pradesh High Court Bench at Gwalior in civil, constitutional, taxation, labour, company, service and criminal matters and had specialised in constitutional, service and taxation matters. He was appointed as an Additional Judge of the Madhya Pradesh High Court on November 25, 2005 and as permanent judge on November 25, 2008. He was appointed as Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court on October 7, 2019. He was transferred to Sikkim High Court on January 6, 2021. As Andhra Pradesh HC chief justice, he passed orders to ensure protection of health workers and migrant labourers during the Covid-19 pandemic. He also delivered a judgement holding freedom of speech included to right to opt medium of instruction in mother tongue. Kumari Justice Hima Kohli: Born on September 2, 1959, she enrolled herself as an advocate on September 20, 1984. She practiced in the Delhi High Court in civil, constitutional, labour, company and service matters. Her field of specialisation was civil matters. She was appointed as an Additional Judge of the Delhi High Court on May 29, 2006, and as permanent judge on August 29, 2007. She was appointed as Chief Justice of the High Court for the State of Telangana on January 7, 2021. As Chief Justice of Telangana HC, she passed several orders to ensure sufficient supply of liquid oxygen and other supplies to ensure proper management of the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Bangalore Venkataramiah Nagarathna: Born on October 30, 1962, she was enrolled as an advocate on October 28, 1987, and practiced before the Supreme Court of India, High Court of Karnataka, Central and State Administrative Tribunals and Consumer Redressal Commission, and Company Law Board, New Delhi, in all branches of civil side, constitutional law, service law, public and administrative law, arbitration and conciliation, and rent laws. She specialised in constitutional, administrative, service, insurance, family laws and education matters. She was appointed as an Additional Judge of the Karnataka High Court on February 18, 2008, and as permanent judge on February 17, 2010. She would become the first woman CJI for a brief period of 36 days. Thus, she will be following in the footsteps of her father E S Venkataramiah, who was the CJI between June 1989 and December 1989.  Justice Chudalayil Thevan Ravikumar: Born on January 6, 1960, he enrolled himself as an advocate on July 12, 1986, and practiced in High Court of Kerala and Subordinate Courts in civil, criminal, constitutional, labour and service matters. He was appointed as an Additional Judge of the Kerala High Court on January 5, 2009 and Permanent Judge on December 15, 2010. Justice M M Sundresh: Born on July 21, 1962, he was enrolled as an advocate on September 11, 1985, and practiced in Madras High Court, Chennai in civil, criminal, constitutional and service matters. He specialised in civil, appellate side and writs. He was appointed as an Additional Judge of the Madras High Court on March 31, 2009 and as Permanent Judge on March 29, 2011. Justice Bela Madhurya Trivedi: Born on June 10, 1960, she was enrolled as an advocate on September 18, 1983. She practiced in civil, criminal and constitutional matters in Gujarat High Court and specialised in civil and constitutional matters. She was appointed as Judge, City Civil and Sessions Court, Ahmedabad, on July 10, 1995 and served in various capacities at different places as a judicial officer. She was appointed as an Additional Judge of the Gujarat High Court on February 17, 2011 and transferred to Rajasthan High Court on June 26, 2011. She was appointed as Permanent Judge on February 6, 2013. She was repatriated to Gujarat High Court on February 9, 2016. Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha: Born on May 3, 1963, he was enrolled as advocate with Bar Council of Andhra Pradesh on August 25, 1988 and practiced in Andhra Pradesh High Court till 1990 and shifted practice to Supreme Court of India in 1990. He was designated as senior advocate by the Full Court of the Supreme Court of India. He was appointed as Additional Solicitor General of India from June 2014 to December 2018. He would don the role of CJI in 2027 between October 30, 2027 and May, 2028. He is ninth Supreme Court judge to be directly appointed from the Bar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-new-sc-judges-administered-oath-of-office-1025376.html
31-08-2021||National||Rahul says revamped Jalliawala Bagh memorial insult to martyrs, Captain says it looks nice||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday appeared to contradict top Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's "insult to martyrs" comment on the renovated Jallianwala Bagh memorial, as he found the revamped complex "very nice", even as Opposition leaders found fault with the Narendra Modi government project. Rahul targeted Modi saying that only a person who does not know the meaning of martyrdom can inflict such an insult on the memory of martyrs Rahul's remarks came following outrage in social media over the changes made at the Jallianwala Bagh memorial complex as part of renovation carried out by the Modi government. Modi had on Saturday dedicated to the nation the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh memorial. However, Singh described the renovated memorial as a "tribute to the great martyrs and a symbol of inspiration for the youth" and "an everlasting symbol of non-violent and peaceful struggle for the freedom of India", which stands testimony to "one of the most barbaric acts of violence and State oppression" perpetrated on a group of peacefully assembled people." Singh was quoted by ANI as saying, "I don't know what has been removed. To me it looks very nice." CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury also described the revamp as "insulting our martyrs". He said, "Jallianwala Bagh massacre of Hindus Muslims, Sikhs who gathered together for Baisakhi galvanised our freedom struggle. Every brick here permeated the horror of British rule. Only those who stayed away from the epic freedom struggle can scandalise thus." "The precursor to what to expect when the Central Vista - Modiabad - emerges in New Delhi...Parliament building that redeemed our 'tryst with destiny' reduced to a museum showcasing glory of 'India that once was'. Destroying everything that was built by our secular democratic Republic during the last 75 years," he said in tweets. Congress' Deputy Leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi tweeted, "call me a traditional Indian but I am not a fan of installing disco lights on institutions of importance and dignity. Such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh Smarak to base entertainment. Similarly the strobe lights on Parliament are also appalling." Congress leader Jaiveer Shergill claimed the BJP government giving a makeover to the "Jallianwala passage is not to preserve but erase the marks of atrocities committed by General Dyer during British rule...Central vistafication of Jallianwala Bagh passage is ultimate insult to those killed on that fatal day! Shame." Historian S Irfan Habib called it "corporatisation of monuments, where they end up as modern structures, losing the heritage value. Look after them without meddling with the flavours of the period these memorials represent." Musician Vishal Dadlani tweeted, "Grateful that I visited Jallianwala Bagh before this shameful desecration. When I went, it was packed, but there was a sombre silence in memoriam of those we'd lost. We wept at the sight of the bullet-holes in the plain walls. Can't believe what this clueless government has done."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-says-revamped-jalliawala-bagh-memorial-insult-to-martyrs-captain-says-it-looks-nice-1025377.html
31-08-2021||National||Google removed 95,680 content pieces in India last month||Google on Tuesday said it received 36,934 complaints from users and removed 95,680 pieces of content based on those complaints in July in India. The US based tech giant in its monthly transparency report said that apart from the reports from users, it also removed 5,76,892 pieces of content in July as a result of automated detection. The company made these disclosures as per compliance of India's IT rules that came into force on May 26. Google said it had received 36,934 complaints in July from individual users located in India via designated mechanisms, and the number of removal actions as a result of user complaints was 95,680 - the highest so far. In June, the company said it had received 36,265 complaints and removed 83,613 pieces of content as a result of user complaints. It had removed 59,350 pieces of content in April and 71,132 pieces in May. Giving details for reasons for removal of contents, the company said, "Some requests may allege infringement of intellectual property rights, while others claim violation of local laws prohibiting types of content on grounds such as defamation.” The content removal was done under several categories, including copyright (94,862), trademark (807), court order (4), circumvention (3), counterfeit (1), graphic sexual content (1), impersonation (1) and other legal request (1). As per the social media intermediary rules, large digital platforms – having over 5 million users - have to publish periodic compliance reports every month, mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon. The company said for data related to automated detection processes, it has included data where the sender or creator of the content is located in India. "In order to attribute a location to an individual sender or creator, we use data signals such as location of account creation, IP address at the time of video upload and user phone number, as available. Please note that senders or creators of content may attempt to evade detection through location-concealing mechanisms," it said. While Google is committed to revealing any bad actors through industry-leading detection tools, reporting based on location attribution should be interpreted as a directional estimate, it added. The company noted that when it receives complaints regarding content on its platforms, it assesses them carefully. "There are many reasons we may not have removed content in response to a user complaint. For example, some requests may not be specific enough for us to know what the user wanted us to remove (for example, no URL is listed in the request), or the content has already been removed by the user when we process the complaint," it explained. A removal action may be taken on a complaint if the content violates Google's Community Guidelines, content policies, or local legal requirements, while for automated detection processes, a removal action is taken if content violates its Community Guidelines or content policies, it added. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-removed-95680-content-pieces-in-india-last-month-1025381.html
31-08-2021||National||Intensity of third Covid-19 wave in India has experts divided: Report||As the government gears up for a possible third Covid-19 wave that is predicted to hit the country any time between September and October, experts stand divided on the intensity of the wave.  While an expert panel, set up by the National Institute of Disaster Management under the Ministry of Home Affairs, said that during the third wave children will be at similar risk as adults since paediatric facilities, doctors and equipment like ventilators and ambulances are nowhere close to what may be required in case a large number of them become infected, two of India's foremost experts strongly differed in their assessments. The panel, in its assessment submitted to the Prime Minister's Office, noted that the percentage of fully vaccinated people in the country is very low. It suggested the pace of vaccination be ramped up, failing which India could witness up to six lakh cases per day in the next wave. Jameel believes that the timing and magnitude of the third wave will depend upon how well we continue to follow Covid-19 protocols, how fast the government is able to vaccinate the population at risk and whether the virus will mutate into a variant that effectively escapes pre-existing immunity.  He cautioned against various gatherings during Dussehra-Diwali, which could facilitate the virus to spread further if Covid-19-appropriate behaviour is not being followed.  Another expert, K Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India and member of the national Covid-19 task force, too said that the severity of the third wave in India is subject to many variable factors. "They are related to the number of susceptible persons in different parts of the country, how many of those persons will expose themselves to the virus by not following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, how many super-spreader gatherings the authorities fail to prevent, how many of those who are infected become symptomatic and are properly tested and isolated, how contacts too quarantine themselves and whether new variants will enter the country from outside or will emerge from within the country," he told the publication. Reddy pointed out that the number of susceptible persons will vary across the country, depending on how many persons have been already infected or vaccinated. "With travel having resumed, even these numbers will change as people enter or exit a location. In such a complex adaptive system, linear models will not work well. Instead of speculative debates, we should focus our collective will and energy on controlling each of the factors that can lead to a third wave. If we do so, the third wave will be a ripple rather than a tidal wave, whenever it comes," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intensity-of-third-covid-19-wave-in-india-has-experts-divided-report-1025392.html
31-08-2021||National||PM Modi constitutes high-level group to monitor Afghanistan developments||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has constituted a high-level group comprising his National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and the senior officials to monitor the evolving situation in Afghanistan. Sources said the group had been asked to focus on New Delhi’s immediate priorities of repatriating India’s citizens from Afghanistan as well as evacuating the citizens of Afghanistan, especially the minority Sikhs and Hindus. New Delhi is also keen to ensure that the territory of Afghanistan is not used in any manner for terrorism directed against India. The high-level group constituted by the PM has been monitoring the ground situation in Afghanistan and international reactions, including the resolution adopted by the United Nations Security Council on Monday, sources said. The US on Tuesday completed the withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan, ending a two-decade war and leaving the country in the hands of the Taliban. There is still no clarity on the formation of a government in Kabul, over two weeks after the Taliban seized control of the Afghan capital city.  The UN Security Council, under India's presidency, on Monday adopted a resolution demanding that territory of Afghanistan not be used to threaten any country or shelter terrorists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-constitutes-high-level-group-to-monitor-afghanistan-developments-1025418.html
31-08-2021||National||Jallianwala Bagh memorial 'revamp' shocks many||On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 'revamped' memorial to 'honour' the Jallianwala Bagh massacre martyrs. Modi also unveiled a new entrance, and light and sound show at the venue. "Join me as we inaugurate the renovated complex of Jallianwala Bagh Smarak today at 6:25 pm. I also invite you to watch the sound and light show. It would display the horrific massacre of April 1919 and instil a spirit of gratitude and reverence towards the martyrs", the PM had tweeted on August 28. However, the move did not go well with several netizens and Opposition leaders who expressed their anguish and shock on Twitter. Opposition leader Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to slam the government's choices. "Such an insult to the martyrs of Jallianwala Bagh can only be done by those who do not know the meaning of martyrdom. I am the son of a martyr - I will not tolerate the insult of martyrs at any cost. We are against this indecent cruelty", the Congress leader wrote in Hindi. जलियाँवाला बाग़ के शहीदों का ऐसा अपमान वही कर सकता है जो शहादत का मतलब नहीं जानता। मैं एक शहीद का बेटा हूँ- शहीदों का अपमान किसी क़ीमत पर सहन नहीं करूँगा। Another Congress member, Gaurav Gogoi, wrote, "call me a traditional Indian but I am not a fan of installing disco lights on institutions of importance and dignity. Such pomp reduces the gravity and horror of the Jallianwala Bagh Smarak to base entertainment. Similarly the strobe lights on Parliament are also appalling". Bewildered citizens penned down their thoughts on the issue as well. "This is desecration at best and forceful erosion of history at worst", wrote one Twitter user. I have a fond memory of travelling with my dad to Jalianwala Bagh. As a young boy, the site painted a eerie picture of massacre to come. The well, the bullet holes stood a witness. Another individual compared the 'revamped' memorial to a Holocaust memorial for Jews, pointing out the stark differences. "This is Holocaust memorial— bulit to honour the memory of millions of Jews who were exterminated by Nazis during the Holocaust. More importantly, there's no light and sound show here", tweeted the user. More netizens chimed in with similar views. Next, the graveyards/ cremation grounds in the country will have sound and light show to show gratitude to deads.There will be food courts and game zones for kids,so that they feel amused and entertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jallianwala-bagh-memorial-revamp-shocks-many-1025442.html
31-08-2021||National||L&T concludes divestment of entire stake in 99 MW hydro plant at Uttarakhand to ReNew Power||Larsen & Toubro (L&T) on Tuesday said it has concluded the divestment of its entire stake in 99 MW hydro power plant at Singoli-Bhatwari in Uttarakhand to ReNew Power Services Private Limited. L&T received a consideration of Rs 1,001.50 crore as divestment proceeds. The stake sale was completed following the completion of customary conditions precedent agreed under the Securities Purchase Agreement dated August 11, 2021. "L&T concluded the divestment of its 100 per cent stake in the 3 x 33 MW (99 MW) hydroelectric power plant at Singoli-Bhatwari in Uttarakhand," a company statement said. As per the terms of the EPC Project, the hi-tech manufacturing and services conglomerate received a consideration of Rs 1,001.50 crore as divestment proceeds from Renew Power on August 30, 2021. This deal is in line with the company's strategy to pursue the divestment path for all non-core assets in its portfolio. D K Sen, Whole-time Director & Sr Executive Vice President (Development Projects), L&T, said the company has already identified its non-core assets in Nabha Power, a 2x700 MW supercritical thermal power plant at Rajpura, Punjab, L&T Infrastructure Development Projects Ltd, its subsidiary primarily engaged in road projects and power transmission lines and Hyderabad Metro, the largest Public-Private Partnership project in the Metro rail sector, for divestment. "We will work out the divestment process of all these assets over a period of time," Sen said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lt-concludes-divestment-of-entire-stake-in-99-mw-hydro-plant-at-uttarakhand-to-renew-power-1025448.html
31-08-2021||National||Treat khadi as national fabric: Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday urged people to treat khadi as a national fabric and promote its use extensively. He also called upon celebrities from various fields to come forward and promote the use of khadi in a big way. The vice president was speaking at the launch of 'Khadi India Quiz Contest' organised as part of 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' by the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC). Referring to the environmental benefits of khadi, the vice president noted that it has zero carbon footprint as it does not require electricity or any kind of fuel for its manufacturing. "At a time when the world is looking for sustainable alternatives in clothing, it should be remembered that khadi as an eco-friendly and sustainable fabric certainly meets the requirement," Naidu said according to an official statement. He also called upon educational institutions to explore using khadi for uniforms. He said it will not only give students an opportunity to experience the many benefits of khadi but will also help them connect with the great freedom fighters and freedom movement. "Due to its porous texture, khadi is eminently suitable for our local climatic conditions," he said. He appealed to the youth to make khadi a fashion statement and promote its use among everyone with passion. Urging everyone to take part in the contest, he said it was an interesting way of going back to our roots as it recollects the historic moments of the freedom struggle and the unparalleled contribution of the freedom fighters. Describing India's freedom struggle as a saga of bravery, resilience and devout patriotism, the vice president recalled how Mahatma Gandhi galvanised the masses across the length and breadth of the country in the fight against colonial rule. He said India's freedom struggle was a journey of resilience and hope “which inspires us to keep moving no matter how adverse the situation gets”. Naidu expressed  happiness over the phenomenal turnaround of khadi in the last seven years and lauded the government, KVIC and all the stakeholders for accelerating the growth. The vice president recalled the historical relevance of khadi and said it was a binding force for the masses during the freedom movement. Minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Narayan Rane, Minister of State for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises  Bhanu Pratap Singh Verma were amongst those who attended the event. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/treat-khadi-as-national-fabric-venkaiah-naidu-1025449.html
31-08-2021||National||Centre may allow merging of all social security numbers: Report||The authorities think that the multiplicity of numbers needs to be rationalised and the Aadhaar-linked account number of an employee should remain the same throughout the employee’s work-cycle across sectors. A government official said, "Crowding of the universal or unique account number (UAN) will adversely impact the social security ecosystem. What is required is a one-time registration, one number and a whole work-cycle for an employee. This is on the table now." He also added that once the labour code on social security is implemented, it will be easier to work on the portability option. The idea is to have one number across several schemes of the labour ministry and this could be beneficial as they do not clash with each other. Another official said, "The labour market is changing. People are moving from formal to informal and gig work, depending on the market situation, income proposition, and comfort. A flexible social security portable system here will be beneficial." The move means that once an individual registers with any social security body, it will remain true across the work-cycle. It will also reduce administrative hassle and boost the ease of doing business. According to labour and employment secretary Apurva Chandra, "It is possible to have one social security number by allowing portability across organisations. Once it is finalised, the details will be shared."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-may-allow-merging-of-all-social-security-numbers-report-1025452.html
31-08-2021||National||70% of national parties' income in 2019-20 came from from unknown sources: ADR report||National parties collected Rs 3,377.41 crore from unknown sources in the 2019-20 financial year, which was 70.98 per cent of the total income of these parties, according to poll rights group Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). In a new report, the ADR said that the BJP declared Rs 2,642.63 crore as income from unknown sources, the highest among the national parties, which also include Congress, NCP, CPI, CPI(M), TMC and BSP. "During the financial year 2019-20, the BJP declared Rs 2,642.63 crore as income from unknown sources which is 78.24 per cent of the total income of national parties from unknown sources (Rs 3,377.41 crore)," the report said. The Congress declared Rs 526 crore as income from unknown sources which is 15.57 per cent of the total income of the national parties from unknown sources, the ADR said. "National parties collected Rs 3,377.41 crore from unknown sources in the financial year 2019-20, which is 70.98 per cent of the total income of the parties. Out of the Rs 3,377.41 crore as income from unknown sources, share of income from Electoral Bonds was Rs 2,993.826 crore or 88.643 per cent," the report said. Between 2004-05 and 2019-20, the national parties collected Rs 14,651.53 crore from unknown sources, it said. According to the donations reports, containing details of donations above Rs 20,000 of the 2019-20 fiscal, Rs 3.18 lakh was received in cash by the national parties. The poll rights body also said that the combined income of the Congress and the NCP from sale of coupons between the financial years 2004-05 and 2019-20 stands at Rs 4,096.725 crore. Unknown sources are income declared in income tax returns, but without giving source of income for donations below Rs 20,000. Such unknown sources include 'donations through Electoral Bonds', 'sale of coupons', 'relief fund', 'miscellaneous income', 'voluntary contributions', 'contribution from meetings/morchas'.  The details of donors of such as voluntary contributions are not available in the public domain. The ADR recommended that scrutiny of financial documents submitted by political parties should be conducted annually by a body approved by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India and the Election Commission of Indai to increase transparency and accountability of political parties with respect to their funding. National and regional political parties must provide all information under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the ADR said. "This will only strengthen political parties, elections and democracy. However, RTI or not, political parties should voluntarily account for every rupee that they get or spend,” the poll rights body recommended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/70-of-national-parties-income-in-2019-20-came-from-from-unknown-sources-adr-report-1025474.html
31-08-2021||National||VFS Global resumes UAE tourist visa services for Indian travellers||VFS Global has resumed UAE tourist visa services for Indians.  The UAE announced the reopening of borders for Indian travellers ahead of the Expo 2020 trade fair scheduled to commence on 1 October 2021. Travellers will be required to present a valid negative Covid-19 Test certificate issued within 48 hours from the time of collecting the sample and from approved health service, which uses the QR code System, as well as Rapid PCR Test report conducted at the departure airport 6 hours prior to departure, provided with a QR code system. No GDRFA or ICA approval is required for tourists travelling to the UAE. The reopening of borders to the UAE is a reassuring move for the travel industry, with the United Arab Emirates being among the most popular destinations for Indians, especially with the Expo 2020 Dubai around the corner. We wish all our customers safe travels,” said Noel Swain, Business Head – Schengen, eVisa and Passport Services, VFS Global. VFS Global is an official ticket reseller for Expo 2020 Dubai in GCC, India, China, Russia, UK and Germany. Dubbed the World’s Greatest Show, Expo 2020 will be held from 1 October 2021 to 31 March 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vfs-global-resumes-uae-tourist-visa-services-for-indian-travellers-1025486.html
31-08-2021||National||Ayush Ministry prepares 5-minute yoga protocol for professionals, develops 'Y-Break' app||The Ayush Ministry has developed a yoga protocol that can integrate seamlessly with work routine and help professionals de-stress and refocus. The five-minute protocol encompassing asanas, pranayama and dhyana will be available through an app, which will be launched by Ayush Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday. The yoga protocol can integrate with work routine seamlessly and effortlessly and help professionals refresh, de-stress and refocus, a ministry official said. "The protocol has been prepared on the basis of a deep and evaluative research and several studies.... Several yoga experts and researchers have effectively used modern technology to bring yoga to corporate employees...and within five minutes, one can have the benefit of many years," the official said. The Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY), an autonomous body under the Ayush Ministry, and several other reputed institutes such as Krishnamacharya Yoga Mandiram-Chennai, Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute-Belur Math, NIMHANS-Bengaluru and the Kaivalyadhama Health and Yoga Research Centre-Lonavla have played a prominent role in developing this app, called 'Y-Break'. It will be available on both iOS and Android platforms. According to yoga experts, continuous sitting for long hours and occupational hazards of sedentary work life have significantly changed the working habits of professionals, leading them into the trap of stress. It not only affects their physical health but mental wellbeing as well. It has been observed that corporate professionals often experience stress which negatively impacts their work productivity. The five-minute protocol intends to introduce people at the workplace to yoga. It promotes the idea of a break of five minutes from the work schedule to practice yoga to refresh, de-stress and re-focus. The protocol contains stretching exercises such as Tadasana and Kati, the official said. A pilot study to find the efficacy of the protocol was undertaken in six major Metro cities on a sample size of 717 participants aged 18 years and above. Fifteen-day trials were conducted by Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga in collaboration with six leading yoga institutes of the country, wherein the participants from different private and government bodies took part. The participants were selected taking into consideration them having various problems such as lower back pain, headache, anger and stress. The study showed positive outcomes. The encouraging results were reported by all participating establishments. It was also recognised that yoga break at the workplace enables one to relax fully and frees the practitioners physically and mentally often heightening intuitions and creativity. MDNIY Director Ishwar V Basavaraddi said, "Asanas helps to open up the chest cavity, improves lungs capacity and increases cardiopulmonary function, which lead to maintain physical activity for longer." "Nadi shodhana pranayama balances sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems. Bhramari pranayama facilitates the production and release of nitric oxide (NO) which helps to reduce stress and helps blood pressure by dilating arteries, improve blood circulation and maintain the supply of oxygen to the heart. Dhyana helps maintain focus and concentration and also in reducing anxiety, tiredness and depression," Basavaraddi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayush-ministry-prepares-5-minute-yoga-protocol-for-professionals-develops-y-break-app-1025488.html
31-08-2021||National||Let's launch 'Mission 5,000' to influence behaviour of lawmakers in Assemblies, Parliament: VP Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday urged people to be part of what he called 'Mission 5,000' to influence the conduct of MPs, MLAs and MLCs, which include identifying disruptors and questioning them during their visits to constituencies and shaming them on social media. Delivering the first 'Pranab Mukherjee Memorial Lecture' organised by the 'Pranab Mukherjee Legacy Foundation', Naidu also expressed hope that the country would have a Prime Minister from the weaker sections besides at least half-a-dozen women Chief Ministers in states by the 100th year of Independence. Describing Mukherjee as "a consensus builder" with a "sharp mind" and "phenomenal memory" who was the "envy of every aspiring politician but the pride of the nation", he said the former President's visit to an RSS training camp in Nagpur in 2018 showed his "ability to rise above the usual divide in the larger interest". In his speech titled 'Constitutionalism; Guarantor of Democracy and Inclusive Growth' delivered on Mukherjee's first death anniversary, Naidu expressed "concern over the rising disruptions" in the legislatures and the "declining quality" of the country’s parliamentary democracy. Calling for a people's movement 'Mission 5,000' to influence the way around 5,000 MPs, MLAs and MLCs in the country behave, he said such a campaign is necessary to save the parliamentary democracy from losing its "sheen and appeal"  With Opposition protests in Parliament during the Monsoon Session fresh in mind, Naidu said protests on the floor of the House are fine as long as they do not breach the dignity and decorum of the House.  "The emotional underpinnings of such protests should not cross the limits of decency and decorum that should mark parliamentary democracy," he said. "Disruptions negate the principle of accountability of the executive to the legislatures, thereby promoting the tendency of arbitrariness, which Constitutionalism seeks to checkmate...Disrupted and dysfunctional legislatures can disrupt the lives of the people and the dreams of our nation," he said. As part of 'Mission 5,000', Naidu urged people to identify the disruptors and question them during their visit, launch social media handles and post the names of disruptors along with comments, hold meetings to discuss the functioning of legislatures and lawmakers, write letters to news dailies voicing concern over the conduct of such disruptors and send messages of concern directly to such legislators. More importantly, he said, people should take into consideration the parliamentary performance and conduct of elected representatives while voting in the next elections. Speaking on the agenda for the country for the next 25 years till 2047 when India celebrates 100 years of independence, he said inclusive developmental strategies and polity should be ensured to eliminate the remnants of poverty, illiteracy, gender discrimination and inequities. He also called for a major shift of workforce from agriculture by doubling the share of manufacturing in the GDP when free India turns 100 besides the country emerging as the preferred destination for investments and immigrants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lets-launch-mission-5000-to-influence-behaviour-of-lawmakers-in-assemblies-parliament-vp-naidu-1025503.html
31-08-2021||National||India makes public contact with Taliban – 22 years after Jaswant Singh’s meeting with militant leaders on Kandahar Airport||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government on Tuesday for the first time publicly acknowledged its engagement with the Taliban as New Delhi’s envoy to Doha had a meeting with a top leader of the militant organisation that recently took back control over almost the entire Afghanistan. New Delhi’s envoy to Doha, Deepak Mittal, had a meeting with Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, the head of the Taliban’s political office in the capital of Qatar. The meeting took place at the Embassy of India in Doha on Tuesday – just hours after the United States flew out its last remaining soldiers from the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul and, thus, formally ended its two-decade-long military presence in Afghanistan. The last public engagement between the Government of India and the Taliban had taken place in December 1999. The then External Affairs Minister Jaswant Singh had a meeting with the Taliban Government’s Foreign Minister Wakil Ahmed Muttawakil at the airport in Kandahar in southern Afghanistan and handed over to him Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar and two other terrorists, whom Prime Minister A B Vajpayee’s government had set free from prison to secure the release of the crew and the passengers of the hijacked Indian Airlines flight IC-814. The Taliban had later facilitated the safe return of the hijackers and the freed terrorists from Afghanistan to Pakistan. Mittal’s meeting with Stanekzai on Tuesday was the first publicly acknowledged engagement between the Government of India and the Taliban in almost 22 years. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) issued a press-release in New Delhi, stating that the meeting at the Embassy of India in Doha had taken place at the request of the Taliban. “(The) discussions focused on safety, security and early return of Indian nationals stranded in Afghanistan. The travel of Afghan nationals, especially, minorities, who wish to visit India, also came up,” Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson of the MEA, said in New Delhi. New Delhi has been over the past few months having informal back-channel talks with a section of the Taliban, because it anticipated that the militant organisation might return to power after the US and its NATO allies would complete withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and that Pakistan might exploit the situation to gain a strategic edge against India. The Modi Government in New Delhi has been maintaining that India has been in touch with all stakeholders in Afghanistan, but never specifically acknowledged its engagements with the Taliban. Mittal conveyed to Stanekzai  concerns of New Delhi over the possibility of Pakistan using the territory of Afghanistan against India or to export terror to India. The head of the Taliban’s political office in Doha assured New Delhi’s envoy to Qatar that India’s concerns “would be positively addressed”, according to the MEA press-release issued in New Delhi. Stanekzai was trained in the Indian Military Academy in Dehradun in Uttarakhand and was among the foreign cadets who passed out of the institution in 1982. He was among the ones who opened the Taliban’s political office in Doha in January 2012 and was appointed as its head in November 2015. With the Taliban’s return to power in Kabul now imminent, speculation is rife about Stanekzai being appointed as the Foreign Minister of the new Government of Afghanistan. He told a TV channel recently that the Taliban wanted to continue Afghanistan’s “cultural, economic, political and trade ties” with India. New Delhi evacuated its envoy and diplomats from Kabul on August 17, less than 48 hours after the Taliban militants entered the capital city culminating its swift military blitz across Afghanistan as President Ashraf Ghani escaped from the country marking the collapse of his Government. But it did not formally shut down the Embassy of India in Kabul, as it would have meant severance of its diplomatic relations with Afghanistan. India had shut down the embassy and snapped diplomatic relations with Afghanistan immediately after the Taliban had come to power in Afghanistan in September 1996. The embassy had been reopened in 2001, after the US had launched the military offensives against the Al Qaeda in Afghanistan in response to the 9/11 attacks and the Taliban Government led by Mullah Omar in Kabul had collapsed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-makes-public-contact-with-taliban-22-years-after-jaswant-singh-s-meeting-with-militant-leaders-on-kandahar-airport-1025512.html
31-08-2021||National||World's highest motorable road at 18,600 feet inaugurated in Ladakh||A strategically-important road, which connects Leh to the Pangong Lake, was inaugurated here on Tuesday by Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal, who said that the stretch passing through the Kela Pass at 18,600 feet will be world’s highest motorable way. The road, constructed by the 58 Engineer Regiment of the Indian Army, will reduce 41-km of travel from Leh (Zingral to Tangtse) to the picturesque Pangong Lake crossing the Kela Pass, the Lok Sabha member said. "The road, which was inaugurated today, will be the world's highest motorable road for the general public at a height of 18,600 feet. Up till now, the Khardungla Pass was the world's highest motorable road for the general public at a height of 18,380 feet," Namgyal told PTI. He said the road will play a major role in the future to boost the socio-economic status of local residents, especially of the people of the Lalok region of Ladakh, as it will facilitate tourism.  "Tourists will be able to see the world's highest motorable road, rare medicinal plants, participate in snow sport activities, see nomadic livestock, lakes and other attractions," Namgyal said. During the inaugural function, held at the Kela Top, at an altitude of 18,600 feet, he applauded the dedication of the Indian Army, especially the 58 Engineer Regiment, for constructing the road. He also highlighted the seriousness of the government towards creating border infrastructure, especially roads and bridges. The road was inaugurated in presence of Lt Gen P G K Menon, General Officer Commanding 14th Corp, Tashi Namgyal Yakzee and Stanzin Chosphel, Executive Councillors, Ven. Lama Konchok Tsephel, Councillor of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC), Leh, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/worlds-highest-motorable-road-at-18600-feet-inaugurated-in-ladakh-1025517.html
31-08-2021||National||Judges should speak through judgements and orders, not issue oral directions: SC||Judges should speak through their judgements and orders and should not issue oral directions as it does not form a part of the judicial record and must be avoided, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday. The apex court said the element of judicial accountability is lost where oral regimes prevail and this would set a dangerous precedent and is unacceptable. A bench comprising Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah made the observations in a judgement on an appeal against a verdict passed by the Gujarat High Court which issued oral direction not to arrest an accused in a case of cheating and criminal breach of trust. "Oral observations in court are in the course of a judicial discourse. The text of a written order is what is binding and enforceable. Issuing oral directions (presumably to the public prosecutor) restraining arrest, does not form a part of the judicial record and must be eschewed," said the bench. The top court said the procedure followed by the High Court of issuing an oral direction restraining the arrest of the first respondent was irregular. The bench said that if the High Court was of the view that an opportunity should be granted to counsel for the parties to explore the possibility of a settlement and, on that ground, an interim protection against arrest ought to be granted, a specific judicial order to that effect was necessary. The apex court said that in absence of a judicial order, the investigating officer would have no official record emanating from the High Court on the basis of which a stay of arrest is enforced. The top court said administration of criminal justice is not a private matter between the complainant and the accused but implicates wider interests of the State in preserving law and order as well as a societal interest in the sanctity of the criminal justice administration. The bench said that judges speak through their judgments and orders and the written text is capable of being assailed. Judges, as much as public officials over whose conduct they preside, are accountable for their actions, it said. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by Salimbhai Hamidbhai Menon who had approached the High Court under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code seeking quashing of FIR lodged against him under sections 405 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc.), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the Indian Penal Code. During the pendency of the matter in the high court, Menon was arrested. When the proceedings were taken up after the arrest, the High Court was of the view that an opportunity should be granted to counsel for the parties to explore the possibility of a settlement and, on that ground, an interim protection against arrest was granted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judges-should-speak-through-judgements-and-orders-not-issue-oral-directions-sc-1025536.html
31-08-2021||National||SC rejects plea by Asaram Bapu for interim bail for Ayurvedic treatment||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea by self-styled godman Asaram Bapu, undergoing life term for rape of a minor girl, for two months interim bail for Ayurvedic treatment. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Indira Banerjee said the petitioner was not involved in an ordinary crime and he would get all his Ayurvedic treatments in jail.  Senior advocate R Basant, appearing for Asaram contended that the petitioner was seeking interim bail for two months to "keep his body and soul together" as he was over 85 years of age.  He sought relief as a mercy from the court as there were certificates by the doctors as well to support his plea. The bench, however, said, "Continuing Ayurvedic treatment is not a problem. We'll direct the (Jodhpur) jail authorities to take care of that." Senior advocate Manish Singhvi, appearing for the Rajasthan government, submitted that the petitioner has been getting the best possible treatment in jail.  Earlier, the Rajasthan government has told the court that Asaram Bapu was not cooperating with the doctors at AIIMS Jodhpur with an ulterior motive to get himself shifted out of his custody.  Opposing his plea to allow him Ayurvedic treatment as an abuse of the process, the state government said Asaram has made a third attempt to get his sentence suspended, under the garb of medical treatment.   The father of the child rape victim has also moved the court opposing the bail plea of Asaram, saying he was apprehensive that his daughter and his family could be killed by the followers or henchmen of the "powerful" godman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rejects-plea-by-asaram-bapu-for-interim-bail-for-ayurvedic-treatment-1025543.html
31-08-2021||National||Course on counter-terrorism doesn't target any community, is purely academic exercise: JNU professor||Jawaharlal Nehru University Professor Arvind Kumar who has designed a course on counter-terrorism, which has come under criticism from a section of teachers and students, said it does not target any community and is a purely academic exercise. A section of JNU teachers and students has objected to the introduction of the course, alleging it states that ''jihadi terrorism'' is the only form of ''fundamentalist-religious terrorism''. The course, titled ''Counter Terrorism, Asymmetric Conflicts and Strategies for Cooperation among Major Powers'', also asserts that Communist regimes in the Soviet Union and China were the state-sponsors of terrorism that influenced radical Islamic states, according to them. The course, an optional one, is for the students pursuing Master of Science dual-degree who choose to study international relations at the School of Engineering. The course was approved in the Academic Council meeting on August 17 and will come up for approval in the Executive Council meeting on September 2. Kumar, the Chairperson of the Centre for Canadian, US and Latin American Studies, said that the curriculum is designed keeping India's perspective in mind. He stated that it is based on India's and global experience in dealing with the issue of terrorism. "How science and technology can help in countering terrorism is also a main part of the curriculum... This course has not at all targeted any community and has nothing to do with any political party," he said. Calling the course an "absolute academic exercise", he said a "wrong narrative" is being set which is "not good for India" and will not serve any purpose. "How India's experience has been all these decades as a victim of terrorism. The rest of the world has accepted India's predicament. Jihadi Terrorism is a manifestation of the Taliban. This has to be understood. An in-depth study on both global and regional terrorist organisations is needed from academics keeping all the biases away," he said. While stressing that it is high time all the major powers come together and take the terrorism issue seriously, he said that how India can intensify all its efforts and evolve constructive counter-terrorism cooperation among major powers forms a major part of the curriculum. "China and Russia abstaining from voting for the UNSC resolution on Taliban yesterday is a great pointer to understand how they have dealt in the past in promoting their interest. China has always vetoed in recognising Masood Azhar as a global terrorist not one time but on a number of occasions at the UNSC," he said. JNU Teachers' Association secretary Moushumi Basu on Monday had said that the course should be withdrawn. "A few years back, they (the university administration) had tried to do the same and the Delhi Minorities Commission had objected to it and it was withdrawn.... Such a course should not be taught and should be withdrawn. It's problematic."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/course-on-counter-terrorism-doesnt-target-any-community-is-purely-academic-exercise-jnu-professor-1025550.html
31-08-2021||National||Armaan Kohli drug case: NCB nabs four more||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested four more persons, including two Nigerian drug peddlers, in connection with the alleged drugs case involving Bollywood actor Armaan Kohli, an official said on Tuesday. Following Kohli's arrest on Sunday, the NCB's Mumbai zonal unit conducted a series of raids in various parts of the city, he said. The raids began on late Sunday night at Juhu Gully in western suburbs during which the NCB team seized mephedrone and apprehended Mohammed Ajaz Sayyed alias Chiya Bhai, he said. Based on the information provided by him, one Imran Ansari was arrested on Monday for alleged role in purchasing drugs, the official said. Subsequently, Nigerian national Uba Chinoso Wizdom was held with mephedrone in Nallasopara in neighbouring Palghar district late Monday night. Wizdom was suspected to be the main supplier of mephedrone in this case, the official said. Nwachiyaso Israel Nwachukwu alias Sam, another Nigerian, was arrested from the Arey Colony area here on early Tuesday morning and mephedrone and cocaine were seized from his possession, the official added. Sam attacked NCB sleuths, injuring one of the officials, he claimed. Sam had been living in Mumbai for the last five years and is suspected to have links with international cartels as the cocaine seized in the case apparently originated in South America, the official said. The Central agency has thus arrested six persons including Kohli in the case so far. Kohli, who had featured in several Bollywood films and also a TV reality show, was arrested on Sunday after cocaine was allegedly seized from his house in suburban Andheri. In a separate operation, the NCB seized mephedrone and ecstasy from another Nigerian national, Sunday Okeki alias Sunny, in Nallasopara, on Tuesday, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armaan-kohli-drug-case-ncb-nabs-four-more-1025553.html
31-08-2021||National||'India won't abandon Afghan people, but recognition of Taliban not on radar'||India is walking a thin line on Afghanistan, navigating a path which can allow continuation of projects and people-to-people contacts, without recognising a Taliban-led government, at least for now. Authoritative sources told India Narrative that India is in no mood to recognise the Taliban rule in Afghanistan in a hurry, even as the top leadership of the outfit reached out to New Delhi, describing it as an important country in the region. For now, as the Taliban are set to assume formal control of the country, following withdrawal of the US troops, India has adopted a wait and watch policy before taking any decision."There are too many balls in the air right now. A rebellion against Taliban, led by the Tajik community is raging in the Panjshir valley. Without accommodating the minorities, the Pashtun dominated Taliban cannot hope to rule the entire country. The Taliban-run economy will be tested, and the group has a terrible image of medieval theocracy," an analyst said. Sources, however, said that New Delhi could look at ways to continue its association with the common people of Afghanistan, who have been the worst sufferers. India has invested over $3 billion in the country in building dams, roads, electricity transmission lines besides schools and hospitals in the war-torn country. Even the country's Parliament building has been built by India. It was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2015. Leading energy and geopolitical expert Narendra Taneja said that India's connect with the people of Afghanistan dates back to thousands of years ago. "We need to distinguish between the people and the group in power there. We shouldn't look at the developments in Afghanistan in an emotional manner, we will need to be pragmatic. We should strive to restart our stalled developmental projects provided Kabul is willing to extend the guarantee in terms of safety of our workers and technicians," Taneja told India Narrative. "Our strategy should be to stay connected with the people of Afghanistan first and foremost," he added. Last year External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar speaking at the Afghanistan Conference in Geneva said "no part of Afghanistan today is untouched by the 400-plus projects that India has undertaken in all 34 of Afghanistan's provinces". Earlier this month, chairing a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that New Delhi will provide all possible assistance to "Afghan brothers and sisters who are looking towards India for assistance". Separately, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said that India's approach to Afghanistan will be guided by the will of the Afghan people. "For us, it (Indian investment in Afghanistan) reflected our historical relationship with Afghan people. That relation with Afghan people obviously continues. That will guide our approach to Afghanistan in the coming days,"Jaishankar said in New York after attending the UN Security Council meeting. Indian people-oriented investments in Afghanistan include the construction of the Parliament building, the Salama dam, the development of the Chabahar route that links landlocked Afghanistan to the Indian Ocean and hundreds of other humanitarian projects across the country, which now need to be protected. With the inflow of foreign aid coming to a halt and the Taliban being barred from accessing the $9.5 billion international reserves, the real battle for Afghanistan will begin only now.Thousands of Afghan people feel betrayed at the rapid withdrawal of foreign forces from their land. The International Rescue Committee said that if the crisis in Afghanistan is left unaddressed, 2021 is on track to be the deadliest year for Afghan civilians in over a decade. Civilian deaths and injuries reached record levels in the first half of the year. (The content is being carried under an arrangement with indianarrative.com)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-wont-abandon-afghan-people-but-recognition-of-taliban-not-on-radar-1025554.html
31-08-2021||National||SII's Covishield forms 60 crore out of 65 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses supplied so far||With India crossing the 65-crore mark for Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far, official sources said on Tuesday these include over 60 crore Covishield doses supplied by the Serum Institute. Over 60 crore doses have been supplied by the Pune-based firm to Government of India, state governments and private hospitals so far.  The daily Covid-19 vaccinations crossed the 1 crore mark on Tuesday for the second time in five days, taking the total number of doses administered in the country to over 65 crore. Director, Government and Regulatory Affairs at SII, Prakash Kumar Singh, in a communication to NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr V K Paul and Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that when the government had set a target in December, 2020 to administer 60 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine by August, 2021, some sections of national and international media had expressed serious doubts on whether it would be able to achieve it. "You would recall that at that time some sections of national and international media had expressed serious doubts on achieving this target..." "Today, on the last day of August, 2021, it is indeed a proud moment for the entire nation that under the visionary leadership of our prime minister...untiring efforts of the government machinery, our country has not only achieved but also surpassed the target of administering 60 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine by August, 2021," a source quoted Singh as having communicated. Singh mentioned that the SII alone has supplied more than 60 crore doses of Covishield, with 2.1 crore doses being provided in January, 2.5 crore in February, over 4.73 crore in March, over 6.25 crore in April, more than 5.96 crore in May, more than 9.68 crore in June, over 12.37 crore in July and over 16.92 crore in August. "We at Serum Institute of India (SII), under the able leadership of our CEO, Adar C Poonawalla, feel proud to be part of this world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive and pleased to share that till date the SII alone has supplied more than 60 crore doses of Covishield to Government of India, state governments and private hospitals. "This has only been possible because of visionary leadership of our prime minister, continuous guidance provided by your kind self from time to time, valuable support of Team GoI and farsighted vision of our CEO," Singh is learnt to have stated. The SII is trying to further increase production capacity to supply 20 crore of Covishield doses per month from September 2021 onwards, Singh is learnt to have stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/siis-covishield-forms-60-crore-out-of-65-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-supplied-so-far-1025557.html
31-08-2021||National||India records highest Covid-19 vaccinations in a day||The daily Covid-19 vaccinations crossed the one crore mark on Tuesday for the second time in five days, taking the cumulative doses administered in the country to over 65 crore, the Union Health Ministry said. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said the highest one-day record of 1.09 crore vaccine doses has been achieved till 6 pm. Mandaviya lauded the entire country for the achievement of more than one crore doses being administered for the second day within a span of five days. He also praised the hard work of Covid warriors and the diligence of citizens in helping achieve the momentous feat of more than 50 crore cumulative administrations of the first dose of the vaccine. "Another milestone achieved in the world's largest vaccination drive under PM  @NarendraModi ji. 50 crore people received their first #COVID19 vaccine dose. "I applaud the hard work of Covid warriors and diligence of citizens in helping achieve this momentous feat," Mandaviya tweeted. "Congratulations, as India administers another 1 crore #Covid vaccinations today Highest one-day record of 1.09 crore vaccine doses achieved till 6 pm - and still counting! Under PM @NarendraModi ji, India is fighting strongly against corona," he said in another tweet. 1⃣ Crore, 2⃣ Times, in 5⃣ days Highest one-day record of 1.09 crore vaccine doses achieved till 6 pm - and still counting! India took 85 days to touch the figure of 10 crore. It then took 45 days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach 30 crore. The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore and then 20 more days to cross 50 crore vaccinations on August 6. It took 19 more days to go past the 60-crore mark on August 25. "India's Covid-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 65 crore (65,12,14,767) landmark milestone today," the health ministry said in a statement. The daily vaccination tally is expected to increase with the compilation of the final reports for the day by late night. Cumulatively, 25,32,89,059  individuals in the age group of 18-44 years across states and UTs have received their first dose and  2,85,62,650 have received their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive, according to the health ministry which cited a provisional report till 7 pm. According to an official source, on an average 74.09 lakh vaccine doses have been administered daily in India in the last one week. "No other country has been vaccinating its people at such a fast pace as India. "India is at pole position in the number of vaccine doses administered daily followed by Brazil which is administering on an average 17.04 lakh doses each day," the source said. India administered 17 crore vaccine shots in the shortest period of 114 days which is a world record. The US took 115 days and China took 119 days to administer the same number of doses, official sources said. On August 27, India administered over one crore vaccine doses in a day, a feat which no other country has been able to emulate yet, the source said, adding it is like vaccinating the entire population of New Zealand twice. India then went ahead and broke its own record within five days  by administering 1.09 crore doses till 6 PM. Uttar Pradesh alone has administered 7.20 crore vaccine doses till August 31. In comparison, India's neighbour Pakistan has inoculated 5.33 crore people so far, the official source said. All eligible beneficiaries of Himachal Pradesh have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccines. There are at least eight states and UTs where 75 percent of the people have received at least one dose of the vaccine, sources said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing everyone above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-covid-19-vaccinations-in-a-day-1025568.html
31-08-2021||National||Accelerate second dose coverage for Covid-19 vaccination, AIIMS study suggests||Fully vaccinated Indians have a significantly lower risk of developing severe Covid-19, says a new real-world vaccine efficacy study carried out by a team at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, underlining the need to rapidly improve the number of fully vaccinated individuals. Since India began its Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16, more than 65 crore adults received the vaccines of which 50 crore persons got the first dose while just about 15 crore got the second one. On Tuesday, for the second time, more than one crore doses were administered within five days. Nearly 53 per cent of 94.47 crore adults have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccines so far whereas 16 per cent got both the shots. But the AIIMS study on nearly 1,750 Covid-19 infected persons adds fresh evidence to a growing list of research papers, each highlighting the importance of completing the two doses as quickly as possible because of the highly contagious Delta variant that drove the second surge besides triggering many breakthrough infections. It is also found that while the two doses impart a high level of protection against SARS-CoV-2, those who unfortunately develop the infection due to old age or comorbidity, face the same risk of dying as an unvaccinated person. “Vaccinated people are protected against severe disease, but it is not 100 per cent. If a few of them go on to develop severe disease they may have a bad outcome. So along with the vaccine, Covid appropriate behavior (like masking or following social distancing norms) is important for high risk groups. Other factors also contribute to the severity of disease,” said AIIMS director Randeep Guleria. The doctors compared 53 fully vaccinated individuals with 231 who received only the first shot and 1,464 unvaccinated persons. The 53 patients studied were breakthrough infection cases. A significantly lesser proportion of the individuals with breakthrough infection required oxygen supplementation (18.2 per cent) or ventilatory support (5 per cent) compared to the individuals in the other groups. Very few of these individuals deteriorated (9.1 per cent) or ever progressed to critical illness (4.6 per cent) during their hospital stay compared to other study groups. “Three individuals (5.7 per cent) out of the 53 who developed breakthrough infection succumbed to illness while the case fatality rate was significantly higher in the unvaccinated (22.8 per cent) and partially vaccinated (19.5 per cent) groups,” the AIIMS team reported in a preliminary study, which is yet to be peer-reviewed but has been posted online in a medical archive. A higher proportion of unvaccinated and partially vaccinated patients showed signatures of hyper-inflammatory responses compared to fully vaccinated patients, indicating that vaccination reduces the risk of Covid-19-linked inflammatory responses. But once the patient developed hypoxia, or oxygen deprivation, or acute respiratory distress syndrome, the odds of developing critical illness or death were similar to those of unvaccinated individuals, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accelerate-second-dose-coverage-for-covid-19-vaccination-aiims-study-suggests-1025595.html
31-08-2021||National||Cauvery Water Management Authority defers discussion on Mekedatu project||The Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) on Tuesday deferred discussion on Karnataka's proposal to build a reservoir at Mekedatu across the Cauvery river following objections from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. "The issue will now be taken up for discussion at an appropriate time," S K Haldar, Chairman of CWMA told reporters after the meeting. Haldar, who is also chairman of the Central Water Commission, said that the meeting also deferred the discussion on Karnataka's objections to Tamil Nadu's proposed Cauvery-Vellaru-Vaigai-Gundar Link scheme. In the meeting, Tamil Nadu alleged that the Mekedatu project proposal was a clear violation of the Supreme Court final judgement on the Cauvery water sharing dispute and should not be taken up for discussion. “Mekedatu project falls on the inter-state river. For any major projects coming up on the inter-state river, the consent of the basin states is a must for taking up the project,” Haldar said after the meeting.  He said since the Mekedatu project was on an inter-state river, the approval of CWMA was necessary. “So we want to discuss the project in the Authority meeting and take the views from the member states,” he said.   Release water to Tamil Nadu: In the meeting, the Authority also asked Karnataka to release around 7 tmc ft of water to Tamil Nadu to make up for the shortage till August 31. As per the Supreme Court final order on the Cauvery water sharing dispute, in a normal year, Karnataka has to release 86.83 tmc ft of water to Tamil Nadu from June to August end. However, Karnataka has released 57.04 tmc ft of water to Tamil Nadu as of August 30 citing 25% low storage of water in its reservoirs due to deficit rainfall. But, the state agreed to make up the shortfall if it received good rainfall in September.  Tamil Nadu had demanded the release of its entire remaining quota of 27.86 tmc ft of water from Karnataka's reservoirs from the Cauvery basin till August 31, sources in the Central Water Commission said. At present Kanataka's Cauvery basin reservoirs has storage of 156 tmc ft against 209 tmc ft during a normal monsoon. Since the deficit is to the tune of 25 %, the Authority asked Karnataka to release around 7 tmc ft of water to Tamil Nadu against the August quota instead of 27.86 tmc ft, sources said. The meeting was attended by Karnataka Water Resources Department Additional Chief Secretary Rakesh Singh, Tamil Nadu PWD Additional Chief Secretary Sandeep Saxena while Kerala and Puducherry officials attended through video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cauvery-water-management-authority-defers-discussion-on-mekedatu-project-1025596.html
31-08-2021||National||Akanksha becomes Coal India's first woman engineer to work in underground mine||Akanksha Kumari has become Coal India's first woman mining engineer to work in an underground mine, CIL arm CCL said on Tuesday. She is the second woman mining engineer in the Maharatna conglomerate Coal India Ltd (CIL) and the first one to join Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL) at its Churi underground mines in North Karanpura area in Jharkhand. A CCL statement said, "Akanksha Kumari became the first woman mining engineer to join CCL. Our woman employees have been shouldering responsibilities ranging from officers to doctors to security guards and even running heavy machines like dumper and shovel and have excelled in each role. “However, this is the first time when the core mining activity of one of the biggest coal mining companies of the world will witness this progressive change. ..Akanksha is the first one to work in an underground coal mine.” A resident of Barkagaon in Hazaribagh district, Akanksha had done her schooling from Navodaya Vidyalaya. Belonging to a mining belt, Akanksha had witnessed coal mining activities from close quarters ... she developed a natural inquisitiveness towards mines since childhood, which led her to opt for mining engineering at BIT Sindri in Dhanbad. Before joining CCL, she had worked for three years in Hindustan Zinc Limited's Balaria mines in Rajasthan, the statement said. "She credits her family for unflinching support to follow her dreams. She said joining Coal India Limited was the fulfillment of her childhood dream and hopes to deliver her best for the company," the statement added. Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi, CMD, CCL PM Prasad along with all directors and the CCL family congratulated her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akanksha-becomes-coal-indias-first-woman-engineer-to-work-in-underground-mine-1025597.html
31-08-2021||National||Ensure one dose of vaccine for teaching, non-teaching staff by September: Centre||The Centre on Tuesday asked states and union territories to ensure at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccination for all teaching and non-teaching staff of schools. The push for vaccination came from Anita Karwal, Secretary, Department of School Education and Literacy, at a meeting with states and UTs amid a move by the government to re-open schools as the Covid-19 pandemic appeared to ebb. She advised the Health and Education Secretaries of all States and UTs to jointly design a road map at the district level for vaccination of all the teaching and non-teaching staff. During the virtual meeting, Karwal advised all the states and UTs to get the first dose of vaccination completed for all the teaching and non-teaching staff during the month of September 2021. She said those teaching and non-teaching staff who have already received the first dose should be followed up vigorously for the second dose. The Department of School Education and Literacy is also keeping itself updated on the vaccination of teachers on a weekly basis through a tracker. At least 17 states, including Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh have either reopened schools or planning to do so shortly as Covid-19 cases have reduced and the pandemic appeared to be subsiding. States such as Maharashtra and Kerala that are still reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases daily were yet to take any decision on the reopening of schools. Most of the states have started schools for students of Classes 9 to 12. Last week, over 55 doctors, academicians, and professionals had written to the Prime Minister’s office, Chief Ministers of all states, Union Education Minister, Union Health Minister and National Disaster Management Authority on giving priority to reopening of primary schools. The letter said that school closure was no longer tenable, especially for the younger children who were at the least risk from Covid-19 and face the highest cost due to the closure of schools.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-one-dose-of-vaccine-for-teaching-non-teaching-staff-by-september-centre-1025603.html
31-08-2021||National Politics||National Conference will win next assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah Tuesday asserted his party will win the next assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir, indicating for the first time since the abrogation of Article 370 that his party would participate in the polls. "We will win and I am telling you this with authority that if they conduct polls in a free and fair manner, then the National Conference will be the biggest party here," he told reporters on the sidelines of an event titled 'Parliamentary outreach programme for the empowerment Panchayati Raj institutions in Jammu and Kashmir'. The National Conference (NC) chief, who represents the Srinagar parliamentary constituency, however, regretted his party's non-participation in the 2018 panchayat polls and the 2019 Block Development Council elections. "Our party did not contest the polls and I regret it. We should have (contested) and we will in the future God willing," the veteran politician said. Advising sarpanches and panches, with Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Lt Governor Manoj Sinha also present on the dais, Abdullah asked them to remain in touch with people and listen to their problems, and not behave like bureaucrats who, he said, do not come to the rescue of people. Expressing anguish over government officials of the Jammu and Kashmir administration not responding to phone calls of people, Abdullah requested Sinha to instruct them to answer calls. "I have this complaint with the government officials that they do not pick up their phones as if some ghost is hanging upon them," he said. Abdullah said he picks up anybody's call because as a doctor he feels that the caller may be in some kind of distress. "I do not ask him which religion or party he belongs to. I think of him as a human in whose heart God resides," he said. Abdullah added soon a government will be formed in J&K which will make the officers accountable. Later on, talking to the reporters, he said the bureaucrats would be held accountable. "They will be accountable tomorrow for what they have done. Today, they think of themselves as kings, but they are not kings, they are the servants of people who have to work for the people," he said. The function was also attended by union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Prahlad Patel and Minister of State for Education Annapurna Devi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/national-conference-will-win-next-assembly-elections-in-jammu-and-kashmir-farooq-abdullah-1025403.html
31-08-2021||National Politics||Haryana CM Khattar dares Punjab CM Amarinder Singh to list out pro-farmer measures||A combative Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has dared his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh to list out measures taken for farmers' welfare. Under attack from Singh over the farmers' protests against the three farm laws, Khattar listed out a series of steps taken by his government and claimed that Punjab hiked cane prices only after protests by farmers. “Haryana has been paying the highest MSP in the country for sugarcane to its farmers for the last 7 years. Why has Punjab felt the need to match Haryana only after an agitation by farmers?” Khattar asked. Last week, Singh approved a Rs 15 per quintal hike in the State Agreed Price (SAP) of all sugarcane varieties for the 2021-22 crushing season after protests by cane growers. On Monday, Khattar had accused the Congress government in Punjab of fuelling farmers' unrest in Haryana. “Who is anti-farmer, Amarinder Ji? Punjab or Haryana?” asked Khattar after highlighting in eight of his tweets various steps taken by his dispensation for farmers’ welfare. In a hard-hitting response to Khattar, Singh “atrocious assertions of the Haryana CM that his government had done more for the farmers than the Punjab government”. “If that is the case, then why are your own state's farmers angry with you and your Bharatiya Janata Party," Singh asked. On sugarcane procurement, Singh said his government had exceeded Haryana's MSP and Punjab was now at the top amongst all states by fixing a state assured price of sugarcane at Rs 360 per quintal for 2021-22. He termed Khattar's claims and questions as "nothing but a shoddy defence against the nation-wide criticism of the latest in the series of violent assaults on peacefully protesting farmers by his government".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/haryana-cm-khattar-dares-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-to-list-out-pro-farmer-measures-1025532.html
31-08-2021||National Politics||BJP slams Rahul Gandhi for criticising Jallianwala Bagh memorial renovation||The BJP on Tuesday lashed out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his attack on the government over the renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial, alleging that his party did not even construct a washroom at the site but is now doing politics over the exercise undertaken by the Modi dispensation. Hitting out at Gandhi, BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said the Congress leader should explain as to what his party did for the famous memorial, which commemorates the sacrifice of hundreds of unarmed civilians killed by the British forces in 1919, during its rule for decades. When the memorial is now being expanded and modernised, then the Congress is rattled, he said. The memorial even lacked a decent washroom facility for visitors, he said. For many decades the Congress party was in power and the trust in charge of the memorial was under its control, but its government did not invest a rupee there, Chugh alleged. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh lived in the neighbourhood to the memorial in Amritsar but did nothing for it, he claimed. The memorial is an international heritage and has now been modernised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, the BJP leader said. Gandhi on Tuesday termed the government's revamp of the Jallianwala Bagh memorial an "insult to martyrs", saying only a person who does not know the meaning of martyrdom can inflict such an insult. Taking to Twitter, the former Congress chief tagged a media report on the outrage on social media over the alleged changes at the Jallianwala Bagh memorial complex with many claiming that it was "destroying history" in the name of makeover. Museum galleries have been developed at the memorial and the event showcased multiple development initiatives taken by the government to upgrade the complex. A sound and light show has been set up to display the tragic events of April 13, 1919. Four museum galleries have been created through adaptive reuse of redundant and underutilised buildings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-slams-rahul-gandhi-for-criticising-jallianwala-bagh-memorial-renovation-1025608.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath imposes ban on meat, liquor trade in Mathura||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday imposed a complete ban on the sale of liquor and meat in Mathura. “The officers concerned are directed to make plans for the ban as well as for the engagement of people involved in such activities in some other trade,” he said. The chief minister was speaking at the Krishnotsava 2021 programme here. He suggested that those engaged in liquor and meat trade may take up selling milk in order to revive the glory of Mathura, that was known for producing huge quantity of animal milk. Adityanath also prayed to Lord Krishna to eliminate Covid-19 “Every effort will be made to develop Brij Bhumi and there will be no dearth of funds for this. We are looking at a blend of modern technology and the cultural and spiritual heritage for the development of the region,” he said. The priest-turned-politician also complimented Prime Minister Narendra Modi for giving a new direction to the country. He said places of faith neglected since long are being revived now. Cabinet ministers Laxmi Narain Chaudhary and Shrikant Sharma were also present on the occasion. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-imposes-ban-on-meat-liquor-trade-in-mathura-1025349.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||No action taken over obscene video: UP woman kills herself, SHO removed||A station house officer here has been withdrawn from filed duty over alleged inaction on a woman's complaint against her husband for circulating an obscene video of her on social media, officials said Tuesday. Bhopa police station SHO Deepak Chaturvedi has been set to line and Subhash Babu appointed in his place, they said. The 25-year-old woman, who was divorced three months ago through triple talaq, committed suicide on August 28 after her husband reportedly circulated an obscene video of her on social media, police had said on Sunday. Before she took the extreme step, she had reported that the police were not taking any action against her husband on her compliant. Deepak Chaturvedi had said Sunday, when he was still the SHO, the couple got married four years ago and had an 18-month-old son. Police had also said the accused divorced his wife by pronouncing triple talaq three months ago following which she moved in with her parents in Kishanpur village along with the child, they said. In a police complaint lodged on August 18, the woman accused her husband of giving instant triple talaq and forcibly taking away their son from her. While the police were investigating the matter, an obscene video of the woman was circulated on social media by her husband, they said, adding the woman ended her life by consuming poison.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-action-taken-over-obscene-video-up-woman-kills-herself-sho-removed-1025386.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Law must step in against unholy nexus of developers with authorities: SC orders demolition of Noida building||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said illegal constructions carried out in urban areas in connivance with regulatory authorities have to be dealt with strictly as it increased harm caused to the environment and diluted safety standards, besides affecting quality of life of flat buyers. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah pointed out to the rampant increase in unauthorised constructions across urban areas, particularly in metropolitan cities where soaring values of land placed a premium on dubious dealings as noticed in several decisions of the top court.  "This state of affairs has often come to pass in no small a measure because of the collusion between developers and planning authorities," the bench said. The top court said brazen violation of building regulations by developers, more often than not with the connivance of regulatory authorities, hit at the very core of urban planning. In its 140-page judgement, the court ordered the demolition of two 40-storey towers built by real estate developer Supertech in Noida of Uttar Pradesh, after finding "nefarious complicity of the planning authority in the violation by the developer of the provisions of law", particularly those related to minimum distance in two buildings stipulated to ensure privacy, fire safety, sufficient air and light to the occupants.   The court confirmed the April 11, 2014 directions of the Allahabad High Court, including the order of demolition and for sanctioning prosecution against the officials of Supertech and the officers of NOIDA. It also directed refund of money with interest to buyers. Maintaining that availability of housing stock, especially in metropolitan cities, is necessary to accommodate the constant influx of people, the court said, it has to be balanced with two crucial factors, the protection of the environment and the well-being and safety of occupants. The law must step in to protect legitimate concerns of the diverse and unseen group of flat buyers who unfortunately suffered the impact of the unholy nexus between builders and planners, it added.  "Confronted with the economic might of developers and the legal authority wielded by planning bodies, the few who raise their voices have to pursue a long and expensive battle for rights with little certainty of outcomes. As this case demonstrates, they are denied access to information and are victims of misinformation," the bench said. The court pointed out that the developer in the case raised "false pleas and attempted to mislead" by "stooping to the point of producing a fabricated sanctioned plan", while the officials of NOIDA have not acted bona fide in the discharge of their duties. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/law-must-step-in-against-unholy-nexus-of-developers-with-authorities-sc-orders-demolition-of-noida-building-1025402.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Dalit woman raped by three men in UP's Kaushambi||A 35-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by three men in Kaushambi, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Thursday evening when the woman was going to visit her aunt in Fatehpur. She was waiting for a conveyance near Udin Khurd village when around 7 pm, the three men came in a four-wheeler and forcibly took the woman to a secluded place, where they raped her, the police said. She somehow managed to escape from their clutches and went to her aunt's house, they said. The accused had threatened her with dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident. The woman informed the police about the incident on Monday after which an FIR was lodged and all the three accused were arrested, Superintendent of Police Radheshyam Vishwakarma said. Those arrested have been identified as Hrithik Singh Patel and Deepu Singh Patel, residents of Kaushambi, and Akash Tiwari, a resident of Fatehpur district. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalit-woman-raped-by-three-men-in-ups-kaushambi-1025414.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Haryana CM Khattar lashes out at Amarinder Singh over farmers' issues||After accusing the Congress government in Punjab of fuelling farmers' unrest in his state, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar listed several steps taken by the BJP ruled state for farmers, and asked what Amarinder Singh's government has done done in comparison. “Who is anti-farmer, @capt_amarinder ji? Punjab or Haryana?,” said Khattar after highlighting in eight of his tweets various steps taken by his dispensation for farmers' welfare. “Dear @capt_amarinder ji, Haryana procures 10 crops at MSP—paddy, wheat, mustard, bajra, gram, moong, maize, ground nut, sun flower, cotton and makes the MSP payment directly into the account of the farmer. How many crops does Punjab buy from the farmer at MSP?,” Khattar asked his Punjab counterpart in one of his tweets.       He also said that Haryana has been paying the highest MSP in the country for sugarcane to its farmers for the last seven years. “Why has Punjab felt the need to match Haryana only after an agitation by farmers?,” he asked referring to Singh approving a Rs 15 per quintal hike in the State Agreed Price (SAP) of all sugarcane varieties for the 2021-22 crushing season a week ago. Khattar on Monday had accused the Congress government in Punjab of fuelling farmers' unrest in his state, prompting a sharp response from Singh.         The exchange had taken place two days after farmers protesting over agri laws enacted by the Centre clashed with the Haryana Police in Karnal. Singh had hit back a little later, accusing the BJP, including the Haryana CM, of taking refuge in “shameful lies” over the “horrendous attacks” on protesting farmers. “Repeal the farm laws instead of blaming Punjab for the mess your party has put the farming sector in,” Singh had said in a statement. Hours later, Khattar, in series of tweets, while mentioning the welfare steps taken by his government for farmers, also said that Haryana provides an incentive of Rs 7,000 per acre to every farmer who wants to move away from paddy cultivation. “What is the incentive that Punjab provides to the farmer similarly?, “ he asked. Khattar also said that Haryana pays interest at 12 per cent to the farmer in case payment is delayed beyond 72 hours from the approval. “Does Punjab pay interest on delayed payment?”          Haryana pays an incentive of Rs 5,000 per acre to the farmer who adopts direct seeding of rice technology, said Khattar, asking Singh, “What incentive does Punjab give?” He also mentioned that Haryana pays every farmer Rs 1,000 per acre for stubble management and provides linkages for sale of paddy straw and sought to know from Singh “What incentive does Punjab provide to the farmer?” He also said that Haryana has started micro-irrigation scheme to support farmers with 85 percent subsidy to manage precious water for irrigation. “What incentive does Punjab provide, and is it even concerned about the rapidly depleting water table that it will finish the farmer?,” he asked. Khattar said that Haryana supports farmers growing horticultural produce by instituting the “Bhawantar Bharpayee Yojana” to insulate the farmer from price variations below cost. “What incentive does Punjab provide to its horticulture farmers?,” asked Khattar. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-cm-khattar-lashes-out-at-amarinder-singh-over-farmers-issues-1025429.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Top police, army officers interact with families of local militants in Kashmir||To encourage local militants to shun violence, Jammu and Kashmir police and the army on Tuesday held an interaction with the families of active ultras in south Kashmir’s Shopian district and urged them to bring back their children to the mainstream. Officials said that General Officer Commanding (GOC) of Srinagar based 15-Corps, Lieutenant General Devendra Pratap Pandey, and Kashmir police chief, Vijay Kumar, interacted with families of active militants of whole south Kashmir at Shopian. “Both the officers appealed to the families to bring back their children into the mainstream and they would be provided all assistance,” they said. Vijay Kumar while confirming the interaction said he, along with the GOC 15-Corps, told them (militant families) that the “security establishment shall provide all types of assistance to them if their children shun the path of violence.” It is for the first time that two senior officers from police and the army have reached out to the families of militants in Kashmir. The interaction was held on the sidelines of a sports function in the area. Since last year the police and the Army have started a surrender policy, where parents of the trapped militants are called to the encounter site to convince them to surrender. In almost all the encounters, the local militants are being given a chance to give up arms and surrender. The first surrender policy in Jammu and Kashmir was introduced in 1995, when militancy was at its peak. It promised a fixed deposit of Rs 1.5 lakh, monthly stipend of Rs 1,800 and some vocational training for the militants who surrendered. In 2004, a new policy was approved which was applicable to “known militants who surrender with weapons” and “dreaded militants even without weapons”. It also promised a fixed deposit of Rs 1.5 lakh, monthly stipend of Rs 2,000 and some vocational training. In 2010, another policy was announced for Kashmiri militants who had gone to Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) for arms training between 1989 and 2009 and wanted to return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/top-police-army-officers-interact-with-families-of-local-militants-in-kashmir-1025434.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Rise in positive percentage in Srinagar indicates to onset of third wave of Covid-19: Experts||With a central expert panel predicting the third wave of Covid-19 hitting the country anytime between September and October, the positive percentage of the Srinagar district indicates the onset of the third wave. According to Dr Rouf Hussain Rather, a Social and Preventive Medicine expert, the positive percentage has increased from 0.2% in the previous weeks to 0.44% in the week gone by. Dr Rather, who works in the Divisional Covid Control Room in Kashmir, said the rise is significant and “possibly signalling the onset of the third wave in Kashmir.”  “One thing is certain, the infection is spreading at a faster rate, especially in Srinagar and it might now show in other districts as well,” he said. On July 30, there were 1171 active positive Covid cases in J&K which has slightly increased to 1264 on August 30. Among the active positive cases currently, 448 are in Srinagar, accounting for over 35% of all cases in the UT. Last week a committee of experts constituted by the National Institute of Disaster Management (NIDM) had suggested significantly ramping up vaccination pace before the onset of the third wave of Covid-19.  The Committee had said that children will have a similar risk as adults since pediatric facilities, doctors and equipment like ventilators, ambulances, etc. are nowhere close to what may be required in case a large number of children become infected. On the vaccination front, only 15% of the adult population in the Union Territory has received both doses till now.  And if children are also included, the number decreases to mere 10%. According to a recent study done by professors and alumni from Pandit Deendayal Energy University (PDEU) in collaboration with Nirma University, the vaccination rate of India is currently 3.2% and if it does not improve, India can witness six lakh cases per day in the third wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rise-in-positive-percentage-in-srinagar-indicates-to-onset-of-third-wave-of-covid-19-experts-1025439.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Riot took place almost every third day in previous regime, claims Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday alleged that a big riot took place almost every third day under the previous regime, hindering the state’s development and pushing it backwards. The UP CM further accused the previous governments of lack of vision for progress and failing to provide the common man a platform for business and employment. Between 2003 and 2107, no festival was held peacefully, lacking security from the government, he claimed. “UP was hit by anarchy, hooliganism and mismanagement. An identity crisis rose before the youth of the state," the CM said while addressing an event organised to launch developmental projects here. "In UP, from 2012-17, there was on an average a big riot every third day. People of not only one side died but loss of life and money was faced by both sides. Ultimately, it was a national loss, which pushed the state backwards and hindered its development," he said without mentioning the name of the Samajwadi Party that ruled UP for the five years. Adityanath also claimed that the state has improved in ease of doing business, jumping from the 14th place in the previous government to the second spot under the BJP rule. The state is now among the top three choices for foreign investors when it comes to investing in the country, he claimed. In coronavirus period, when China was losing on investments, Rs 66,000 crore was invested in the state, he said, claiming that the economy of UP is headed for becoming number two in the country. The work on infrastructure development, including interstate connectivity from Nepal, Bihar, Uttrakahand, MP, Chhattisgarh and Delhi, has been initiated, he said. “We are constructing a network of expressways that will become a backbone of the state's economy," he said. "We will fufil the dream of making the state a trillion dollar economy," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/riot-took-place-almost-every-third-day-in-previous-regime-claims-yogi-adityanath-1025467.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Hindu outfit threatens to lock up Taj Mahal||Members of a fringe outfit called Rashtriya Hindu Parishad (Bharat) staged a protest at the west gate of the Taj Mahal and threatened to lock the monument if action against an ASI staff member who denied entry to a visitor dressed as Lord Krishna is not taken. The outfit gave a 24-hour ultimatum to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials to take action against their staff members who 'insulted' the visitor. Superintending Archaeologist (Agra circle) Vasant K. Swarnkar said that no promotional activities are allowed at any protected monument without prior permission. The entry was denied as per rules and regulations. According to officials, there have been several occasions in the past when groups of people donning Ram dupatta were stopped from entering the historical monument. The incident, according to reports took place on Saturday and the outfit staged a protest on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindu-outfit-threatens-to-lock-up-taj-mahal-1025482.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Don't live in 'cuckoo world', we still face militancy: Farooq Abdullah to Centre||Laying emphasis on providing enough security to panchayat leaders in Jammu and Kashmir, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday said militancy still exists and the government should not live in "cuckoo world and think everything is hunky-dory". Abdullah, a former chief minister, made these remarks in the presence of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha at an official event here, organised as part of the parliamentary outreach programme for strengthening Panchayati Raj Institutions. Abdullah requested the Lt governor to strengthen security of panchayat leaders who continue to face threat to their lives and said militancy still exists in the Kashmir Valley. "These panchayat members are the targets of militants and they need to be protected. Don't live in a cuckoo world and think everything is hunky-dory. We still face militancy and God knows what will happen in future," he said in an apparent suggestion to the government. Laying emphasis on the need to protect the country's diversity, Abdullah said there is nothing similar between those who live in Srinagar and Chennai. "The binding factor is only the resolve that we come together to create this country. India is a diverse nation and it cannot prosper if we don't protect its diversity." He further said if the authorities don't protect the diversity, then one cannot protect the nation. "India cannot be run on the basis of one religion. And there is more threat from the enemy within. We know about the enemy which is outside," Abdullah said. He further said there is nothing wrong with any religion and that no religion teaches us to hate people from different faiths. Abdullah mentioned that panchayat elections were held under the governments led by him and his son Omar Abdullah. Reacting to Abdullah, the Lt Governor said, "I want to assure (you) that appropriate arrangements have been made for the security of panchayat leaders. The administration is committed to provide them security and will extend them all possible help to fulfil their duty."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-live-in-cuckoo-world-we-still-face-militancy-farooq-abdullah-to-centre-1025509.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Rajnath praises Yogi for stand against criminals; launches projects worth over Rs 1,700 crore||Praising the “tough stand” taken by Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath on law and order, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh here on Tuesday said the pulse of criminals quickens by just hearing his name. Addressing during the launching of 180 development projects worth over Rs 1,700 crore in his Lok Sabha constituency, Rajnath said progress cannot take place without better law and order situation, for which the CM deserves appreciation. Singh, who had reached here earlier in the day, inaugurated 90 projects and laid stones of 90 others at a function, attended by CM Adityanath and Deputy Chief Ministers Dinesh Sharma and Keshav Prasad Maurya. He also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi, claiming that 90 per cent of the families in the country are covered by one or other government scheme. "I am taking the 90 per cent figure with full caution. The number may be more than that," he said. Rajnath said God had made a good team of Yogi and Modi, both with two-syllable name. As far as the UP's law and order is concerned, the heartbeat of criminals quickens as soon as they hear the two syllable name "Yo-gi", he added. "If we want to ensure good governance in the state, it is not possible without better law and order. Development is also not possible without it. He should be appreciated for the strict action taken by him," Rajnath added. Singh also drew the attention of the CM to the slow pace of 100-km ring road project in Lucknow, urging him for its timely completion. "I request CM to show his 'tevar' (attitude) as only he can do that," he said. The defence minister also appreciated Adityanath for providing over 250 acres on lease of Re 1 for a facility to manufacture Brahmos missiles in Lucknow under the defence corridor project. Rajnath also hailed the CM for his sensitivity during the coronavirus pandemic, citing the facilities provided to children whose parents died due to the infection. UP Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said Rajnath Singh is fulfilling dreams of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who also represented Lucknow, by ensuring the city's development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajnath-praises-yogi-for-stand-against-criminals-launches-projects-worth-over-rs-1700-crore-1025514.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath bans sale of liquor, meat in Mathura, advises affected traders to sell milk||In a significant decision which was cheered by the Hindu seers, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced a complete ban on the sale of meat and liquor in Mathura, the land of Lord Krishna, and suggested that those engaged in their trade should instead sell milk keeping in view the glorious tradition of the religious town. According to the sources, the state government is mulling a similar ban in all the religious towns, including Ayodhya, Chitrakoot and some others. Speaking at a function after paying obeisance at the famous Banke Bihari Temple at Mathura on the occasion of 'Krishna Janmashthami' on Monday, Adityanath asked the district officials to draw up a plan to 'rehabilitate' the meat and liquor sellers in other traders.  ''It is essential to ban the sale of liquor and meat to preserve the cultural and spiritual glory of Mathura....those engaged in the trades can start selling milk, which has been the tradition of this place,'' Adityanath said. Sources here said that a similar ban could be imposed on the sale of meat and liquor in Ayodhya, Chitrakoot and some other religious towns as well. Hindu seers and saints in Ayodhya hailed the decision and said that it would go a long way in preserving the age-old traditions of Hinduism. ''It is a welcome step...we have been demanding the same for the past many years,'' said Raju Das, the Mahant (religious head) of the famous Hanumangarhi temple in Ayodhya on Tuesday. Political analysts said that the decision was intended to 'please' the saint community in the state, which always favoured a complete ban on the sale of meat and alcohol in all religious towns.  Top BJP leaders, including union home minister Amit Shah, have been focussing on the UP government's efforts to revive the glory of the Hindu religious places at their meetings in the state. Only recently Shah had said at a public meeting in Mirzapur that no other government had paid attention to the Hindu religious places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-bans-sale-of-liquor-meat-in-mathura-advises-affected-traders-to-sell-milk-1025519.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Home Minister Amit Shah invites investments in J&K||Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday urged investors to open new businesses in Jammu & Kashmir and assured added incentives for investments made in the least developed areas of the Union Territory. Inaugurating an online portal for registration under the new central sector scheme for industrial development in J&K, Shah said the reading down of Article 370 and 35A had opened up new business opportunities in the region. Fresh investments in J&K have the potential to generate 78,000 direct jobs in sectors such as agriculture, inland fisheries, horticulture, sericulture, dairy, Shah said. In February, the Centre had unveiled the Central Sector Scheme for Industrial Development of Jammu & Kashmir in February with a financial outlay of Rs 28,400 crore. It envisages extending four types of incentives – capital investment incentive, capital interest subvention, GST-linked incentive and working capital interest subvention. “The Scheme is attractive for both MSME, by the Capital Incentive component, as well as larger units, by a liberal Capital Interest Subvention component,” Shah said. The Scheme was aimed at giving fresh thrust to industry and services-led development of J&K with emphasis on job creation, skill development and sustainable development by attracting new investment and nurturing the existing ones, Shah said. The Home Minister said investments in less developed areas of the Union Territory would get more incentive under the initiative. He said the online portal launched on Tuesday has been designed and developed for effective implementation of the scheme in a transparent manner and with the objective of ease of doing business. “The entire process under the scheme i.e. applying for registration, submitting claims and their processing within the Department, is through the portal deliberately done to avoid human interface,” Shah said. The Home Minister urged investors to invest in the union territory and assured them of a quick response to their concerns. Shah said J&K Lt Governor Manoj Sinha had a hands-on approach and monitored the implementation of the central sector scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/home-minister-amit-shah-invites-investments-in-jk-1025558.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Delhi schools to reopen on September 1 after prolonged closure, many planning to defer||Several schools in the national capital are set to reopen tomorrow after prolonged closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic while many have chosen to adopt a wait-and-watch approach and will be calling students only after a few weeks. Following a marked improvement in the Covid situation in the national capital, the Delhi government on Friday had announced that schools for classes 9 to 12, colleges and coaching institutions would reopen from September 1. The Delhi government had clarified that no student would be forced to attend physical classes and the consent of parents would be mandatory. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia took to Twitter saying "Team Education" is prepared to reopen schools safely. "Only 20 per cent of the students have so far sent their parents consent forms. We will wait till we have at least 50 per cent student strength... the reopening plan is deferred for a few weeks," said the principal of a top school who did not wish to be identified. Mount Carmel School in Dwarka too does not plan to reopen for at least a month as its complete staff is not vaccinated yet and online learning will continue. "We are not prepared to open our schools right now. They haven't started vaccinating children and all my staff is not vaccinated. We are still in the middle of a pandemic. We are not going to take a chance," said Michael Williams, Dean of Mount Carmel School. "It is being said that Zydus has launched its vaccine for 12-18-year-olds. I think it is much smarter to wait for another two months. We have waited for long and we can wait some more," he added. Meanwhile, Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh is set to welcome students from Wednesday, however, they are not going to provide buses yet and students will have to come on their own. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday notified the guidelines for reopening of schools, colleges and coaching institutions. Allowing only 50 per cent students per classroom, mandatory thermal screening, staggered lunch breaks, alternate seating arrangement and avoiding routine guest visits are among the guidelines announced by the DDMA for reopening of schools and colleges from September 1. The DDMA has said students, teachers and non-teaching staff living in Covid containment zones will not be allowed to come to schools and colleges. While the government has noted that the vaccination centres and activities like ration distribution which were going on in different schools will continue, the DDMA said the area being used for these activities should be separated from the area which will be used for academic activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-schools-to-reopen-on-september-1-after-prolonged-closure-many-planning-to-defer-1025600.html
31-08-2021||North and Central||Congress petitions NHRC on lathi-charge against farmers||Ratcheting up the issue of the police lathicharge in which 10 farmers were injured and one of them later died allegedly due to a heart attack, Congress on Tuesday met Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya seeking a judicial probe and the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in Delhi for lodging case under the Indian Penal Code against the perpetrators. Both the delegations, one led by former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda to the Governor and the other by state Congress chief Kumari Selja to the NHRC, in particular, raised the issue of an IAS officer asking cops to "break farmers' heads by hitting them with a lathi." The party also launched a campaign on social media under the hashtag 'KisanDrohi (anti-farmer) BJP', slamming Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for his remarks justifying the "strict" action to maintain law and order and asked "Strictness needed for what Mr Khattar?" While Hooda submitted a video clip to the Governor in which the official was directing the cops to stop the farmers from moving towards a BJP meeting venue and hit them with lathis, the party in its petition to the NHRC rued that "cops followed his (Hooda's) illegal order and hit the farmers in the head with the intention to kill them". Hooda demanded from the Governor a judicial inquiry into the lathicharge by a sitting judge of the High Court or a retired judge. "Be it Kurushetra, Hisar or Karnal, the Khattar government had responded to black flags (protests against it) through batons. It's the farmer's blood that has been spilled everywhere. This was done in this case without any provocation. An officer gave an order, which cannot be allowed in a democracy. If the government itself violates human rights, what remains then. We have demanded from NHRC strict action in the matter," Kumari Selja said, seeking action from NHRC under specific provisions for the lathicharge of farmers. The Congress petition accused the government and the administration of having committed a "cognisable offence" and sought action against those responsible under various sections of IPC. Sharing photos of injured farmers, Haryana Congress tweeted "shameful: bloodletting system of Khattar" and hit out at both Chief Minister Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala from Jannayak Janata Party amid a seemingly conflicting stand between the two on the role of the officer who gave the order, asking cops to break the head of agitating farmers. While Deputyy CM Chautala had termed the action of the IAS officer as 'condemnable' and assured action against him, Chief Minister Khattar defended the lathicharge, saying strict action is taken sometimes to maintain law and order. "If they hurl stones at police, block highways, then the police will take steps to maintain law and order," Khattar had said. AICC communication department Chairman Randeep Surjewala shared video clips of Chautala's remarks strongly backing farmers before joining the BJP-led government in Haryana and correspondingly questioning the conduct of protesting farmers after joining the government and asked whether it was the lure of power that made him change his stance. “सत्ता की मलाई” क्या क्या स्टैंड बदलवाती है ! Congress, which has launched a relentless attack on the BJP-JJP government, calling it "General Dyer government" asked on Tuesday: "For what tough action needed? Has the BJP government decided to bleed the farmers?" Selja shared a screenshot of Khattar's media byte justifying the "tough action" and said, "this is very unfortunate. Such inhuman behaviour is a sign of your arrogance". The party leaders commented on the hashtag 'Kisan Drohi (anti-farmer) BJP.' Vivek Bansal said, "get the farm laws annulled instead of suppressing the voice of farmers with lathicharge". BJP has repeatedly accused the Congress government in Punjab of fuelling farmers' unrest in his state and on Monday the Haryana CM had directly put the blame on Congress Chief Minister of Punjab Captain Amarinder Singh. Congress has gone into a campaign mode after the August 28 lathicharge in which 10 farmers were injured in police lathicharge while marching towards Karnal in Haryana to protest against a BJP meeting being attended by Chief Minister Khattar. The Congress also urged the Governor not to give his nod to the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Amendment) Bill, 2021 passed by the state Assembly in the Monsoon session, calling it "anti-farmer".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-petitions-nhrc-on-lathi-charge-against-farmers-1025605.html
31-08-2021||Oasis||The universe speaks when we are attentive||Each of us has a little universe inside of us and when we discover this magical place, the universe outside only seems like an extension of the magic, the enchantment we found on the inside.  I was recently speaking to a friend about the sudden pain in my shoulder joints which made carrying out day to day activities rather difficult. I was upset and angry about this arbitrary pain and was rattled by the possibility of surgery. I wondered about the randomness with which this pain was inflicted on me. After listening to me go on and on for a while, she spoke;  “Most things in our life,” she said “, do not happen randomly. What appears arbitrary is actually a string of ignored messages that the universe was trying to send us. When those neglected intimations accumulate the resultant seems too much to handle”. She reiterated that if we listened to those little messages that came in from time to time, we would not struggle to make sense of the curveballs in our life.  Thus chided, I spoke about my lifestyle and how unwittingly I had ignored the little telltale signs of tension and stress in my body. The seemingly little pockets of hurt, exhaustion and strain had now become big bags that I carried around without even my knowledge. I was forced to acknowledge that lost in our quotidian experiences we often ignore and hence multiply the pressure in our lives simply because we are not conscious of the messages the universe keeps sending us. Messages to slow down, to let go, to do something different, to rest, to seek refuge in nature, to listen to our intuition.   Our lack of awareness breaks the connection between the universe inside and outside of us and hence the messages don't come through. I resolved to be open to the offerings of the universe; tiny openings of wisdom, synchronicity, memories, little aches and pains, moments of solicitous solitude and small tugs at our hearts when everything around us is silent.  To my delight, just then, I received a lovely surprise of gorgeous flowers and gourmet food from a close friend to help me tide over this barricade of hurt and pain. The universe had spoken. And how!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-universe-speaks-when-we-are-attentive-1025291.html
31-08-2021||Opinion||An unceremonious end, and a shrouded beginning||The end of the United States’ longest war was unceremonious — trash blowing across the single airstrip of Kabul’s international airport, Afghans lingering outside the gates, still hoping in vain for evacuation, Taliban firing victoriously into the night sky. In its final days, it was two US Marines shaking hands with Taliban fighters in the dim glow of the domestic terminal. It was lines of starved and dehydrated evacuees boarding gray planes that took them to uncertain futures. It was the Taliban’s leadership dictating their terms, as a generation of Afghans pondered the end of 20 years of some kind of expanded hope. It was highway overpasses and park benches stretched across the United States, named in honor of the war’s dead. The end, at least for the Americans and their Western allies, came on a Monday after the thousands of US troops defending Hamid Karzai International Airport flew out in waves, one lumbering transport plane after another until none were left, in the final hours of the lost war. Unlike the Soviets defeated before them, the Americans’ legacy was not a landscape littered with the destroyed hulks of armored vehicles. Instead, they left all the arms and equipment needed to supply the Taliban, the victors, for years to come, the product of two decades and $83 billion training and equipping an Afghan military and police forces that collapsed in the face of poor leadership and dwindling US support. Afghanistan has once more completed a cycle that has repeatedly defined the past 40 years of violence and upheaval: For the fifth time since the Soviet invasion in 1979, one order has collapsed and another has risen. What has followed each of those times has been a descent into vengeance, score-settling and, eventually, another cycle of disorder and war. It is up to the Taliban, now, to decide whether they will perpetuate the cycle of vengeance, as they did upon seizing power from a group of feuding warlords in 1996, or will truly embrace the new path that their leaders have promised in recent days: one of acceptance and reconciliation. Nearly 20 years have passed since Osama bin Laden and al-Qaida executed the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States, and President George W. Bush announced that the United States would invade Afghanistan as the first act in a global war against terrorism. Now, the United States is contending with how to define its relationship with the same Islamist rulers it toppled in 2001 — again a question of vengeance or acceptance — and how to try to head off the resurgence of any international terrorist threat rising from Afghanistan. Now, there are smaller prospects of airstrikes in the Afghan countryside that leave the unnamed and faceless dead as data points in a colored bar graph of a barely read United Nations report. No roadside bombs buried in haste, in the dead of night, that might strike a government vehicle or a minibus packed with families. Instead, there is a widespread anxiety about what the true shape of Taliban rule will be with the Americans truly gone. And there is fear that the chaotic rush of the government’s collapse during the Taliban advance could leave an unfixable economy, ruin and hunger. The United States’ conflict in Afghanistan was a long war with a quick end, or so it seemed. But the withdrawal’s fate was set more than 18 months ago, when the Trump administration signed an agreement with the Taliban to withdraw from the country by May 1, 2021. In exchange, the Taliban agreed to stop attacking Americans, end mass-casualty attacks on Afghans in cities, and prevent al-Qaida and other terrorist groups from finding refuge in the country. The Taliban’s leverage, earned after years of fighting the world’s most advanced military, multiplied as they captured more remote outposts and checkpoints, then rural villages and districts, then the roads in between them. By the beginning of this year, the Taliban had positioned themselves near several key cities, as the newly inaugurated Biden administration weighed whether to honor the agreement made under President Donald Trump to depart. By the time President Joe Biden and NATO announced in April the withdrawal of US and coalition forces by Sept. 11, the Taliban were already taking district after district. The Afghan security forces were surrendering or being cut down in droves. Soon, provincial capitals too were under siege, despite US air power and an Afghan military that Biden and other senior officials said was nearly 300,000 strong. But in the final days, the Afghan security forces totaled around just one-sixth of that, according to US officials. Afghan troops fled more than fought, but those who were killed with their chests facing their enemy died for a cause that not even their leaders seemed to believe in. Even before Biden’s announcement and Trump’s deal with the Taliban, the United States had been in stages of withdrawal since December 2009, when President Barack Obama announced both a surge of tens of thousands of troops and their departure by 2014. Since then, Afghans and America’s allies have been in varying stages of alarm and second-guessing, clambering to secure their future and business interests. This uncertainty reinforced the endemic corruption that the West decried, but continued to feed it with billions of dollars in the hope it might somehow change. Now, at the end, the Afghan politicians and entrepreneurs and elite who fed off the war’s coffers have largely fled. The final US military planes departed, leaving behind at least 100,000 Afghans eligible for resettlement in the United States for their work with the Americans. The evacuation, which began in July as an orderly and modest relocation of a few thousand Afghans, devolved into an apocalyptic exodus as Kabul collapsed on Aug. 15. Hundreds, then thousands, amassed at the gates; people abandoned their cars; and US forces watched on infrared cameras as people overran their defenses, not with tanks or explosives but with sheer mass. The Americans and the Taliban then worked together to clear the airport and establish a perimeter after frantic Afghans fell from the underbelly of transport planes and the thud-thud-thud of helicopters evacuated the US Embassy, one of the largest diplomatic missions in the world. The evacuation became plagued by scenes that evoked those of another generational American war, when Saigon fell and helicopters were pushed from ships to sea. “We have a mutually beneficial relationship with the Taliban,” one soldier said unironically earlier this month, standing near the sea of people holding signs and documents and passports in the dead of night, illuminated by the flashlights attached to rifles held by US soldiers who yelled at them to stop pushing and get back. One person was caught in the string of barbed wire and ripped free by panicked family members as more steel barrier coils were laid in place. A year ago, or 10 years ago, or 15 years ago, the Taliban were shadows in an adjacent tree line, the unseen specters who turned the ground in front of US, NATO and Afghan troops into a mine-laden hell. Each step posed the question of what to do if a friend in front was suddenly blown in half — the tourniquet goes here, the blood type is O positive. Yet in the final hours of America’s war, the Taliban fully materialized, just down the road or on the other side of the gate in the country’s capital. They were suddenly everywhere, their white-and-black flags orbiting the American positions, controlling the crowd, letting the Americans end the war — but not on American terms. For the US forces on the ground the final weeks of the war, the task at hand wasn’t a presence patrol, or counterinsurgency operations or clear-hold-build or nation-building. There were no raids on Taliban weapons caches or bomb-makers because the bomb-makers and their commanders now controlled the city. The young soldiers and Marines instead found ways to help those who were lucky enough to make it near the airport gates at all. They pulled people through the threshold to what Afghans believed would be a better life. Sometimes those Afghans didn’t have the right documents, so they were turned away. Beyond the trauma of having to give that rejection, and face that desperation, the Americans would once more face the loss of comrades in Afghanistan in those final hours — 13 US service members, killed by an Islamic State group terrorist attack on Thursday as they tried to sort a crowd of Afghans holding their documents out for consideration. Almost 200 Afghans were killed in the same attack, in a devastating coda of carnage. In Qatar, Kuwait, Germany and the United States, tens of thousands of Afghans sit in processing centers, out of the shadow of the Taliban’s new-old government, but uncertain of when or how they might make it to America. In the United States, historians and analysts will look back on the failed solutions and the misguided strategies and general officers who assured victory even though in off-the-record briefings and closed-door sessions they acknowledged that the United States was losing. Perhaps the American people will demand accountability for the thousands of lives and trillions of dollars spent, only for the Taliban to end up back in control, more powerful than they were 20 years ago. Or perhaps they won’t care, and will move on in an America that will continue to be profoundly shaped — politically, economically and personally — by the war, noticed or not. As for those left behind in Afghanistan, a country of 38 million minus the thousands who have fled or died in recent weeks, all they can do is look forward, asking themselves and anyone who will listen: What comes next? Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/an-unceremonious-end-and-a-shrouded-beginning-1025344.html
31-08-2021||Opinion||India surges ahead of China in the Maldives||The ongoing jostling for strategic influence between New Delhi and Beijing in the Indian Ocean archipelago of Maldives has just seen India surge ahead after it bagged the contract to build the $500 million Greater Malé Connectivity Project (GMCP) last week. Billed as the "largest-ever infrastructure project" in the Maldives, India has reason to be pleased now that the contract has been signed. The gargantuan project envisages linking capital Malé with the islands of Villingli, Gulhifalhu and Thilafushi with a 6.74-km-long bridge and causeway link. Once constructed, this mega project will overshadow the Chinese-built 1.4-km-long Sinmalé bridge. Referred to as the China-Maldives Friendship bridge, it links capital Malé to the islands of Hulhule and Hulhumalé.  The Chinese-constructed bridge is an important element of China's Maritime Silk Road Initiative, which the Maldives signed onto in 2014. Another close Indian neighbour, Sri Lanka, is also part of this initiative, adding to New Delhi's worries as China increases its footprint in the region.  The Sinmalé bridge was inaugurated on August 30, 2018, days ahead of the presidential polls in the archipelago in September that year. The then-president, the China-leaning Abdulla Yameen, was possibly hoping to reap the benefits by winning another five-year term.  To Yameen's dismay and undoubtedly to India's great relief, he lost. Instead, the Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) was back in the saddle, winning an overwhelming majority and party co-founder Ibrahim 'Ibu' Solih becoming the president. Ever since, New Delhi has stepped on the throttle, making the most of an India-friendly government in place in Malé to deliver swiftly on infrastructure projects and regain its strategic space from China. Indeed, the 'battle of the bridges' can be seen as a metaphor for the tussle between the two Asian giants to extend their sphere of influence not just in the Maldives but the wider Indian Ocean Region. With China lurking in its periphery, India's security concerns have been heightened in recent years. Additionally, Islamist elements continue to thrive in the Maldives and remain a threat not just to its stability but also to the region.  With its abundant resources and money, China has been wooing countries in India's neighbourhood through huge infrastructure projects. Even the distinct possibility of falling into a 'debt trap' has not held them back from availing of Chinese loans.  In the Maldives, China held sway during President Yameen's presidency between 2013 and 2018. But India has been able to claw back onto the centrestage since the 2018 electoral defeat of Yameen, working to deliver small and large-scale projects in the archipelago through development assistance.  The funding for the GMCP has two elements -- a $400-million Line of Credit (LoC) and a $100-million grant. India's attempts to keep China at bay have seen it providing to the Maldives a financial assistance package of $1.4 billion apart from LoCs worth $1.2 billion to build infrastructure.  Lending a sense of urgency to India's work in the Maldives is the knowledge that the country is still a fledgling democracy where systems and institutions are still evolving. Besides, New Delhi is well aware that a change in government in the archipelago could mean that the pendulum could once again swing in China's favour.  That anti-India sentiments within certain quarters in the Maldives come to the fore from time to time also need to be part of New Delhi's calculus. There has already been an "India Out" campaign, which saw Yameen's supporters leading it last year and questioning their country's dependence on New Delhi for executing projects.  Yameen himself is under house arrest after spending some time behind bars on being sentenced to a five-year prison term following conviction in a money laundering case.  More recently, a website launched an 'India Out' campaign, which gathered steam on social media forcing the Indian High Commission in Malé to register its protest with the Maldivian foreign ministry, describing the attacks as "motivated" and "malicious".  While such shrill campaigns are not unexpected, particularly with presidential elections in the Maldives just two years away, another development threatens the archipelago's political stability. And this is the manner in which former president and now speaker of the Maldivian Majlis (Parliament) Mohamed Nasheed appears to be consistently undermining and embarrassing his own party's government. From charging his own party's ministers with corruption to calling for the imposition of emergency in the Maldives following the terror attack targeting him in June, Nasheed has been busy rocking the Solih government's boat. These pronouncements by Nasheed are widely perceived as the over-stepping of his role as Speaker of the Majlis. It has led to a rift between Solih and Nasheed, both co-founders of the MDP. Recently, in an even more disconcerting move for his party and the government, Nasheed announced that he was willing to align with political foe Yameen, the very man who had sent him to prison on terror charges and his party, the Progressive Party of Maldives (PPM).  While the PPM has rejected this proposal for now, the political cauldron in a nation with a nascent democracy continues to simmer. Early last month, Nasheed declared his intention to run for the presidency of the Maldives in the 2023 elections. The split within the MDP is wide open. And if the party is unable to gather its act together in the next two years, the consolidation of democracy in this strategically located nation may well be the casualty.  (The writer is a senior New Delhi-based journalist)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-surges-ahead-of-china-in-the-maldives-1025413.html
31-08-2021||Panorama||Govt should have power to take down harmful content, says Rajeev Chandrasekhar||Excerpts:  What have you identified as your top focus areas in MeitY and skilling? Both ministries are great opportunities to fulfil PM Modi’s vision to empower the youth. We’re currently looking at how skill development, training and entrepreneurship can be integrated into education through the NEP. We want to expand training the youth by using technology. There are close to 18,000 training centres around the country. We’re creating a digital platform to make skills and training available on the same platform keeping employability as the focus. In MeitY, one of the biggest focus areas will be ensuring connectivity with remote-working becoming the new normal. The second focus is to double our exports this year and expand the digital economy to a trillion dollars in three years. Currently, only 26 companies have a turnover of over Rs 5,000 crore. We want this number to go up. They want a trusted partner in a post-Covid environment and India is becoming that trusted partner.  What about the electronics manufacturing sector? In 2014, the sector was worth Rs 1.9 lakh crore. Thanks to production-linked incentives (PLI) schemes, we’ve reached Rs 5 lakh crore. The PM’s ambition is very large for India to emerge as an electronics manufacturing hub. The ministry is announcing more PLI schemes.  India missed the PC revolution, but made up for it with the mobile phone, which brings us to internet connectivity. How are we doing on this front? At present, some 700 million Indians are online. We want more than a billion Indians online by 2024, making India one of the largest connected countries in the world. The only other country like this will be China. But, our internet will be free, open, safe and accountable. China’s is more like an intranet, which is closed.  When it comes to digital communications infrastructure in rural areas, right-of-way is an issue states face. Is this an obstacle your ministry is addressing? Well, the biggest obstacle was actually the lack of realisation among the political leadership in the states on the power of the internet vis-a-vis citizens. Post-Covid, this realisation has dawned. I talked to Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai who is keen to partner with the Centre to see that all our villages are connected with the internet. We’re developing a plan to wire up villages. Currently, 30 villages in each Karnataka district are undergoing a pilot project called Digital Village. It’s happening in 700 districts across India.  You’ve pitched the idea of virtual IT parks in smaller towns. What exactly is this? Two questions come up almost every time I travel in Karnataka: Why are IT jobs mostly in Bengaluru? Why are IT parks vacant? The answer now is, forget IT parks; that may or may not happen. The way to create tech inclusiveness and bridge the rural-urban divide is to provide more ability for youngsters to work from home once there’s good internet connectivity. They should be able to be a part of TCS, HCL or Wipro without having to move to Bengaluru. Karnataka can and will take lead in this. Let’s talk about the new IT rules. The government’s intent to make platforms accountable for fake news has led to concerns that the new rules are a way to control news, especially ones critical of the administration. The IT Rules are meant to ensure user safety and intermediary accountability to users. This is essentially to ensure that any user of a news or social media platform can raise a concern and the platform is liable to address it. To that extent, intermediaries have to appoint compliance officers. On digital media ethics, it’s subjudice. But, it’s not meant to be about the government supervising the media. The free nature of Indian media remains intact and [the rules] envisage a self-regulation.  The code of ethics for digital media talks about ‘half-truths’, ‘decency’ and ‘good taste’. Aren’t these subjective notions?  One of the realities about laws and regulations in the digital space is that they are evolving over jurisprudence. The debate around these rules isn’t necessarily bad. People can seek clarification and we’re open. We believe very clearly that Article 19, for instance, is embedded in the Constitution. Nobody can take that away. Our courts are there to ensure that.  Speaking of free speech, India reportedly had the highest number of internet shutdowns in the world last year. How do you see this practice, which is seen as a tool to suppress protests and political opponents?  We have 1.3 billion people. We have to legitimately accept that there’s a lot of mischief and incitement that goes on. The government has the sovereign obligation to take down problematic content. Section 69A of IT Act allows takedowns. When this went to the Supreme Court, Section 66A was struck down while 69A was retained. It’s essential for the government to have the power to takedown whenever there’s harmful content. But, I want to assure people that the internet in India will always be free, open, safe, trusted and accountable.  Is the government considering amendments to the IT Act? If you look at the legislative framework governing the Internet, it’s quite old. Legislations have to be contemporary and respond to changing needs. The last amendment was in 2008. There are discussions taking place on how we can make the laws more modern and cater to different stakeholders in light of the digital economy.  On skilling, how will the government’s approach change post-Covid?  Post-Covid, skilling requirements have undergone a structural change. There are a lot more digital skills required, micro-entrepreneurship required. The core focus is empowering the youth with upskilling and reskilling. Those coming back from the Middle East today need new skills (reskilling) whereas migrants going back to their villages need upskilling. There are over 4,500 training courses that the National Council for Vocational Training (NCVT) has devised and developed with sector skill councils.  The informal sector is seen as a big challenge for India’s skilling programme.  One of the redesign areas is, we’re going to significantly expand our focus of skilling in the informal and traditional skill clusters. There are many geographies where there are traditional skills - carpentry, masonry, metal work, steel work - for which clusters have been identified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/govt-should-have-power-to-take-down-harmful-content-says-rajeev-chandrasekhar-1025289.html
31-08-2021||Panorama||Management of chronic pain||Physiotherapy is a part of healthcare management that assists in restoring function and movement when a patient is affected by an illness or injury. Physiotherapy can be extremely beneficial for various bone, muscular and joint issues, especially pain management. It is equally effective in treating chronic pain that can help patients fight pain and lead a healthy life. Unfortunately, in India, physiotherapy doesn’t have a streamlined referral system, even though it can support the promotion of health, prevention of injury and help in rehabilitation.  Being an allied part of the healthcare system, physiotherapy aims to restore and maintain maximum physical function along with improved health throughout life. In the majority of the settings in India, physiotherapy is offered in combination with various other treatments and therapies. Though medical practitioners in India are well aware of its applications in paediatrics, musculoskeletal, cardio-respiratory, sports, and neurological conditions, they lack awareness of the recent advances being made in physiotherapy. Physiotherapy has made excellent progress when it comes to chronic pain, transplantation, geriatric conditions, cancer, and women’s health. Other than that, the role of physiotherapy in different phases of pulmonary and cardiac rehabilitation of patients is also not given due attention in India.  In India, the common scenario for receiving physiotherapy services is a prescription from a medical practitioner. This, in turn, creates a negative idea about the competence of physiotherapist professionals, which leads to underutilisation of resources and skills and further impeding quality of care.   Today, in the present living conditions, the majority of health issues emerge from unhealthy habits and bad lifestyles. With Covid-19 confining people to their homes, chronic pain issues are on the rise because of lack of physical activity and more time being spent in front of computers. Physiotherapy works by reversing the damage to the affected area and rebuilding strength, restoring functionality and guiding the patient towards a healthy lifestyle and proper movements of various body parts. Different methods are employed by physiotherapists to mobilise the soft tissues in the affected area to increase flexibility and restore elasticity. For centuries, manual therapy techniques like gentle massages have helped in improving local circulation in the area that is being treated. Lymphatic massage has gained immense popularity over the past few years owing to its effectiveness in reducing swelling and pain in post-mastectomy patients. Joint mobilisation is another technique commonly used to loosen the collagen fibres present in the joints. This procedure helps patients to regain joint mobility and get relief from chronic pain.  Other than manual techniques, many physiotherapists also make use of relaxation techniques such as meditation, yoga and pranayama to relax the nervous system. When the nervous system is relaxed, it induces better sleep which in turn helps to relieve pain.  In the case of physiotherapy, the exercise programs are tailor-made to suit the individual requirements of patients.   While physiotherapy adopts a holistic approach to chronic pain treatment and guides patients to a healthy life, the role of physiotherapist professionals in healthcare delivery requires more awareness. Backed by scientific evidence, physiotherapy can reform our healthcare system by actuating early recovery, treat numerous aches, syndromes and conditions, and support improved quality of life. An effort must be made to educate the various health professionals via various associated professional bodies and other channels on the benefits of various types of physiotherapies available currently so that patients are benefitted in early and full recovery from their illness. (The writer is Deputy Chief Medical officer at a care institute)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/management-of-chronic-pain-1025290.html
31-08-2021||Right in the Middle||The fragrance of new books||In my school days, I forayed into the adventure of savouring new books. When I was a child, I remember vividly, I had a peculiar fascination for books, especially new books.  I was always eager for the opening of our school after summer vacation. This was the time that I would get new books-- both textbooks and notebooks. I would grab them so greedily and begin turning over the pages of the books curiously, smelling each page excitedly, savouring the joy of new books. Smell, I always felt, was not the correct word to be employed to describe what my nose captured from the pages of new books. Fragrance perhaps is closer. After entering the new class with new books, in-class during the day and at home after school-time, began my world of new books and my quiet joy of the new experience. Alas! This quiet, much-relished pleasure of mine hardly lasted long. This joy stayed with me for only a few days. Used constantly for reading, writing, pressed in the school-satchel, catching dust and absorbing sweat from hands, the books ceased to be new and no fragrance emanated from them. I began to notice the ageing pages with dog-ears growing at their corners. I was terribly let down at my books growing into odourless, ageing things. What could I do, except looking forward to another, fresh academic year and bonanza of new books? One day, I was noticed by my teacher in class as I was sneaking a sniff of my English textbook. The teacher thought I was hiding my face behind the book. She asked me, "What are you doing, covering your face with the book?" Startled, I lifted my face from the book and gazed at the teacher who was standing so close to me. I mumbled, "No, Madam. I'm not covering my face with the book. "Then, what are you doing with your face in the book?" retorted the teacher. "I'm just smelling the pages of this new book, Madam", I answered rather timidly. Baffled and intrigued by my strange answer, the teacher shot at me again, "Why are you doing that?" "It's the fragrance I'm smelling from the pages of the book, Madam," I mumbled. "It's not a flower," argued the teacher. "To me, it's just like a flower, Madam," I muttered. The teacher was a kind woman. She said, "That's okay. Stop smelling the book and read it."  I nodded my head obediently and smiled at my teacher. The teacher smiled back as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-fragrance-of-new-books-1025292.html
31-08-2021||Second Edit||Guard against Covid-19 supplement overdose||The Karnataka government has taken the right decision in screening over 1.5 crore school students and providing vitamins and other supplements to those vulnerable in order to mitigate the impact of Covid-19, with experts suggesting that a third wave could hit children hard. With studies indicating that about 40% of children in the country are malnourished and thus susceptible to Covid, the move assumes significance, especially since the state government failed to provide mid-day meals during the pandemic, thus depriving students of their daily nutritional intake. However, both parents and the government should exercise great caution as an overdose of supplements could do more harm than good, especially among children under the age of five. Experts have warned that children should have a balanced immunity level and that either a weak or excessively strong system can cause damage to vital organs, besides other adverse effects. Indiscriminate distribution of ‘immunity kits’ among children should be discouraged. They must be administered supplements only after proper medical evaluation. Parents, too, should realise that not every child needs these supplements. While some experts point to the absence of scientific evidence to prove that supplements help in preventing infection, they are unanimous in the view that a well-balanced diet is more important for a growing child than any medical inputs. What is more important is to provide them with healthy food, clean drinking water, hygienic surroundings and ensuring that they are exposed to adequate physical activity and sunlight. There is a need to address the issue holistically through sustained measures, instead of temporary interventions, with UNICEF estimating that India accounts for a third of the global burden of childhood stunting, a manifestation of chronic undernutrition. The mid-day meal programme was launched in 1995 to address the issues of hunger and nutrition among children by providing hot cooked food while also improving the enrolment rate and reducing dropouts. The high figures of malnutrition only indicate that state governments have failed in their responsibility. The initiative to provide supplements should be a stopgap arrangement, considering that many poor students had no access to a wholesome diet during the pandemic. In the long run, state governments should ensure that underprivileged children get a wholesome complement of nutrition through the mid-day meal scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/guard-against-covid-19-supplement-overdose-1025285.html
31-08-2021||South||Hindu Munnani condemns ban on Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations||The Hindu Munnani on Tuesday condemned the decision of the Tamil Nadu government to impose restrictions on the public celebrations of Vinayaka Chaturthi citing Covid-19. Terming it as a conspiracy against the Hindu community by the DMK-led dispensation, he said Chaturthi was celebrated last year amid more restrictions, without spreading the disease. Despite a drop in infections and majority of the population getting vaccinated, the government is banning Hindu festivals only, Munnani president, Kadeshwara Subramanian alleged at a press conference here. Noting that there were no restrictions to celebrate Bakrid recently, by erecting large pandals on road side, he claimed that even the 10-day Church festival was allowed in Turicorin recently by declaring a local holiday. However, when it comes to Hindu festivals, particularly during last month, being Holy Aadi month, the government was taking the issue of spreading the infection, he alleged. The government had announced a ban on the public celebration of Vinayaka Chaturthi and banned installation of idols at public places, processions and immersion of the idols in beaches and water bodies. Protesting the anti-Hindu stance of the DMK government, the people will visit and pray in front of all temples in the state on Thursday, he said. Munnani also wanted the government to withdraw its order and allow the Hindu population to celebrate the 'People's Festival' adhering to all the restrictions, like social distancing, Subramanian said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hindu-munnani-condemns-ban-on-vinayaka-chaturthi-celebrations-1025433.html
31-08-2021||South||Bouquets and brickbats as Kerala nurse administers Covid-19 vaccine to 893 in 7.5 hours||A nurse at a government hospital in Kerala is in the news for administering Covid-19 vaccines to 893 persons in 7.5 hours. While she invited much appreciation and was honoured by Kerala Health Minister Veena George, a section of health workers have raised concerns asking whether it was possible to administer vaccine to 893 persons in 7.5 hours by ensuring safety parametres. Pushpalatha, a junior public health nurse at Chengannur district hospital in Alappuzha district, administered vaccine to 893 persons in 7.5 hours on August 15. Her act received much attention after health minister called on her on Monday and honoured her especially since Kerala is on a drive to vaccinate all aged above 18 years by September.  A social media post of the minister appreciating Pushpalatha triggered a debate in the social media over the nurse's achievement. While many heath workers raised concerns over the health risks involved in such hectic vaccination, many asked whether it was possible to administer this many vaccines by a nurse continuously. There were also criticisms that health workers were overloaded with work.  Pushpalatha said that it was made possible due to a team work involving eight staff. Many, especially migrant workers, turned up for getting vaccinated during the day. The available health officials decided not to return anyone without vaccinating them.  Pushpalatha, who was quite experienced in vaccination, said the team took only minimum breaks in between and hence it was possible to vaccinate all who turned up. She took hardly 20 seconds to vaccinate a person. The entire vaccination drive went on in a rhythmic manner, Pushpalatha, a musician-turned-nurse, told the media. Public health expert and WHO former technical officer Dr S S Lal said that vaccination involved procedures like ensuring patient's health condition. It is good if the nurse and her team could administer Covid-19 vaccine to a large number of persons in a short span of time by following the procedures. But giving much publicity to it was not desirable as it may lead to unhealthy competitions, Lal added. So far, 58 per cent of Kerala's population has received at least the first dose and the state was also ensuring zero wastage of vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bouquets-and-brickbats-as-kerala-nurse-administers-covid-19-vaccine-to-893-in-75-hours-1025528.html
31-08-2021||South||Kerala's Covid-19 daily cases cross 30,000-mark again||While the daily fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala again crossed the 30,000-mark with 30,203 cases being reported on Tuesday, state Health Minister Veena George said that the ongoing post-Onam festival surge of Covid-19 in Kerala is not that high as projected by experts. The state health department is also planning to enhance vigil on people coming from foreign countries in view of reports of new variants of Covid-19. Over the last one week, daily fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala have been hovering around 30,000 and the TPR has also remained around 20 per cent. The number of active cases in Kerala has also crossed the two lakh mark. Social distancing norms were flouted in the state during the last couple of weeks as the lockdown restrictions were eased in view of the Onam festival. The health minister said that the present Covid-19 surge is within the state's control as it is below what was projected by experts. However, people should remain vigilant and those who have any sort of symptoms should undergo the Covid-19 test. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will be holding a meeting with public health experts on Wednesday to discuss steps to be taken to contain the spread of Covid-19. Already a daily night curfew from 10 pm to 6 am and lockdown on Sundays have been imposed in the state. The state would go for further shutdown only as an extreme step as there was much resentment among the public, especially traders, as the lockdown that prolonged for nearly three months had badly affected the livelihood of the people. The health minister also said that while saving lives, livelihood also needs to be protected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-covid-19-daily-cases-cross-30000-mark-again-1025548.html
31-08-2021||South||Telangana schools to reopen from Wednesday: High Court's directions allow both online and offline classes||The Telangana High Court has directed the state government and the school managements not to compel the students to resume offline classes. It has also prohibited the reopening of state-run residential schools. The state's decision last week to reopen the educational institutions for the students of all the standards including pre-primary sections from 1 September has caused anxiety among the parents, especially when studies indicated the possibility of a Covid-19 third wave over the next few months. On Tuesday, a day before the schools' scheduled reopening for physical mode classes, the court reviewed a petition questioning the government's decision.  In its 24 August orders, following CM Rao's decision a day earlier, the Telangana education department directed all the educational institutions across the state to open in physical mode, duly following the Covid-19 norms. The notice did not offer the option of continuing online classes, as preferred by many parents and more so in towns and cities. In such a scenario, some of the schools in Hyderabad had even asked for an undertaking from the parents to absolve the management of any liability if their child gets infected by the virus. Following the court's interim orders effectively allowing both offline and online education modes, education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy held consultations with senior officials and a revised memo was issued on Tuesday evening.  According to the clarifications in the memo, all schools other than government residential, social welfare and tribal welfare schools with hostel facilities are permitted to open from 1 September. However, no child shall be compelled by any school management to physically attend offline classes, “if his/her parents are disinclined to send the child to school.” “It is left open to school managements to have either only offline or only online or both offline and online classes,” said Sandeep Kumar Sultania, secretary, education department. The government also submitted that the Standard Operating Procedures to be followed by the school managements conducting offline classes would be laid down within a week. Education department officials also stated that the undertakings from parents absolving the management in case of Covid-19 infections while in school, “shall not have any legal effect.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-schools-to-reopen-from-wednesday-high-courts-directions-allow-both-online-and-offline-classes-1025552.html
31-08-2021||South||Kerala to screen visitors from nations where C.1.2 variant has been detected: CM Vijayan||With a new and deadlier variant of Covid-19 - C.1.2 - being detected in several countries, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said special arrangements will be made at airports to screen visitors from those nations. Visitors from countries where the new variant has been detected will be subjected to RT-PCR tests on arrival here and if necessary, they would be quarantined, the CM said in the Covid review meeting. In the meeting, he further said that only RT-PCR testing will be carried out in the six districts — Wayanad, Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki and Kasaragod — where the vaccination is 80 per cent complete or is close to 80 per cent, according to a state government release. It further said that the CM also directed increasing the number of RT-PCR tests in all districts. It was also decided to distribute vaccines in the districts and the areas under the local self government institutions by taking into consideration the places where the vaccination rate was relatively low, the release said. Since the vaccine has been seen to be effective in people over the age of 60, the CM asked the local bodies to ensure everyone in that age group is vaccinated as soon as possible. Presently all the panchayats with a weekly infection population rate (WIPR) of more than 7 per cent are in full lockdown and once Covid test information is collected from all the wards, ward-level lockdown would be implemented, the CM said. The CM also directed to ensure that the proposal to remove teachers from the post of Sectoral Magistrate was being implemented and those who volunteer should be included for that job. He also directed that the eight lakh doses of vaccine the state has, be administered soon and to ensure that there is no shortage of syringes, the release said. The CM also wanted officials to find out how many people were infected with Covid-19 after being vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-screen-visitors-from-nations-where-c12-variant-has-been-detected-cm-vijayan-1025609.html
31-08-2021||State||'Learning Kannada mandatory in UG courses under NEP in Karnataka'||Learning Kannada is mandatory in UG programmes under National Education Policy (NEP) in Karnataka. The government is committed to the growth of all languages, with special emphasis on Kannada language, Minister for Higher Education Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said. There are people speaking many languages in Karnataka. A decision to make Kannada language study compulsory is not politically motivated, he said during an interaction with litterateurs at Mangalore University campus on Monday.   “The government is committed to develop all languages. Kannada language is made mandatory for two years. Open electives can also be used for language study," Minister said. Those who have no knowledge of Kannada have to learn functional Kannada mandatorily in the first year of UG programmes,” he said. Prof A V Navada said the entire NEP 2020 should be published in Kannada and made accessible to the common man. The use of Kannada language is on the decline. Encyclopedia related to Humanities and science should come out in Kannada. There are many endangered languages especially the one spoken by Koraga and weavers community in the region. There is a need to take steps to conserve such endangered languages, he added.   The Minister informed that five colleges will teach engineering courses in Kannada from next year.   All efforts will be taken to save endangered languages, he said. Prof P Krishnamurthy, Principal of Govindadasa College said that deemed universities should also offer Kannada Major as an optional subject.   Sridhar from Vivekananda College in Puttur said none of the colleges offers Kannada as an optional language in PU colleges to help the students opt for Kannada as an optional subject in degree. There is a need to give incentive for those who opt Kannada major as an option in UG courses. The modules to attract Kannada will be developed by the government, said the Minister. The use of Kannada should be made mandatory in administration, the writers urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/learning-kannada-mandatory-in-ug-courses-under-nep-in-karnataka-1025283.html
31-08-2021||State||Weekend shows of play ‘Parva’ begin||‘Parva’ an ambitious project of Rangayana-Mysuru, a government-sponsored repertory, will resume weekend shows, by following Covid-19 guidelines at Bhoomigeetha auditorium of Rangayana, from September 4 and 5, from 10 am. It has to be noted that the state government lifted weekend curfew in Mysuru on Monday. Rangayana Director Addanda C Cariappa said, ‘Parva’, based on ‘Parva’, a novel by writer S L Bhyrappa and directed by Prakash Belavadi, had to be postponed due to the Covid crisis in April, after just seven shows, even though the response was overwhelming, during all its shows. It has to be recalled that the preparations for ‘Parva’ started during the Covid lockdown, last year, when activities of Rangayana and movement of artistes were restricted. The inaugural shows were held at Kalamndira auditorium, of Kannada and Culture department, on March 12, 13, and 14, from 10 am. Later, the shows were held on Thursday, Friday and Saturday in parts and on Sunday in full, at Bhoomigeetha auditorium, from March 25. Following feedback from theatre enthusiasts, the shows were staged in full on Saturday and Sunday only, from April 3, the immediate next week. The last show was held on April 4. The shows had to be postponed, following imposition of new guidelines by the state government on April 2. Curfew and lockdown were imposed later, due to a rise in the second wave of Covid. The tickets can be reserved for the shows in advance, at Parva Kutira of Rangayana, and also online on www.rangayana.org. Associations, organisations and educational institutions can book all seats for a show. Bhoomigeetha auditorium can accommodate 200 persons at a time. The play has four intervals and the tickets cost Rs 250. Arrangement for sales of snacks, lunch and beverages has been made. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/weekend-shows-of-play-parva-begin-1025443.html
31-08-2021||State||Kateel in favour of allowing public Ganeshotsav||State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Tuesday stated that he is in favour of allowing Ganeshotsav in public this time. "This is my personal opinion, and the government would take a suitable decision on this issue shortly. Along with following the tradition, protecting lives by checking the spread of Covid-19 is also important. The government is collecting the opinion of experts in this regard," he said. Darshan at temples is already allowed, but Ganeshotsav celebrations in public have several aspects. Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is expected to take a decision on public Ganeshotsav within a couple of days, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kateel-in-favour-of-allowing-public-ganeshotsav-1025489.html
31-08-2021||State||Constitution will remain safe as long as Hindus remain majority in country: Ravi||BJP national general secretary C T Ravi said on Tuesday that the Constitution of India and women will remain safe as long as Hindus remain the majority in the country. Speaking at a press meet, he stated that if Hindus become the minority, the culture of Gandhara will be back. "Those who want to protect the Constitution should not forget this reality." "Because of appeasement politics, Taliban are being created in the Madrasas of the country and there is a possibility of creating more Pakistans in the nation. As long as Hindutva-based politics remain in the land, Parsis and Yahudis too will get protection," Ravi said. "When the people with a mindset for equality remain as the majority, equality and independence of women will exist. Otherwise, the country will meet the same fate as Afghanistan," he added. "The Congress is doing politics by forgetting the principle that the nation comes first and it is comparing patriotic outfits with Taliban. The grand-old party will join hands with anybody to form the government," he alleged. Siddaramaiah's message "If Opposition Leader in Legislative Party Siddaramaiah is going for rest or treatment, one should understand that he will send a message to the party workers and his followers that no election should be won under the leadership of KPCC president D K Shivakumar. It is evident that Siddaramaiah ensured the defeat of former Deputy Chief Minister G Parameshwara and Mallikarjun Kharge," he accused. "The party is in a position that it is not finding an able national president for the past 20 years. So, this is its state in Karnataka. The KPCC president has been finding it difficult to have his own working team for the past 18 months. Unfortunately, he is daydreaming to become the chief minister," Ravi quipped. Reacting to a query on India's relationship with Afghanistan, he said foreign policies will be drafted for the welfare of the country. "Both policies and strategies are different," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/constitution-will-remain-safe-as-long-as-hindus-remain-majority-in-country-ravi-1025510.html
31-08-2021||State||Karnataka sees 1,217 new Covid-19 cases, 25 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,217 new cases of Covid-19 and 25 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,49,445 and toll to 37,318, the Health Department said on Tuesday. The day also saw 1,198 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,93,715. Out of the 1,217 new cases reported on Tuesday, 287 were from Bengaluru Urban as the city saw 185 discharges and 7 deaths. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 18,386. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.94 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.05 per cent.  Out of the 25 deaths reported on Tuesday, 7 are from Bengaluru Urban followed by Dakshina Kannada (6), Mysuru (4), Kodagu (2) and others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 287, followed by Dakshina Kannada (224), Udupi (150), Mysuru (127) and others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,37,837, followed by Mysuru 1,76,079 and Tumakuru 1,19,250. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,14,405, followed by Mysuru 1,72,696 and Tumakuru 1,17,518. Cumulatively, a total of 4,34,74,538 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,28,657 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sees-1217-new-covid-19-cases-25-deaths-1025541.html
31-08-2021||State||HC restrains quarrying in gomala land in Kolar||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday restrained quarrying activities in mountain/gomala land in Kolar. A PIL contended that permission for quarrying activities has caused damage to the environment. The petitioner alleged that rampant quarrying activities are taking place in and around the mountain area of Dodda Iyyuru village at Vakkaleri hobli in Kolar. The PIL is filed by Sri Anjanadri Parisara Hitarakshana Samithi, headed by its president N Narayanaswamy and several local villagers. A division bench, headed by Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma ordered issuance of notice to the state and central governments, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) and the Kolar district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-restrains-quarrying-in-gomala-land-in-kolar-1025559.html
31-08-2021||State||HTT 40 completes trials, closer to production||The indigenous HTT 40 trainer being developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) took a step closer to production status with the aircraft due to complete all pending flight trials on Wednesday. The announcement was made by a senior HAL executive. “We are done with it. It’s ready to be inducted. Of course, there will be updates as desired by the flying wing,” he wrote. Sources in HAL said the fact that the HTT40 is ready for induction was a known fact. “HAL has now started the process of certification clearance,” a source said. On August 11, 2020, the Defence Acquisition Council had cleared the procurement of 106 of the advanced turboprop trainers, with a Request for Proposal (RfP) issued by the Indian Air Force in February 2021. HAL sources said they do not yet have a timeline about when the certification clearance will come, but stressed that it should not take too much time as the aircraft is a trainer.  The HTT40 is an all-metal, tandem seat aircraft powered by a 1,100 hp turboprop engine. It is slated to replace the Indian Air Force’s retired HPT-32 Deepak as a basic trainer. The first prototype was built on February 2, 2016. It first flew on May 31, 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/htt-40-completes-trials-closer-to-production-1025560.html
31-08-2021||State||Kolar college faces action over new Covid-19 outbreak||Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Tuesday that disciplinary action will be initiated against a nursing college in Kolar district where a Covid-19 outbreak has been reported. “32 students are infected with Covid at a college in Kolar Gold Fields (KGF). All of them are Kerala returnees. I will visit the college and take action against the college management. Covid has been brought under control to 700-800 cases per day from as high as 50,000 cases per day. Government has worked hard to mitigate the pandemic,” the minister said. He said guidelines for Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Chamarajanagar are yet to be discussed. “I will discuss this with the chief minister. People entering border districts need to be under surveillance to check the spread of the infection,” he said. A large number of people travel to the border districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi from Kerala every day for education, to avail medical treatment, to earn a livelihood and for various other activities. “We will also release guidelines for mandatory institutional quarantine of travellers coming by trains and flights,” the minister said. The government has the dual responsibility of protecting children and also securing their future. “Schools must follow Covid guidelines. If positivity increases above 2%, the school in question will be shut and the management will be subjected to disciplinary action,” warned the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kolar-college-faces-action-over-new-covid-19-outbreak-1025562.html
31-08-2021||State||Missing signature delaying Karnataka caste census report, says Kota Srinivas Poojary||One missing signature is all that is keeping the Rs 170-crore Socio-economic and Educational Census, popularly known as the Caste Census, from becoming public. According to Minister for Social Welfare and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary, the “technical problem” that has hindered the release of the report was that the then member-secretary of the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes had not signed the final report. Speaking to DH, Poojary said, “The member-secretary of the Commission, who is also the commissioner of the Backward Classes Welfare Department, hadn’t signed the final report.” According to Poojary, one of the Commission’s members had not signed the report as well. “I don’t know why it was not signed. But, for that reason, we have asked them to review the report,” he said, adding that a review did not mean that the survey would be carried out all over again.  All these issues are being addressed, Poojary said. “Once the Commission submits the report to the government, the Cabinet will decide whether to release the report or not,” he said. But former chairman of the Commission H Kantharaj dismissed Poojary’s claims. He said the problem could easily be sorted out if the government had any inclination to release the controversial report. When contacted, Kantharaj dismissed the claims made by the minister, saying that pending signature was not the reason why the report was not submitted to the government. “If the government wants, they’ll get the report,” he said. He said that the report was forwarded to the member-secretary when the term of the Commission ended on September 21, 2019. “I had asked the secretary to submit it to the government,” he said. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that he would raise the issue of implementing the Caste Census in the upcoming legislature session scheduled to begin on September 13. “All the programmes of the government are based on outdated census data of various communities. Conducting a caste census every decade will help in designing and implementing welfare programmes better,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/missing-signature-delaying-karnataka-caste-census-report-says-kota-srinivas-poojary-1025567.html
31-08-2021||State||Random Covid tests on Karnataka students attending offline classes||Karnataka students in grade 6 to 8 who want to attend physical classes, set to resume from September 6, will undergo random Covid-19 tests. The department of primary and secondary education has decided to conduct random tests for children to avoid spreading of the infection. Though the department has already told parents and schools not to allow children with Covid-19 like symptoms to attend physical classes, it has decided to conduct random tests. Primary and Secondary Education Minister B C Nagesh said the department was already conducting tests for students of grade 9 and above who are attending offline classes from August 23. “So far, we have tested 6,000 students across the state, of which 14 students tested positive for Covid-19 and this exercise will continue even after the commencement of physical classes for grade 6 to 8,” said Nagesh. “Though 14 students testing positive among 6,000 tests is a negligible number, we are not taking it lightly. All the primary contacts of these 14 students have been traced and instructed to undergo quarantine. Samples have been collected,” said an official from the department. The random tests for students and staff are conducted in association with the health and family welfare department by tying up with the nearby primary health centres. “It is not that we are conducting tests for those with symptoms, but these tests are being conducted by picking students randomly,” the official said. As per the data provided by the department, of the 2.61 lakh staff working with government and aided institutions, 1.1 lakh have completed two doses of vaccine and 1.4 lakh have got the first dose. There are over 38,040 schools in the state offering grades 6 to 8, which are affiliated to the state board and have 31.36 lakh students. The attendance of students to physical classes for grade 9 and above has improved with an overall 65.83% of the students attending class 10 and 64.5% attending class 9 on Tuesday. Even after a week, 33.67% of the schools have not started physical classes. Bengaluru North and South districts top the list of schools not reopening, with figures of 63.15% and 61.51%, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/random-covid-tests-on-karnataka-students-attending-offline-classes-1025586.html
31-08-2021||State||Hi-tech silk cocoon market to be set up in Davangere: K C Narayana Gowda||Sericulture, Youth Empowerment & Sports Minister K C Narayana Gowda stated that the government is contemplating setting up a hi-tech silk cocoon market in Davangere district so that sericulturists of the neighbouring districts too can make use of it without depending on the Ramanagar market. Presiding over a meeting convened to review the progress of various schemes of Sericulture, Youth Empowerment & Sports Departments on Tuesday, he said, "More than 450 sericulturists have taken up silk farming on 817 acres of land across the district. They are producing quality silk cocoons. But they are depending on the market in Ramanagar. For the benefit of sericulturists of Davangere, Shivamogga, Chitradurga and Ballari, a hi-tech silk cocoon market would be established in Davangere. This would help sericulturists to do transactions with Maharashtra. The proposed market will have restroom, banking facility, locker system, godown. The officials have to identify five acres of land and submit a proposal to the government. "||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hi-tech-silk-cocoon-market-to-be-set-up-in-davangere-k-c-narayana-gowda-1025599.html
31-08-2021||State||POCSO accused jumps from Mangaluru court building, dies||A 32-year-old man arrested under the POCSO act ended his life by jumping from the sixth floor of the Mangaluru district court complex on Tuesday. As the man Raviraj had sustained serious head injuries, he succumbed before being shifted to the hospital. Raviraj, eking out a living by painting buildings, was arrested after being accused of sexually harassing a minor girl near a college in Thokkottu. Ullal police arrested the man from Kinya under POCSO Act and was taken to the court at 5 pm. The man had filed the bail application through the advocate. The incident occurred after the advocate had filed bail application. He attempted to flee after the hearing and had jumped from the sixth floor of the building. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said the accused had pushed aside two cops before jumping from the sixth floor. "The accused should face trial and not engage in such acts of ending lives," Commissioner appealed. In another incident, a man had ended his life in a similar manner by jumping from the court complex building in 2017. District and Sessions Judge Muralidhar Pai B who inspected the spot directed officials to install grills or nets to prevent people from jumping to their deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pocso-accused-jumps-from-mangaluru-court-building-dies-1025610.html
31-08-2021||State||Row over 'Koragajja sticker' on car's number plate||The public expressed displeasure with a traffic cop who had objected and reportedly had asked the car owner to remove the sticker of Koragajja on the number plate of a car at Thokkottu flyover on Tuesday. Babish Poojary was driving the car when he was stopped by a traffic cop in Thokkatu. After verifying the documents, the police had asked him to remove the sticker on the number plate which was in violation of the rules. But Poojary refused to do so. In the meantime, Hindu organisation leaders informed BJP Mandala president Chandrahas Pandithouse about the incident, who too rushed to the spot and took the ASI to task. Ullal police and South division traffic inspector Gurudath Kamath rushed to the spot and dispersed the crowd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/row-over-koragajja-sticker-on-cars-number-plate-1025611.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NEP will provide autonomy to academic institutions: Ashwath Narayan||Minister for Higher Education Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 will strengthen the education system by eliminating rigidity, granting flexibility and autonomy to institutions. Launching NEP 2020 at Mangalore University (MU), he said that the NEP was drafted after wide consultations that spanned for five years and after considering more than three lakh suggestions.   The policy aspires that students should become globally competitive while retaining one’s own identity. The minister said that the government aims to bring in reforms in higher education institutions in the state. At present, all educational institutions are functioning either under the government or universities. Our aim is to ensure that all institutions get autonomy and each institution should have the powers to award degrees.    NEP has the objective of providing right kind of education, aims at all-round development of the students and upholding the rich culture and heritage of the country. The economy could thrive only through knowledge, innovation, scientific and technical progress,” he stressed. The NEP came into existence after 34 years. It will take 10 years to implement NEP fully in the state, Minister added. NEP aims at developing critical thinking and creative learning in students. In the past, the assessment was only theoretical. Through the new system, there will be daily evaluation and assessment of students, he explained. The policy aims at empowering the student community to face competition at the global level. Later at a press meet, Minister said that during the academic year, NEP is focusing on learning methods, curriculum and pedagogy. The administrative reforms will be implemented in the days to come. Minister clarified that NEP was not being implemented in a hurry. Many have projected NEP as a saffronisation of education, which is not true, he stressed. Those opposing NEP should highlight one aspect that is against the interest of students. Minister addressing concerns raised by language teachers said Kannada has been made compulsory as one among the two languages to be taught in the first two years of undergraduate under NEP. The other languages can be studied under open electives. Students get credits for NCC, NSS, cultural activities, sports and other activities. Even the educational institutions can collaborate with other educational institutions for offering the courses. Commissioner of Department of Collegiate Education Pradeep P said the admission module under the Unified University and College Management System (UUCMS) model was launched this year. The students should be guided by respective colleges on choosing two core subjects and one open elective. Awareness is being created among the students and teaching faculties on the NEP. University Vice-Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya presiding over the programme said a PG centre will come with an Advanced Study Centre in Belapu from next academic year. University has submitted a proposal to the government on setting up Dr V S Acharya Centre for Coastal Development Studies. If the government sanctions at least Rs 5 crore, then the university can take up studies on coastal development through the centre. MU's sixth constituent college in Moodbidri was also inaugurated on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nep-will-provide-autonomy-to-academic-institutions-ashwath-narayan-1025284.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to vaccinate 2 crore people a month from September||Karnataka will administer 1.5-2 crore Covid vaccines every month from September. Every day, five lakh doses will be given. In addition, every Wednesday, this will be doubled to 10 lakh doses when the weekly Lasika Mela (vaccine fest) will be held, Health Minister K Sudhakar announced in Bengaluru on Monday. In August, the state received 1.1 crore doses. Special focus will be given to districts with coverage below the state average of vaccination coverage. Also, every village within a 20-km radius of the Karnataka border with Kerala will be fully vaccinated.   Districts that share a border with Kerala include Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar. Districts with below state average vaccination coverage are 19 including Chikkamagaluru, Bengaluru Rural, Chikkaballapur, Shivamogga, Belagavi, Tumakuru, Dharwad, Bagalkot, Bidar, Davangere, Koppal, Chitradurga, Gadag, Vijayapura, Haveri, Yadgir, Ballari, Raichur and Kalaburagi.   “We will reach our target of vaccinating 4.96 crore adult population by December 31. While 65% of the state’s adult population has received the first dose, some 20% has received the second dose. The area within the BBMP limits which was the epicentre of the pandemic in both the first and the second waves has already vaccinated more than one crore people with 75% getting the first dose and 27.21% getting the second dose,” he said. He expressed confidence and hope in Bengaluru vaccinating its entire adult population with the first dose, a distinction that Bhubaneswar in Odisha already holds. It became the first city in India on August 1 to vaccinate 100% of its population against Covid with at least one dose of the vaccine.  Arrangements will also be made to vaccinate people living in slums by deploying nursing and health staff at nearby health facilities.   He urged people to provide the same phone number while taking the second dose too to prevent skewed vaccination figures. “There have been no largescale infections reported after the reopening of medical institutions and high schools in the state,” he said.  To prevent importing new virus strains and variants of the coronavirus in the state, he said, “We won’t let passengers from Brazil, the UK, and South Africa enter the state without a Covid negative report. Only after their Covid negative status is confirmed, they will be let out of the airport,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-vaccinate-2-crore-people-a-month-from-september-1025294.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No alliance with any party, including JD(S): Arun Singh||BJP general secretary, Karnataka in-charge, Arun Singh said there is neither official nor unofficial alliance with any other party in Karnataka. He denied any understanding of the BJP with the JD(S) in Mysuru. He was speaking to media persons after visiting Sri Chamundeshwari Devi Temple, atop the Chamundi Hill, in Mysuru on Tuesday. “People have seen the governments of both Congress and JD(S) in Karnataka. We will not form a truck with any other party here. Our aim is re-election with an absolute majority. We should not forget that BJP is the world’s largest political party,” Arun Singh, also a Rajya Sabha Member, said. “In the old Mysuru region also, the BJP is gaining strength, gradually. Former chief minister B S Yediyurappa is a towering leader with vast experience in party-building. We will seek his help in strengthening the BJP across Karnataka. The present government, led by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai, is also providing good administration. It is working for the welfare of the state and its people. We hope to win more segments in the Old Mysuru region in future,” he said. To a query, he said, there is no confusion in the Karnataka Cabinet. “Allotment of portfolios is the prerogative of the chief minister. We do not have any say in it. Now, all ministers have assumed office. There is no pressure from any minister or MLA for anything,” Arun Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-alliance-with-any-party-including-jds-arun-singh-1025440.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai plans special programme to tackle malnutrition||Karnataka will launch a special programme to tackle malnutrition among girls and adolescents in three districts, Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Tuesday. Children in Kalaburagi, Raichur and Yadgir districts are suffering from malnutrition. The special programme will give more importance to the children's health and education, Bommai said after chairing the quarterly Karnataka Development Programme (KDP) meeting at Vikasa Soudha. According to data presented during the meeting, as many as 89,000 children are malnourished, underweight or stunted in Raichur, while the number is 1.26 lakh in Yadgir. The districts also had a larger percentage of low birth weight babies, prompting the government to come up with a special plan. Administration reforms Bommai said an an advisory committee will be constituted to implement the recommendations made by the Karnataka Administrative Reforms Commission-II (KARC). The KARC-II, headed by former chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar, submitted its first report in July recommending sweeping reforms that include passport-like Tatkal for faster citizen services, home delivery of ration, paperless offices and issuance of income certificates based on self-declaration. The first set of recommendations deal with Revenue, Food & Civil Supplies and Transport departments. "Most of the recommendations will be implemented starting from November 1," Bommai said. Bommai said that finances of the state had improved this year due to the revival in economic activity across the state. "GST collections have also improved," he said, adding that the finances of the state would improve without further disruption in economic activity due to Covid-19. Directions were issued to all departments to ensure that new programmes announced in the budget are implemented at the earliest. Heads of all departments should also visit rural areas to ensure that the projects announced by the government reach the beneficiaries, Bommai said. The chief minister is learnt to have pulled up departments such as Revenue, Urban Development, Education and others for large pendency in files. "I have directed them to ensure that all pending files are cleared within two months," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-plans-special-programme-to-tackle-malnutrition-1025491.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Modi couldn’t give jobs, grew a beard: Siddaramaiah||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s beard, suggesting that facial hair was his alternative to providing jobs.  He was speaking at an event where new NSUI Karnataka office-bearers were appointed. Student leader Kirthi Ganesh NG took charge as the NSUI state president.  “In seven years, Modi should have created 14 crore jobs at two crore a year. Has he given at least 14,000? He couldn't provide jobs and grew a beard,” Siddaramaiah, a former chief minister, said.  Accusing Modi of lying all the time, Siddaramaiah said the youth were misled. “When asked for jobs, he asked people to make pakodas. Even that can't be done because the cost of cooking oil has touched Rs 200 a litre,” he said. “Modi speaks only lies. What else does he speak? Even today, he lies on Mann Ki Baat...it's full of lies.” The Congress leader also noted that Modi’s popularity was declining. “It’s slowly declining, but not fully,” he pointed out.  Speaking at the event, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar urged student leaders to send photocopies of their degree certificates to Modi. “Let them give jobs or keep the certificates,” he said, making the new NSUI office-bearers vow to enroll 75,000 students as members this year.  Shivakumar also targeted the BJP government over crimes against women. “Rapes have increased under the BJP government. There have been four this month - Belagavi, Chitradurga, Tumakuru and Mysuru,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/modi-couldn-t-give-jobs-grew-a-beard-siddaramaiah-1025515.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka-Kerala border movement normal||Despite the mandatory institutional quarantine rule the movement of travellers from Kerala to Karnataka remained as usual on Tuesday. Passengers were only required to produce Covid negative RTPCR test results. Testing facilities were also put in place at the border. Harshad Vorkady, a local Congress leader at Manjeshwar in Kasargod said that there was no tension at the border check post on Tuesday. The officials of Karnataka government did not mention about the institutional quarantine requirement. Most pocket roads between Kerala and Kasargod are remaining shut or guarded by the Karnataka authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-kerala-border-movement-normal-1025563.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Confusion over Karnataka's quarantine rule for travellers from Kerala||The rule mandating seven-day institutional quarantine for all travellers from Kerala to Karnataka has left thousands in a quandary. Although arriving passengers were allowed to proceed after collecting their RTPCR test samples on Tuesday, confusion reigned about how the quarantine process would unfold in the days to come. Over 25,000 people arrive daily from multiple locations of Kerala to Bengaluru by six daily trains and state transport and private buses. Thousands more travel by their private vehicles. Besides, there are 11 daily flights from Kochi, four from Thiruvananthapuram and two each from Kozhikode and Kannur. Is the government prepared to arrange the logistics of institutional quarantine for this massive daily inflow? This is the question posed by many. “Travellers are very badly affected by this rule. I understand the gravity of the situation in Kerala, but people should have been given the option of home quarantine,” said R Muraleedhar of the Karnataka-Kerala Travellers’ Forum (KKTF). Even with a negative RTPCR/vaccination certificate, incoming travellers will have to undergo the quarantine process. “For those on emergency/short visits lasting one or two days, this will be very bad. During the previous entry bans, this relaxation was available,” said Muraleedhar. Since the arrangements for institutional quarantine were not in place, those arriving at Bengaluru KSRTC bus stands were allowed to proceed after giving test samples. At Banaswadi Railway Station, the sample collection was introduced late Tuesday morning, by which time hundreds of passengers had arrived by the early morning trains. At the Kempegowda International Airport, arriving passengers were only asked to produce negative RTPCR certificates. Till Tuesday evening, the government had not sent any communication on the institutional quarantine to the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL). Many wondered how practical would the rule be when road travellers could first enter Tamil Nadu from Kerala, get a certificate and enter Karnataka. Confusion also prevailed whether the rule was applied only for students and employees. However, the government later clarified that it applied to all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/confusion-over-karnatakas-quarantine-rule-for-travellers-from-kerala-1025564.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka administers 1.17 crore Covid vaccines in August, highest for a month||Karnataka on Tuesday achieved a monthly high of administering 1.17 crore Covid vaccine doses in August, the highest for any month since the start of the vaccination drive on January 16. In a written reply to DH, Health Minister K Sudhakar said, "Karnataka is among the top states in vaccination. We stand 6th in the entire country in terms of total doses administered and third in the country among large states in terms of percentage of people vaccinated. We have ended the month of August with 1.17 crore vaccine doses. This is the highest doses administered by the state since vaccination started." "To achieve the target of vaccinating the entire adult population by December 31, 2021, we need to administer about 4 lakh doses a day from now on. In the month of August, the average daily doses administered by Karnataka are 3.58 lakh, which is pretty close to the four lakh mark. I can confidently say that we will be able to achieve our target well before December 31," he added. The day also marked India administering more than 1 crore Covid vaccine doses on a single day for the second time in five days.  1,217 new Covid cases, 25 deaths The day also saw 1,198 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,93,715. Out of the new cases, 287 cases and seven deaths were from Bengaluru Urban. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 18,386. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.94%, case fatality rate was 2.05%. Dakshina Kannada accounted for six deaths, Mysuru (4) and Kodagu (2).  Among the districts where new cases were reported, Dakshina Kannada accounted for 224, Udupi (150) and Mysuru (127).  Cumulatively, 4,34,74,538 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,28,657 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-administers-117-crore-covid-vaccines-in-august-highest-for-a-month-1025570.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka public accounts panel to reject Health department responses on Covid equipment procurement||In a dramatic development, the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the Karnataka Legislature decided to reject the responses provided by the Health & Family Welfare department on procurement of equipment and supplies to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. Members of the PAC, under its chairman Ramalinga Reddy, objected to the "incorrect information" provided by department officials during the PAC hearing on Tuesday, according to sources. The PAC also decided to submit a report to the Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri and Legislative Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti based on complaints received. It also observed massive differences in responses provided by the government on procurement when compared with the documents it had. The PAC has been doggedly chasing the government over alleged irregularities in the money spent to fight the Covid-19 pandemic since the outbreak of the virus last year.    During the meeting, remarks made by the Comptroller & Auditor-General (CAG) over setting up ICUs in five public hospitals — Bangarpete, Channarayapatna, Mulbagal, Nanjangud and Dharwad district hospital — were also highlighted. The PAC noted that since ICUs at the facilities were not functional, the CAG had classified the expenses incurred as 'unfruitful expenditure'. PAC also pulled by the department for allowing several crucial equipment required to fight Covid-19 lie idle at various facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-public-accounts-panel-to-reject-health-department-responses-on-covid-equipment-procurement-1025574.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||65 nursing college students from Kerala test Covid-19 positive in Kolar||As many as 65 students of a nursing college, all from Kerala, have tested positive for Covid-19 in Kolar.  Underlining the importance of quarantine for Kerala’s visitors, the district administration tested 265 students and staff and found positives in groups one after the other from August 24 to August 30. After the first few tested positive, the administration decided to test everyone in all nursing colleges. As on Monday, there were 165 active cases across the district. Kolar in-charge district surveillance officer Dr Chandan said three students of Noorunisa Institute of Nursing in Kolar Gold Fields (KGF) tested positive on August 24. “15 more tested positive on August 28; 15 more on August 29 and finally 32 on August 30. All are from Kerala. We have sent a show cause notice to the college on Monday and are awaiting their reply. They all had negative certificates. We are trying to ascertain the veracity of the certificates by scanning the QR code on them to check whether they’re fake,” he told DH. The college bus transported 146 students from Kerala to the KGF college on August 18. “They were in quarantine ever since they arrived. While in quarantine, they developed symptoms and were tested on August 23. They did not travel by any other form of transport. Neither did they arrive in separate groups. So, we suspect one of them spread to others,” he added. He said there is a possibility of more of them testing positive after the incubation period of the virus. “The college is now a containment zone. Two hundred are in quarantine on the campus, 65 are in Covid Care Centres,” he said. While Kolar taluk has seven nursing colleges, KGF has four, Bangarpet and Malur have one each, and Mulbagal has two colleges. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar said an order has already been issued by Disaster Management Authority and the Revenue Department that all the students coming from Kerala irrespective of negative RT-PCR certificates must undergo seven-day institutional quarantine.  “The quarantine order was based on the fact that many students in Mangaluru and Kolar are found to be positive despite a negative RT-PCR test report,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/65-nursing-college-students-from-kerala-test-covid-19-positive-in-kolar-1025584.html
31-08-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||75 sportspersons to be trained for next Olympics: Karnataka Sports Minister Narayana Gowda||Youth Empowerment & Sports Minister Narayana Gowda stated that the government would identify 75 sportspersons in the state on the occasion of India's 75th year of independence and would train them effectively to ensure that they represent India in the 2026 Paris Olympics. Speaking to media persons here on Tuesday, he said he has taken this portfolio with an aim to take sports to great heights in Karnataka. He has taken all possible steps towards constructing a synthetic track in all districts including Davangere. Sportspersons from Karnataka must win medals in the next Olympics and he would leave no stone unturned to achieve this, he reiterated. He also informed that the Khelo India games would be held in Karnataka next year and the government is making necessary arrangements for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/75-sportspersons-to-be-trained-for-next-olympics-karnataka-sports-minister-narayana-gowda-1025598.html
31-08-2021||West||Mumbai and North Konkan region receive heavy downpour||Heavy rainfall lashed parts of Maharashtra, resulting in inundation in parts of several districts including Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Nashik, as monsoon showed signs of revival in the western state.  The financial capital of Mumbai and the North Konkan districts of Palghar, Thane and Raigad - which forms the large Mumbai metropolitan region - too was pounded by rains since the wee hours of Tuesday.  The Chalishgaon tehsil of Jalgaon in North Maharashtra and Kannad tehsil of Aurangabad in Marathwada region too received heavy downpour.  The road traffic on the national highway passing from Aurangabad-Chalisgaon-Dhule came to standstill after Kannad Ghat of Aurangabad witnessed landslides.  Vehicles heading to Gujarat and other destinations on the national highway are being diverted from Kannad-Panpoi-Chapaner-Shiur Bangla-Nandgaon-Chalisgaon. From Chalisgaon, there are reports of cattle being washed away in floodwaters. “The administration has been mobilised and efforts are under way to provide relief to people,” said Jalgaon guardian minister Gulabrao Patil. There was waterlogging in Dahanu town of Palghar district and some parts of the adjoining Nashik district.  The weathermen has asked the fishermen of the Maharashtra-Goa belt not to venture into the choppy Arabian Sea. Similar weather conditions are expected to continue for the next couple of days, according to the IMD’s Mumbai-based Regional Meteorological Centre. Check out DH's latest videos:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-and-north-konkan-region-receive-heavy-downpour-1025388.html
31-08-2021||West||Bombay HC raises concern over crowding in public places, says it should be controlled||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday raised concern over crowds assembling at public places in Mumbai and said if it was not controlled or restricted, the city would face a similar situation as earlier this year when the number of Covid-19 cases surged, leading to the second wave of the pandemic. A full bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta, Justices A A Sayed, K K Tated and P B Varale said the government, authorities and citizens should learn from the earlier experience and noted that as per experts, the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic was “knocking at our doors”. “In our meeting of the administrative committee of the HC, lawyers and other experts held on Monday, an expert, Dr Rahul Pandit, who heads the Special Task Force appointed by the Supreme Court, informed that the third wave of the pandemic is knocking at our doors,” Chief Justice Datta said.  “Unless all the safety protocols are not followed, the state will face an imminent danger. Dr Pandit was also of the view that at least till April 2022, the nation may not get rid of Covid-19,” he said. The high court said photographs published in various newspapers show crowds assembling at beaches in Mumbai, like the Juhu Chowpatty, Girgaum Chowpatty and Marine Drive. “If you (government) do not control or restrict this, then again the same situation is bound to happen. We need to draw from our experience,” the court said. The bench extended all interim orders passed by the high court as well as all subordinate courts and tribunals in Maharashtra and Goa till September 30. "Considering the view placed by the experts, the situation of uncertainty and the ensuing festivities which could pose a threat to the human kind, we are of the opinion that the interest of justice would be served if the protective interim orders are extended till September 30,” the court said. \The HC also said that its full bench would assemble next on September 24 to review the situation. On Monday, Mumbai reported 334 new Covid-19 cases, the sixth day in a row when the addition to the tally was above 300, taking the infection count to 7,43,832, while the death toll increased by two to reach 15,976, a civic official earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-raises-concern-over-crowding-in-public-places-says-it-should-be-controlled-1025420.html
31-08-2021||West||High Court adjourns hearing in Tarun Tejpal case till September 20||The Goa Bench of the Bombay High Court on Tuesday adjourned the hearing on the Goa government's appeal against journalist Tarun Tejpal's acquittal in a 2013 rape case, pending request before the Chief Justice for a hybrid (physical plus virtual) hearing into the matter. The court fixed September 20 for next hearing. Till now, the matter was being heard online. On Tuesday, for the first time the matter was taken up physically, in the wake of the Goa government relaxing several Covid-19 curbs due to a drop in the number of the viral infection cases in the coastal state. Earlier this month, Tejpal in a submission before the HC sought an 'in-camera' hearing of the Goa government's petition challenging his acquittal in the case, and sought its dismissal while raising preliminary objections on its maintainability. However, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Goa government, had at that time opposed Tejpal's request for the 'in-camera' hearing, saying the "country has the right to know how the institution dealt with the girl (victim)". On Tuesday, state Advocate General Devidas Pangam and a lawyer representing Tejpal sought time from a bench of Justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar, as they are yet to file their applications before the Chief Justice for the hybrid hearing into the matter. Pangam requested the bench to adjourn the matter by another two weeks to file the application before the Chief Justice. The bench then fixed the matter for hearing September 20. Solicitor General Mehta was not present in the court on Tuesday. On May 21 this year, a sessions court acquitted Tejpal, the former editor-in-chief of the Tehelka magazine, in the case where he was accused of sexually assaulting his then colleague in a lift of a five-star hotel in Goa in November 2013 when they were attending an event. Later, the Goa government filed an appeal against it in the HC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/high-court-adjourns-hearing-in-tarun-tejpal-case-till-september-20-1025430.html
31-08-2021||West||Maharashtra: Killed by garbage dump, mangroves come alive at Uran||Reckless dumping of urban garbage for well over 15 years has killed many mangroves at Bori Pakhadi in Uran across Mumbai harbour, but sea plants have grown once more on their own, proving that they can survive and regrow without human intervention. This is the second case of destroyed mangroves coming back to life on their own. Earlier, over 5,000 sea plants, killed during the expansion of NH348, had sprouted again after the tidal water flow that was blocked was restored due to persistent campaigning by environmentalists. “But the continued violation of Bombay High Court order to protect mangroves definitely calls for contempt cases against the NHAI and CIDCO respectively in both these incidents,” said NatConnect Foundation director B N Kumar. The garbage menace on mangroves and wetland continues despite the local resident groups of Bori Pakhadi and Hanuman Koliwada, backed by environmentalists, knocking the doors of powers from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Moreover, the stinking dump has posed many health hazards to senior citizens, in particular, as the location was on fire during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic in India back in May. The all-powerful Bombay High Court-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee had ordered the Uran Municipal Council back in December 2019 to stop dumping garbage and asked CIDCO and Raigad District Collector to find an alternative dumping ground. This order went unheeded, said Kumar of NatConnect who wrote to the Prime Minister twice and the Chief Minister several times. The first letter to the PM was by local activist Samir Ashrit whose complaint was closed after the Uran Municipal Council promised to take adequate care while dumping the garbage. Let alone taking care, the UMC even drained sewer, collected in small tankers from the city, on the mangroves. Even medical waste and the Corona waste have been dumped here, Ashrit decried. NatConnect’s letter to PM, questioning the effectiveness of the 'Swachh Bharat' drive with garbage at the doorstep of residents, has been referred to the State Urban Development Department. Letters to the CM have also been referred to the same department. A third letter to the PM saw an exchange of 15 mails between the PMO and the Union Health Department and ultimately, the ball landed in State Urban Development Department’s court! Finally, in response to an RTI application by NatConnect, the UMC responded that it has asked the District Collector to pursue with CIDCO for the alternative plot which is yet to materialise. “This is an utter sorry state of affairs with CIDCO abdicating its responsibility,” said Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan. He wondered if UD officials would have acted in a similar lethargic fashion had the issues been raised in South Mumbai. “We can understand the officials’ priorities during the pandemic,” said Kumar and pointed out that proper disposal of garbage also formed part of the Covid-19 care. Raigad district Guardian Minister Aditi Tatkare had also intervened when she was confronted by a group of concerned citizens at the opening of a Covid care centre at Uran in December. She had asked then collector Dr Nidhi Chaudhary to sort out the issue quickly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-killed-by-garbage-dump-mangroves-come-alive-at-uran-1025436.html
31-08-2021||West||MNS activists booked for holding 'Dahi Handi' event at Worli; two held||A case has been registered against four activists of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and eight others for violating COVID-19 norms by holding a “Dahi Handi” programme in Worli area of central Mumbai on Tuesday, police said. Two MNS activists have been arrested, while a search has been launched to nab the others, an official said. A popular event organised during Gokulashtami, “Dahi Handi” programmes draw large crowds. MNS activists had organised a practice “Dahi Handi” near Panchashil Nagar in Worli on late on Monday night, where people had gathered, the official said. The Mumbai police had earlier issued notices under section 149 CrPC to 38 “Dahi Handi” organisers, to prevent cognisable offences, he said. A notice had also been served to the organiser at Worli, who violated the norm, following which action was taken, the official said. An FIR under section 188 of IPC and relevant sections of the Mumbai Police Act have been registered in this regard, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mns-activists-booked-for-holding-dahi-handi-event-at-worli-two-held-1025459.html
31-08-2021||West||'Ashirvad' rallies putting people's life in danger as they are held despite third wave threat, says Uddhav Thackeray||In a veiled swipe at BJP, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said "Ashirvad" rallies are being organised despite the threat of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic "which is putting the lives of people in danger". Speaking virtually after inaugurating an oxygen plant in Thane, the CM also said that "these people do not seem to care if some people die due to such rallies”. Newly-appointed Union ministers of BJP recently organised Jan Ashirvad rallies to take blessings of people. “There is the threat of a third wave of Covid-19 but some people are still organising 'Ashirwad' rallies. They are not seeking blessings from the people but they are in fact putting the lives of the people in danger,” said Thackeray, who heads Shiv Sena. He said when Sena was formed it was announced that the party will do 80 per cent social work and 20 per cent politics. “But today there are parties in the country that are 100 per cent into politics. They do not want to do any work that will benefit the people but they are organising rallies and events that would put their lives in danger,” he said. “These people do not seem to care if some people die due to such rallies,” said Thackeray. Thackeray also said that he was missing the excitement of Dahi Handi due to restrictions, which do not allow public celebrations of the festival. Dahi Handi festival or 'Gopalkala' is celebrated a day after Janmashtami marking the birth of Lord Shrikrishna. “I must admit that I am missing the excitement of Dahi Handi and the celebrations for the last couple of years. I had personally attended some such events in the past,” Thackeray recalled. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) celebrated the traditional 'Dahi Handi' festival in Thane and neighbouring Palghar district, even though the celebrations have been banned in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ashirvad-rallies-putting-peoples-life-in-danger-as-they-are-held-despite-third-wave-threat-says-uddhav-thackeray-1025461.html
31-08-2021||West||Flag-off ceremony of Giripremi's women's expedition to Mt. Gangotri-1||The Indian tricolour flag was handed over to the women’s mountaineering expedition team going for Gangotri-1, a 6672 meters high peak. Gangotri-1 is considered to be one of the toughest peaks in the Gangotri peak group. The expedition is organized by Giripremi, a leading mountaineering organization based in Pune. The team will leave from Pune on September 4 and the expedition will travel to Pune - Uttarkashi - Gangotri subsequently. The duration of the expedition will be approximately 20-25 days. The flag-off function was held at the campus of Sevasadan English Medium School, the school founded by the late Ramabai Ranade in the early nineties. The team was given the tricolour flag of India by Radhika Ogle, Principal of Seva Sadan English Medium School. This is the third consecutive expedition by Giripremi in the season. Last month, Giripremi’s women’s expedition to Kangyatse 1 and 2 was successful and another expedition is currently underway on one of the very rugged and technical peak Mt. Manda. The Gangotri-1 expedition is led by Purva Shinde-Singh and includes Ritu Chawla, Sunita Kolke and Sneha Talwatkar. The team will have to set up two more camps beyond the base camp. The team will have to tackle challenges like Glacial moraines along the way, hard ice cliffs, crevasses, and finally a near 90-degree ice wall close to the summit along with the uncertain weather of the Himalayas. The team is well prepared physically and mentally and is fully ready to take up these challenges. Giriprem’s founding president Ushaprabha Page, founding members Anand Palande, Jayant Tulpule, Giripremi’s senior climbers Ajit Tate, Chandan Chavan and Seva Sadan’s secretary CPatwardhan were present at the event. “The need of the hour is for women to be physically and mentally fit. One of the objectives of Seva Sadan School is to empower the children physically and mentally along with their education and for that, it is a matter of great pride to have this flag-off program in the school,” Ogle Page wished the new expedition on the background of her experience of climbing with Bachendri Pal in the pre-Everest expedition held on Gangotri-1 peak in 1981.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/flag-off-ceremony-of-giripremis-womens-expedition-to-mt-gangotri-1-1025470.html
31-08-2021||West||MVA partners using Covid-19 situation for their benefit; people have right to celebrate festivals: Raj Thackeray||Launching a frontal attack on the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government for not easing restrictions to allow people to celebrate Dahi Handi and other upcoming festivals, MNS chief Raj Thackeray on Tuesday alleged the three ruling parties are "using" the Covid-19 situation to their benefit. Taking a dig, he said the state government is giving the impression that "everybody loves a good lockdown". Speaking to reporters, the MNS chief also accused the government of "selectively" relaxing the Covid-19 rules for some people and referred to "Jan Ashirwad Yatras" of BJP and performing a ritual in a temple by the son of a Shiv Sena MLA. “The actions of the Maharashtra government can be summed up in the words of veteran journalist P Sainath who wrote a book 'Everybody Loves a Good Drought'. The current actions of the state government are like 'everybody loves a good lockdown',” the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena president said after several workers of the MNS defied the ban to celebrate the Dahi Handi festival in Mumbai suburbs and the metropolitan region earlier in the day. A popular event organised during Gokulashtami, “Dahi Handi” programmes draw large crowds. "BJP ministers can organise 'Jan Ashirwad Yatras'. Sena MLA Bhaskar Jadhav's son can perform pooja in a temple in Ratnagiri. These incidents mean the state government is conveniently relaxing Covid-19 norms. There are different sets of rules for different people,” he alleged. MNS workers celebrated the traditional 'Dahi Handi' festival in Thane and the neighbouring Palghar district, even though the celebrations have been banned in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. A case was registered against four activists of the MNS and eight others for violating Covid-19 norms by holding a “Dahi Handi” programme in the Worli area of central Mumbai on Tuesday and two workers were arrested, police said, adding a search is on to nab the others. “The way MNS workers were arrested for participating in Dahi Handi festival, it seems like a revenge politics (by the government). No action was taken against any leader of the Maha Vikas Aghadi for participating in public functions where no guidelines regarding the Covid-appropriate behaviour was followed,” he alleged. The Sena, NCP and Congress are partners in the MVA led by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the estranged cousin of Raj Thackeray. “Had the Shiv Sena been in opposition, I don't think it would have acted like this. The three parties are using the Covid-19 situation for their benefit. People have the right to celebrate their festivals,” he said. Raj Thackeray also alleged the government is deliberately creating (the bogey of) the first, second and now the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. "Despite such fear (of transmission of coronavirus), old rivals Shiv Sena and Narayan Rane continued their fights. Does this mean that only festivals spread coronavirus and not political parties?” he questioned. Queried about complaints filed by the police against MNS workers for celebrating the Dahi Handi festival, he said these cases are like hairs on the body of a bear. Who is going to count them?” He demanded temples in Maharashtra be reopened without delay. "If the state government wants to implement any strict Covid protocol it should be common for all political parties and organisations. I will hold a meeting with party workers in a couple of days to come up with a strategy to press our demand for the opening of temples,” he added. Notably, the opposition BJP on Monday staged demonstrations demanding the reopening of temples and other religious places in Maharashtra which remain shut due to Covid-19 norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-partners-using-covid-19-situation-for-their-benefit-people-have-right-to-celebrate-festivals-raj-thackeray-1025478.html
31-08-2021||West||MVA not against festivals but Covid-19: CM Uddhav||Amid an uproar over not allowing the opening of temples and banning festivals like Dahi-handi, Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray said that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was not against festivals but the Covid-19 pandemic.  “The Coronavirus is not a government program, prescribed norms and rules will have to be followed to prevent Covid-19. The Centre also fears an increase in infections during these festivals,” Thackeray said, drawing the notice of the opposition to the back-to-back circulars from the Centre on precautions to be taken during Dahi-handi and Ganesh festival sent out in the wake of a sudden surge of cases in Kerala after Onam festival.  Thackeray also took the opportunity to take a swipe at the BJP’s Jan Aashirwad Yatra, during which its leaders are targeting the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance.  “The “Ashirvad'' rallies are being organised despite the threat of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which is putting the lives of people in danger,” he said while inaugurating an oxygen plant virtually at Thane. He said when the Shiv Sena was formed it was announced that the party would do 80 per cent social work and 20 per cent politics. "But today there are parties in the country that are 100 per cent into politics. They do not want to do any work that will benefit the people but they are organising rallies and events that would put their lives in danger," he said. "These people do not seem to care if some people die due to such rallies," said Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mva-not-against-festivals-but-covid-19-cm-uddhav-1025481.html
31-08-2021||West||Will torch booth if toll reimposed for bad road in Thane, says Union minister Kapil Patil||Enraged by the bad condition of a road in Maharashtra's Thane district, local BJP MP and Union Minister Kapil Patil on Tuesday said he would himself torch the toll booth if the state government resumed collecting the road tax without repairing the "pothole-riddled" section. Speaking at a function in Bhiwandi where he was felicitated for being appointed Union minister of state for Panchayati Raj, Patil said internal roads in the township, as well as highways passing by, are in a pathetic condition, especially the roads going towards Mumbai, Nashik, Thane, Chinchoti and Kalyan. Patil said he had learnt from state PWD officials that toll collection on the "pothole-filled" Bhiwandi-Wada road was to resume soon. "If the toll naka is started without repairing the road, I will first set it on fire," the Bhiwandi MP said. He said Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari had given in-principle approval to convert the Bhiwandi-Wada road into a highway, but the plan got stuck as the toll collection company for the stretch approached court, and a sum of Rs 500 crore may have to be given to it, which is a huge financial burden on the state. To tide over this problem, the state PWD was planning to start toll collection again, Patil claimed, adding that if the stretch was handed over to the Central government, he would ensure it is converted into a cement concrete one that would last for over 35 years. Patil said he would meet Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, state PWD Minister Ashok Chavan and Thane Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde to convince them of the need to hand over the Bhiwandi-Wada road to the Union government||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-torch-booth-if-toll-reimposed-for-bad-road-in-thane-says-union-minister-kapil-patil-1025521.html
31-08-2021||West||Goa now a 'criminal destination': Congress demands sacking of Sawant government||The state's main opposition party, Congress, on Tuesday, urged Goa Governor PS Sreedharan Pillai to sack the incumbent BJP-led coalition government claiming a "collapse in the law and order situation" in the state under the leadership of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. Top Congress leaders, including state party president Girish Chodankar and Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat met Pillai at Raj Bhavan and submitted a memorandum listing grounds for the state government's dismissal. "This government has no moral right to remain in power. The Governor of Goa should take serious note of the collapse of the law and order situation in the state and dismiss the BJP Government immediately," Kamat told reporters after meeting the Governor. "There is a steep rise in criminal activities in Goa. The incidents of rape, murder, mysterious deaths, kidnappings, gang wars are happening almost on a daily basis. The BJP Government headed by Chief Minister Dr Pramod Sawant has transformed Goa but failed to provide safety and security to Goans," the memorandum states. The four-page document lists a series of crimes against women and shoddy police investigations as one of the key grounds for dismissal of the state government. "The police department is yet to come to the conclusion of the mysterious death of a young girl Siddhi Naik whose body was found at the Calangute beach on August 12. Yesterday, there was an incident of a father raping his own 6-year-old daughter in Salcete. On the same day, an attempt to abduct a girl in Ponda was reported by the parents of a teenage girl. This shows that there is no fear in the minds of the people about the police and the government. The anti-social elements feel that Goa is now a criminal destination," the memorandum states. "This government did not take any corrective measures to control the criminal activities in Goa after coming to power. They have encouraged criminal mafia, drug mafia and beggar mafia in the state of Goa which has dented the image of this peaceful state," the memorandum also states, while mentioning gang wars as well as several murders which have occurred in broad daylight over the last few months. "The memorandum has stated that all these incidents prove that Goa has now become a criminal hub," the Congress memorandum states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-now-a-criminal-destination-congress-demands-sacking-of-sawant-government-1025545.html
31-08-2021||West||Goa to provide 16,000 litres of free water from September 1: CM Pramod Sawant||Nearly 60 per cent of households in Goa will get free water up to 16,000 litres from September 1, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday, while urging the people of the state to save water as a public resource. Sawant also said that along with providing 16,000 litres of water free of cost, households in Goa who utilise less than 16,000 litres of water will not have to pay the standard meter (rental) charge. "16,000 litres of water will be given free of cost from September 1. We are not giving this water to waste. We want to save water to get free water.  Domestic consumers will also be charged zero meter rent along with the zero bill," Sawant said. The Chief Minister also said that small businesses and commercial establishments like restaurants will also be moved to a less expensive commercial power tariff slab, rather than the existing industrial tariff slab. "Small businesses and restaurants will also benefit from the move," Sawant said. The Sawant government's sops come in wake of a poll promise made by AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal, who announced free power up to the first 300 units for all domestic units in the state. Assembly elections in Goa are scheduled to be held in early 2022. Sawant first made the "free water" announcement in his Independence day speech on August 15 this year, soon after the "free power" announcement made by the Delhi Chief Minister in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-to-provide-16000-litres-of-free-water-from-september-1-cm-pramod-sawant-1025561.html
