01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt orders malls and bars to shut, cuts hours for shops||The Bengal government has ordered malls, cinemas, bars and restaurants indefinitely closed from Friday evening and announced some other restrictions to contain the Covid resurgence amid speculation that stricter curbs would come into force from May 3. Bazaars and haats can stay open “only during 7-10am and 3-5pm”, a notification from the chief secretary said. Officials later said standalone shops were expected to follow the two windows of opening hours. Essential services such as groceries and shops selling medicines or medical equipment are exempt. Home delivery and online services by eateries and malls can continue for now. Transport services have also been kept out of the purview of the restrictions. All social, cultural, academic and entertainment-related gatherings are banned. Also shut are beauty parlours, sports complexes, gyms, spas and swimming pools. Standalone liquor shops, such as those not located in malls, can carry on with sales from 7-10am and 3-5pm. “The restrictions come into force with immediate effect,” a government official said. Sources said the state administration was considering further steps such as closing down the markets while allowing stand-alone shops to operate, and imposing stringent curbs on public transport. “Guidelines are likely to be issued on office attendance in both the public and private sectors,” an official said. Sources in the administration said the state government could not impose stricter restrictions ahead of the counting of votes on May 2. “Tougher curbs could have hindered the movement of those who would be present at the counting centres. A stricter lockdown might be clamped after the results,” a source said. The state government has made it clear that unnecessary gatherings outside the counting halls will be “discouraged”. The Election Commission has already banned rallies after the results. Health department sources said that some restrictions had become necessary with the entire healthcare infrastructure groaning under the spiralling Covid load as more than 17,000 people are testing positive every day in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Bhatpara Trinamul leader hurt in firing||A leader of the Trinamul Congress’s Minority Cell in the Bhatpara Assembly seat was hurt when unidentified people fired at him while he was speaking to a party colleague on Friday evening. Noor E. Jamal has been admitted to a private hospital along EM Bypass in Calcutta. The incident occurred near the Trinamul office in ward 8 of Bhatpara. Police and local sources said at least four miscreants had reached the spot on two motorcycles and fired at Jamal from the close range. Three bullets missed the target, while one grazed Jamal’s left cheek. He had been initially taken to Bhatpara state general hospital before being admitted to the Calcutta facility. A Trinamul councillor at the Bhatpara municipality, Maqsud Alam, said: “It was an attempt on the life of Jamal. But it is not clear who was behind the attack. I talked to the party workers present during the incident and they could not identify the assailants.” Police reached the spot and began a probe. Bhatpara in North 24-Parganas used to witness frequent clashes between supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Assault, arson over goat theft doubt in Jalpaiguri||Two men were assaulted and their vehicle torched over a suspicion of being cattle lifters by a group of villagers in the Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri on Friday. According to sources, some local residents spotted the duo trying to drag two goats into their car at Kalirdanga village on Friday morning. “The residents intercepted the two men and challenged them. As the two could not come up with a proper reply, the local people started beating them. Some others set their vehicle on fire,” said Biswajit Roy, a local panchayat member. The two suspected cattle lifters hail from the neighbouring Mekhliganj block of Cooch Behar district, the sources said. Police soon reached the spot and rescued the duo. Both of them have been detained for interrogation. The sources said a number of incidents of cattle lifting had been reported in the past few weeks at Bhatpara-Kalirdanga village in Padamati 2 panchayat. Sarat Ghosh, who owns the goats, spoke in similar terms. He said he had left the two goats near a tea plantation for grazing but after some time, he came to know that two people were trying to drag the animals into their car. “We stopped the two persons and managed to rescue the goats. Police arrived and took the duo away,” said Ghosh. The police said a fire engine from Maynaguri was brought to douse the flames. The vehicle was almost gutted. The police assured the local people of proper vigil in the area to prevent cattle lifting but asked them to refrain from assaulting any person out of suspicion. “The duo have been brought to the police station. We are talking to them to know why they had been to the village and were dragging the goats into their vehicle. The damaged car has been shifted from the location,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Early trends after noon||The counting of votes on Sunday is likely to take longer than usual and early trends will start emerging well beyond 12 noon unlike previous years, sources in the Election Commission said on Friday. Amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic, there has been a major structural change in the way counting of votes is done and this may delay the process till late in the evening. “Generally, postal ballots, which are counted first, give an early trend. But this time, the number of postal ballots has increased and hence, it will take longer to count them,” an EC official said. “Moreover, all candidates and counting agents will be checked for negative RT-PCR/RAT test reports or vaccination certificates. Hence, the counting will start later than usual,” the official added and said the official hour for counting to start was 8am. The early trend comes from the counting of postal ballots, which gives a rough idea of the fate of a particular seat. Most political parties look forward to these trends. While an early trend used to become clear within two to three hours of the counting’s start in previous elections, it might take over five to six hours this time, sources said. “Postal ballots were primarily for people who are government officials and lived outside their Assembly seats or were engaged for poll duty. But this time, the poll panel has extended the facility of postal ballots to senior citizens, patients and physically-challenged individuals. This has increased the number of postal ballots,” the source said. The EC also increased the number of booths in Bengal to 1,01,790 from 78,903 in 2019 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This has increased the number of EVMs by almost 30 per cent. As a result, this time, it might go up to 18 to 20 rounds of counting or more, delaying the process. Previously, there would be a maximum of 14 to 15 rounds of counting. Moreover, the EC has reduced the number of tables by almost half inside a counting hall to ensure physical distancing. Thus, while previously, there would be 14 to 15 counting tables, this time, there will be 7 only. After every round of counting, the entire hall will be sanitised, which will take farther time. “The entire counting process will be delayed this time because of the pandemic and measures taken by the EC. Therefore, all of us must wait at least till afternoon to get an understanding of which way the result is going. Leaders should refrain from predicting results from early in the day and ask followers to restrain themselves in view of the current situation,” said Subhamoy Maitra, a psephologist and professor at the Indian Statistical Institute. Health protocols related to the coronavirus will be strictly adhered to at the counting venues, said an EC official. Every second counting agent will have to wear a PPE kit, he added. The counting venues will be guarded by three-tier security. State police and an observer will be deputed at the first-tier, which is 100 meters from the counting venue. No car will be allowed beyond this area. The second-tier will be at the gate of the counting premises, where armed state police forces will be deployed. Central forces will be deployed at the third and final tier, which is the door of the counting venue. The EC has deployed 292 counting observers across the state to oversee the counting process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata prepares nominees for counting||Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee held a videoconference with the party’s leaders and candidates and told them that she was confident of a two-third majority, but warned them against complacency at the counting stage as the BJP couldn’t be trusted. The chief minister asked the candidates to remain ultra-vigilant and stay the course, from the early hours of the morning till the very end of the counting process, irrespective of the trends or the results. “There is no doubt in my mind that our party will retain power for the third consecutive term with every possibility of considerably improving the tally given by every exit poll…. We are confidently looking at a two-third majority,” she was quoted as saying by a leader who attended the virtual meeting. According to him, Mamata urged patience and strictly instructed the leaders and nominees not to get demoralised after the first trends, which would comprise postal ballots that might go to the BJP. This was the first such exercise since her party was formed as Mamata was “extremely suspicious” of the BJP and the poll panel’s intentions. Sources in Trinamul said the chief minister was apprehensive that the modifications in rules and procedure for counting were aimed at helping the BJP manipulate results in close contests which she thought were many this time. The chief minister, said Trinamul sources, gave specific instructions for several districts in the Jungle Mahal and north Bengal, where the BJP had done very well in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 and was expected to perform impressively this time, too. The sources said the leadership advised the nominees against assuming that the BJP was going to do well as in 2019 in districts such as Jalpaiguri, Cooch Behar and Alipurduar in north and Bankura, Jhargram, Purulia and West Midnapore in the Jungle Mahal. “In these districts, the BJP could be leading at the start, but do not get demoralised and do not leave the counting centres. Even in the seats where the BJP did well in 2019, most are coming back to Trinamul. So, the counting for those seats should not be abandoned by our party,” Mamata was quoted as saying at the meeting. A Trinamul vice-president said the chief minister also advised the leaders against consumption of food, beverage, cigarettes, paan or anything else that was given by someone else. “Nothing edible given by anybody else, be it the Election Commission or the BJP, or anybody else, must even be touched…. Trust nobody other than your own at the counting centres,” she was quoted as saying. The chief minister mentioned two internal helplines of Trinamul, to be directly monitored by a centralised control room reporting to her. The helplines are for all the people from the party directly involved with the counting process to immediately report problems from the counting centres. “Stay from the very beginning. Stay till the very end…. Sunday is the final day of our war to save Bengal. Stay the course. Victory awaits,” she was quoted as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: We believe in exact polls, says Dilip Ghosh||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Friday claimed that his party was coming to power in the state with a thumping majority of nearly 200 seats. However, a section of his party colleagues, though sure of winning the polls, didn’t appear to share his confidence about the figures. “Exit poll isn’t right, exact poll is and we believe in that. The real thing will be revealed on May 2, it will be as we wanted. There will be a comfort majority and we will win nearly 200 seats,” Ghosh said around 48 hours before the counting for Bengal’s 294 Assembly seats starts on May 2. Ghosh’s comments come in the backdrop of exit polls released on Thursday. At least six out of the 10 exit polls gave the Trinamul Congress an edge over the BJP. While Ghosh’s estimate of 200 seats falls in line with Union home minister Amit Shah’s claims, sources in the party said the top-rung of leaders had assessed a win in 160 to 165 seats. The Midnapore MP’s claims of a thunderous victory is intended to prop up the morale of the workers at the grassroots who might feel dejected after the exit polls, sources in the BJP said. “We are confident of winning 160 to 165 seats. But the exit polls shouldn’t demoralise BJP workers before the counting itself. Hence, Dilipda is repeatedly claiming we will win 200 seats,” a state BJP secretary said. According to sources, other than Ghosh, several other leaders are also worried about the impact the exit polls might have on counting agents and BJP workers at the grassroots. In a video conference with state leaders, which was held right after the exit polls were announced on Thursday evening, the national BJP leadership asked them to keep the morale of the counting agents high. Three senior state BJP leaders said Shivprakash, BJP’s national joint general secretary (organisation), and Amitava Chakraborty, the state general secretary (organisation), while addressing the conference, said the exit polls not going in their favour might prove discouraging to the counting agents. “Counting agents are the party’s eyes and ears at the counting venues. They shouldn’t feel disheartened by the exit polls. It is imperative that these agents turn up at the venues on May 2. Both Shivprakashji and Amitavada asked leaders like us to boost the morale of the counting agents,” a state office-bearer said. This leader added that they would speak to local workers and those who had been designated as counting agents and ask them not to panic over the exit polls. Another BJP leader said it appeared that the two leaders were trying to analyse the impact of the exit polls on the participants in the conference. “We have been taught to believe that ‘Iss baar 200 paar (this time over 200)’. But apart from one exit poll, none placed us even close to that figure, which might’ve affected the perception of many of our colleagues,” the leader added. BJP MP and national general secretary Bhupender Yadav was also present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Containment zone call after May 1 in north Bengal||The state health department will take a decision on the announcement of micro containment zones in north Bengal after the declaration of the Assembly election results on May 2. Sushanta Roy, deputed by the state government as the officer on special duty for Covid-19 in north Bengal, said on Friday that the decision would be made in consultation with district administrations. “There is an apprehension that the number of Covid cases will increase in May and June. That is why it has been planned to identify areas where the number of cases are high and declare those as micro containment zones, instead of declaring a general lockdown in a town or a village. The health department is preparing a map in this regard and after May 2, steps would be taken to declare such zones,” said Roy. The OSD also elaborated on some of the plans drawn up by the health department to handle the Covid situation in north Bengal. Over the past few weeks, like other parts of the country, there has been a steady surge in infections in the north Bengal, especially in Malda, the entire Siliguri subdivision and Jalpaiguri. “It has been decided to install oxygen generator machines at three hospitals in Jalpaiguri. Also, a 20-bed HDU (high dependency unit) will be opened at the subdivisional hospital in Malbazar for Covid patients,” he said. The health department has also planned to use the railway hospital at New Jalpaiguri for treatment of Covid patients. “I inspected the hospital where a facility with 55 beds will be created for Covid patients. The department has in possession of 30-odd beds at a private nursing home in Siliguri. Work is going on to add around 90 beds to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital,” said Roy. On May 1, he will join as the officer on special duty in the state health and family welfare department and continue to work on health issues pertaining to north Bengal, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Closed industries test leaders’ promises||Dhiram Pal Mehrolia lived for four years with the hope that Hindustan Cables Ltd (HCL), closed since 2017, would clear his dues. The 64-year-old was among the scores of retrenched employees of the shuttered central public sector unit who had spotted light at the end of the tunnel when Union minister Babul Supriyo had promised to revive HCL and ensure that the staff got their dues. During his election campaign for the Asansol Lok Sabha seat in 2014, Supriyo had said he had grand plans for turning around the limping central PSU. Three years after Asansol had voted him, the curtains came down on HCL and the likes of Mehrolia lost their livelihood. Although every election comes with a plethora of promises on the future of the company on which the local economy used to thrive, Mehrolia said he would not make the same mistake. Mehrolia said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised in his election speech at Asansol’s Nigha recently to resuscitate the glorious past of this industrial region, but the ex-employee did not dare raise his hopes. Instead, he had several questions for the Prime Minister and his men who visited the area to seek votes for the BJP. “Let the Prime Minister first answer why so many CPSUs are either closed or sick in the Durgapur-Asansol belt. We want to know what the Centre has done to ensure that the companies stay afloat,” Mehrolia had said before he cast his vote. The HCL factory at Rupnarayanpur near Asansol stopped production in 2003 because of chronic losses and was finally declared shut in 2017. All 500 employees were given voluntary retirement. “I no longer hope the plant will reopen. I didn’t get salary in the past two years (2016 and 2017). Neither did I receive my gratuity and PF for this period. My question is, will the government clear my dues?” Mehrolia asks. He used to draw a monthly salary of Rs 22,000 as supervisor at HCL. He said the provident fund and gratuity of around Rs 15 lakh that he had received after the closure of the company had been spent on the education of his two sons and daughter. “The only positive news is that my elder son has got a job at a private cement company after completing civil engineering. My younger son and daughter are still studying,” Mehrolia said. He had taken an education loan of around Rs 2 lakh from a bank that his elder son Akash is repaying now. “The quality of our lives has been so badly affected. Look at the dilapidated HCL quarters where we live in Rupnarayanpur. Basic amenities like electricity and water supply are so irregular. Is this a life?” Mehrolia asked. Charanjit Singh, a former HCL employee and Intuc leader, said: “The town’s economy used to depend on our factory when it was booming. The gloomy story started in 2003 after the production had been halted. But the employees used to get their salaries regularly. Babul Supriyo made so many promises, but we feel cheated as he couldn’t stop the closure of HCL, leave alone revamping the company.” HCL is not alone. The list of closed factories, including private units and CPSUs, in this region once known as the Ruhr of Bengal is long. The Ruhr Valley in Germany is an industrial hub. “Most big industries are closed. People here don’t have jobs. They either work in illegal coal mines or slog it out as day labourers at small factories,” said Pradip Sarkar, former employee of the closed Burn Standard Company Ltd in Burnpur. The Modi cabinet approved the closure of the railway wagon manufacturing unit in 2018. The list of closed units in West Burdwan also includes Mining Allied and Machineries Corporation, Hindustan Fertiliser Corporation Ltd, Bharat Ophthalmic Glass Ltd, Cycle Corporation of India, Pilkington Glass, British Oxygen, Reckitt & Coleman, Kulti Sponge Pipe Factory and several coal mines. Against this backdrop, the main issue in the nine Assembly seats with around 23 lakh voters and went to the polls on April 26 was the industrial decline in the region. Trinamul’s coal sector trade union leader Hareram Singh, who contested from Jamuria, said the BJP might have tried to spin a “Sonar Bangla dream” but people in the area didn’t believe the claim as the extent of job losses had been the maximum since 2014. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had in her campaigns in adjoining Bankura and Purulia laid down what her government was doing to ensure industries came up in Asansol-Durgapur so that the problem of unemployment was addressed. She attacked the Modi government for the closer of CPSUs as well as the attempt to privatise BSNL, the railways and other government-run units. “The reopening of closed CPSUs is not in my hands as they are under the Centre’s control. We are setting up an industrial corridor starting from Panagarh in West Burdwan to Raghunathpur in Purulia, covering Bankura. The entire region, which includes West Burdwan, Birbhum, Bankura and Purulia, will come up as an industrial hub,” Mamata said. In 2016, Trinamul had won six of the nine seats while the CPM-Congress combine had bagged three. However, in the 2019 general election, the BJP led in all Assembly segments. The BJP won the Asansol and Burdwan-Durgapur Lok Sabha seats in the district. Trinamul leaders believe the large number of non-Bengali voters and the party’s organisational deficiencies helped the BJP polarise people along communal lines. “The district has a sizable number of Hindi-speaking voters who work in coal mines and CPSUs. These people who originally hail from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have been polarised. In some pockets, there are tribal voters who, too, shifted loyalties to the BJP since the 2018 rural polls,” a Trinamul leader in Asansol said. The CPM’s strength is heavily depleted in the area that was once a red bastion. The CPM candidate of Durgapur (East), Abhash Roy Choudhury, said Trinamul and the BJP were two sides of the same coin. “They both have made polarisation their main plank while we are telling people about our plans to generate employment. People want work and money in their hands. We need to handle this pandemic properly,” he says. BJP sources said though initially there had been a strong undercurrent in favour of the party across the district, developments such as the induction of former Asansol mayor and Trinamul’s sitting MLA Jitendra Tiwari had not gone down well with many party old-timers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Counting agents’ rush for tests strains health staff||Health department officials in several districts were on Friday faced with the task of carrying out Covid-19 tests on hundreds of counting agents after the Election Commission of India required them and candidates to have negative RT-PCR report or two doses of Covid-19 vaccine to enter counting centres on Sunday. The EC order makes it incumbent upon counting agents and candidates to undergo the Rapid Antigen Test (RT-PCR) during a period of not less than 48 hours before the beginning of the counting process. Health officials said the pressure became huge as the staff had to test over 40,000 people additionally in two days — Friday and Saturday — across Bengal, in addition to regular patients. “Around 53,000 tests are done on a day across Bengal amid the huge scarcity of employees as many of them are in isolation after being infected. Now, it has become a challenge for the staff to test an additional 40,000 people,” said a senior health official. According to the officials in districts, every Assembly constituency will have 14 tables for counting and there would be an agent for each candidate, along with three or four counting staff. There are over 2,000 candidates in Bengal. All the political parties are bringing in 30-40 per cent extra counting agents for the test fearing if some are found Covid positive. “Approximately, 40,000 people had to be tested for Covid in two days. The pressure was extreme on Friday as no political parties took the risk to keep it for May 1. If the commission had ordered the test at least a week ago, then, we could have managed the situation,” said the health official. In Birbhum, health officials opened separate counters for testing polling agents at every block hospital with at least 40 additional staff on Friday. “We had to withdraw our staff from different rural hospitals and the health services in those pockets were vastly affected. But we could do nothing as we need to give priority to the counting agents and candidates,” said a senior health official of Birbhum. In Burdwan, there were three testing points — Burdwan Medical College and Hospital, Sanskriti Lok Mancha and a government agricultural farm. On Friday, the health officials dedicated Sanskriti Lok Mancha — one of the testing centres — only for counting agents of all political parties. No common people were allowed to test there on Friday. Mamani Soren, 35, a resident of Nilpur in Burdwan, had reached Sanskriti Lok Mancha for a test as she was suffering from fever but returned when told that she would not be tested there. “Many common people were deprived of the test or had to travel extra miles to reach other places. We had nothing to do as we had to cope with the crisis of staff. Every day, dozens of our staff are testing positive and we are losing our manpower,” said a health staff in East Burdwan. Sources in different political parties said they had to find 30 per cent extra counting agents for fear of some testing positive for Covid. A section of political leaders in Birbhum said counting agents had to queue up with several symptomatic persons who had arrived for the tests. Trinamul leader Tapas Mondal, who brought 30 counting agents for the tests at Bolpur block hospital, said he was concerned about the spread of infection as they had to queue up with those having Covid symptoms. “We don’t know whether we will be infected while getting the test done as we have come in contact with people having symptoms. Hundreds of people with Covid symptoms are roaming around us and we can’t identify them. Our agents are scared as they fear they will get infected by visiting crowded hospital premises,” said Mondal. Police arrested an outsourced employee of JNM Hospital in Nadia’s Kalyani and two others, including a woman, on Friday allegedly for generating fake Covid-19 test reports using the official user ID and password of the medical facility. The arrested are Mrityunjoy Ram, a data entry operator attached to the hospital’s medical superintendent’s office, and Monalisa Biswas and Arup Das, who work at a private pathological laboratory in Kanchrapara as sample collectors. The residents of Kanchrapara were arrested following a marathon interrogation on Friday afternoon. They were produced in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Kalyani and remanded in jail custody for two weeks. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: The fight is as much against Modi, as it is against Mamata for CPM||At 86, Ashok Kumar Mullick, popularly known as “Mastermoshai”, still treads the political lane that he began walking over six decades ago with a rally at Subodh Mullick Square in central Calcutta. The south Calcutta resident has participated in countless Left movements, including the food movement of 1959. Round the year, Mullick can be seen visiting homes in his area, climbing floors, stopping occasionally to catch a breath and walking up again to knock at the doors of CPM supporters and sympathisers to hand over magazines, leaflets and newspapers or collect funds. “Age is an issue no doubt but someone needs to pitch in when the going gets tough. Things will change in the state and the country,” says the retired high school teacher with the conviction of a man who recalls the defeat of Indira Gandhi and reminds this correspondent that at one point even she had looked invincible. “If Mrs Gandhi could face defeat, the minions (Narendra Modi and his ilk) who have been blown big by corporate power will be pulled down one day by people’s power,” he says as he rolls up the sleeves of his white kurta. If that was 1977, Mullick is quick to remind himself that was also the year when his leader Jyoti Basu led the Left Front to defeat the Congress to become chief minister. A Left Front run that took 34 years and a Mamata Banerjee to halt in 2011. And Mullick makes no bones of the fact that the protagonist to dethrone the Left Front regime remains the biggest enemy for Left supporters in Bengal although the BJP is a foe of the same standing. “The 2021 fight in Bengal is as much against the Narendra Modi-led BJP as it is against Mamata Banerjee and her party Trinamul. Mamata’s party is bereft of any ideology and so they micro-manage politics through local-level hooliganism,” says the CPM supporter who never became a party cardholder and is worried that a BJP victory will inject communalism into Bengal. While Mastermoshai finds no fault with the Left’s policy of equi-distance from Modi and Mamata, many are asking whether the Left has missed out on an opportunity that history brought before it and when CPIML-Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya had laid out the pitch by publicly giving a call to defeat the BJP. “May 2 will be a day when I expect answers to two queries. One, will the BJP taste defeat? And two, whether the Left took the right call in equating its two enemies? As a Left supporter, I want the BJP to be defeated and wish the Left to perform well. But ground realities as I see is far from what I wish happens on May 2,” says another CPM supporter and also a votary of the “No vote to BJP” campaign. “It is good to aspire that the Left will claw back to power even if it is with the help of the Congress and Abbas Siddiqui’s ISF but the turf is still underprepared for a comeback. Even the Congress stand will get tested in its strongholds, which are largely minority-dominated districts,” he says. Mullick, however, thinks Bhattacharya is undermining the Bengal reality. When reminded that a consolidation of Opposition forces under the leadership of Jayprakash Narayan led to Mrs Gandhi’s defeat in 1977 and Bhattacharya was not even suggesting an alliance, Mullick for once takes time to come up with a reply. After a brief pause, Mullick says: “Circumstances then and now are not the same. There has been an enormous spurt in RSS shakhas during Mamata Banerjee’s regime. The desire to finish off the Left has proved to be detrimental and helped the BJP fill in the vacuum. Not going all out against Mamata would have led to a consolidation of anti-Trinamul votes in the BJP’s kitty.” Sixty-five years younger to Mullick and living on the northern fringes of Calcutta, a student of St. Stephen’s College in Delhi has been actively campaigning for the Left as he believes that the “battle against the fascists need to be won decisively”. Ananyo Chakraborty, 21, has been writing poll songs, performing at meetings and taking part in CPM rallies as he believes that the political battle is important for democracy to survive in Bengal. Chakraborty represents the young force that the Left has unleashed in this election to reverse its downward slide. The young Left activist has a different take on Bhattacharya’s tactical proposition to identify the BJP as the main enemy. “The anger of youths, who have been deprived of jobs in the past 10 years largely due to Trinamul’s corruption, against Mamata Banerjee is an everyday experience. I am aware that several Left sympathisers feel that the BJP should have been marked out in this electoral battle but that would have further polarised votes in the BJP’s favour,” he says. Both Mullick and Chakraborty agree that losing Left supporters to the BJP has been a real worry but they feel the trend, even if by a bit, is reversing. The Left has suffered organisationally since 2011 and the party leadership has not been able to deal with the challenges. But the two concur that the role of the Left during the pandemic and the lockdown has prompted many of those who had left to return. “They are slowly realising that the economic policies of the BJP are hurting their interests. The Hindu-Muslim divide will break the social fabric. The lockdown has exposed the BJP’s pro-poor narrative. This election will also be about votes returning to the Left,” Mullick says. Drawing on his experience at St. Stephen’s and during the poll campaigns, Chakraborty says: “After the attacks on JNU and Jamia, college mates who used to find us too political began to turn up at our protest shows. The high point of our rallies, including the one at Brigade, has been the presence of youths. Even if a section of Left voters did switch sides, the gathering of youths and their active participation is reason enough to hope for change.” Even though the two CPM supporters have an age gap of 65 years, which almost reflects the generation gap between Biman Bose and Minakshi Mukherjee, both say that the infusion of youth in the leadership should have happened years ago. “This should have happened long back. Imagine the gap between Pramod Dasgupta’s protégé Biman Bose and Minakshi. After leaders like Md Salim and Sujan Chakraborty, there has been a huge gap. Since 2011, the number of young legs on the ground has dropped. Though of late, the induction of young leaders gives me hope that things will change,” Chakraborty says. He credits the change in the party’s campaign style to the strategy of ushering in leaders like Minakshi, Srijan Bhattacharya, Dipsita Dhar and Aishee Ghosh. When told that there were many who felt the use of popular songs like Tumpa Sona was “unbecoming of the Left”, Chakraborty retorts: “I have composed a campaign song while at the same time I am singing popular IPTA numbers at rallies. The huge popularity of the new campaign songs goes to show they have struck a chord with the masses. If that has happened, the purpose is served.” Economist and political analyst Indraneel Dasgupta almost echoes Chakraborty. Lauding the campaign, Dasgupta, who teaches at the Indian Statistical Institute, says: “I have been an avid watcher of elections in Bengal, at various degrees of separation and engagement, for about four decades now. The hippest and most creative one, in terms of the campaign material generated, is by far the current one. How much of this will get translated to booth-level campaigns or will find reflection in electoral outcomes remains to be seen. But a lot of spontaneous creative energy, of edgy out-of-the-box thinking, has already been harnessed.” If one looks beyond peppy numbers, the campaign of the Left in this election has been to harness the discontent of youths against the Trinamul government’s inability to generate enough jobs and the allegations of corruption in the recruitment process. The Left understands the need to create jobs but many think it is short of ideas as it still upholds the model that the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government had proposed for Singur and Nandigram. “Singur had been a setback for the Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee government but the CPM still wants to stick to the old formula. The party should break out of its old shell and re-assess the mood of the farming community before deciding which course to take on industrialisation,” says a businessman who runs a small shop in Hooghly’s Pandua and has two jobless sons. Chakraborty, who aspires to get a job in a few years, feels industry is the only answer and youths in Bengal need jobs and not doles that the Mamata government has faith in. But the moot question remains whether the Left with all its intent — starting with strategic alliance with the ISF where it had to shed its inhibitions about identity politics to overhauling its candidates’ list — will be able to undo the setback it has been suffering since 2011. A senior CPM leader said: “The battle has just begun and will continue to be waged beyond May 2, whatever be the outcome.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: People  can die, politicians don’t care||I am a senior citizen aged above 75, a physicist by profession, a curious scientist by inclination. I am heart-broken and very angry. I always had nurtured the idea that India is a mature democracy by now and firmly followed the path of fair play, justice for all, and above all, responsible for the welfare of its citizens. With time, all these values have eroded without a trace. Politics has become an all-consuming power game of sleazy money, a den of uneducated leaders whose sole aim is to stay in power at all costs — citizens “we can bribe” by handouts, making them even more incompetent than what they are. Education, by far and large, has taken a back seat. Nothing has changed, if anything it has gone worse — education is merely a device to amplify our childhood memory books, suitable only for clerks. By Class VI, they become slaves of their own memory, any lapse in that they cannot even think, forget about innovation! Not surprisingly, the best go out of the country and succeed beyond any dream. The political club belongs to members who are primarily not educated, and extremely fond of violence at the slightest pretext. Even the film stars could not resist the glamour, suffering the heat and dust quite happily. Why am I heart-broken after all these years? In the heat of political slogans, the politician omitted to recognise the most vital component of democracy —humans! They can die by the millions, “we really don’t care”. They saw that the devastating tsunami of Covid-19 was coming. But one more dip in the holy ocean by the millions, pressed against each other, they clapped from a distance, after all, these dips are at the heart of Mother India. I am heart-broken because even at the end, the dead do not receive any respect. When the tsunami has come, there is no planning, no bed, no vaccine, not adequate nurses, worse, no oxygen, no doctors. The magnificent theatre of copter, creating a heap of our Indian dust, is quite a spectacle. But people are dying, “oh, never mind, have to win”! Why is there no planning, they have no time? They prefer to ignore the tsunami — statues are more relevant? Time and again, the great India inertia paralyses us from taking any action — we are frozen with the morphine of inaction. The Election Commission is just an example. The thinking is “Almighty God will take care”. We don’t take action, we take corrective measures, already too late. They should have planned oxygen problem mitigation, “no chalta hain”. By the time the permission comes through after crossing all the administrative hurdles, another 2 million have died. All my life in science management, not research of course, the essential thesis of “don’t trouble if trouble doesn’t trouble you” has driven me mad. Now, the same reason is making me heart-broken. Why am I very angry? I have worked for an organisation called the Cyclotron Centre, mostly as the director for almost 25 years. So, I have a special bondage. The same Election Commission ordered staff up to some level to be on election duty. With millions of government staff hanging around, our young staff members, by order, have to attend election duty. I see “hell” on the horizon. They have just come back, 90 per cent of them have been affected by Covid-19. Do they have enough medicine, beds in the hospital, oxygen? They have done a fantastic job for the country because they are far more honest than the politicians the election is all about. What a price to pay? Honesty and a noble purpose give only negative returns? I am angry. A few of them are really bright — to jeopardise their careers midway is a crime. The Chief Justice of Madras High Court is right, the members of the Election Commission should be prosecuted for murder. I add to that — prosecute all irresponsible and incompetent people and leaders. Justice must prevail. Exploitation has to stop, democracy is nobody’s monopoly. When do we begin to understand? Bikash Sinha is a senior scientist at the Indian National Science Academy, former Homi Bhabha Professor and former director at the Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre and the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-82
01-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Whoever wins, trouble and chaos lurk ||One has never seen people in other states and cities of India so genuinely bothered about elections in Bengal. Many are actually petrified that nothing can hold back the BJP if the quintessentially secular bastion of Bengal capitulates. Equally eager are several others to ensure that it does crumble, as it has held out far too long and delayed the patriotic homogenisation of a Hindu Rashtra. Many also believe that India has already paid a heavy price because the only two who have monopolised decision-making in Delhi, by systematically disempowering ministers and bureaucrats, were too obsessively busy in Bengal to find time to tackle the coronavirus. But in Bengal, people are more interested in ending this bitter chapter of the state’s political history. Indications are, however, that peace may take quite a long time to return to this state, irrespective of who takes over. The air is just too toxic to rule with any modicum of stability. Although Bengalis have always loved heated arguments, they are not really conditioned to hate their opponent, or else they would be deprived of the next round. But now they look aghast as society is seared right through and even families and groups of friends are slashed into intolerant warring groups. Poison has also penetrated through the sustained hate propaganda and the venomous debates of the leaders on both sides. It would take a serious and sustained effort to blunt the capacity of both parties to hit, harm and kill at will. Nonetheless, the internationally known bookies of Rajasthan’s Phalodi and many online betting sites declared their winner long ago, and they are fretting as they wait for the annoying processes of voting to act themselves out. Every few days, the home minister too hands out what would appear to the uninitiated to be the exact results of each phase of the polls. He is fed by multiple sources, especially after several institutions of state power have merged seamlessly with the ruling party. The defending champions of Bengal too keep shrieking about their sure victory, confidently predicting that the millions spent on this “hostile acquisition” bid would go waste. Unfortunately for the bookies and contenders, democracy has this incorrigible habit of upsetting many carefully arranged “realities”. One learnt this unforgettable lesson way back in 1977, as an assistant returning officer, when Indira Gandhi’s hordes had confidently declared that her victory was a mere formality. Sadly, in the last couple of years, Bengal has slipped dangerously into the abyss it had avoided so adroitly from 1946 onwards, even after Muhammad Ali Jinnah had inflicted his bloody “Great Calcutta Killings”, quite well-planned. Thereafter, the Muslim League and the Hindu Mahasabha went on an overdrive to create provocations and riots, even as H.S. Suhrawardy and Sarat Chandra Bose kept trying their best to retain Bengal as a united, separate nation. In 1947, however, the communal divide won and Bengal was split in two. Even so, relations between the two communities were considerably different compared with the northern parts of India. This was largely because of their passionate attachment to the common language, their similar food habits and other sensitivities — although “pride and prejudice” co-existed under the surface. Thus, while Punjab and Delhi were overtaken by unprecedented manslaughter and devastation in 1947 when the nation was partitioned, Calcutta remained peaceful thanks to the superhuman efforts of Gandhi, who had successfully earlier doused the Noakhali riots. In the succeeding decades, riots were sporadically ignited by fanatics in East Pakistan, under the indulgent eyes of communal elements in the government, mainly to grab property by driving out Hindus. Thus, waves of refugees streamed in every now and then, and sizeable numbers of Muslims also moved out of Bengal, insecure after the killings on this side. Analysts, however, agree almost unanimously that Bengal handled the trauma of Partition far better than Punjab. A factor that contributed was the ideological commitment of the communists who did not permit the communalisation of the refugees. They did, however, use them for other very disruptive political agitations and also to seize power. Despite intermittent, bloody communal eruptions, the great fortitude of the early decades following Independence ensured that secular politics became the unquestioned “default mode” in Bengal. The political formations that held power in Bengal since 1947 can be faulted on several issues, but none of them pla yed dirty communal politics or deliberately created riots. Muslims accounted for a substantial quarter of the population, or a bit more, and they were both vocal and visible. How then did the situation undergo such a radical change towards the Hindu Right? The first reason was that communal poison finally succeeded in getting in, after years of a systematic injection of hatred against minorities. The BJP won over a section, largely from the high castes and upper classes and also from other, specifically targeted castes. These converts suddenly discovered a Hindu identity that decades of Left and secular rule had never allowed to surface. Then, Mamata Banerjee’s pursuit of the Muslim vote and her own open publicity of photos in a hijab  cut both ways. The Hindu Brigade played upon these visuals, and those of beef hung for sale on open thoroughfares. The marginal increase in the Muslim population was and is being constantly portrayed as the end of the Hindu civilisation. Besides, no one really noticed when the RSS systematically and quietly penetrated different parts of the state for decades, setting up schools and camps to influence people through social work. Finally, many voters are now floored by the Prime Minister’s promise of a “Sonar Bangla”, a golden Bengal, if only the state gives up its 44 years of confrontation with the Centre. It is undeniable that a large and committed section has swung decisively to the BJP and this cannot be wished away, even if all of its members are not hard-core Hindutva supporters. The party has enough strongmen and ample funding, as well as strong support from  the central government that is forever restless to intervene. The BJP surely reaped benefits from the Trinamul Congress’s adverse image of corruption and the intolerable behaviour of its musclemen and leaders. Its large-scale rigging of the 2018 panchayat elections surely alienated numerous people. But its biggest blunder was to terrorise members of all the Opposition parties, who invariably moved to the BJP for protection. Alternatives are ruled out, anyway, as the Left and the Congress have been marginalised at the polls, as the voting figures reveal. The Left now appears quite historically irrelevant and its excesses are still fresh in memory. Its long rule and munificence has given rise to a reasonably well-off “new class” that revels in theoretical arguments and righteous indignation against “neo-fascism” but has hardly the strength to fight it. The Congress has been drained of its life force by its former leader, Mamata, who is unshakable in her stand that she is the “real Congress”. If Mamata manages to emerge paramount in this election, and her numbers are not bought over (which is not unlikely), she may play a more leading role in the nationwide surge against the BJP’s rock-solid rule. Modi is absolutely unforgiving and no one knows how his wrath on Bengal will manifest. The war will only intensify and the BJP in Bengal is likely to step up violence, abetted by the central leadership, to harass the government. But Mamata is also a desperate street-fighter and prone to belligerent agitations. As magistrate, one has had to “tackle” her and to actually “take her into custody” outside Jadavpur police station in 1983. Over the following decades, she went on to win Bengal against an almost invincible regime, and now she considers the BJP prime game. If she is, however, knocked off her perch, she will surely assume her familiar agitational self and ensure that Bengal’s new rulers do not get a moment’s peace. Police firings and the killing of dozens of her supporters have never stopped her. After four decades in administration, one is quite apprehensive that trouble and chaos may thus rule, at least in the near future. Jawhar Sircar is a former Union secretary and a public affairs commentator||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-83
