02-05-2021||West Bengal||Minorities back Mamata en bloc in WB blockbuster||Parties such as the AIMIM and Abbas Siddiqui's ISF, which were seen as having the potential to deal a blow to the TMC’s minority support base, failed to make an impression in the West Bengal assembly polls as the minorities threw their weight behind Mamata Banerjee in her high-stakes contest against the BJP. According to the trends and results, the Indian Secular Front (ISF), which had stitched an alliance with the Left parties and the Congress, and was contesting on 26 seats, was a dismal showing in the 292 assembly segments that went to polls. The Asaduddin Owaisi-led party, which contested seven seats in the state polls, also drew a blank, cornering a megre 0.02 per cent vote share. Parties seen having a substantial clout among the Muslims also did not come up with a decisive showing in other states. The Indian Union Muslim League was leading or had won 15 seats in Kerala and its alliance with the United Democratic Front (UDF) was headed for a poll defeat to the ruling Left Democratic Front. Another party considered having a strong support base among Muslims, the Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) fared better, winning or leading on 15 seats out of the over 20 seats it contested. But its alliance with the Congress and other parties failed to stop the BJP from coming back to power. It was the dismal performance of the ISF led by Siddiqui, who is an influential cleric of the shrine of Furfura Sharif, and Owaisi’s AIMIM in West Bengal that has been under spotlight. Minorities, who comprise nearly 30 per cent of Bengal’s electorate, are a deciding factor in nearly 100 seats of the state. The BJP, which failed to breach the TMC’s minority strongholds, had been hoping that the ISF would be able to split Muslim votes, giving them an advantage, according to analysts. Since Independence, minorities in the state have voted in favour of the Congress to keep outfits such as the Hindu Mahasabha and the Jan Sangh at bay. During the late sixties, however, they gradually started drifting towards the Left forces, which cemented its base among minorities with “Operation Barga” ‑ a land-reform movement that benefited lakhs of sharecroppers. Things fell apart for the Left Front after the Sachar Committee report in 2008 painted a dismal picture of the living conditions of minorities. Add to that, the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram and Singur projected the TMC, led by Mamata Banerjee, as their new “savior”. The Mamata Banerjee camp had been the sole beneficiary of minority votes since the Left Front’s exit in 2011, as Muslims have voted en bloc for the TMC, but its failure to control communal riots over the last six years did not go down well with a section of the community. However, the community seems to have voted en bloc for the TMC to keep the BJP out, according to observers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
02-05-2021||West Bengal||SRFTI holds virtual ceremony to commemorate Satyajit Ray's birth centenary||The Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute organised a virtual convocation ceremony on Sunday, a day that also marked the beginning of the year-long celebrations to commemorate the birth centenary of the legendary film-maker. The graduates of the 13th batch of the film wing, the first batch of the electronic and digital media wing and the first batch of the animation cinema wing got their post graduate diploma certificate after pursuing different specialisations and successfully completing their first films. “This day is very significant to us as Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute presents the nation with a bunch of new filmmakers,” Professor Amaresh Chakrabarti, director in-charge of the Kolkata-based institute, said. The chief guest of the ceremony was Aparna Sen, an eminent actor, filmmaker and Padma Shri recipient. She congratulated the graduates on completion of their formal education in various disciplines of cinema and allied audiovisual mediums. In the valedictory speech, she also shared her memories with Ray. “It is doubly auspicious as the day marks the beginning of the centenary celebrations of the master auteur,” she said. Named after the legendary film maestro Satyajit Ray, the institute has emerged as a centre of excellence which offers post-graduate programme in cinematic and television studies. Satyajit Ray, a genuine artist, made Indian cinema worthy of serious attention for the first time in its history, an official statement said Commissioned and produced by the institute, a total of 21 dissertation films and their student crew received honours, comprising six films from animation cinema, five films from the electronic and digital media wing and 10 films from the film wing. Amongst this wide spectrum of narratives, Like a Midnight Dream (Oru Paathira Swapnam Pole), a dissertation film by Sharan Venugopal, was recently awarded Best Film on Family Values in the 67th National Film Awards by Directorate of Film Festivals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Political pundits smell chance for regional satraps after Mamata's landslide win||With the results of five assembly polls delivering a chastening blow to BJP’s electoral juggernaut and virtually decimating its main rival Congress, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s massive victory over the formidable saffron machinery may help bring regional satraps to the fore of the national politics yet again, analysts believe. Under flak from the opposition for its government's handling of the Covid-19 crisis, the BJP’s big loss in West Bengal polls has denied the party a face-saver it might have hoped for to claim the popular endorsement for its policies and has lent further ballast to the view that it often falls short against a popular regional force. While the BJP will draw some satisfaction from its comfortable win in Assam, the overall mood in the party was sombre as it appeared drawing a blank in Kerala and also fared poorly in Tamil Nadu where its senior ally AIADMK was set to lose power to the rival DMK but defied some exit poll predictions of its rout. The BJP-led NDA, however, trumped its rivals in Puducherry. BJP sources claimed that a meltdown of the Left-Congress alliance, consolidation of Muslim votes behind Banerjee-headed Trinamool Congress, and a fall in the polling percentage, especially in the last few phases as the Covid-19 cases surged, played a role in its defeat. The saffron party's West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh, however, said that the leaders who came to BJP from Trinamool somehow did not fare well in the elections, while another senior party leader Kailash Vijayvargiya credited Banerjee for the TMC’s astounding performance. “The TMC won because of Mamata Banerjee. It seems people have chosen Didi. We will introspect what went wrong, whether it was organisational issues, lack of face, insider-outsider debate. We will see what went wrong,” Vijayvargiya said. Manindra Nath Thakur, an associate professor at the Centre for Political Studies of JNU, said the West Bengal results may trigger a new realignment with Banerjee, whom he described as the strongest woman leader after Indira Gandhi, emerging as a key force. Noting that she does have a party structure outside Bengal, he said the second phase of coalition politics may emerge with regional satraps playing a strong role. The Congress will have a role in states where it remains strong, he added. The regional forces used to have a significant presence in the national politics till 2014 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi steered BJP to its maiden majority in Lok Sabha polls diminishing the say of state satraps in power corridors of the national capital. Even in defeat, a BJP leader said, the party emerged as the only capable challenger to Banerjee. “From three seats (2016), we now have nearly 90 MLAs. Analysts will write whatever they have to but the BJP is now an obvious alternative to the TMC, which was not the case until a few years back,” he said. Thakur also noted that Bengal is now “between the BJP and Mamata” with the Left and the Congress having been wiped out. “The BJP has gained ground in the state. With the kind of party structure and resources it has, it may create problems for her in the next five years,” he said. However, judged against its rhetoric of winning over 200 seats, such is the scale of the BJP’s loss that it was reminiscent for some of its drubbing in the 2015 Bihar assembly polls where it was simply no match to the popular support the RJD-JD(U) alliance enjoyed despite its high-decibel campaign. According to the Election Commission’s data, the gap between the TMC and the BJP vote share was almost 10 per cent. This meant a loss of nearly 3 per cent for the saffron party and a gain of about 5 per cent for the TMC since the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Political watchers believe the West Bengal results may set a churn in the national politics as a reinvigorated Banerjee will like to play a cementing role to unite opposition parties against the BJP with the Congress continuing to decline. The Congress, on the other hand, has suffered a big loss in Kerala and was unable to put up a strong challenge to the BJP in Assam. Though it’s worse than expected show in the polls coupled with the criticism it is facing over the Covid-19 crisis may worsen the perception problem for the BJP, but there is also a view that the party in the past has managed to successfully overcome challenges like demonetisation, which its critics had believed, might cause it a political setback.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Death of migrant labourers last year forced me to join politics: Manoj Tiwary||Politics was always on cricketer Manoj Tiwary’s radar but in his mind, there was a sense of finality once he saw the plight of migrant labourers during the Covid-19 induced lockdown last year. After deciding to take the plunge into politics, he was clear that he had to be on Mamata Banerjee’s corner. Having won his first state assembly elections from Shibpur constituency by a margin of more than 6000 votes over nearest rival Rathin Chakraborty of BJP, Tiwary knows his immediate assignment. “Effective Covid-19 management in my area, raising awareness and keeping the residents of my constituency safe. That's my first job and its a challenge. But that's what sport teaches us isn't," Tiwary, a former India player and one of the finest batsmen to have emerged from Bengal, told PTI after collecting his victory certificate. Tiwary, even in adverse circumstances, has never been short of confidence and that's why he was never unsure about his victory. “I was well prepared for this election and worked very hard to win blessing and mandate of people of my constituency. I knew politics is not an easy place and for a newcomer from a different sphere, it was all the more difficult. I had campaigned door to door in Shibpur locality, they know my intention. “I am happy that those smiling faces reposed their faith in me and I could feel while campaigning that they would bless me with a big mandate,” said Tiwary. But did he think about the risks of losing an election when he had a secured domestic career and was also doing well as a TV expert? “Yes, it was risky. I went against the tide when I took the decision because you can’t say ‘No’ to Didi. Didi has always been my inspiration. Every year on my birthday, I would receive a greeting card signed by her.” But someone who is always practical, he knew that the knee injury sustained before last edition of Vijay Hazare Trophy would force him to have a plan B. “When I responded to Didi’s call, I had a knee injury and wasn’t playing Vijay Hazare Trophy. It would have taken four to five months to recover. I had to come to terms with IPL rejection and I had time at my disposal which I needed to use constructively. “In my mind, I had to decide what if this knee injury is more serious than I thought. What's my plan B? You need to think about life beyond cricket.” At one point he was very active on social media on “Justice for Sushant Singh Rajput campaign” which he quit after it became “political in nature”. “Yes BJP had approached me but when I saw the plight of migrant labourers who were left in the lurch by the sitting central government, joining them would be not being honest to my ideals and beliefs. I was devastated by what I saw. People dead on railway tracks. It was very difficult to accept that. “No way could I have responded to BJP's call. They didnt fulfil any promises and this Covid mismanagement is just another example.” Also how Mamata stood her ground against the constant attack from the top leadership of BJP also “inspired him”. “The entire machinery of central government was put to force to attack Didi and it was call of the hour to make her stronger with our presence. I was born in Bengal, I got love, affection, fame here. Now, I have another job to do, serve the people of this state to the best of my ability.” Cricket will certainly take a backseat for an active politician but Tiwary is hopeful that there might just be some amount of cricket left in him. “If I would have retired, I would have told you. If I haven't, read between the lines. I don’t rule out the option of playing a few more games for Bengal. Let's wait and see.” And what about sports administration? “Yes, you will find me raising my voice if needed in Cricket Association of Bengal and also wherever it is required for betterment of cricket and sport and as a whole.” Tiwary during his early playing days was known for his punchlines and he had one for the occasion too. “Manoj Tiwary hasn’t just been born to play cricket. Before I leave this world, I will do enough public service have to leave footprint as a people’s man.” PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal stands by its ‘daughter’, Mamata leads Trinamul to a spectacular victory||Bengal reposed faith in its “daughter” and paved the way for a resounding victory for the Trinamul Congress, but Mamata Banerjee narrowly lost at Nandigram after the result of the seat was held up for a while under a cloud of claims and counterclaims, prompting the chief minister to say she would move court. At 7.20pm, according to the Election Commission website, Trinamul had won or was leading in 216 seats, while the BJP had won or was leading in 75 seats in the elections held for 292 of the 294 Assembly seats of Bengal. Independents were leading in two seats. “My target was 221 seats. I had said we will score double century. Bengal, its people and women have won. Bengal has saved the entire country. This is a landslide victory fighting against all odds, central government, all agencies, election commission,” said Mamata. “The slogans Khela Hobe and Joy Bangla worked. The game happened and we won,” she said. In Nandigram, late on Sunday evening, poll officials said the Mamata’s rival, Suvendu Adhikary of the BJP, won the seat by 1,736 votes. While Suvendu polled 1,09,673 votes, Mamata had got 1,07,937 votes.  Mamata had been trailing for most part of the day. At the end of the 16th round of counting, Adhikari, was ahead by just six votes. Mamata chose not to up the ante. “Whatever verdict the Nandigram people have given, I accept,” she told the media at her Kalighat residence. But she spoke of foul play. “In Nandigram, they looted votes. They stopped counting, they announced one result and then they announced something else. There is some foul play here. I will move court,” she said. Asked about her swearing-in, Mamata indicated her priority was to tackle the pandemic. “Our first priority is Covid. We won’t have a largescale oath-taking ceremony,” she said, adding that as of now, there would be no victory procession anywhere by Trinamul party members. Mamata requested the Centre to provide free vaccines to the country. “Otherwise, I will start satyagraha,” she said. ‘Game On’ worked The outcome of the bitterly fought Assembly elections, which saw the BJP come at her with all guns blazing, resonates with the Trinamul Congress campaign that focussed on Mamata as “Banglar meye (daughter of Bengal)” and “Didi" (elder sister)”. In the run-up to the polls, Mamata came up with the slogan of “Khela Hobe (Game On)”. At the end of the day on Sunday, she had convincingly outplayed the BJP in its own game. The BJP’s gambit of fielding Trinamul candidates like Adhikari, Rajib Banerjee, Rabindranath Bhattacharya and others did not pay the dividends it had hoped for. Mamata went into the election fighting heavy anti-incumbency. While the Narada and Saradha scams had rocked her first term as chief minister, corruption during distribution of relief after last year’s cyclone Amphan and in teacher’s recruitments were all staring at her. The Congress and Left parties had hit the streets against the Trinamul, focussing on these issues as it had done several times in the past. These issues figured prominently in the BJP’s campaign too. At the end of the day, these factors did not seem to be in play as the Trinamul romped home with 48.3 per cent of the total vote share. This vote, while rejecting blatant communalism, patriarchy, moral, cultural and culinary policing of the BJP and the Sangh Parivar at large, also seemed to endorse the dole politics which Mamata has practiced in 10 years of her tenure as chief minister. Vote share The BJP’s vote share is close to 38 per cent -- 10 per cent less than the Trinamul’s -- and with the curtains falling on the Left and secular parties in Bengal, it remains as the principal Opposition party in the state. The Congress and the CPM, which went into the election as an alliance, failed to win even a single seat, while their partner, the Indian Secular Front, was leading in one. Ten years after it was ousted out of power, the CPM now has just about 4.56 per cent of the vote share, while Congress has been reduced to 2.86 per cent. The last two remaining Congress bastions, Malda and Murshidabad, have now crumbled. Even in Berhampore, a stronghold of the Congress for decades, the party lost to the BJP. Since becoming chief minister a decade ago, 2021 was Mamata’s toughest political battle as the BJP appeared to be on the rise in Bengal on the strength of its performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Dismal performance For the BJP though, the performance is dismal. Despite spending crores on a campaign that saw the entire party leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, flock to Bengal, it could not cross the double figure mark. In 2021, the BJP has been pushed back further from the leads it enjoyed in 121 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In the runup to the elections, the BJP had also succeeded in weaning away many sitting legislators from the Trinamul to bolster its campaign. But the move seems to have backfired with the likes of Rajib Banerjee, Vaishali Dalmia, Prabir Ghoshal, Sabyasachi Dutta trailing. Congratulations! A number of Opposition leaders have congratulated Didi on her spectacular win. Maratha strongman Sharad Pawar, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav all sent out congratulatory tweets. “Congratulations @MamataOfficial on your stupendous victory! Let us continue our work towards the welfare of people and tackling the Pandemic collectively,” tweeted Pawar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls: Wishes pour in for Mamata from all over ||WIshes have started to pour in for Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from national leaders as election results and trends indicated that Trinamul Congress (TMC) was all set to regain power in Bengal by a landslide. The TMC was ahead in 202 of the 292 seats that went to polls in the state, way over the halfway mark of 147, leaving the BJP trailing with leads in 77 seats. In terms of vote share, the TMC had 48.5 per cent of the votes against the BJPs 37.4 per cent. Among those who sent conggratulatory messages to Mamata were NCP president Sharad Pawar, National Conference Omar Abdullah and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal. NCP president Sharad Pawar took to twitter to congratulate Mamata Banerjee. "Congratulations @MamataOfficial on your stupendous victory! Let us continue our work towards the welfare of people and tackling the Pandemic collectively," tweeted Pawar, whose party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra. "Congratulations @MamataOfficial didi for landslide victory. What a fight! Congratulations to the people of WB," Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday. National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah on Sunday congratulated Mamata Banerjee for the TMC's "remarkable victory" in the Bengal assembly polls, saying the BJP and a thoroughly partisan Election Commission threw everything at her, but she prevailed. Heartiest congratulations to @MamataOfficial didi & everyone at @AITCofficial for the remarkable victory in West Bengal. The BJP & a throughly partisan Election Commission threw everything including the kitchen sink at you & you prevailed. All the best for the next 5 years (sic)," Omar wrote on Twitter. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Sunday congratulated the TMC on its performance in the Bengal assembly polls, saying people have rejected disruptive and divisive forces. In a tweet, the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said, "Congratulations to @MamataOfficial @AITCofficial @derekobrienmp on their splendid victory today. Kudos to the people of West Bengal for rejecting disruptive & divisive forces". Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav congratulated Mamata Banerjee and her party, and said "politics of hate stands defeated" in the state. Taking to Twitter, he said the "conscious public" have given a befitting reply to BJP's 'Didi o Didi' barbs. "Hearty congratulations to the conscious public, combative Mamata Banerjee ji and the dedicated leaders and activists of the TMC, who defeated the BJPs's politics of hate in Bengal! This is a befitting reply to the insulting sarcasm 'Didi O Didi' from the BJP," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister tweeted with hashtag '#Didi_jio_didi' His party's MP, Jaya Bachchan, had campaigned for the TMC in Bengal. Amid the political showdown during elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed Banerjee as 'Didi o Didi' and said that her defeat in Nandigram was certain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls: Mamata leads Trinamul to spectacular victory||The Trinamul Congress is looking to sweep the Bengal elections, winning two seats and with leads in 210 of the 292 Assembly seats as per the latest trends, while the BJP, which was running neck-and-neck initially, is ahead in only 79 seats. As for the Samyukta Morcha, the Left-led alliance, Congress is ahead in one seat. Independents are leading in two seats. With 294 seats in Bengal, the magic figure to form the government in the state is 148. At Nandigram, however, Mamata was locked in a tight contest with the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari. As of 6.10pm, the Election Commission reported that she was trailing by over 9,500 votes. Earlier, there were reports that Mamata had won by 1,201 votes, although this was not officially confirmed by EC. But the Trinamul camp was always confident that Didi would ultimately prevail. Trinamul supporters could not march ahead to Mamata’s Harish Chatterjee Street residence _ it is heavily barricaded _ but chose to celebrate on nearby roads with green abir -- the party colours. In 2016, Trinamul had won 211 seats and by the end of the day on Synday, it could well reach closer to that figure.  In Asansol South, for example, the BJP’s lead after three rounds was a mere 600 votes. Likewise, the Congress was leading in Purulia’s Baghmundi by a similar margin after only two rounds. Trinamul is second in both the seats. In Mamata’s erstwhile constituency, her party nominee Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay is ahead of the BJP’s Rudranil Ghosh by nearly 3,000 votes. “We are coming back to power with a comfortable majority. I am confident our party leader will win too,” Chattopadhyay told newspersons. At Sitalkuchi, where five people were killed after Central forces opened fire on the day of voting, the BJP was leading with 32,734 votes. In the Trinamul stronghold of Murshidabad, the sitting Berhampore MLA, Manoj Chakraborty, is trailing behind the BJP nominee by over 13,000 votes after five rounds of counting. In Behala West, education minister Partha Chatterjee is leading by 6,824 votes. Other ministers in the incumbent government, Subrata Mukherjee, Aroop Biswas, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay and Sadhan Pande, are also leading in their constituencies. BJP’s national vice president Mukul Roy is leading in Krishnagar North by 8,235 votes. In Siliguri, the CPM veteran and sitting legislator Asok Bhattacharya is in the third position, behind Shankar Ghosh of the BJP and Trinamul’s Om Prakash Mishra. Similarly in Hooghly’s Chanditala, another CPM leader Mohammad Salim is trailing behind Swati Khondokar and Debashish Dasgupta, alias, Yash. JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh is in third position at Jamuria. In Bally, another prominent Left face is trailing behind Trinamul and BJP nominees. Three prominent BJP nominees, including two MPs Babul Supriyo and Locket Chatterjee, were trailing in Tollygunge and Chinsurah respectively, while the turncoat former minister in the Mamata government, Rajib Banerjee, was also trailing in Domjur. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is at her 30B Harish Chatterjee street monitoring the election trends and the Covid situation in the state. Seats: 294 Number of voters: 7.33 crore Voting: held over eight phases from March 27 to April 29 Incumbent: Trinamul Congress with 211 seats Majority mark: 147 In Bengal, chanting Hindu scriptures from the dais during an election campaign rally was unheard of. Yet in 2021, chief minister Mamata Banerjee ended all her campaign rallies and roadshows reciting shlokas. That’s what her principal rival, the mighty BJP, has managed to do to the chief of the ruling Trinamul Congress in what has been a hard-fought, no-holds-barred campaign. BJP inroads In 2019, the BJP bagged 18 of 42 Lok Sabha seats and thus gained a lead in 121 Assembly seats, just 27 short of the simple majority. Large-scale defections of Trinamul legislators to the saffron party including top leaders like Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee has put them closer to the seat of power in Bengal _ or so the BJP thinks _ provided it is able to build on the gains of 2019 and expand further. This is also the first time that a sizeable number of turncoats are contesting the polls on a BJP ------- how many approximately --- or Trinamul ticket --- how many. Welfare schemes The Trinamul Congress is banking on its welfare schemes to see it through for a third term. The Trinamul Congress says the Mamata Banerjee government has launched 70 welfare schemes, including Kanyashree (Rs 25,000 for a girl child who studies till Class XII) and Rupashree (a one-time payment of Rs. 25,000 during a girl’s marriage). After the 2019 Lok Sabha losses, the Trinamul Congress government launched several outreach programmes like Duarey Sarkar (government at the doorstop), Paray Paray Samadhan (resolving issues in the neighbourhood) and Swastha Sathi, a health insurance scheme where the medical card is handed over to the oldest woman member of the family. Religious polarisation Polarisation on religious lines was something that Bengal has managed to keep at abeyance in its post-partition political history. The undercurrents existed, but communal fears and scaremongering were not the tactics deployed by political parties. With the decline of the Left and the Congress, politics of polarization has taken root and both the BJP and the Trinamul Congress have indulged in it. Mamata Banerjee has wooed the Hindus by chanting shlokas and harping on her Brahmin roots, while at the same time she has kept the scare of the National Register of Citizens alive in Muslims to convey that only she could protect them. The State has a 27% minority population, according to the 2011 Census. On the other hand, the BJP has been vocal about implementing the Citizenship Amendment Act, a cause of fear for the Muslims, as seen in Assam. As for the Congress and the Left Front, which are fighting the elections in an alliance, they tied up with the Indian Secular Front launched by Furfura Sharif peer Abbas Siddique just before the elections. Identity politics Identity politics reared its head from 2006 onwards when land acquisition by the then Left Front government was seen as an attempt to hurt the farmers in parts of East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas, mostly Muslims. After the Trinamul Congress came to power, it began to woo other communities as well, like the Matuas, Hindu migrants from Bangladesh. The BJP has promised to implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act if it is voted to power, with the Matuas in mind. In the last 10 years, identity politics has been at the forefront of many of Mamata Banerjee’s development schemes, like the numerous boards that she has formed for residents of Darjeeling hills, the Gorkhas, Lepchas and others. Never before did the Bengal electorate go to vote keeping in mind the religious identity. Like in other parts of North India, the BJP and its whisper campaign of ‘Hindu khatre main hai’ has now become a part of the politics in Bengal too. Violent runup In the fourth phase of polling at Sitalkuchi Assembly segment number 5 in North Bengal’s Cooch Behar district, central forces opened fire, killing four people. The forces maintained that they fired in self-defence, a claim the Trinamul government rubbished. There are fears of violence after May 2, but according to a preliminary count, more than 20 people have lost their lives since the Model Code of Conduct came into force with more than 30 candidates attacked during the campaign. Poll issues Jobs, industry: The Trinamul Congress manifesto says it will provide a “minimum basic income” to 1.6 crore families, give financial assistance to farmers and in the next five years “uplift an additional 35 lakh people from extreme poverty.” The BJP promised development for a ‘sonar Bangla’, 33% reservation for women in government jobs and implementation of CAA. The Left manifesto harped on jobs and industry. CAA, NRC: The BJP’s push for the CAA and NRC has helped party keep the communal cauldron boiling. The treatment meted to Hindi Bengalis in the neighbouring state of Assam (where the BJP is in power) since the NRC came into effect has not cut much ice. The Muslims, about 27 per cent of the population, feeling threatened are holding on to Mamata, leaving even the traditional Congress vote depleted. Syndicate and corruption: Narendra Modi introduced “syndicate” into the national political lexicon this election season, referring to the organised system of controlling businesses and supplies in construction work that stated during the Left days and has found widespread patronage under Mamata in all spheres of life. Since 2014, the BJP has been talking about the Saradha scam and later the Narada sting operation but little action has been taken. Many of those accused in the two biggest corruption cases in Bengal are now in the BJP. Teacher recruitment: For seven years, youths who have qualified for teaching jobs after clearing the Teacher’s Eligibility Test have been waiting for appointments. In between, the results were quashed by Calcutta High Court for irregularities in the selection process. Amphan Cyclone relief: On May 20, 2020, super cyclone Amphan made landfall in Bengal. The state government announced a Rs 6.250crore relief package, with a house-building assistance of Rs 20,000 each to five lakh families. Villagers in many of the devastated blocks alleged, only those close to the ruling party at the panchayat level were compensated. Key candidates Chief minister Mamata Banerjee remains the biggest draw of the polls, contesting from the sensitive Nandigram, where the BJP has fielded her one-time aide Suvendu Adhikari. The BJP state president Dilip Ghosh is also contesting the polls, so is the party’s national vice-president and another turncoat Mukul Roy. Both the BJP and Trinamul have fielded a number of starlets, filmmakers, singers adding more glamour than substance to Bengal politics. The Left on the other hand has brought in a fresh perspective by giving tickets to its leaders from the various frontal organisations like the JNU students’ union president Aishe Ghosh, Dipsita Dhar, the joint secretary of the CPM’s students wing (both in their 20s), Minakshi Mukherjee, the state president of the CPM’s youth wing and others, along with veterans like former MPs Mohamamd Salim and Sujan Chakraborty. Campaign bytes Khela hobe (Game is on). Chief minister Mamata Banerjee Didi. O, Didi…  People of Bengal will not tolerate your syndicate raj. Cut money system. They want ‘Sonar Bangla”. Bengal doesn’t need Didi’s kushasan, it needs asol poriborton Prime Minister Narendra Modi However rough they play we will stop only after hitting the goal. Whatever needs to be done to form the government in 2021, we will do that Peerzada Abbas Siddiqui I am a pure cobra, can kill in one bite BJP leader and actor Mithun Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Abir traders facing severe losses ||An abir trader in Burdwan waits for customers on Saturday. Many abir traders in Bengal who had stocked up on green, saffron and red colours ahead of counting Sunday are facing severe losses as the Election Commission has restricted all victory processions amid the second wave of Covid-19. Usually, poll results mean a Holi-like situation on the streets of Bengal, with victory rallies and party workers smearing each other with colour. This time, celebrations will be low-key because of the curbs. Saurav Chandra, an abir trader in Bolpur town, said he had bought 100 quintals of abir, mainly green and saffron, for Rs 4 lakh, but has not sold even one quintal. “In the past elections, political parties would order abir, this time I received no order,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Hill traffic tweak on counting day||Traffic between Darjeeling and Siliguri, the two major towns in north Bengal, will be diverted on Sunday — the day of counting the votes of the Bengal Assembly polls. Police sources said all vehicles heading to Siliguri from Darjeeling would be diverted either through Mirik or Mungpoo from Ghoom-Jorebunglow area. People will have to take a detour of about an hour more than the usual routes. “The decision has been taken because the counting will take place at St. Alphonsus School which is along NH55 in Kurseong,” said an administrative source. Even if one passes the diversion point at Ghoom-Jorebunglow, the vehicles will have to take an alternative route from Dilaram and reach Kurseong through Bagora-Chimney route. Pankabari Road, which connects Siliguri with Kurseong, will completely be closed on Sunday. “People coming from Siliguri and heading towards Darjeeling can take Rohini Road for uphill travel but they will have to take the Bagora-Chimney route and bypass Kurseong town,” the source added. In Darjeeling, Lebong Cart Road will be closed from Darjeeling Motor Stand to the area near Darjeeling Zoo, because counting will be held at Darjeeling Government College. Vehicles plying between Darjeeling town and Lebong will be diverted via Birch Hill Road, said an official. Even though traffic between Darjeeling and Kurseong is relatively heavy, officials are hopeful that people would not venture out unnecessarily on counting day. The Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) has decided to keep all their party offices closed on Sunday. Even their leaders have decided to stay indoors. The Anit Thapa camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has also appealed to its supporters not to throng the streets on counting day. “I appeal to all to remain indoors on Sunday,” said Thapa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||CBI to question Bengal’s director of security Gyanwant Singh in coal case||The CBI has summoned Gyanwant Singh, Bengal’s director of security, for questioning in connection with the central agency’s probe into the multi-crore coal smuggling case. Singh, a 1993-batch IPS officer, was the in-charge of the state’s law and order till March before the Election Commission of India posted him as the officer-in-charge of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s security after the Nandigram incident when she was injured. Singh, who replaced Vivek Sahay, another senior IPS officer, as Mamata’s security in-charge, has been asked to appear before a team of CBI officers on May 4. Senior officials in the central agency said as the man in charge of the state’s law and order Singh would be questioned about whether he was aware of the alleged involvement of a section of police officers in the pilferage of coal across parts of Birbhum, West Burdwan, Purulia and Bankura districts and if he had initiated any action. “Since this smuggling of coal spanned allegedly across several districts of Bengal, we would like to know from him if he had any information about this pilferage,” said a senior CBI officer. The central agency has already questioned a clutch of IPS officers and other police officers in connection with its probe into this case. The Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is also probing the coal smuggling, has arrested Ashok Mishra, the officer-in-charge of Bankura police station, in connection with the case. Senior CBI officers said statements of each of the police officers who have been questioned so far have been recorded and Singh’s responses would be crosschecked with them. Singh was appointed the additional director-general of police in charge of Bengal’s law and order in May 2019. A section of senior CBI officers claimed the pilferage of coal had increased across parts of the state’s western range where the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) runs several coal mines. One of the two prime accused in the multi-crore coal pilferage case — Trinamul youth leader Vinay Mishra — is absconding. The other accused Anup Majhi alias Lala has faced several rounds of CBI interrogation. He had got immunity from arrest from the Supreme Court. “The post of ADG in-charge of law and order is one of the key police postings in Bengal and Singh’s responses will be very crucial in this case,” said a senior CBI officer. Several senior IPS officers in the state police directorate said Singh was likely to be reinstated as the IPS officer in-charge of the state’s law and order if Trinamul returned to power. The BJP has been alleging that several thousands of crores minted from the sale of this pilfered coal was routed through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021 | Wish list: Jobs, investment and health care||Voting over, all eyes are now on counting on Sunday for the big reveal. Waiting with bated breath for results are a group of five Siliguri youths, including two first-time voters, who are hoping their votes make a difference in one of the most bitterly contested and high-profile state elections in recent times, that too amid the second wave of the pandemic. Twin brothers Sourav and Gourav Sikdar, a BBA graduate and an engineering student, respectively, and both aged 19, Subham Pal Choudhury, 23, and an employee in a private bank, Sanjay Choudhury, 26, who runs a business and Dipannita Sikdar, 23, a postgraduate student of zoology, spoke animatedly over cups of tea on their concerns and their hopes from the new government. The Telegraph tuned in Sourav: Voting for the first time was a completely new experience. It feels nice to feel my vote would help elect a government. Gourav (laughs): I was a bit nervous but eventually, all went well. Those at the booth were very helpful. Dipannita: Good. But at times, I wonder if those we elect really think of what we, the youths, want from them. Like in Bengal, job opportunities, both in government and private sectors, are lacking for years now. Subham: No, not entirely true…. Many private companies in financial and IT sectors have come up. Also, jobs are available in MSME units. In north Bengal, the tourism industry has flourished in thepast one decade with many new jobs. Sanjay: But what we need is major industrial investments…. Only the MSMEs and service sector won’t do. That is why thousands of qualified youths leave Bengal. Dipannita (sips tea): Obviously, employment is the most important issue on our minds. We hope first-time voters like Gourav and Sourav have voted logically. Sourav: True. What worries us in these days that even after an MBA or a BTech degree, the chances of getting good placements in Bengal is tough. One has to move out…. Recruiters don’t look beyond certain top-level engineering colleges in Bengal. Subham: Another issue that hits young earners like us are rising fuel prices. Also, household expenses have increased because of rise in prices of essential commodities, right from grocery items to LPG. The BJP in power at the Centre is silent on these issues and often passes the buck to the states. This is just not done. Sanjay: I believe the new government in Bengal should also draw up a comprehensive plan to develop health infrastructure… keeping in mind the steady spike in Covid-19 cases. In our city (Siliguri) alone, we are having 250 to 300 cases a day and over 10 deaths. We need a much more robust infrastructure to handle the situation. Gourav: Right you are. At this point of time, the first priority of the state government should be Covid. In the state, around 17,000 people are getting infected in a day, and in Calcutta and adjoining places, we can perceive the shortage in beds and oxygen supply. Setting up oxygen plants should be done on a war footing. Dipannita: We cannot afford to have yet another complete lockdown. We have seen the consequences of last year’s lockdown when millions lost their jobs. Subham: I also feel that the state needs to draw up a proper plan for social welfare schemes….. a lot of government money is spent for such schemes, but some are extended to an economic class which doesn’t need them. I have seen families where students ride scooters but have received free bicycles and have sold those… Also, no point in giving free health insurance to affluent families. Sourav: Another pertinent issue on which we believe the new government should work is drafting a proper land policy to attract private investments. Sanjay (nods): Yes. There had been major infrastructure development…but a clear policy on land usage is necessary. Also, equally important is the law and order situation…..we are far better off than a number of other states and it can help us. Dipannita: This time, widespread violence could be averted during the elections,  but there have been deaths. This must stop. Gourav: Also, peace and amity should be preserved in Bengal. People here have never encouraged radicalism and polarisation. We need to stay together and work for Bengal. Sourav: Agreed. Let’s hope the new government works for all, and responsibly, given the pandemic…. Sanjay: I will be glued to the television throughout Sunday for results. Dipannita: All we want is, whoever comes to power, should work for all, keeping in focus the young generation that needs education and jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP leader held for gun attack on colleague in Malda||The police in Malda  arrested a BJP leader on Friday night in connection with the April 18 attack on Gopal Chandra Saha, the BJP candidate of the Maldaha Assembly constituency who survived a bullet wound. The arrest of Nitai Mandal, who is the president of the BJP’s rural area committee in Old Malda, has come against the backdrop of claims that the firing at Saha, who is also the district general secretary of the BJP, was the fallout of acute infighting. On April 18 evening, while Saha was returning from a campaign, he was shot at, and the bullet hit his neck. He had to undergo a surgery and is recuperating. His family members had filed a complaint with the police, prompting a probe. Initially, a section of BJP leaders, including party’s state general secretary Sayantan Basu, had accused Trinamul of the attack. Trinamul, however, had denied the charges and have pointed to infighting within the saffron camp. As policemen continued their investigation into the case, they arrested seven persons a week after the incident. “During a thorough interrogation by our officers, these people spilled the beans. We got some vital information based on which Nitai Mandal has been arrested,” said Alok Rajoria, the district police chief of Malda. The police have also come to know that after Saha’s name was announced as Maldaha’s candidate, there had been much anger and prolonged demonstrations by many BJP workers. “Nitai Mandal and his associates were behind these protests. We need to find out whether the attack was organised because Gopal Chandra Saha was made the candidate or there is some other motive,” said a police officer. Mandal’s family members, however, claimed that he has been the victim of a conspiracy. The arrest has left the district BJP leaders red-faced. None of them was ready to make any comment on the issue. Trinamul leaders, however, have reacted to it. “These BJP leaders were blaming us for the attack on their candidate. Now, it has been proved that it is a consequence of their own feud within the party. The truth has been revealed,” said Jahar Ghosh, a Trinamul leader of Old Malda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Oxygen for Delhi from Bengal||The SAIL-run Durgapur Steel Plant on Saturday dispatched 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in six containers to Delhi via rail route, against the backdrop of Mamata Banerjee’s allegation that the Centre was diverting Bengal’s supply to other states. The railways for the first time created a green corridor between Durgapur and Delhi — a distance of about 1,400km — for faster movement of the “Oxygen Express” to the capital that is reeling from a shortage. Railway officials at the Asansol divisional headquarters said the train left Durgapur around 2pm and was expected to reach Delhi within 24 hours. The Bengal chief minister had told a media conference in Durgapur last week that the Centre was behaving in a “step-motherly” fashion towards the state even in the midst of a pandemic. “The Centre suddenly stopped our supply chain of oxygen cylinders and asked SAIL to send them to Uttar Pradesh (and other) BJP-ruled states. (This is) yet another instance of step-motherly treatment. I have strongly objected to this and have written to the Prime Minister,” Mamata had said. Bengal, like many other states, is witnessing an acute crisis of oxygen cylinders, which are in high demand because a large number of people are being treated in home isolation. Mamata had said earlier that the state had around 20,000 oxygen cylinders. “We are in the process of arranging 5,000 more,” she had said in Durgapur last week. Officials said there were concerns that with the allotted 223 tonnes of oxygen, the state might not be able to manage the situation as infections were rising sharply. “We have requested (the Centre) if we could be allowed to use oxygen produced in our state as we fear we would require more than 450 tonnes of oxygen over the next few days,” said a source. A source in SAIL said: “Around 2,200 tonnes of LMO (liquid medical oxygen) have been supplied through our two units — the Durgapur Steel Plant and the IISCO Steel Plant in Burnpur — to Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra in April when the crisis of oxygen started because of the second wave of the pandemic.” Sources at Durgapur Steel Plant said the unit itself had previously dispatched 6,686 tonnes of LMO to various states, including Bengal, since August last year, but the supply was suddenly paused last month. Sources in SAIL said that they had enhanced production to more than 900 tonnes per day. “We have received an order from the ministry asking us to enhance production and dispatch LMO on a priority basis. We are doing the job to the best of our abilities,” said a spokesperson for Durgapur Steel Plant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
02-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal hospitals to vaccinate those under 45 years only after more stocks arrive||Bengal’s currently vaccine-less private hospitals will inoculate only those above 45 years in the initial days after stocks arrive and the jabs resume there, and will wait till more doses are available before vaccinating people aged between 18 and 45, private hospital executives have said. Sources at government hospitals and corporation clinics, which are continuing to vaccinate those aged 45 and above, too said they were unsure when the jabs would start for the younger group at their facilities. Private hospital executives, who met Bengal health department officials on Saturday, said the state government had promised to tell them within “two to three days” when Covid vaccines may become available for their facilities. “We are yet not sure when we would be able to begin vaccination again,” a private hospital executive said. “After we get the initial stocks, we will be vaccinating only those aged 45 or above. People aged between 18 and 45 will be vaccinated only when enough stocks are available.” He said that among people aged 45 and above, those scheduled to get their second dose will be given priority. All private healthcare facilities have frozen vaccinations indefinitely from Saturday as they have no vaccine stocks left, having had to return to the Centre all their unused doses on Friday evening. This is because the Centre has started a new regime from Saturday under which private hospitals have to buy their vaccines directly from the manufacturers, who have raised the prices. Till April 30, the Centre provided vaccines to the state governments, which handed a portion of the consignment to private facilities. Several private hospitals say the manufactures have either been silent about when they might be able to supply to the private facilities, or quoted dates as late as July. Many private hospitals want the state government to procure vaccines on their behalf from the manufacturers. An official from a private hospital said: “No private hospital will open the booking through Co-Win for under-45 adults until the state government says that enough vaccine stocks will be available.” He said this meant that those among the under-45 who have registered themselves with Co-Win for vaccination will not be able to book slots for the jabs now. The Centre has ruled out spot registration for adults aged below 45: only those among them who have registered themselves with Co-Win and booked slots with a particular hospital will get the jabs. Govt hospitals The vaccination of people aged 45 and above will continue at government hospitals and Calcutta Municipal Corporation clinics on Monday. Most government facilities, which vaccinated the 45-plus on Saturday, will halt the jabs on Sunday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that vaccination for those aged between 18 and 45 would begin in Bengal from May 5. However, doctors managing the vaccination programme at two government hospitals said they had not yet received any official communication from the state health department on when inoculation for this younger group would begin. “We have been asked to wait for further instructions,” a doctor at a government hospital said. At Saturday’s meeting, executives from several private hospitals revealed to government officials their difficulties in procuring vaccines. “Officials from several private hospitals said the Serum Institute of India had told them it would not be able to supply vaccines to private healthcare facilities before July while Bharat Biotech had not responded to queries,” a private hospital executive said. The Serum Institute makes Covishield while Bharat Biotech manufactures Covaxin. The state government officials told the private hospital representatives to place their demand for vaccines in a format that the administration would prepare and share with the hospitals. “We have also been told to mention in the format whether we want to procure the vaccines from the manufacturers or from the state government,” an official said. Several private hospitals on Saturday repeated their request that the state health department procure vaccines from the manufacturers on their behalf. The state has written to the Centre asking if it can do so. From Saturday, Serum’s price per dose is Rs 150 for the Centre, Rs 300 for the state governments and Rs 600 for private hospitals. Bharat Biotech’s rates are Rs 150, Rs 400 and Rs 1,200, respectively. Several private hospital executives said they did not expect any progress on vaccine procurement till the announcement of the Assembly election results on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-81
