03-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata appeals for peace as violence rocks Bengal, will move court on 'Nandigram plot' ||Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee appealed for peace on Monday after Bengal erupted in violence with reports pouring in about attacks on BJP followers and even Red Volunteers working for Covid relief. “Bengal loves peace and culture. Elections are over now. Sometimes it becomes very heated. There is also no denying that BJP and the central forces committed atrocities. I will request all to stay peaceful,” Mamata said on Monday from  her Kalighat residence. As per final results of the Assembly elections held for 292 of 294 seats, Trinamul has won 213 seats, two more than 2016; while the BJP has bagged 77. The two remaining seats were won by an Indian Secular Front candidate and an Independent. In 2016, Trinamul won 211 seats and then engineered largescale defections from the Congress. Despite the overwhelming victory, Mamata herself lost in Nandigram to the BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, her one-time close aide, by 1,956 votes. On Monday, Mamata alleged that a returning officer was threatened at gun point to not order a repoll. “I have received an SMS where a returning officer is pleading for his life… From 8,000 votes suddenly it went to zero. For hours the server was down. I know EVMs were changed. Forty minutes there was power cut in the counting centre. We will investigate all of this, we will go to court,” she said. Despite Mamata’s appeals for peace and directives against holding victory processions beacuse of the second wave of the pandemic, the picture emerging from various parts of the state tell a different story. In Calcutta’s Beliaghata, a BJP supporter, Abhijit Sarkar,  was allegedly beaten to death by Trinamul supporters. Party offices of both the BJP and the CPM, which has zero representation in the state Assembly, came under attack. In Kadambagachhi, an Indian Secular Front worker identified as Hasanur Jaman died after being hit by bombs. In a series of tweets, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said nine persons had lost their lives in post-poll political violence and the situation was alarming. “Perturbed and worried at several reports of violence, arson and killings from various parts of State. Party offices, houses and shops being attacked. Situation alarming,” tweeted the Governor. He also had a meeting with the heads of Bengal and Calcutta police. Mamata Banerjee will call on the Governor at 7pm where post-poll violence is likely to come up during discussions. “Such political violence and lawlessness cannot be overlooked as this taints essence of democratic fabric. Call upon people to maintain calm and peace and promote harmony,” Dhankhar also tweeted. BJP workers and offices came under attack in Balurghat’s Kismatdapat, Nandigram, Pirtala in East Burdwan,  among other places. “Six of our party workers have been killed in post-result violence. Offices have been ransacked, houses and vehicles attacked. Law and order is the chief minister’s responsibility. If the CM doesn’t take responsibility, who will?” asked Dilip Ghosh, the state BJP chief. Mamata claimed that her party supporters too were killed in Burdwan and had been attacked in Cooch Behar. “BJP is still committing excesses,” Mamata said. Mamata is likely to take oath as chief minister on Wednesday, while her party MLAs will be sworn-in later in the week. The list of cabinet and state ministers will be decided later by Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021:BJP wins two hill seats, Binay Tamang camp one||Of the three hill seats, the BJP won the Darjeeling and Kurseong Assembly constituencies while the Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha —Trinamul’s ally — won the Kalimpong seat. Neeraj Zimba, GNLF leader and BJP Darjeeling MLA, retained his seat. The BJP’s B.P. Bajgain won from Kurseong. Ruden Sada Lepcha of the Tamang-Thapa camp of the Morcha, won from Kalimpong. The rival Morcha faction led by Bimal Gurung, also Trinamul’s ally, drew a blank. Gurung’s candidates were relegated to the third spot in all three hill seats. But with Trinamul’s hat-trick in Bengal, Zimba admitted his was “a half-hearted win”. In this show of strength before Trinamul, the Tamang- Thapa camp edged ahead of Gurung by winning the Kalimpong seat and coming second in Darjeeling and Kurseong. All Trinamul candidates in the constituencies of the Dooars and Terai — where Gurung campaigned — also lost to the BJP this time. The Tamang-Thapa camp polled around 1.55 lakh votes against Bimal Gurung’s 1 lakh-odd votes in the hills. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Tamang-Thapa camp had secured about 20 per cent of the hill votes while the BJP-GNLF-Bimal Gurung camp had polled more than 70 per cent. Gurung dumped the BJP last October to join hands with Trinamul, even as both Morcha factions continued to be bitter rivals. However, this time the Tamang-Thapa camp not only increased their vote share but also managed to win a seat on their own strength for the first time. “We are happy with our results as our main competition is with Gurung’s faction in the hills. We defeated him and his political career is at stake now,” said Thapa. Much was at stake for the Tamang-Thapa faction. The faction had lost two back-to-back elections in 2019, the Darjeeling Lok Sabha elections and the Assembly bypoll. Perhaps aware that his political career was at stake, Gurung on Sunday asked his cadre base to go back to the people and revive the organisation. “We came back after (being on the run) for three-and-half years and we probably could not reach out to all. I appeal to our cadres to reach out to the people. I, too, would be reaching out to the grassroots,” said Gurung after his faction’s defeat. Gurung had dumped his ally, the BJP, last year in October and joined hands with Trinamul to resurface in the hills. However, members of his faction evinced confidence that the faction would perform well in the local polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata leads Trinamul towards electoral victory||Mamata Banerjee plus the rest of Bengal have vanquished Narendra Modi plus Amit Shah plus the Election Commission plus communalism. At 11.30pm on Sunday, the Trinamul Congress was ahead in 213 seats and the BJP in 77. One Independent won and a party with influence among minorities was leading, accounting for the 292 seats in which polling was held. Trinamul looked on course to clock a 48 per cent share of the votes polled, a clear 10 percentage points ahead of the BJP. The sole stumble in the Trinamul dream run was Mamata’s loss to Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram by 1,956 votes. A formal announcement on the outcome was delayed after Trinamul made a request for a recount. The Election Commission eventually announced the result in favour of Adhikari late on Sunday night. The loss need not stand in the way of Mamata being sworn in as chief minister for the third time. However, she will have to win from an Assembly seat in six months. “Victory of Bengal people, victory of the country, victory of democracy,” Mamata said, flashing a victory sign, in her first reaction after emerging from her room at 30B Harish Chatterjee Street on one of the most astonishing days in the tumultuous history of Bengal, if not national, politics. “I salute the people of Nandigram for their verdict,” Mamata said during the 10-minute media interaction in the evening. “I bow my head in front of the people of Bengal for giving us this landslide victory,” she added, before setting out for the Kalighat temple, where she offered puja, having led her party to a spectacular victory after one of the most daunting electoral battles in the country. “Bengal saved India today,” Mamata had said at the interaction, underscoring the significance of the Trinamul victory for Opposition parties elsewhere in the country that are grappling with the question of how to halt what till the other day looked like an unstoppable juggernaut powered by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Several factors appeared to have made a decisive difference this time. ⚫Mamata held her nerve against a vicious campaign, aided and abetted by sections of the visual media, that she was appeasing Muslims. She discharged her constitutional responsibility by pledging to protect everyone. The upshot: Muslims in most parts of Bengal appeared to have rallied behind Trinamul and refused to be swayed by other organisations eager to represent the community. The BJP’s Hindu-Muslim game backfired, with Trinamul bagging 37 of the 47 seats in Murshidabad, Malda, North and South Dinajpur, all with 40 per cent Muslim voters (polling will take place in two Murshidabad seats later). Traditional fiefs of the Congress and the Left, these four districts had never before rewarded Trinamul in elections. ⚫ But the scale of Trinamul’s triumph means that no single community could have helped the party pull it off. The Trinamul performance shredded the claim that minority consolidation was solely responsible for the party achieving critical mass. Trinamul did well in several Hindu-majority areas in Bankura, Jhargram, Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghly and the urban areas of North and South 24-Parganas. ⚫ The X-factor this time were the state’s women, who appeared to have dumped the BJP. While the Bengal government’s schemes for women — such as Swasthya Sathi – yielded dividends, many women were outraged each time Modi dipped his tongue in acid and rolled off the “Didi O Didi” taunt at rallies. In Siliguri, two homemakers who were stuck in a market because of a road show by Shah last month, had told this correspondent that they could not digest BJP leaders’ jeering of Mamata. “We are Bengali women and we have dignity…. These people don’t know our culture; they come from outside and insult us,” was the gist of what the two women said after refusing for over 15 minutes to comment on anything related to politics. The women said they were not supporters of any political party and their poll preferences varied each year. But their answer suggested that they would vote for Mamata as they believed in her narrative that the “outsider BJP leaders” were bringing an alien culture into the state. The BJP guest speakers’ insistence on speaking in Hindi without a translator amplified the outsider image. The BJP tried its best to contest Mamata’s Bengali-versus-outsider stand and accused her of catering to provincialism to win votes. Mamata made a quick course correction, telling her rallies that the state was for everyone — irrespective of their religious or linguistic identities — and clarified that her problem was primarily with outsiders coming to the state in the poll season to foment trouble. The poll results indicate that a significant portion of the state’s non-Bengali-speaking population — around 75 lakh — understood Mamata’s logic and felt they were safe under a regional party. Riddhima Pareek, a young company secretary and resident of Howrah, said she had voted for Trinamul because she felt safe in Mamata’s Bengal. “I go around freely using public transport in Calcutta…. I have returned home from my central Calcutta office after midnight without any hassles. I feel women are safe in Didi’s Bengal and so I voted for her party,” Pareek, whose family hails from Rajasthan, said. “I’m happy that Didi is back,” she added. Modi’s mismanagement of the second wave of Covid also took a heavy toll. Trinamul won over 90 of the 114 seats that went to the polls in the last three phases when the pandemic’s traumatic impact had become all too apparent. The odds had been stacked heavily against Mamata, who faced an onslaught from multiple flanks. First, the Election Commission of India announced an eight-phase election, which was seen as an attempt to allow a prolonged period of high-pitched, chest-thumping campaign by Modi and his cabinet colleagues across Bengal. As the BJP vowed to make its Mission Bengal a success, it deployed unprecedented resources in the run-up to the election to engineer defections from the Trinamul leaders. During the election process, scores of Trinamul leaders were summoned by multiple central agencies in various corruption cases, some up to a decade old. Senior BJP leaders made all-out attempts to polarise Bengal voters along religious lines by accusing Mamata of appeasing Muslims. Finally, sections of the media helped generate an impression that the ruling party was collapsing like a pack of cards and facing a rout. The multi-pronged assault began in December with commentators writing Mamata off in the face of a slew of defections -- led by Adhikari - but she took the challenge head on by deciding to contest from his backyard in Nandigram. Sources close to Mamata said she smelt a conspiracy by the BJP in the Nandigram outcome. “The BJP hatched a huge conspiracy to defeat her in Nandigram on the expectation that the Trinamul tally won’t cross 160.… Their plan was to engineer defections in Trinamul after the uncertainty following Didi’s loss,” a source said. Mamata, the source claimed, got wind of the game plan a few days ago and deputed four of her trusted lieutenants to four districts to ensure that the BJP did not succeed in any defection drive. “All the conspiracies would be out shortly and we would move court,” the source said. Although the battle for Nandigram went against her, that one decision to place herself at the forefront of the battleground in East Midnapore gave the Trinamul ranks the adrenaline rush they needed to take on the BJP in 35 seats in the two Midnapores and Jhargram. The election results have proved that Adhikari, who had referred to Mamata as “Begum” and an aunt of the Rohingya, is nothing but a paper tiger in the region, with Trinamul bagging 28 seats in what was once undivided Midnapore. “I had taken the decision all of a sudden while addressing a rally at Nandigram on January 19…. Abhishek (Banerjee) had reacted to my decision saying I was too impulsive, but I thought that it was the best decision for the party,” Mamata had told this correspondent during an informal interaction a few days after the announcement. The audacious decision not only helped Mamata pitchfork Trinamul back into the battle in the three districts but also galvanised the party across Bengal, especially in Bankura, Purulia and central Bengal districts like Hooghly, East Burdwan, West Burdwan and Birbhum. Of the 75 seats in these districts, Trinamul won 52, surprising even party insiders. In her brief public appearance after the victory, Mamata thanked all sections of society, especially women and people from the minority communities, and pledged to continue working for the people. As the next big election is still three years away, Mamata has time on her hand to deliver on the promises she has made in her manifesto. In her close circles, she had indicated she would form a new team – in both party and government – for the future. Mamata’ new term will have to be markedly different -- in terms of delivering on governance and dealing with corruption at high places --- from the last two terms if she wants to respect the mandate and keep the BJP at bay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee loses from Nandigram||Neck and neck. Cliff-hanger. Seesaw. The clichés flew as most of Bengal remained glued to TV sets through Sunday, watching Nandigram swing this way and that, now poised to hand the BJP the bragging rights and the next moment appearing to script sweet vindication for Mamata Banerjee. Late in the night, the Election Commission announced BJP candidate and Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari as the winner over his former mentor by 1,956 votes, or just over 0.85 per cent of the 2.28 lakh ballots cast. Trinamul, which suspects hanky-panky, had formally sought a recount before the result was announced. The chief minister also hinted at a possible court case. However, handed the rest of Bengal with a decisive mandate, Mamata seemed not too bothered by the possibility of an embarrassment at the hands of her former protégé, and at the theatre of her rise to power a decade ago. “Accepting the verdict of the people of Nandigram. I salute the people there. It’s another thing that votes were looted there. We might move court,” she told the media. Mamata, set for a third term as chief minister with a two-thirds majority, added: “I’m not worried about the Nandigram outcome. The victory of Bengal has saved the entire nation.” If sworn in as chief minister, as is likely, Mamata has to win a by-election within six months. That should hardly prove an obstacle and she might well consider contesting from Khardah, which Trinamul candidate Kajal Sinha won before dying of Covid. The BJP, though, tried to squeeze every bit of mileage out of the Nandigram result. BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya tweeted: “This is BIG. Mamata Banerjee, the sitting Chief Minister, loses Nandigram. BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari wins….” He went on: “After this crushing defeat what moral authority will Mamata Banerjee have to retain her Chief Ministership? Her defeat is a taint on TMC’s victory.” Since morning, Mamata had been trailing. Leading from the first round of counting, Adhikari was ahead by 17,379 votes at the end of the 10th of 17 rounds. It was early afternoon. But the chief minister began clawing back from the 11th round, and except for a setback in the 12th, chipped away at the deficit. When the 16th round ended, she led by 820 votes. This was when some reports mistakenly declared her the winner by 1,200 votes, although one round of counting remained. The district administration later attributed the lapse to a coordination gap and a server glitch while the BJP alleged malpractice to aid Mamata. That one remaining round apparently dragged for three hours, for it was 8pm when Adhikari was formally announced victorious from a constituency whose 68,000 Muslims made up a little over 26 per cent of an electorate of 2.57 lakh. Among the votes counted in the last round were those cast in Sonachura, fulcrum of the land movement that had catapulted Mamata to power in 2011 but which had witnessed a vicious and polarising campaign by Adhikari against her. “Hindu-majority Sonachura, which Suvendu had intensely polarised, proved the clincher,” a senior Trinamul leader said. “Outside Nandigram, the polarisation bid did not work for the BJP almost anywhere, with Bengal’s Hindus slamming the door on Hindutva. But in Nandigram, it seemed to pay off for them.” He added: “Also, she (Mamata) did not secure good enough leads from Garchakraberia, Kendemari, Satengabari, Muhammadpur and Shamsabad, where minorities make up 70-80 per cent of the population. That made things worse.” While Adhikari polled 48.49 per cent of the votes, Mamata secured 47.64 per cent and the Left’s Minakshi Mukherjee, 2.74 per cent. “A lot of irregularities marred the counting, and things got very fishy during the final round,” said Trinamul leader Abu Taher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls 2021: Bray of Bengal||Narendra Modi ⚫ But Didi, write it down, their (SC, ST and OBCs) affection for Modi will never decrease. ⚫ We all saw what happened in Nandigram some time back. It shows that Didi has accepted defeat. It shows that a BJP government will be formed in Bengal. ⚫ When Bengal’s BJP chief minister, Bengal’s BJP government will take oath, I will surely attend that ceremony ⚫ … Even Muslims who voted her to power have lost confidence in her and have moved away. This indicates that she is losing the elections. ⚫ We will… succeed in bagging over 200 seats ⚫ Didi got very demoralised after the fifth phase of polls (180 seats). What is the reason? After the five phases it has become definite that the BJP is much ahead of Didi with more than 122 seats. ⚫ This panic and sudden outburst against institutions or the forces say she is sensing defeat. ⚫ I hope Didi’s injured leg gets healed soon so that she is able to walk when she submits her resignation to the governor after May 2. (in The Telegraph on April 30) ⚫ The BJP’s two main campaigners did not deviate from combining a searing critique of (Mamata) Banerjee’s governance record with concrete promises that would accrue both immediately and in the long run…. The chief minister seemed disoriented and this was in sharp contrast with the grandeur of Modi and the combativeness of Shah. ⚫ For 30 years, the communists ruled, and then came the TMC that ruled for 10 years, now the people want development and in places where we are campaigning, every district, every town has blessed the BJP with their votes. ⚫ Where has the Prime Minister said one word against her? When did calling someone Didi become a cat call? Many journalists call me Didi because that is the way we talk to people. The Prime Minister has not used any foul language. ⚫ The people of Bengal have decided that it is time for Didi’s game to be over. The people want ‘TMC bhagao, BJP lao, Bangla bachao’. Neither will I congratulate Mamata Banerjee for her win in Bengal nor do I wish to say that I ‘respect’ the people’s verdict, because I sincerely think that people of Bengal made a Historic mistake by not giving BJP a chance & by electing this Corrupt, Incapable, Dishonest Government & a Cruel Lady back to power!! Yes, as a Law-Abiding citizen, I shall ‘obey’ the decision taken by the people in a democratic country.. That’s it !! Nothing more — Nothing less!! -Babul Supriyo on Facebook on Sunday evening||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP shocked by defeat of Modi-Shah||The resounding defeat of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah brand of politics in Bengal has come as a shock to the BJP amid signs of discontent within some party lobbies. Although most BJP leaders chose silence, a few old-timers privately blamed the Modi-Shah duo and seemed to betray a sense of relief, interpreting the verdict as a blow to the arrogance at the top. “The BJP has performed very well in Bengal. It’s Modi-Shah’s politics that has been defeated,” a party veteran told The Telegraph. Several veterans warned of similar poll results in the future if the party persisted with its current brand of politics. Led by Prime Minister Modi and home minister Shah, BJP campaigners had unashamedly spoken the language of polarisation. Many had deemed elements of the Prime Minister’s taunting of Mamata Banerjee as socially inappropriate. Some questioned the BJP’s present policy of using the “Modi-Shah model” in every state. “Why is Modi the mascot in all state elections and Shah the chief strategist?” an old-timer asked. Modi, accused of focusing on the Bengal polls at the cost of Covid preparations, appeared so deeply occupied on Sunday with meetings to ramp up oxygen supplies that he seemed to find no time to comment on the election results till evening. When he did break his silence, he congratulated Mamata but chose to put a spin on the drubbing in Bengal, portraying it as marking the BJP’s rise from a “negligible presence” in Bengal. While the BJP tally has jumped from its 2016 score of 3 seats, it has fallen far below the 121 Assembly segments it had led from in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Bengal. Before Sunday’s results, Modi and other BJP campaigners had claimed their party would win more than 200 of the state’s 294 seats. “Congratulations to Mamata Didi for @AITCofficial’s win in West Bengal. The Centre will continue to extend all possible support to the West Bengal government...,” Modi tweeted. “I would like to thank my sisters and brothers from West Bengal who have blessed our party. From a negligible presence earlier, the BJP’s presence has significantly increased.” After Modi, Shah too broke his silence and posted tweets in Hindi and Bengali accepting the verdict. He didn’t congratulate Mamata, restricting himself to celebrating the BJP’s emergence as a “strong Opposition”. Party veteran and defence minister Rajnath Singh was among the first to congratulate Mamata and convey his “best wishes”, prompting some to sniff a hint of defiance. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted her congratulations to “didi” a while later. BJP leaders normally wait for Modi to speak first on such occasions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Candidates who defected to BJP prove to be giant-slayers||At a time turncoats lost in most parts of Bengal, north Bengal saw a sharp contrast with many candidates who defected to the BJP proving to be giant-slayers. Veteran CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya, a six-time MLA and a former state minister from Siliguri, faced defeat from Shankar Ghosh, his former protégé who joined the BJP a few weeks before the polls. Trinamul leaders who were ministers in Mamata Banerjee’s outgoing cabinet, Gautam Deb and Rabindranath Ghosh, also lost from Dabgram-Fulbari and Natabari, respectively. Deb lost to Shikha Chatterjee, a BJP leader who deserted Trinamul in 2018. Ghosh conceded defeat to his former party colleague Mihir Goswami who joined the BJP last year. Krishna Kalyani, the BJP candidate of Raiganj who left Trinamul a few weeks back, defeated Mohit Sengupta, the most prominent Congress leader of North Dinajpur. Over 140 turncoats, including Mamata’s erstwhile cabinet ministers Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee, were fielded by the BJP across the state this time, sources said. “In south Bengal, most turncoats lost. In north Bengal, it was interesting that many turncoats defeated heavyweights. But each prominent face lost for a different reason,” said a political observer. In Siliguri and Raiganj, he said, anti-incumbency worked against Bhattacharya and Sengupta. “Deb because many voters swung to the BJP over the lack of Trinamul’s micro-level political activities. He tried his best to reach out to people during his campaign, but it did not work. Ghosh lost over organisational weakness and party feuds,” admitted a Trinamul insider. Chatterjee, who defeated Deb, said people were angry with Trinamul over land irregularities in Dabgram-Fulbari. Ghosh, who defeated Bhattacharya, said: “During my campaign, I could clearly perceive that people of Siliguri wanted a change.” Bhattacharya, who finished third after Trinamul’s Omprakash Mishra, said he was quitting elections. “We have to accept the verdict. I have decided to stay away from electoral politics and work as a common party worker,” he said. Sengupta, widely considered the last man standing in the Congress in North Dinajpur, appeared baffled: “Voters got polarised but truly I am yet to know why I came third.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Eleven districts pave way for Trinamul landslide||Fifteen of Bengal’s 23 districts handsomely rewarded Mamata Banerjee, helping her trounce the BJP. But what appeared to have ensured the decimation of the saffron challenge were the 165 seats which Trinamul is poised to win out of a possible 190 in 11 of the south Bengal districts. The Trinamul Congress chief, whose third consecutive term as the chief minister was ensured on Sunday irrespective of the Nandigram outcome, rode what appeared to be a wave in her favour and against the alleged bohiragawto (outsider) in North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah, East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Jhargram, East Burdwan, Birbhum, Murshidabad and Calcutta. Between them, these 11 districts had 190 seats (only 20 out of 22 in Murshidabad went to polls, owing to candidates in two seats succumbing to Covid-19) in the fray, in which Trinamul appeared all set to emerge with a strike rate of nearly 87 per cent. “These 11 districts gave us around 77 per cent of the 215-odd seats we are likely to win at the end. Not even in our most optimistic estimates had we factored in such performances from many of these districts…. It was clearly a firm stand people took in favour of Didi (Mamata), to keep the BJP out,” said a senior Trinamul leader, unwilling to go on record as Mamata herself had spoken. In the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, Trinamul had a lead in 142 of those seats. In the key 75-seat cluster of Calcutta, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas, Trinamul was poised to win 67. Across the river, in the Hooghly-Howrah cluster, Trinamul was leading in 30 of 34 seats. Similarly, in the erstwhile undivided Midnapore’s 34-seat cluster of Jhargram, East Midnapore and West Midnapore, Mamata’s party appeared set to win 28. In East Burdwan, Trinamul was leading in 13 of 16 seats. Out of Birbhum’s 11, Trinamul was leading in 10. Finally, in the crucial district of Murshidabad, out of the 20 seats that went to the polls, Trinamul was set to win 17. “What is extremely important to remember is the unlikelihood of some of these victories, given the situation, traditionally, or in 2019. There have been recoveries in North 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Calcutta, the undivided Midnapore cluster, and Birbhum…. Murshidabad was never our area of strength, but the people there blessed us with immense faith this time,” said the Trinamul leader. Sources in the BJP, which went into introspection mode since the afternoon, said a number of factors were being zeroed in on for the party’s “unexpected” drubbing. “Everything we threw at her turned out to be ineffective. The people badly misunderstood us,” admitted a state BJP functionary. “The bohiragawto label did go against us. Polarisation did not work as most of Bengal’s Hindus clearly took a stand against us,” he added. “Candidate selection was not up to the mark. The electorate punished turncoats…. Even some of the districts where we had major expectations from — such as Nadia, Hooghly, the two Midnapores, Jhargram, North 24-Parganas, Calcutta — badly disappointed us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata prods Centre to provide free vaccination for all||Mamata Banerjee, in her first news conference after sweeping the elections on Sunday, demanded free Covid vaccination for all by the Centre. “We will give free vaccination to all people in the state and I demand free vaccination for 140 crore people in the country. I will start a non-violent movement from the Gandhi statue on the Maidan (in Calcutta) very soon,” Mamata said. “They have the Reserve Bank (of India) with them… The cost of vaccinating everyone in the country will be Rs 30,000 crore. Why won’t they do it?” she asked. Mamata made it clear that battling the Covid pandemic would be her top priority after taking charge of the government. She urged Trinamul Congress supporters  not to bring out any victory processions now. “We will not have any victory rallies now… We will have a big one at the Brigade (Grounds) after the Covid situation normalises,” she said. The focus on Covid, sources close to her said, came from her realisation that the Narendra Modi government’s mishandling of the pandemic had contributed to her landslide win. Of 114 seats that went to polls in the last three phases, which were held when the Covid situation in the country had turned grim, Trinamul won around 95. “People blessed us with their two hands and I promise that we will tackle the Covid situation and things will be under control,” Mamata said. The chief minister said her target was to win 221 seats. She said several political leaders from across the country had congratulated her on the results and she would get back to each one of them personally. Although she lost in Nandigram, the Trinamul chief made it clear that she would be taking oath as chief minister of Bengal. “We will have a small swearing-in ceremony in view of the Covid situation… I cannot comment if there will be any lockdown or not right at this moment as I have to sit with my officers who have already taken some decision,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-79
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: ‘Didi an agent of national change’, says Cong veteran||The Bengal Assembly elections have marked Mamata Banerjee out as “an agent of national political change”, Congress veteran and former Union law minister Ashwani Kumar said on Sunday. “The poll result has implications — not only for Bengal, but also for the Lok Sabha elections in 2024. Through this victory, Didi has been catapulted on the national scene as a dominant agent of political change, and is destined to play a major role in the unity of Opposition forces in the country. This is the prime need of the hour,” Kumar said. “The election results have reinforced the relevance of regional parties and the absolute necessity of co-operative federalism. At the same time, it is about Didi’s grit and determination that accounts for an indefatigable fight against the full might of the BJP. Though the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP pulled out all the stops to win Bengal, the outcome has quite evidently demonstrated that the people of Bengal have reposed their trust in Mamata,” he added. “Democratic politics is all about messaging from the heart, and Didi appealed to the emotion and hearts of the Bengali people. The people, in turn, reciprocated positively,” Kumar said. On the raging issue of personal abuse during poll campaigns, Kumar said the outcome had demonstrated its futility. “The election result has demonstrated the limitations of personalised abuse in campaigns. The electoral discourse from any political platform must not cross the basic norms of civility.” Kumar said: “We have to distinguish between those who provoke and those who are forced to react to the provocation. The BJP’s attempts to ridicule and malign Didi simply boomeranged on the BJP.” Asked about the BJP’s huge jump from three seats in the 2016 Assembly elections, Kumar said: “People demonstrate their vote preferences for different reasons. A ruling party at the Centre has its natural appeal and the Prime Minister’s larger than life presence in Bengal could have influenced the voters, along with an attraction for change. But apparently, all these factors were not good enough to dislodge Didi’s image as a fighter and daughter of Bengal.” Kumar said people appeared to have taken this election as a means to transcend the state’s borders. “Voters knew that the result would have a ramification for national politics. Therefore, there was a natural tendency to prevent the division of secular and liberal votes. Since the Congress was not a dominant party in the electoral fray, people chose to vote for Didi to prevent a split in the anti-BJP vote,” he said. “The chastening election results are an SOS for the Congress ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The need for demonstrable and purposive action to address the organisational and communication gaps was never more evident,” the senior Congress leader said. For the Congress to retain its resilience and relevance in national politics, it must secure internal cohesiveness and establish an emotional connect with the people, Kumar felt. “It needs to work on its messaging and accurately assess the barometer of popular sensitivities,” he said, adding that “in the context of Bengal, the party needs to introspect whether given the extraordinary circumstances, it was prudent to join the anti-TMC alliance”. According to Kumar, Sonia Gandhi’s unifying leadership of the party is necessary at this juncture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Trinamul betters north tally vis-a-vis 2019 Lok Sabha result||Mamata Banerjee indeed played a “speed breaker Didi” and could halt the saffron camp’s chariot in north Bengal to a considerable extent, if not totally, and brought down the BJP’s tally vis-à-vis the party’s performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and simultaneously made a clean sweep in three minority-dominated districts. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had at a public rally here ahead of the last general election used the term “speed breaker” for Mamata to drive home the point that the Bengal chief minister was impeding the state’s development. “This adjective seems to be apt now….. Didi could stop the chariot of Narendra Modi and his coterie, even in north Bengal. We could erode its support base in three districts and increase the number of seats as compared to our leads in the Assembly segments in 2019,” said Hemanta Sharma, a district coordinator of Trinamul in Malda. In 2016, Trinamul had won 23 of 54 seats in north Bengal. Sixteen seats went to the Congress and the Left got nine MLAs. The BJP won from two segments, while the remaining four seats went to others. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP won seven of eight Parliament seats in north Bengal and the party managed lead in 37 Assembly segments, followed by Trinamul in 13 and the Congress in four. In the Assembly poll results announced on Sunday, the BJP retained its support in Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling districts. “Trinamul, however, secured a majority in South Dinajpur, North Dinajpur and Malda, where it could not perform well in the 2016 Assembly polls and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. This is where Trinamul managed to thwart the BJP from waving saffron flags all across north Bengal,” said a political observer. This time, the BJP won 30 seats, which include only eight of 27 seats in three districts where Trinamul made inroads. Altogether, Trinamul could win 23 seats, which is the same number of its 2016 results and almost double as compared to the number of Assembly segments where it could secure a lead in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Trinamul’s ally won one hill seat this time. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda and Anirban Choudhury in Alipurduar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: How Trinamul tackled the Adhikaris ||The coming together of warring factions of the Trinamul Congress over the betrayal of Suvendu Adhikari and Mamata Banerjee’s decision to contest from Nandigram helped the party win majority of the seats in East Midnapore and West Midnapore, considered to be the strongholds of the Adhikaris. Trinamul won 23 out of 31 Assembly segments in East and West Midnapores. The BJP could win just eight. This gave a blow to the BJP as the party had expected to win a majority of the 35 seats in East and West Midnapores after Suvendu Adhikari had joined the saffron camp. Even Suvendu had claimed he and state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, who hails from West Midnapore, would uproot Trinamul from undivided Midnapore. “But Trinamul started the work to stitch together the party after Suvendu left. Senior leaders like Subrata Bakshi repeatedly visited the districts to ensure Trinamul workers didn’t get demoralised. As senior leaders held a series of meetings with the grassroots level workers, the party got united,” said a Trinamul insider. Moreover, once Suvendu left Trinamul, many active workers who remained inactive because of his highhandedness, actively joined the party’s activities. This helped Trinamul both in East Midnapore and West Midnapore, said sources. Besides, Trinamul had started to ignite people’s grievance against Suvendu very cleverly. “People had grievances against Suvendu as his close aides carried out anti-people activities in the area for years. The surge of the BJP in East and West Midnapores in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls was because of people’s anger against Suvendu. Trinamul tried to use the situation and was successful in drawing back hundreds of supporters who had worked for the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls,” said a party insider. Mamata’s decision to |contest the polls from Nandigram also helped Trinamul strengthen its support base in East and West Midnapore. “After Suvendu left the party, there was a void of |leadership. But once the chief minister announced fight from Nandigram, the party successfully got united |and fought against Suvendu hard. It now appears it was a battle against Suvendu rather than the BJP,” said a party source. The BJP, however, refused to accept that Suvendu was the prime reason behind the party’s poor show in East and West Midnapores. “Party’s result is not up to the mark across the state. So, it is not right to single out East and West Midnapores. Our party leadership would assess the reasons behind the party’s poor show and then only anything can be said on the issue,” said Nabarun Nayek, a BJP leader in East Midnapore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Citizen law acts as catalyst among minorities||The 2021 Assembly elections stand testimony to the Trinamul Congress’s emergence as the most dominant force in the minority-dominated belts of north and central Bengal, areas on which Mamata Banerjee had been steadfastly focusing for years. Trinamul won 36 of the 47 seats in the minority-dominated districts of Murshidabad, Malda, North and South Dinajpur. The minority population in these four districts ranges from 35 per cent to 70 per cent, with the concentration as high as 85 per cent in some constituencies. “These 36 seats largely helped our party to cross the 200 mark. Our consistent efforts to garner the support of the minorities living in these districts have finally borne fruit. People have realised that it is only Mamata Banerjee who can stop the BJP from carrying out exercises such as the NRC and the CAA in the state,” said Dulal Sarkar, a Malda Trinamul leader. Ahead of the elections, there had been indications that a substantial portion of the minority population, which had been voting for the Congress and the Left for decades, would support Trinamul this time. Muslims had overwhelmingly said that they felt threatened by the BJP and would vote for Trinamul although many of them had sided with the Left or the Congress for years. “This has been proved to be correct. The anti-CAA, anti-NRC narrative that Mamata Banerjee had spun has done wonders in these areas. People have shunned both the Congress and the Left and have sided with her. On the other hand, the BJP, which had played the polarisation card in these districts, won 11 seats where the concentration of minorities is comparatively less,” said Najibur Rehman, a political analyst based in Malda. He pointed out that Mamata’s message had worked to such an extent that even seats like Sujapur (Malda) where the Congress had been winning since 1967 had landed in Trinamul’s kitty. A section of government officials pointed out that the development initiatives of the state government for the minorities had also helped the chief minister earn the trust of the community. “The state government gave minority scholarships to nearly 1 crore students over the past 10 years. Securing the burial grounds by erecting walls also helped the ruling party gain the confidence of the minorities,” an official said. Winning seats in Murshidabad and Malda holds significance for Trinamul as the party could not get a foothold in these two minority-dominated districts despite securing the support of the community in North and South Dinajpur, North and South 24-Parganas, Hooghly and Nadia. “Now, it is clear that the minorities of Murshidabad and Malda have started realising that the chief minister is serious about their development. As the BJP has emerged as the major Opposition party in the state, minorities need to consolidate behind the chief minister over the next few years,” a Trinamul leader said. Among the parties in the Opposition, it is the Congress that has suffered the maximum damage. In 2016, the party had won 11 of the 19 seats in Malda and North Dinajpur. This time, the party has got obliterated even in Murshidabad, the home district of state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. In Murshidabad, Trinamul won 18 of the 20 seats that voted. The remaining two seats — Behrampore and Murshidabad — have gone to the BJP. The Congress had fielded candidates in 16 seats in Murshidabad and the Left in four. “Out of these 16 seats, the Congress has finished second only in four. In the remaining 12 seats, it is the BJP that has come second. This clearly indicates that there had been polarisation…. The minority votes went to Trinamul while the Hindu votes went to the BJP. It also indicates that the Congress’s support base has shifted to Trinamul,” said a senior Congress leader in Murshidabad. Adhir, who released a video message in the evening, accepted defeat. “But both Trinamul and the BJP played the polarisation card. It is a bad trend in Bengal’s politics,” he said. Similar was the scene in the neighbouring districts of Malda and North Dinajpur where the Congress’s candidates like Isha Khan Choudhury and Mohit Sengupta had to bite the dust. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Matuas buck trend, stay with BJP||The Matua community, which voted for the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, continued to back the saffron party in the Assembly elections. The Matuas, with a strong presence in some 15 constituencies in Nadia and North 24-Parganas and in some segments in north Bengal, have largely voted for the BJP, reposing their faith in the party that promised to implement the citizenship matrix. However, the backward classes in non-Matua belts across the state largely voted for Trinamul in contrast to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The citizenship issue had become a key poll plank in this Assembly election, particularly in North 24-Parganas, Nadia, East Burdwan and in some north Bengal districts, owing to the sizeable presence of the Matuas — Hindus refugees from Bangladesh — many of whom live in fear that they will be labelled Bangladeshis. The BJP, which claimed to guarantee them citizenship, despite Mamata Banerjee and other Trinamul leaders saying the community had absolutely nothing to worry, won 14 seats in the Matua belt of Nadia and North 24-Parganas, apart from parts of north Bengal. Trinamul drew a blank in the Matua belt, but won 36 SC seats of the 68 and 11 ST seats of the 14 across the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, apart from the Matuas, the BJP had won the hearts of the backward classes in Bankura, Birbhum, West Midnapore, East Midnapore, Purulia and parts of north Bengal too. Then, the BJP had leads in 35 SC and 14 ST Assembly segments, respectively. Trinamul led in 33 SC and three ST Assembly segments, respectively. In the 2021 Assembly polls, Trinamul wanted to regain the support base among backward classes. The party introduced a number of welfare schemes, though Matuas again preferred the BJP. Matuas form around 40 per cent of the electorate in the community’s strongholds in Ranaghat (SC) and Bongaon (SC) Lok Sabha constituencies, and also play a decisive role in around 30 constituencies across the state. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the community helped the BJP win both Ranaghat (SC) and Bongaon (SC) seats by big margins. On Sunday, the BJP did an encore of the Lok Sabha poll as the party bagged all the seats in the Matua-dominated belt. In Nadia, the BJP won Krishnaganj (SC), Ranaghat North East (SC), Ranaghat South (SC), Ranaghat North West, Chakdah, Kalyani (SC), Haringhata (SC). In North 24-Parganas, where the community’s holy abode is located, the saffron party won Bongaon South (SC), Bongaon North (SC), Gaighata (SC), Bagdah (SC). All India Matua Mahasangha chief and BJP MP Santanu Thakur said: “I am happy that the Matuas have reposed their faith in the BJP. There were provocations and attempts to mislead the community, but it’s good they have chosen the right party for their benefit.” Matua leader and Trinamul candidate Narottam Biswas, who lost to BJP’s Subrata Thakur in Gaighata, called the community’s voting trend “peculiar”. “It seems Matuas made a suicidal choice and voted for the BJP while enjoying welfare schemes of Mamata Banerjee,” Biswas said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Postal ballots suggest government staff back Trinamul||Trinamul secured nearly 47 per cent of the votes cast through postal ballots, suggesting state government employees backed Bengal’s ruling party despite a big disparity in dearness allowance between central and state government employees. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP got over 48 per cent votes through postal ballots. Postal ballots were issued to state government employees engaged in poll duty and people aged above 80. As most aged voters voted in booths, most postal ballots came from state government employees, said a poll panel source. This year, nearly 6 lakh government employees received postal ballots. Some government employees said the state had stood by them during the pandemic. The state government announced 3 per cent DA from January 2021, even as the Centre withheld the DA of central government employees since last year. Though central government employees get 17 per cent DA, the state government’s gesture made a difference. “We want DA on a par with central government employees...But the way the state government stood by us during the pandemic, we did not hesitate to support Mamata Banerjee,” said an employee of land and land reforms department. Mamata had also announced an insurance scheme of Rs 10 lakh for state government employees who fought the pandemic from the front. Lakhs of health workers, municipal workers and policemen gained from the scheme. Some government employees also pointed out that they did not have confidence in the BJP’s promise to implement the Seventh Pay Commission if it came to power. “The employees were not convinced with the announcement. Perhaps they did not trust the saffron party after the Centre withheld the DA for central government employees during the pandemic. Besides, the way the Centre has been divesting public sector units, state government employees here were really frightened,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
03-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: First House without a single Left MLA||The Left Front, which had ruled Bengal for 34 years, will have no representative in the Assembly for the first time in the history of the state’s post-Independent electoral politics. “The performance of the Sanjukta Morcha and the Left has been very disappointing. People’s urge to defeat the BJP led to a sharp polarisation squeezing out the Sanjukta Morcha. A self-critical review of these results will be undertaken by the party to draw needed lessons,” a statement by the CPM politburo read. The statement also said the “people of Bengal have very clearly rejected the ideology of communal politics” referring to the BJP’s defeat in the state. The CPM had contested in 136 of the total 294 seats in Bengal. Other Left parties like the RSP, CPI and the Forward Bloc fought in 11, 10 and 22 seats, respectively. Most of these candidates forfeited their deposits. The Front failed to win a single seat in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019. Their overall vote share was also reduced to close to 7 per cent then. According to the trends of the Assembly poll results made available by the Election Commission of India on Sunday, the Left’s vote share is likely to suffer a further decline. The Left Front had won 32 seats in the 2016 Assembly polls. In a statement issued on behalf of the Left-Congress-ISF alliance, CPM leader Biman Bose said: “The Sanyukta Morcha has faced disastrous results in the polls. The Trinamul Congress has won and the BJP has been defeated. It can be primarily said the reason behind this outcome is people’s desperation to defeat the BJP. The Morcha will discuss within itself, and the member parties will discuss amongst themselves, the reason behind this defeat and learn from it...The responsibility of anti-Trinamul forces has increased... I also urge the workers of the Morcha to stand by the people in these difficult times...” Multiple leaders in the Left Front told The Telegraph that they had misjudged the mood of the electorate. They had expected that the votes which they had lost to the BJP in 2019 would return to their kitty. Instead, in their desperation to stop the BJP, these votes went to Trinamul. These leaders felt the Front had been able to successfully communicate the ills of the BJP to Bengal’s electorate and hence woo the voters away from the saffron camp. However, it has failed to earn their trust as the BJP’s strongest opponent. Many CPM workers complained about general secretary Sitaram Yechury’s absence from the poll scene in Bengal. Manik Sarkar, former Tripura chief minister, was one of the star campaigners of the CPM. According to sources, his schedule was curtailed after two meetings because his address was focused more on stopping the BJP. “After Manikbabu’s first two addresses, the party felt he wasn’t quite toeing its line. Mamata Banerjee herself quoted Manikbabu at one of her rallies to refer to Tripura’s situation under the BJP regime. It was then decided that he shouldn’t be brought anymore,” a CPM leader said. Some CPM leaders believe two key things worked in favour of Trinamul — Mamata’s promise to home deliver free rations and her steps to empower women. The Bengal government has provided free rations to about five crore people in the past one year amidst the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown. While the chief minister has promised to deliver free rations at the doorstep of her citizens, she has also successfully been able to make them believe if the BJP comes to power, this scheme will be abandoned, Left leaders feel. The women electorate has always connected with Mamata and this time, she has given them a sense of authority by issuing the Swasthya Sathi health cards in their names. Trinamul’s poll manifesto also promised universal basic income of Rs 500 for general category households and Rs 1,000 for SC/STs. This money would also go to the women of the family. “These are two schemes that the marginalised people have connected with. Traditional Left voters have also been wooed by these schemes,” a source in the CPM state committee said. Junior constituents of the Left Front believe the alliance with the Congress and the ISF was not accepted by traditional Left voters. “I would rather say the Abbas Siddique impact that people were talking about didn’t work. The only seat the Morcha is on the verge of winning belongs to the ISF,” a Forward Bloc leader said. The infusion of young faces into the candidate list by the Left parties and flashy campaigns had generated much hope among party supporters but the final outcome showed it did not help the Front win the confidence of the people. Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general secretary of another Left party CPIML-Liberation, was one of the first to advocate the resistance against the BJP. He had said the Left Front in Bengal must realise the primary task was to stop the BJP and not Trinamul. “The Left in Bengal must rebuild and restart. They need to understand that the results are actually a vindication of the Left legacy of Bengal. People have strongly rejected communal politics and chosen the strongest party,” Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-80
