04-05-2021||West Bengal||Nadda visits homes of victims of post-poll violence||BJP national president J.P Nadda, in Calcutta for a two-day visit, visited homes of alleged victims of Trinamul atrocities on Tuesday, as his party continues to mount political pressure on Mamata Banerjee ahead of her swearing-in as chief minister for a third term on Wednesday. “After the results, Trinamul goons went to the house of Haran Adhikari vandalised it, threatened women and children, attacked them and broke his wife’s teeth,” Nadda told news channels at Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas. “They then dragged Adhikari out of his house and beat him up. He died.” He was also scheduled to visit the home of another BJP worker, Abhijit Sarkar in Beliaghata, who was allegedly killed by Trinamul supporters. Nadda’s visits to homes of victims of political violence was reminiscent of the Trinamul’s days in the Opposition when its general secretary Partha Chatterjee moved from one trouble spot to another when the Left Front was in power. Earlier, upon landing at Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Airport here, Nadda told the media, "We are committed to democratically fight this ideological battle and the activities of the TMC, which is full of intolerance. I had heard of the immense atrocities committed during the Partition, but I have never seen such post-poll violence that is occurring in West Bengal after the declaration of election results (on May 2)." Since the election results were announced on the evening of May 2, Bengal has been in the grip of a vicious cycle of violence in several parts of the state, involving the ruling Trinamul and the main Opposition BJP. Some of the allegations made by the BJP have, however, turned out to untrue, indicating a motive to corner the newly elected government by citing violence to demand the imposition of the President’s rule in the state. Some voices within the BJP are already trying to amplify such a demand. Such over-zealousness over the Bengal polls and its aftermath cost film actor Kangana Ranaut her Twitter account, which was suspended on Tuesday following her call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “This is horrible. We need super gundai to kill gundai… she is like an unleashed monster, to tame her Modi ji please show your virat roop from early 2000s,” tweeted Kangana. Earlier, the actor had compared Mamata with Ravan, the mythological demon king. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has reportedly not called Mamata yet to congratulate on her electoral victory, spoke with Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday. “PM called and expressed his serious anguish and concern at alarmingly worrisome law and order situation” the governor tweeted. “I share grave concerns given that violence, vandalism, arson, loot and killings continue unabated. Concerned must act in overdrive to restore order.” Mamata, who will take oath as chief minister on Wednesday, blamed the BJP for the escalation of tension in the state. “This is BJP’s propaganda. Some sporadic incidents are there, but it happens in every state. I am not justifying violence. BJP is trying to create communal clashes, because of their shameful defeat,” Mamata told NDTV on Tuesday afternoon. “They have lost their credibility. Till now even law and order was being handled by the central forces, not by me. So, this is their doing, they are to blame for spoiling the situation if this is true.” Mamata also accused the BJP of spreading fake videos and images to create trouble. “The BJP is a communal party, they are trouble-mongers, they use fake videos, they misuse their powers, they misuse agencies; they want to demolish federalism, bulldoze the federal character of the country… They are not allowing universal vaccination. They are not giving oxygen. They need political oxygen” she told NDTV. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had on Monday criticised the TMC over the violent clashes in the state since the announcement of the election results. "Are these reports of gruesome violence in Bengal TMC's victory celebrations'? Condemnable. Will be resisted & rebuffed. Instead of focusing on combating the pandemic, TMC unleashes such mayhem. CPI(M), as always, will be with the people to protect, assist, providing relief," Yechury had said in a tweet. The Congress also condemned the post-poll violence in Bengal by TMC cadres, saying such incidents were unacceptable and people of the state had not voted for lawlessness. Congress' Bengal in charge Jitin Prasada alleged on Tuesday that his party cadres were attacked by Trinamool Congress workers and even women and children were not spared. "The post-poll violence that has been unleashed by the TMC on the Congress workers is unacceptable. Even women and children are not spared. I'm sure the people of West Bengal did not vote for this lawlessness," Prasad said on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||All parties criticise TMC as post-poll violence claims lives ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and expressed anguish over the law and order situation in the state following reports of post-poll violence from several districts. The state was in the throes of widespread violence on Monday that allegedly left several BJP workers dead and injured in clashes, and shops being looted, prompting the Centre to seek a factual report from the government on incidents of attack on opposition workers. "PM called and expressed his serious anguish and concern at the alarmingly worrisome law & order situation @MamataOfficial. I share grave concerns @PMOIndia given that violence vandalism, arson, loot and killings continue unabated," Dhankhar wrote on Twitter. Bengal BJP on Monday alleged that at least six supporters, including a woman, had been murdered by Trinamul workers as reports of political clashes poured in from across the state. Four Trinamul supporters were also allegedly killed in post-poll violence in south Bengal. Till Monday evening, the number of political activists killed — across all parties — had crossed 10. Many more were beaten up. Many homes and shops were ransacked or torched. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee publicly urged people to refrain from violence. Several political parties on Tuesday condemned the violence that had been shrouding Bengal ever since the result of the Assembly elections were announced. BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday said the widespread post-poll violence in West Bengal is reminiscent of the atrocities people had to face during the country's Partition, and exhorted party workers in the state to democratically fight the "savagery". Nadda, who arrived on a two-day visit to Bengal, said BJP workers across India have expressed solidarity with their activists in the state, who are "facing violent attacks". "We are committed to democratically fight this ideological battle and the activities of the TMC, which is full of intolerance," he told reporters at the NSC Bose International Airport here. "I had heard of the immense atrocities committed during the Partition, but I have never seen such post-poll violence that is occurring in West Bengal after the declaration of election results (on May 2)," the senior BJP leader said. Nadda said he will visit the residences of BJP workers "killed" in attacks in South 24 Parganas district and speak to their kin. "We want to give this message that crores of BJP workers across the country are with them," he said. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had on Monday criticised the TMC over the violent clashes in the state since the announcement of results for the 292-member Bengal assembly. "Are these reports of gruesome violence in Bengal TMC's victory celebrations'? Condemnable. Will be resisted & rebuffed. Instead of focusing on combating the pandemic TMC unleashes such mayhem. CPI(M), as always, will be with the people to protect, assist, providing relief," Yechury had said in a tweet. After the BJP and the CPI-M, the Congress also condemned the post-poll violence in Bengal by TMC cadres, saying such incidents were unacceptable and people of the state have not voted for lawlessness. Congress' Bengal incharge Jitin Prasada alleged on Tuesday that his party cadres were attacked by Trinamool Congress workers and even women and children were not spared. "The post-poll violence that has been unleashed by the TMC on the Congress workers is unacceptable. Even women and children are not spared. I'm sure the people of West Bengal did not vote for this lawlessness," Prasad said on Twitter. He said the duty of every politician or public servant is to speak up against "all wrongs and stand by their cadre irrespective of which ideology one belongs to". Asked about the post-poll violence taking place in West Bengal after the Trinamool Congress' victory in the state, Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said his party never condones such violence. "Congress has never supported any kind of violence. The Congress party never condones or supports any kind of violence. There is no place for violence in a democracy," he said. "We expect that if Mamata Banerjee has received so much love and votes in Bengal, she should control the violence," he said. The Congress leader said, "Even if those who have died are BJP workers, our condolences are with their families".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||PM called to express ‘serious anguish’ over situation in Bengal, says Dhankhar||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi called him and expressed anguish over the law and order situation in the state following reports of post-poll violence from several districts. The state was in the throes of widespread violence on Monday that allegedly left several BJP workers dead and injured in clashes, and shops being looted, prompting the Centre to seek a factual report from the government on incidents of attack on opposition workers. "PM called and expressed his serious anguish and concern at the alarmingly worrisome law & order situation @MamataOfficial. I share grave concerns @PMOIndia given that violence vandalism, arson, loot and killings continue unabated," Dhankhar wrote on Twitter. Four people were killed in alleged clashes between TMC and BJP supporters in Burdwan district on Sunday and Monday, officials said. The TMC claimed three of them were its supporters. Videos of alleged arson at a BJP office with bamboo poles and roof tiles burning amid worried cries of people running away from the premises were shared by the party. "Police @WBPolice @CPKolkata must end senseless political violence, vandalism, arson, killings and intimidation that shames democracy. Why post poll violence only WB? Why this assault on democracy?" the governor asked on the microblogging site. "Reports indicate horrendous state of affairs. Horrified people are fleeing to save themselves," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||SC holds Bengal law on regulating real estate unconstitutional||The Supreme Court on Tuesday struck down West Bengal's law on regulating real estate sector saying it was unconstitutional as the state's statute encroached upon the Centre's Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA). The top court also said that WB HIRA has failed to include valuable safeguards for the homebuyers'. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said the West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act (HIRA), 2017 is more or less identical to the Centre's RERA and hence repugnant to Parliament's law. "The state law has encroached upon the domain of the Parliament and hence is unconstitutional," the verdict said. It said, however, that homebuyers who have purchased properties under state law before its verdict, will not have to worry as their registration and other acts would remain valid. The judgement came on a plea of Forum For People's Collective Efforts' , an umbrella homebuyers association, challenging the constitutional validity of West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, 2017, which is more or less identical to the Centre's RERA. Pronouncing the verdict through video conferencing, Justice Chandrachud said that fundamental features of WB HIRA overlaps and is word-to-word copy of Centre's RERA. The bench, which passed a lengthy verdict on the issue, said that WB HIRA touches upon entry 6 and 7 of the concurrent list which was occupied by the law passed by Parliament and set up a parallel regime in the state. The state doing so is plainly unconstitutional, the bench said, adding that provisions in the legislation shows that there is repugnancy in WB HIRA and RERA. WB HIRA is directly in conflict with RERA, without any valuable safeguards for the home buyers , the bench said, adding that it is invoking powers under Article 142 to hold that registrations of properties done under the state law before its verdict, will be valid. The top court had during the hearing of the petition wondered whether a state, in the name of cooperative federalism, enact a legislation under the concurrent list to occupy the same subjects in which Parliament has enacted a law. It had observed that both Centre's RERA and WB HIRA dealt with issues of providing reliefs to home buyers and to promote real estate sectors but some of the provisions of State's legislation were in direct conflict with the law passed by Parliament. The top court had said that a state can have legislation but to supplant the Centre's law and not to be direct conflict or to override it and say that now we will not follow your law but our law. It had wondered why a state would have a similar law enacted when there is already a law passed by Parliament and said many provisions in WB HIRA are repugnant to Centre's RERA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: EC cites Covid surge to indefinitely postpone elections to two seats||The Election Commission on Monday cited the Covid surge to indefinitely postpone the already deferred elections to two Bengal seats, a decision that also makes any by-election unlikely in the near future and hangs a cloud over the timetable of Mamata Banerjee’s re-election to the Assembly. Elections had earlier been put off to May 16 in the Jangipur and Samserganj Assembly seats following the deaths of the two Sanyukta Morcha candidates there. On Monday, these were further postponed along with an Assembly by-election in Odisha. A by-election was also due in Khardah, whose Trinamul winner Kajal Sinha had died of Covid before the results were announced. It would have offered Mamata, defeated from Nandigram, an opportunity to be re-elected to the Assembly— which she has to do within six months of taking oath as chief minister if she wants to retain the chair. Monday’s poll panel statement does not mention Khardah since the by-election had not been notified. But it appears unlikely to be held anytime soon in the light of the three postponements, making it uncertain when Mamata might be able to get elected to the House. Mamata could not have contested from Jangipur or Samserganj even if the polls were held since only the RSP and the Congress, respectively, are allowed to field fresh candidates. These are the parties whose candidates for these seats had died. Since the Khardah vote, whenever notified, would be a by-election, nomination papers from all the contestants will be accepted afresh. Whenever a seat falls vacant, a by-election is mandated within six months under Section 151A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 but with a rider. This period can be further extended if “the Election Commission in consultation with the central government certifies that it is difficult to hold the by-election within the said period”. The poll panel’s current urgency about the surging epidemic comes after it allowed blatant flouting of pandemic protocols at campaign rallies during the Bengal polls, and ignored appeals to at least merge the last three of the eight phases to control the damage. A media release from the commission said on Monday: “Commission after taking all material facts and inputs of CEO (chief election officer) West Bengal and CEO Odisha in consideration and taking note of lockdown/ restrictions under Disaster Management Act, 2005, as issued by NDMA/SDMA has decided to defer the scheduled poll and extend the period of elections in 110-Pipli AC of Odisha and 58-Jangipur & 56-Samserganj assembly constituencies of West Bengal. Fresh notification will be issued after assessing the pandemic situation.” Last year, Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray had sought election to the legislative council after being sworn in as Maharashtra chief minister. After the polls were postponed because of the pandemic, the state cabinet had asked governor B.S. Koshyari to nominate him to the Upper House, where the seat of a nominated member was vacant. The governor did not act on the recommendation. Uddhav then wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, following which Koshyari asked the poll panel to notify elections to the vacant legislative council seats. Campaigning and polling in council elections are held on a much smaller scale than Assembly elections since the electorates are smaller, thus reducing the possibility of widespread infections. Bengal, however, has no legislative council.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata hints at possible malpractices in counting of votes at Nandigram||Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the returning officer for the Nandigram Assembly seat had reportedly communicated to someone that an order for a recount might put his life at risk. The allegation hinted at possible malpractices in the counting of votes in the East Midnapore constituency from where Mamata lost to former party colleague Suvendu Adhikari. “I received an SMS from someone in which the returning officer for Nandigram wrote to someone that if he allowed a recount, his life would be under threat,” said Mamata, who showed a text message whose writer expresses the fear of losing his life if he orders a recount in Nandigram. This newspaper tried to contact Kishor Biswas, deputy magistrate, Haldia, who was the returning officer for Nandigram but he refused to comment on the subject. The returning officer has the responsibility to decide whether a recount is warranted. On Sunday, the plea for a recount was rejected. Multiple sources in the district administration said Biswas had told several colleagues and superiors about the pressure he faced on the day of counting. Although it could not be confirmed who had sent the message, reports from the ground corroborated the chief minister’s premise that something was wrong with the counting process in Nandigram. “It’s the legitimate right of a party to ask for a recount, but why wasn’t it allowed?” Mamata asked during a news conference at her home on Monday. Although Trinamul swept the Bengal polls by bagging 213 of the 292 seats where elections took place, Mamata lost from Nandigram. That there was some confusion over the counting process in Nandigram was clear last evening, with Suvendu’s victory being announced after Mamata had been declared the winner initially. “For four hours, the server was down (at the counting centre), there was a power cut…. The governor had even congratulated me. Suddenly everything changed,” Mamata said. “We had never seen such mafia-type attitude in Bengal,” she said, adding that she would move court over the Nandigram result. Mamata said her party supporters would continue to protest in Nandigram to ensure that the EVMs and VVPATs were kept separately, preventing tampering until the court heard the case. Asked about the future of the Centre-state relationship, Mamata said she had always cooperated with the Centre on matters involving the people’s interest. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tweet in which he pledged all support for Bengal, Mamata said she was aware of the social media message but it didn’t mean much to her. “This is the first time a PM did not even call (after our victory),” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Didi calls for peace amid post-poll violence||Bengal BJP on Monday alleged that at least five supporters had been murdered by Trinamul workers as reports of political clashes poured in from across the state. Four Trinamul supporters were also allegedly killed in post-poll violence in south Bengal. Till Monday evening, the number of political activists killed — across all parties — had crossed 10. Many more were beaten up. Many homes and shops were ransacked or torched. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee publicly urged people to refrain from violence. However, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh accused her of not paying heed to the situation. The BJP, whose national president J.P. Nadda will arrive in Bengal on Tuesday, has decided on nationwide sit-ins on May 5, the day Mamata Banerjee will be sworn in, to protest against the violence in Bengal. Ghosh told the media on Monday that five BJP supporters and one member of the Indian Secular Front were killed in clashes since Sunday. “Violence is nothing new in Bengal. Post-poll violence is nothing new either. After the results, there is a little bit of excitement everywhere. But not even 24 hours have not passed since the results and six persons are killed. Thousands of houses have been burnt down or vandalised. We are getting reports from every Assembly (segment),” he said. Ghosh alleged that despite these incidents, Mamata had shrugged off her responsibilities. A BJP delegation met governor Jagdeep Dhankar to hand over a memorandum to him on post-poll violence. There, it said that five of their party workers as well as four others were killed. A letter explaining the situation and seeking redress was sent to Union home minister Amit Shah, Bengal’s chief secretary and the Election Commission. Dhankar summoned Bengal’s top police officials and asked them to restore law and order. An hour before Ghosh spoke to journalists on this issue, Mamata held a news meet where she asked her supporters not to get involved in political violence. “I would appeal…to all my brothers and sisters that Bengal is a peaceful place, cultural place and a place of brotherhood…Polls were done, there have been wins and losses…Sometimes the atmosphere got heated up, sometimes it cooled down…and we know that BJP has done a lot of atrocities, central forces have done a lot of atrocities. Yet I urge everyone to be peaceful and not indulge in any kind of violence. At the moment the biggest responsibility is…to combat Covid. I urge everyone to be peaceful and if you have a complaint against anyone, please let the police know officially,” Mamata said. In Nadia’s Gangnapur, BJP activists Uttam Ghosh was beaten to death by suspected Trinamul supporters in Vivekananda Pally area late on Sunday. Police and relatives said Ghosh was returning home from the party office when goons attacked him. Local BJP leaders said Ghosh had worked hard to ensure victory of the Ranaghat South candidate Mukutmani Adhikari. The BJP submitted a deputation at the Gangnapur police station demanding immediate arrest of the accused. Hasanur Rahaman, 40, an ISF activist, was killed in Ula-Kadambagachi village of Duttapukur in North 24-Parganas on Monday morning, when a group of Trinamul goons allegedly hurled at least three bombs at him. The incident ignited tension in the area that led to political clashes between Trinamul and the ISF. In Calcutta’s Kankurgachi, BJP activist Abhijit Sarkar was beaten to death by suspected Trinamul activists in Shitalatala Lane area on Sunday night. A BJP activist was allegedly killed by goons with Trinamul links in Pratapnagar-Motiary area of Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas. BJP sources said Haran Adhikari, 38, had protested when some Trinamul supporters destroyed party flags after the BJP candidate lost. The goons attacked him with iron rods and stones. Adhikari was taken to Baruipur sub-divisional hospital, where the doctors declared him dead. In Birbhum, a BJP worker Gourav Sarkar, 37, of Gopalnagar village in Illambazar, was dragged out of his home and allegedly beaten to death by Trinamul-backed goons. In Nadia’s Haringhata, suspected Trinamul supporters allegedly entered the residence of victorious BJP candidate of Chakdaha, Bankim Ghosh, located in ward 12 of Haringhata Municipality, and ransacked it on Sunday night. In Burdwan, Birbhum and Bankura, many houses of CPM leaders and supporters were vandalised by alleged Trinamul goons on Monday. A resort belonging to a BJP leader in Santiniketan was vandalised allegedly by Trinamul workers. BJP leaders claimed at least half a dozen BJP party offices and over a hundred houses belonged to the BJP workers were ransacked. In Cooch behar, two young BJP workers were killed on Monday, allegedly by Trinamul supporters, one in the morning and one later. In East Burdwan, the mother of a BJP worker was allegedly hacked to death allegedly by Trinamul backed goons in Nabagram village. CPM leader Samik Lahiri issued an open appeal to Mamata: “Chief minister, will this free loot, violence and murder continue? Fascist forces couldn’t form a government. Are you at peace? Houses of Pratikur and several other Sanjukta Morcha (supporters) are being openly looted. Homes of Sanjukta Morcha leaders and workers in Canning East are being demolished using JCBs. Party offices are being vandalised…” In East Burdwan, three Trinamul workers were killed in separate incidents. A Trinamul worker and resident of the district’s Samaspur village Ganesh Malik, 61, was killed after armed BJP workers allegedly attacked him with iron rods. He was taken to the Burdwan Medical College and Hospital, where he died. Two Trinamul workers — Sahajahan Sheikh, in his late 40s, and Bibhas Bag, 27, — were killed when a group of BJP workers allegedly attacked them in Nabogram village of Jamalpur block. As tension mounted, hundreds of houses belonging to Trinamul and BJP supporters were ransacked in the clashes that followed. In Hooghly, Trinamul worker Debu Pramanik, 50, a resident of Natibpur village of Khanakul was killed allegedly by BJP workers. In Jagannathpur Tildanga village of Baduria, North 24-Parganas, Ataur Rahaman, an elderly Trinamul supporter — and father of a local Trinamul leader — was brutally beaten up by goons with suspected Congress links. Admitted to the Baduria hospital, Rahaman is said to be critical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls 2021: Violence erupts in 5 north Bengal districts||Two persons died in Cooch Behar on Monday as violence erupted in at least five districts of north Bengal, with Trinamul and BJP supporters clashing in a number of places, after results of Assembly polls were declared on Sunday. Some others, mostly BJP supporters, suffered injuries and loss of property in Cooch Behar and elsewhere. Haradhan Roy, 30, a BJP worker in Jamadarbos village under Sitai Assembly seat of Cooch Behar, was suspected to have been lynched on Monday afternoon. Bharatibala, his mother, accused Trinamul supporters. “He went out in the morning. I spoke to him a couple times later but in the afternoon I was told he was lying dead nearby. Trinamul supporters have beaten him to death,” she said. A Dinhata police team has started a probe. Earlier in the day, Manik Maitra, 20, of Naotabas village under the Sitalkuchi seat, was hit by a bullet when he came in between raging groups of Trinamul and the BJP. Rushed to Dinhata subdivisional hospital, doctors pronounced him dead. In Chopra block of North Dinajpur, suspected Trinamul supporters attacked the houses of BJP supporters and indiscriminately ransacked shops in Sonapur, Daspara, Majhiali and Chopra on Sunday evening. In their frenzy, they did not even spare shops of Trinamul supporters, residents alleged. “We are Trinamul supporters for years but goons ransacked our shops too. We want to know from Hamidul Rehman (the local MLA who has won this time too) why such incidents are happening,” said Mina Saha, a shop owner. Violence spread in some other areas of Chopra block. A BJP office was ransacked and the house of a BJP supporter was torched in Jharbari area. Police brought the situation under control. “Since Sunday evening, Trinamul supporters are roaming around in groups and organising attacks on our people across North Dinajpur. We want the police to take steps,” said Basudeb Sarkar, the district BJP president. Priti Ranjan Ghosh, the block Trinamul president of Chopra, denied the charges. In South Dinajpur, Gopal Ghosh, a BJP leader in Dhalpara under Hilli police station, was attacked by goons on Sunday evening. He ended up with a skull fracture. The district BJP leadership blamed a couple of local Trinamul leaders. In Gangarampur block, BJP offices and houses of BJP supporters were ransacked in three villages of the block. On Monday, a BJP delegation met district police chief Debarshi Dutta for his intervention. Similar attacks and arson have been reported in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar where the BJP has won most seats. On Sunday evening, violence broke out in Dasarathpally, in ward 44 of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, one of the added wards under the Dabgram-Fulbari seat the BJP wrested from the region’s Trinamul stalwart Gautam Deb. BJP workers alleged that Trinamul supporters raided the area, damaged a couple of vehicles and attacked the houses of BJP supporters and beat up BJP worker Chinmoy Sharma. District Trinamul leaders denied the party’s hand and asked the police to find out facts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata to take oath as CM on May 5th ||Mamata Banerjee will take oath as the chief minister of Bengal for the third consecutive term at 10.45am on Wednesday in the Raj Bhavan. The decision was announced in a tweet by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday evening after Mamata had called on him to submit her resignation as chief minister. Along with Mamata, some key members of her new cabinet are likely to be sworn in on Wednesday, while others could take oath on Thursday. In view of the Covid-19 situation, all such events will be conducted with limited audience. “She met the governor in the evening, submitted her resignation… and a list of victorious candidates of the party that has over two-thirds majority in the House, thereby establishing her indisputable claim to form the next government in Bengal,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Mamata reached the Raj Bhavan around 6.45pm — she was invited on Sunday evening by Dhankhar after the results showed a thumping majority for her party — and stayed for over one-and-a-half-hour meeting with him. In the Assembly, the 212 Trinamul Congress MLAs — Khardah’s Kajal Sinha, the 213th MLA, succumbed to Covid-19 — would be sworn in during the course of the week. It was decided by the Trinamul legislature party to re-elect Biman Banerjee as the Speaker for the third consecutive term. “Sadly, because of the pandemic’s second wave, there will be nothing by way of celebration or grand events now. So, it will be a very basic programme this time, despite its historic and national significance,” said Subrata Mukherjee, a senior Trinamul leader. “She had already said there would be mega celebrations later at the Brigade Parade Grounds with all prominent national (non-BJP) leaders once the pandemic is behind us,” he added.At an afternoon meeting in Trinamul Bhavan, the winners unanimously elected Mamata as the leader of the legislature party, thereby paving the way for her to take oath as chief minister. Since Mamata lost to her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari, now in the BJP, in the Nandigram seat, she would have six months to get elected to the Assembly. In the meeting, Mamata’s main instructions to the newly elected members were regarding three main areas of priority now, said several attendees. “She said we must go all-out in the war against the pandemic now as everything else has become secondary in the second wave of Covid-19,” said Uttarpara MLA Kanchan Mullick, an actor. “Second, we must honour this humbling mandate and give it back to the people by way of tireless service,” he added. The third area, said Barrackpore MLA Raj Chakraborty, the filmmaker, was the importance of ignoring provocation. “She said there would be an immense lot of incitement by the BJP in a bid to foment tension and unrest… she explained how crucial it was not to get ensnared by that,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Votes of tea workers, Rajbanshis elude TMC ||Support of the tribal and tea garden population of north Bengal as well as Rajbanshis in the region has continued to elude the Trinamul Congress, the Assembly poll results show. On one hand, Trinamul insiders have said lack of a strong trade union base led to the defeat of their candidates in the tea belts of the Terai and the Dooars — barring the Malbazar seat in Jalpaiguri where the ruling party won for the second time in a row. On the other hand, acute infighting in Trinamul in districts like Cooch Behar, Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri led to the party’s defeat in most of the seats in the Rajbanshi-dominated areas, pointed out Trinamul leaders and representatives of organisations like the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association (GCPA) that had lent support to Mamata Banerjee at the hustings. “When the district president of a party and a state minister indulge in mud-slinging and fume at each other, how can you expect a better result in Cooch Behar? We have time and again tried to get them together on board but in vain,” asked Bangshibadan Burman, the GCPA general secretary who is believed to have considerable clout among the Rajbanshis. “It is because of inner differences that Trinamul could secure only two seats in Cooch Behar.” “Why should the Rajbanshis be blamed?.” In the neighbouring Jalpaiguri district, Trinamul won only three of seven seats. Four other seats, two each of which are in the tea belt and the Rajbanshi areas, went to the BJP. As far as the tea belt is concerned, the BJP marched ahead of Trinamul and bagged all seats, except Malbazar. In Alipurduar and Darjeeling, which have tea gardens and Rajbanshis, Gorkhas and adivasis, Trinamul could not win any of the total 10 seats. According to senior Trinamul leaders, absence of a strong trade union base has led to contrasting results at a time when the party has crossed the 200 mark in the state. Mannalal Jain, the vice-president of the Cha Bagan Trinamul Mazdoor Union, said they would try to find out what made the BJP score over them. “It is unfortunate that despite extending so many benefits to the tea population, particularly the ‘cha sundari’ (free housing) scheme for workers and even after revising wages, the majority voted for the BJP. We need to strengthen our trade union’s presence across the tea belt,” said Jain. He pointed out that so far, the BJP had only made empty promises to the tea population. “Trinamul, on the other hand, has delivered,” added the trade union leader. Gangaprasad Sharma, the Alipurduar district BJP president, however, came up with a different clarification. “Trinamul had tried to play identity politics in north Bengal and came up with sops and announcements for different communities. We, on the other hand, have spoken for the entire population. This is why people stood by us,” he said. Additional reporting by Anirban Choudhury in Alipurduar, and Main Uddin Chisti in Cooch Behar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: TMC workers in Nandigram adamant on recount||Around 1,000 Trinamul supporters continued to lay siege to the counting centre in Haldia after a demand for recounting votes of Nandigram Assembly constituency by the party was rejected by the Election Commission late on Sunday. Alleging irregularities in counting led to the defeat of Mamata Banerjee, angry Trinamul supporters decided to keep the counting centre — Haldia Government Sponsored Higher Secondary School — under siege till their demand for fresh counting is met. They said the agitation would continue and EVMs won’t be allowed to be shifted from the counting centre as they fear tampering. Barely 300 metres away, a hundreds of party supporters have kept the Haldia-Mecheda state highway blocked for over 24 hours, stalling movement of vehicles, including oil tankers. On Sunday evening, Mamata Banerjee lost the prestige fight to her one-time aide-turned-BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat by a slender margin after several confusions. A Trinamul team led by Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien later met chief electoral officer Ariz Aftab and demanded recounting. However, the EC rejected the demand and announced Adhikari as the winner. Angry Trinamul supporters began a demonstration and raised slogans. They also gheraoed officials and refused to vacate the place despite repeated pleas by the district administration in the wake of Covid protocols. Adhikari tasted their wrath when he arrived at the counting centre to receive the winning certificate around 10pm on Sunday. Some Trinamul workers hurled stones at him and vandalised his car. State and central security officials took him out of the counting centre. Adhikari’s election agent Meghnad Pal later received the winning certificate from the returning officer. “A conspiracy was hatched by the Centre and the EC to defeat Mamata Banerjee. We do not accept her defeat. We will not withdraw the protest till a recounting is ordered by the EC,” said Trinamul’s youth wing leader Suprakash Giri. “Right from the start, counting of votes was stalled many times for mysterious reasons. This grossly delayed the counting for over three hours. It appears that the officials in connivance with the BJP and the Centre deliberately worked to defeat Mamata Banerjee. We demanded recounting, but the EC rejected it.  So, we were left with no option but to protest till recounting happens,” Giri said, adding party workers won’t allow officials to shift the EVMs. “As a conspirator he (Adhikari) does not deserve rosogolla,” he added. Mamata’s election agent Sheikh Sufian said: “We were persuading the returning officer Kishor Biswas for recounting. He may have agreed. But the observer persuaded him not to agree to a recounting and to issue a winning certificate immediately.” Returning officer Biswas refused to talk on the issue. The BJP termed Trinamul’s agitation a bid to divert people’s attention to the “embarrassment of Mamata Banerjee’s defeat”. Newly elected BJP MLA from Haldia Tapashi Mandal said: “I hope good sense prevails among the Trinamul leaders to accept her defeat in the right spirit.” The BJP also accused Trinamul of crowding the counting centre and the road amid the pandemic’s second wave. At least 50 persons were injured in political clashes between the BJP and Trinamul supporters in twin Midnapore districts in the past 24 hours. Police and sources of both parties claimed many houses were ransacked in Nandigram, Khejuri, Contai, Panskura, Pingla, Sabang, Garbeta, Keshpur and others. East Midnapore SP Sunil Kumar Yadav said: “We have 13 companies of special force. We have taken action wherever required and arrested people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Modi speeches, LS poll leads didn’t help||The BJP’s defeat in the 2021 Bengal Assembly elections was sealed by the loss it suffered in 51 of the 121 seats where the party had secured leads in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had campaigned and addressed public meetings in many of these seats this time. But the much-hyped Modi magic did not appear to have helped the party. During the campaign, BJP leaders were confident of sweeping these seats and add more Assembly segments to the list. However, as the poll  results unfolded on Sunday, it was clear that more than 40 per cent of these seats had been lost to the Trinamul. “It was a massive miscalculation on our part. We had got complacent, rather overconfident at some point, and didn’t notice that Trinamul was regaining the ground in Assembly segments where we had taken leads in the Lok Sabha polls,” a BJP state office-bearer said on Monday, a day after Trinamul’s landslide victory. The saffron camp suffered a major blow in four of the 18 Lok Sabha segments it had taken leads in 2019. In 20 of the 28 Assembly segments under Jhargram, Kharagpur, Hooghly and Asansol Lok Sabha seats, the BJP trailed behind Trinamul. Modi had campaigned in three of these Lok Sabha seats, except Jhargram. In the Lok Sabha results in 2019, the BJP had leads in all seven Assembly segments in Asansol Lok Sabha seat, six each in Kharagpur and Hooghly and five in Jhargram. Sunday’s results showed that the BJP lost three seats in Asansol and five seats in each of the other three Lok Sabha constituencies. Reminded of the empty chairs that greeted party’s national chief J.P. Nadda at a rally that had to be cancelled, a BJP youth wing member in Jhargram said: “Now we realise that people of Jhargram had already rejected us. Not only Naddaji, one of Amitji’s rallies was also cancelled.” Union home minister Amit Shah had to cancel his Jhargram rally because of low turnout, though the official reason cited was a snag in his chopper. In Hooghly, where BJP’s MP Locket Chatterjee, in the fray as an MLA aspirant, was defeated by Trinamul’s Asit Mazumder in the Chunchura seat, BJP workers said discontent over the selection of candidates was the reason. Intra-party friction started when Trinamul turncoat Rabindranath Bhattacharya was nominated from Singur, a BJP leader in Hooghly said. “The discontent had a ripple effect and we clearly couldn’t control it,” the leader said. While Modi had campaigned in Hooghly’s Dunlop grounds, Shah had come in a road show for Bhattacharya. Neither efforts bore electoral fruit. The discontent among old party workers over several issues, including candidature, is one of the reasons why BJP suffered a setback in Asansol and Kharagpur, party sources said. On April 17 and 20, Modi had addressed public meetings at these two places. On April 23, amid mounting Covid-19 cases, Modi addressed a virtual rally for Birbhum, Calcutta, Murshidabad and Malda. In Birbhum, the BJP lost four of the five Assembly segments that it had taken leads in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In Calcutta, the BJP lost the Jorasanko and Shyampukur seats where it had an edge in the 2019 parliamentary elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: State BJP finger at poll managers from outside ||After the defeat in Bengal, some state BJP leaders are blaming the party’s policy to field “bohiragwato (outsiders)” to handle the elections in the state, along with “continuous interference” by the national leaders. Senior state BJP leaders said apart from their failure to polarise Hindu voters and convince women voters, those who came from other states to manage the poll machinery in each constituency contributed to the BJP’s rejection. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee understood the issue of the outsiders and alerted the people of Bengal in each of her campaign rallies, they said. “People did not consider our Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union home minister Amit Shah to be outsiders. But they felt hundreds of unknown Hindi-speaking people who were fielded to manage the polls as outsiders,” a BJP state committee member said. “In the last three phases when Mamata started campaigning against BJP’s outsiders and accused them of spreading Covid-19, it struck a chord with the people,” he added. BJP leaders said had state leaders handled the campaign, the party would have done much better and the 2019 Lok Sabha leads in 121 Assembly segments could have been converted into seats. Party sources said hundreds of leaders and workers of both the BJP and the RSS were brought from places like Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha to work as poll managers. A team of five to ten such outsiders were fielded for each constituency of Bengal to guide local leaders in the outreach programmes in villages on how to promote the agenda of polarisation. “Those people from other states became the leaders of the local leaders. These outsiders were unaware of local culture, ethics and livelihood of the people of Bengal but held meetings in villages to push the BJP’s agenda. Language was a major issue as these leaders could not speak or understand Bengali properly,” said a senior BJP leader. Several BJP leaders in districts like Jhargram, Birbhum and Hooghly admitted the outsiders did not allow local leaders to push issues they felt were close to the people. “They were predetermined on polarisation...They forced us to campaign for polarisation and how Hindu voters will be benefited if BJP came to power. Here, there are many pockets where Hindus and Muslims live peacefully and both participate in festivals of each other. The people of those areas rejected us,” said a BJP leader in Birbhum. Multiple leaders The Telegraph spoke to blamed the leaders that the saffron camp parachuted from Delhi and other parts of India. Two leaders against whom there was immense rage were the party’s national general secretary and minder for Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya and its IT cell chief and co-minder for the state Amit Malaviya. Party sources held Vijayvargiya guilty of opening floodgates to turncoats and Malaviya for intervening in every minute detail. Malaviya’s attitude to have his way in everything didn’t allow him to take suggestions from workers of the state. He defied state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh at times, said insiders. “Kailashji had a no-bar policy when it came to inducting turncoats into the party. He would not do background checks,” said a state secretary of BJP. Apparently, Vijayvargiya played a key role in selecting candidates for most of  the 294 seats, and most of his picks lost. Party old-timers were furious over candidates in many seats. The discontents led to days of protests. State leaders met these agitators and the matter was pushed under the carpet. But the final results have a different story to tell. Several old BJP workers told this paper that results indicated sabotage. “Our honest workers felt cheated when the Trinamul leaders were brought to the party and given tickets. Their votes clearly didn’t go to the BJP,” a BJP source said. Sources said Malaviya was so confident about BJP’s win that he even interfered with the food menu prepared for journalists and party workers present at BJP’s election office on Sunday. He insisted on keeping only vegetarian food. When some state leaders tried to reason with him that it was the traditional to eat non-vegetarian food on special occasions in Bengal, he shrugged them off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Binay claims his faction of GJM is 'single largest party' in the hills ||Binay Tamang on Monday claimed before journalists that his faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha was the “single largest party” in the hills and rolled out poll figures to drive home his point. Tamang’s decision to assert the figures before the media is seen as an attempt to send a message to Mamata Banerjee that his faction is now more popular than Bimal Gurung’s faction. In Darjeeling hills, the BJP won the Assembly seats of Darjeeling and Kurseong while the Binay Tamang camp won the Kalimpong seat. In the three hill seats, a total of 4,98,983 votes were cast. “Poll figures suggest that we are the single largest party in the hills as the BJP was in alliance with five other parties and they polled only seven per cent of votes more than us,” said Tamang in the news meet. The BJP is in alliance with the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF), the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM), a faction of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL), the Gorkhaland Rajya Nirman Morcha (GRNM) and the SUMETE Mukti Morcha (SuMuMo). The most significant ally of BJP, however, is the GNLF. Figure suggests that the BJP alliance polled 39.2 per cent of the total votes cast in the hills followed by Binay Tamang’s Morcha at 32.9 per cent and the rival Gurung faction of Morcha at 20.6 per cent. The Gurung faction was supported by hill Trinamul though the Bengal state leadership remained silent on this development. With Trinamul storming to power in Bengal, Mamata’s support is crucial for both Tamang and Gurung, who are both allies of Trinamul. Observers believe that the Tamang camp has reasons to “feel good” with their performance this time as they had, before 2021, never won any major election since the faction was formed in 2017. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Tamang’s faction had polled only around 20 per cent of the total votes cast in the hills compared to 70 per cent of votes that went to BJP alliance, which also included Gurung faction, then. “Many were of the opinion that the Tamang camp would never be politically accepted in the hills as they were termed betrayers (allegedly responsible for derailing the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation),” said a hill observer, adding that the figures now tell a different story. “So one can understand the assertion being made by Tamang today,” the observer added. In the last 14 years, Gurung’s faction had never faced such a rout like this, relegated to the third position. “Gurung must accept that he is losing relevance in hill politics. He is no longer a factor,” said Tamang. However, many believe Gurung’s political obituary cannot be written this early. “Election to local bodies such as the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) or even civic bodies are fought and won on different issues. Hence, one cannot completely write off Gurung from hill politics, even though he has much ground to recover,” said a political analyst from the hills. Poll figures also suggest that Darjeeling town overwhelmingly supported the BJP alliance. “However, the moot question is will apolitical people who voted for BJP in the Assembly polls vote the same in local elections?” asked the analyst. GNLF leaders maintain that going by the results, the “silent majority” was with the GNLF. Many believe that the GNLF made significant inroads within the Darjeeling municipality area but its rural presence needs to be stronger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Defeated TMC trio vow to work for party||Three members of Mamata Banerjee’s second cabinet who tasted defeat in north Bengal this time have decided to focus on the party's affairs and are awaiting instructions from their party chief about their role in the days ahead. Veteran Trinamul leaders who were also state ministers — Gautam Deb (tourism), Rabindranath Ghosh (north Bengal development) and Binoy Krishna Barman (backward classes welfare) — lost to BJP candidates this time, including two Trinamul turncoats. While Deb lost by 27, 593 votes to Shikha Chatterjee, who had walked out of Trinamul in 2018, in Dabgram-Fulbari, Jalpaiguri. Ghosh lost by 23,440 votes to Mihir Goswami, who left Mamata’s camp last year, in Natabari seat of Cooch Behar. Barman, on the other hand, lost to Sukumar Roy, a BJP old-timer, by 14,615 votes in the Cooch Behar North seat. “People have not voted for us this time. We have tried our best but there had to be some lapses. Our party will surely try to find out what led to such results because in terms of development, what the Mamata Banerjee government has done for Cooch Behar or for north Bengal as whole, cannot be matched by any other government,” said Ghosh, considered the most prominent Trinamul leader in Cooch Behar. Party insider said the change of reins in the party in Cooch Behar — Partha Pratim Roy replacing Ghosh as the district president — was a reason. “He (Roy) could never properly fulfil his responsibilities. Instead, infighting in Trinamul became more acute,” said a party leader. The Trinamul insider said even Bangshibadan Barman, the leader of Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association, had lamented on Sunday that the feud between Roy and Ghosh led to this debacle of Trinamul winning only two of nine seats in Cooch Behar. Deb, considered the tallest Trinamul leader in north Bengal, said he would focus on the party. “The BJP has won a number of seats in and around Darjeeling district. We need to rebuild our base, and find out as to why, despite so much development work, we failed to draw support,” Deb said. Deb’s defeat has also come as a jolt for stakeholders of the tourism industry because during his two tenures, as NB development minister and tourism minister, he was instrumental in augmenting infrastructure for tourism, the sector that generates even more employment than tea these days. “We’d always get his help. We don’t know who will get tourism and NB development portfolios, and if they will at all be north Bengal leaders,” said a tour operator in Siliguri. Another major loss for Trinamul was Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury, who lost to Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury of the BJP in Malda’s Englishbazar seat by 20,099 votes. “Sabitri Mitra (another senior Trinamul leader), could make a comeback this time after her defeat in 2016. He (Choudhury) however, couldn’t, unlike his bête noire Nihar Ranjan Ghosh who won from Chanchal in Malda this time,” said an observer. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
04-05-2021||West Bengal||Assembly polls 2021: Central Bengal dashes BJP’s hopes||Six districts of central Bengal with 94 seats turned out to be crucial contributors to Mamata Banerjee’s sweep in the Assembly elections by adding to the BJP’s disappointment as the saffron camp had hoped to double its seat count from that cluster in comparison to 2019. The districts are East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Birbhum, Murshidabad, Hooghly and East Midnapore, where the BJP was leading in 25 Assembly segments in the Lok Sabha elections of 2019 and was expecting to at least double that — on the basis of polarisation — this time given the extensive campaign at the grassroots by the saffron camp. The BJP had estimated a stellar performance especially in districts such as West Burdwan, Hooghly and Birbhum, according to sources in the party’s state committee. But the BJP not only failed to double the tally of 25 from the six districts but also slumped to 19. “We expected at least 50 from the 72 of the five districts other than the minority-dominated Murshidabad (with 22 seats). Trinamul had leads in 65 from the 94 segments in 2019. This time, we got 19, Trinamul got 73, with two seats in Murshidabad yet to go to the polls (as candidates succumbed to Covid-19),” said a state BJP functionary. In districts such as Hooghly and West Burdwan, the BJP was hoping it had done enough by way of polarisation. In East Midnapore, it was confident that Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari’s defection would be enough for a sweep. The results showed otherwise. “This was a body blow for us. We were expecting a minimum of 16 from Hooghly’s 18, for instance. We got only four. We expected all nine seats in West Burdwan. We got only four. We expected more than five out of 11 in Birbhum. We got one. We expected all 16 in East Midnapore (Adhikari’s home turf). We got only six,” said the BJP functionary. Several BJP insiders said since the spectacular performance of the party in 2019, the leadership, right down to the grassroots, had developed an “attitude problem”. “Without even coming to power in the state, the arrogance of a long-time ruling party was conspicuous among leaders of this belt. That arrogance came from the overconfidence, regarding coming to power,” said a senior BJP leader. “There was also unacceptable highhandedness from the rank and file of the party, which the people disliked immensely…. Also, the MPs did little or no work for the constituencies in these two years,” he added. “There was also tremendous bickering between the old and the new leaders in the party. There was angst against Trinamul turncoats getting prominence and easy candidature in the BJP.” Trinamul leaders of the districts held several other factors responsible. “First of all, and this is most important… polarisation did not work. That’s true for most of Bengal. That’s true for this belt. Bengal’s Hindus simply did not get swayed by the Hindutva pitch and firmly denied the BJP,” said Debu Tudu, a senior Trinamul leader in East Burdwan. “Also, most of Bengal, including this belt, rejected the saffron bohiragawto (outsider),” he added. Several leaders in districts with considerable agricultural population, such as Hooghly and East Burdwan, said the Narendra Modi government’s contentious farm laws and the BJP’s treatment meted out to protesting farmers at Delhi’s borders did not go down well. “Irrespective of the relevance of these laws to Bengal, the general anti-farm, anti-farmer perception of Modi and the BJP took roots here,” said a Trinamul leader in Hooghly. Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal said women usually ignored by parties in India but a key area of focus by Mamata throughout were wowed and won over in large numbers, which paid rich electoral dividends. “Besides all other schemes that help women, such as Kanyashree and Rupashree, the schemes of the past year, like Duare Sarkar and universal Swasthya Sathi, in which women were prioritised made a great deal of difference,” he said. “Ultimately, the people were won over by unnayan (development) that Didi (Mamata) was able to ensure for each and every family,” Mondal added. However, most from the BJP were willing to go on record regarding these factors yet. The BJP’s state committee member Subir Nag, a leader from Hooghly, said he was unaware of the reasons for the debacle in the belt. “I would say the BJP was not rejected,” he said. “But it’s undeniable that most of its candidates, a group of its leaders, they were rejected by the people,” Nag was quick to add.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-78
