05-05-2021||West Bengal||Violence taking place in those areas where BJP won: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday that violence and clashes were taking place in those areas where the BJP won the elections. Speaking to reporters at state secretariat Nabanna, Banerjee said that most of the videos of violence being shared on social media were either fake or old. "I have noticed that violence and clashes are taking place in those areas where the BJP have won the elections. These places can be seen as black spots," she said. The chief minister said that when these incidents happened, the law and order was under the Election Commission. "The law and order in West Bengal deteriorated in the last three months. There were some sporadic incidents and not all were real, most were fake. BJP is showing old videos," she claimed. "I will appeal to all political parties to stop this. You have been torturing people since the elections and now, stop this. Or else, law will take its course. Bengal is a land of peace, heritage and here we stay in peace with people from every section of the society," she added. Hours after taking oath as the chief minister, Banerjee held a top-level meeting with senior officials of the state government, including Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and Home Secretary HK Dwidevi on the present law and order situation. She said that all the district magistrates and SPs were asked to strictly deal with any emerging situation. "If someone is found involved in any incident, we will deal with it very strictly. We are not going to tolerate any lawlessness here," Banerjee said. The state government also reinstated Virender, who is about to retire at the end of this month, as the Director- General of Police and Jawed Shamim as the ADG (Law and Order), the chief minister said. Both the officers were removed from their respective posts by the Election Commission ahead of the polls. While the EC removed Virendra, stating that he should not be given any post which directly or indirectly relates to the conduct of polls, Shamim was made DG (Fire Services) with the additional charge of DG (Civil Defence). Nirajnayan, who was made the DGP, has been transferred as DG (Fire Services), she said. ADG (Law and order) Jag Mohan has been made Director of Civil Defence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal|| Mamata Banerjee introduces stricter curbs to contain rising Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced more measures to contain the spread of coronavirus cases in the state. Under the new restrictions, local trains will be suspended from Thursday, and from Friday onwards those entering the state will have to show a negative Covid test report. Airport authorities were asked to set up quarantine facilities to take in passengers. “There won't be a total lockdown. Emergency and essential services will be outside the purview of restrictions,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. She had chaired a meeting on Wednesday immediately after taking oath as the chief minister of Bengal. Metro rail and government-run transport services will be curtailed by 50 per cent from Thursday, the CM added. Passengers entering Bengal via long-distance trains, inter- state buses must carry RT-PCR negative report, she said. Offices in the state will now operate with only 50 per cent capacity. Banks will operate from 10 am to 2 pm as part of the new restrictions. The state administration has also requested private firms to encourage work from home, the CM said. "Local trains will be suspended from tomorrow. State-run transport and metro services will be reduced by 50 per cent. Starting May 7, air passengers will be allowed in Bengal only if they carry RT-PCR negative report, which is not older than 72 hours prior to boarding," the chief minister said addressing a press conference. Stand-alone shops will remain open for three hours in the morning -- from 7 am to 10 am -- and two hours in the evening, 5 pm to 7 pm. Jewellery shops will function from noon to 3 pm. Mamata alleged that the state was not receiving enough vaccines, but assured the people of Bengal that the authorities were “managing the oxygen situation”. “Transport workers, hawkers and journalists will get priority when it comes to vaccines,” she said. Days ago, the government had announced a partial lockdown in the state, ordering bars and restaurants indefinitely closed from May 1 and announced some other restrictions to contain the spread of Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee takes oath as Chief Minister for third consecutive term||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee was Wednesday sworn-in as the chief minister of West Bengal for the third consecutive term after securing a massive mandate, and vowed to not "give respite" to those behind political violence sweeping the state since the election results were announced. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administered her the oath of office and secrecy at a low-key ceremony at Raj Bhavan held amid the raging COVID pandemic. Mamata took the oath in Bengali language. She is the 21st chief minister of West Bengal and 8th person to hold the office. The oath-taking ceremony was held even as the BJP, which has emerged as the main opposition party in the state, held a protest at its Hastings office against attacks on its workers allegedly by the TMC since Sunday night. The party has claimed several of its workers were killed and party offices set on fire and vandalised. Party president J P Nadda and state unit chief Dilip Ghosh were present. Mamata alone was sworn-in on Wednesday and her cabinet will be expanded with the induction of other ministers on May 9, the birth anniversary of Bengali cultural icon nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, TMC sources said. "Our first priority is to control the Covid situation," she said after taking the oath. Mamata said she will hold a meeting on the pandemic situation at state secretariat Nabanna soon after leaving Raj Bhavan. Referring to incidents of violence which have reportedly claimed the lives of several BJP and TMC workers, Banerjee said, "I will tackle law and order from today and deal with these sternly. This is my second priority." "We will not give respite to anyone (perpetrators of violence), and do everything to restore law and order," she told journalists after taking oath. She urged all political parties to help maintain peace and order. Congratulating Mamata on assuming office for a third time, Dhankhar expressed hope and expectation that she will govern the state according to the Constitution and rule of law. "We are at the moment in a very difficult crisis," Dhankhar said, adding he has brought the issue of post-poll violence to the notice of the chief minister. "Our first priority is to end the horrendous and senseless violence that has affected society at large. Post-poll violence, if it is retributive, is antithetical to democracy," said Dhankhar, who has repeatedly pulled up the state government over the violence and has had a running feud with Mamata over several issues. The governor said he hopes that the chief minister will, on an urgent basis, take all steps to restore the rule of law and ensure that relief reaches those who have been affected, particularly women and children. "I would also expect from the new government a new commitment, a new approach of cooperative federalism," he said, addressing the media after the brief oath-taking ceremony at the Throne Room, as the chief minister stood beside. He urged Mamata to rise to the occasion and expressed the hope that she will do it, while contending that it is not usual for a person to get a third term in a row. "There are occasions when a state faces crisis, we have to rise above partisan interests," he said, while addressing Mamata as his sister. After the governor had concluded, Mamata said she had taken charge "just now" and that the police administration was run by the Election Commission for three months. She said some political parties were indulging in atrocities in places where they won. While the BJP has accused the TMC of targeted attacks against its workers and vandalisation of its offices, the ruling party has also claimed that its supporters were attacked and killed at places where the saffron party won. Hinting at a change in the police administration, Mamata said, "I will form a new set up and ensure that no one (indulging in violence) is spared." The Election Commission had transferred several police officers during the election process, including the state DGP and ADG (law and order) and SPs of a number of districts. Mamata claimed there was inefficiency as the police administration was not under her government for the last three months. Nadda, meanwhile, led another oath ceremony at the Hastings office of the BJP where its leaders vowed to protect democracy and save the people of West Bengal from the vicious cycle of political violence. "I am going to districts like North 24 Parganas to be by the side of our members who were at the receiving end of brutal violence not witnessed in Independent India. We want to tell the entire country about this," Nadda said. Apart from senior TMC leaders like Partha Chatterjee and Subrata Mukherjee, poll strategist Prashant Kishor, who played a key role in TMC's victory, and Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee were present. Leaders of Opposition parties including the BJP, the Left and the Congress did not attend the ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal Trinamul agog over new faces in cabinet ||As Nabanna gears up to welcome Mamata Banerjee for her third term as Bengal chief minister on Wednesday, north Bengal’s Trinamul leaders and workers are anxious to know who would be the region’s leaders to form a part of her new cabinet. In north Bengal, Mamata’s party managed to secure 23 seats, almost double compared to the party’s performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and equal to what it had bagged in the 2016 Assembly elections. However, unlike 2011 or 2016, talks are more intense now as three former Trinamul ministers from north Bengal — Gautam Deb, Rabindranath Ghosh and Binoy Krishna Barman — have lost the polls. In contrast, this is the first time that Trinamul bagged many seats in Malda and North Dinajpur and routed the Congress from there, said a political observer. Also, Bachchu Hansda, the former Trinamul MLA of Tapan in South Dinajpur and a minister of state in Mamata’s second cabinet, was replaced by a new candidate this time. The party’s only old face in the region who won this time was also a minister of state, Golam Rabbani, from Goalpokhor in North Dinajpur. “That is why there’s more curiosity among our party workers and supporters on who will be inducted into the cabinet from north Bengal and what their portfolios will be,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Malda. After Mamata formed her government in 2011, she created the north Bengal development department for the region. Gautam Deb and Rabindranath Ghosh led this department in her first two terms. MLAs from Cooch Behar were given departments such as forest and backward classes’ welfare. In 2016, Deb got tourism — a sector which Mamata always stressed on and which has managed to generate many jobs since 2011. In Malda, where Trinamul won eight of 12 seats — the party had drawn a blank here in 2016 — party insiders feel the district should get two cabinet ministers and two ministers of state. “The NB development department, minority development affairs, horticulture and labour are some portfolios that we feel should come to MLAs elected from the district,” said a party insider. There is a similar feeling in the twin Dinajpurs, where Trinamul has won 11 of 15 seats. “Now that top leaders in the northern districts of north Bengal have lost, we believe there are competent MLAs in our districts who should make it to the cabinet,” said a Trinamul leader in Balurghat. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda and Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Jaigaon traders hit by Bhutan Covid curbs||Over 2,000 traders from across India who ran their businesses at Jaigaon in Alipurduar — the town that shares borders with Bhutan and has Phuentsholing, its commercial capital on the other side — have left for their home states, and at least 1,000 more are preparing to leave. The reason: for over a year now, their businesses have dried up, courtesy curbs in trans-border movement of people between India and Bhutan amid the Covid 19 pandemic. These traders came from states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Maharastra and Rajasthan, and displayed and sold their wares on pavement tables and from rented shops and godowns near the Bhutan gate. Rama Shankar Gupta, secretary of the Jaigaon Merchant Association, said business at this bordering town always stayed dependent on Bhutanese nationals who had formed the major chunk of buyers. “Along with them were thousands of Indians who work in different sectors of Bhutan. Ever since this pandemic hit the region, movement through the Bhutan gate has stopped and has hit business in Jaigaon. That is why many traders, who had opened businesses of various scales and sizes here, have started winding up and leaving for their own states,” said Gupta. Altogether, there are around 6,000 medium scale traders in Jaigaon. Among them, barely 20 per cent open their shops these days. The rest keep their shops closed for lack of customers. “Many traders are finding it tough to get funds to pay rent and other charges of shops and godowns. Many can’t pay loan instalments for their commercial properties to banks. This past one year, they somehow managed to live off their savings. The second wave of the pandemic left them with hardly any option but to leave,” said Rakesh Pandey, secretary of the Kalchini Block Chamber of Commerce. He said many want to sell off their properties but can’t find buyers. Sanjay Chaubey, who hails from Bihar, and along with some 400 others, ran a makeshift stall near the Bhutan gate, selling cosmetics and artificial jewellery. For the past one year, he somehow lived off his savings. Now, he says his savings are drying up and he is worried about how to feed his family of four, including wife and two children. “You won’t find a single trader near the gate now. There is no indication when things will be back to normal. My savings are drying up and I have decided to return to my native village with my family. The children are disappointed as their studies will be hampered, but I have no other option,” said Chaubey. The pandemic and curbs across the border have also affected people such as auto drivers and rickshaw pullers. “Jaigaon would buzz with economic activity. But for the past one year, as no one comes from Bhutan, the city wears a deserted look,” said a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Clamour rises for a government role for Gautam Deb||The defeat of Gautam Deb has made some party workers demand that Trinamul’s central leadership should find a way to induct him into the state government’s machinery so that he continues to work for the region. A senior Trinamul leader in Siliguri said Mamata Banerjee was the first chief minister to focus on north Bengal and Deb implemented her decisions. “During her governance, the region underwent a sea change in terms of connectivity, education and healthcare facilities, tourism infrastructure and socio-economic uplift of the poor. Even those in the Opposition can’t deny it. But we must not forget that the person instrumental in implementing her decisions for the region was Gautam Deb. He toiled hard to execute projects, travelled across the region to hasten social welfare schemes and stood by people,” the leader said. This is why many party workers in Siliguri, Jalpaiguri and north Bengal as a whole, want Deb in an important nominated post so that he can continue to deliver, he said. A party leader in South Dinajpur said though Deb lost in his seat Dabgram-Fulbari, he was one of the principal campaigners in North and South Dinajpur districts, where the party performed very well. In South Dinajpur, Trinamul won four of six seats. In North Dinajpur, the party emerged victorious in seven of nine seats. “After election was over in his seat, he went to these districts and  campaigned consistently, reaching out to people at the micro level. His contribution can’t be denied,” the Trinamul leader said. Party insiders also pointed out that in Trinamul, Deb is one of those few leaders with acceptance in all north districts. In 2011, he held the north Bengal development department — a new department that Mamata formed — and in the first five years, proved his abilities by executing a series of projects, including roads and other infrastructure. In the second term, Mamata shifted him to tourism. “It was a challenge but he accepted it because tourism has been one of Mamata Banerjee’s priorities. He came up with major tourism projects and promoted homestays that  created a new means of livelihood for thousands in remote villages of the hills and foothills,” said a former bureaucrat who served the department. Deb said he would serve as a simple party worker and wait for further orders. “I was asked to change my seat (for the polls) but I refused. I will always be there for the people of Dabgram-Fulbari and Siliguri,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Post-election violence breaks out in several places||Post-poll violence has broken out in several places in Bengal but instead of seeking to calm tempers, the Right-wing ecosystem is profiling alleged victims and attackers by religion and building a tempo to derail the mandate of 2021 and create an impression that the state has become a fit case for President’s rule. Since the results were declared on Sunday, 17 deaths have been attributed to political clashes. The BJP has said nine of its supporters were killed, Trinamul six and the Sanjukta Morcha two. BJP national president J.P. Nadda reached Calcutta on Tuesday on a two-day visit amid a high-pitched social media campaign across the country by the saffron camp — replete with religious references and spiced up with some fake visuals. As soon as he landed, Nadda drew parallels between the political clashes and the Partition. Nadda’s visit appeared to be part of a well-crafted 360-degree plan as the social media — along with pliant sections of the visual media — was used to target Mamata Banerjee. Mamata, who has already appealed for peace, will take full charge as chief minister only on Wednesday. Till Monday, the state was under the watch of the Election Commission. Two separate PILs were filed in the Supreme Court on Tuesday, seeking deployment of central paramilitary forces and a CBI probe into the alleged attacks on Opposition party workers. Violence in any form on anyone cannot be condoned. Well-meaning citizens have done so too. Consider the contrasting tones in which actor Parambrata Chattopadhyay and defeated BJP candidate Swapan Dasgupta have reacted to the reports of violence. “Nothing justifies violence, irrespective of the number of incidents. Perpetrators should be brought to justice. Urge @AITCofficial (Trinamul Congress) to send out a strong message to the workers and set an example. It’s been a resounding mandate, let’s respect that!” Chattopadhyay tweeted, seeking to ensure peace. The actor added: “Humiliated by the drubbing they’ve been given recently, RW (Right wing) forces have resorted to the oldest trick in their book; spreading fake news (some of which have been busted too) and communalising political events. Don’t fall for it, Bengal and India.” Mentioning the religion of the victims, Dasgupta tweeted on Monday night: “Alarming situation in Nanoor (Birbhum district) with more than a thousand Hindu families out in the fields to escape marauding mobs seeking to take it out against BJP supporters. Reports of molestation or worse of women. @AmitShah please rush some security to the area.” Bengal has a condemnable history of post-poll violence wherein the victors and the vanquished had been clashing for decades. But never before had the narrative on these clashes been spun along the identities of those involved. It is a diabolic misadventure. If the complexion of the political clashes changes overnight and they become sectarian, the consequences will be disastrous. If the pre-poll plan was to divide the voters along Hindu-Muslim lines to ensure the majority community votes for the BJP’s nominees, it became clear from Sunday night that the focus, in the aftermath of a landslide in favour Mamata, is to paint Muslims as aggressors and Hindus as victims. Muslims are attacking BJP supporters and their properties — multiple BJP leaders have been parroting to journalists. Social media posts are loaded with allegations against Muslims. The attackers include both Muslims and Hindus but to profile one community alone is playing with fire during an unfolding situation. Besides, the pre-poll weeks were marked by extreme provocation by the Right wing that taunted the minority community with slogans and worse on the hope that riots will break out and polarise the voters. Bengal saw through such attempts and peace held till the polls were over. It is possible that a backlash is now underway, which can be checked only through mature and prudent interventions by the leaders of all sides. What the Right wing tried to accomplish through the day on Tuesday was to shovel fuel into the fire, showing themselves up as not only poor but also irresponsible losers. Even as the people of Bengal were trying to figure out what was happening, the allegations got a dose of credibility after governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called him expressing his concerns over the law-and-order situation. Modi’s articulation of concern received a lot of traction but not many asked whether he had called up the governor to enquire about the Covid situation in the state. It is also clear that Nadda’s visit was planned as part of a strategy to make the clashes topical in prime time to manufacture consent in favour of President’s rule — a proposal the Right wing kept tossing up through the day. If the victims and the aggressors are being described along with their religious identities, there is little doubt that something sinister is going on. A case in point is the riots that Delhi witnessed in the immediate aftermath of the Delhi Assembly polls that the BJP lost. In the clashes that took place in the minority-dominated areas, which were the nerve centres of anti-citizenship act protests, at least 53 people lost their lives. Selective in mourning has been a consistent strategy of the BJP. When five people were killed in Sitalkuchi during the elections, the saffron ecosystem spoke only about the Hindu victim of a political clash while referring to four others, gunned down by the central forces, as trouble mongers who had attacked the forces. Other than offering condolences during an election speech in the immediate aftermath of the killings, neither Modi nor Shah expressed any regret on the deaths of four young, poor Muslims. But the BJP machinery didn’t waste any time to go to the town with the deaths of Hindus allegedly at the hands of Muslims. On Tuesday, BJP leaders like MPs Saumitra Khan and Agnimitra Paul posted on their social media handles that a woman party worker in Birbhum’s Nanoor had been gang-raped by Trinamul goons and the post was shared on the official Twitter handle of the Bengal BJP. At the local level, the campaign was that a Hindu woman, a BJP activist, had been gang-raped by Muslims. Later in the day, police confirmed that the claim was fake. An old clip from Odisha was circulated to suggest that Trinamul supporters were attacking a police team. The lie was nailed by a fact-checking portal. Trinamul, the party that won the elections with such a sweeping mandate, cannot shrug off blame for not being able to control the post-poll violence despite Mamata’s appeal to maintain peace. Supporters of the BJP alone have not been at the receiving end. Several Left and Congress supporters also have been attacked. The battle, however, is not about winning a war of words with the BJP’s spin-doctors. The real challenge is to defuse the bomb that has started ticking with the BJP focusing swiftly back on the state with renewed vigour after the shock drubbing. Mamata, as the head of the state administration, must not forget that her fight is not with the Left or the Congress and she cannot afford to give the BJP another toehold. With all the central agencies at its disposal, the majority of mass media under its command and the Raj Bhavan by its side, the BJP can spring a surprise in no time on the democratically elected government. Only appeals for maintenance of peace will not be enough and Mamata will have to act tough on the perpetrators of violence as well as those trying to use it to ensure further polarisation. With over 30 per cent Muslims in the state — a majority of whom come from economically vulnerable sections and have been spending sleepless nights since the upsurge of Hindu nationalism — Bengal cannot afford any riot. Mamata led Bengal in a battle that her party as well as the state won. Now, the onus lies on her to lead the state out of strife and into peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||South Bengal districts augment Covid care||With a fresh spike in Covid cases and deaths in south Bengal, local administrations have on an emergency basis taken up initiatives to increase the number of beds at state government hospitals. At the same time, initiatives have been taken to augment manpower at the hospitals to provide service to the patients in areas that have witnessed a sudden spike in Covid cases. Last week, the state government directed the hospitals to add 20 per cent more beds to its existing strength. This was decided during a meeting between the health directorate and all district chief medical officers. With the availability of vaccines dropped alarmingly and most of the vaccination centres in the region shut down temporarily, special emphasis was given on arranging patient care facilities. But in the wake of rapid growth in the positive cases, the administration in the districts were asked to accelerate the augmentation of Covid wards at the hospitals and arrange safe homes with sufficient numbers of supporting staff. In the past 24 hours, 17,639 new Covid cases were recorded in the state with 107 deaths. Among the south Bengal districts, North 24-Parganas leads the chart in the number of infections and deaths, followed by Nadia, Birbhum, Bankura, and Hooghly. In the past one week, 85 Covid patients died in North 24-Parganas. To contain the situation, the North 24-Parganas district administration has begun to increase Covid wards and safe homes on a war footing. District magistrate Sumit Gupta on Tuesday visited the Panihati state general hospital and preparations are on to add more beds for Covid patients. The district has at present 1,250 Covid beds and 14 safe homes with 760 beds, which will be up by another 100. “We have taken up a capacity augmentation programme for government-run hospitals on an emergency basis. We are trying our best to add more beds to the hospitals. Major hospitals like Barasat, Panihati and Basirhat will be adding more beds. The number of beds will be decided on depending on available infrastructure. At the same time, special emphasis has been taken up to add HDU and CCU beds for critical patients,” Gupta told The Telegraph. “At the same time, we have requested the private hospital to augment their capacity to add more beds as far as possible,” Gupta added. In Nadia, there are not enough beds at government hospitals as the number of patients is increasing alarmingly. On Monday, 587 new cases were reported. At present, Netaji Subhas Sanatorium & Tuberculosis Hospital in Kalyani is the only dedicated Covid hospital with a saturated capacity of 300 beds. To manage the situation, the district administration has added an average 25 beds for Covid patients at the Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar, Nabadwip state general hospital and Tehatta subdivisional hospital. However, questions have been raised for not utilising the wide infrastructure of the Ranaghat subdivisional hospital that has good HDU and CCU facilities. “We have sent proposals, but no approval in this regard has been received so far,” a health department official said in Krishnagar. In Birbhum, the district administration has launched a 200-bed Covid unit at the Suri super speciality hospital. It has also decided to introduce an exclusive 200-bed women hospital on the same premises. “We are hopeful to make it operational by next week,” an official said. At the same time Niramoy, a tuberculosis hospital in Dubrajpur which has been functioning as a safe home, was being converted into a Covid hospital. In Bankura, the district administration launched a 100-bed Covid ward at the Bankura Sammilani Medical College. The district administration also decided to convert some state-owned auditoriums into safe homes. In Hooghly, the district administration has been working fast to add at least 500 more beds to the existing infrastructure of the state-owned hospitals. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Three held in Malda with yaba tablets worth Rs 60 lakh||The special task force (STF) of the state arrested three suspected peddlers after a large consignment of “yaba” tablets worth around Rs 60 lakhs was seized from them in Malda on Monday night. Police sources said altogether 1.70 lakh yaba tablets — a combination of methamphetamine and caffeine — were seized from the trio, all residents of Murshidabad, from Baishnabnagar police station area in Malda town. The estimated price of the seized consignment is around Rs 60 lakhs, the police sources said. The yaba tablets are known to be popular among drug abusers and have huge demands in the neighbouring country of Bangladesh. “These tablets are usually brought from the northeast and smuggled to Bangladesh. A case under NDPS act has been initiated against the three suspected smugglers. We have also appealed for their custody as they need to be grilled to obtain more information,” said a police officer. The arrested trio have been identified as Enamul Haque and Golam Murtaja — both residents of Suti —and Saheb Sheikh, who hails from Samsherganj. In another incident, a 60-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping two minor girls of the same family in the Englishbazar area of Malda town. Madanmohan Roy, the inspector-in-charge of Englishbazar police station, said family members of the victims have alleged that the sexagenarian had raped the two girls on April 30. He was arrested following a complaint lodged by the families, Roy added. A wild adult tusker died after it was struck by lightning near the Jaldapara National Park in Alipurduar district on Monday night. Sources said two elephants had moved out of the park area and had entered a corn field at Khauchangpara village — adjacent to the Jaldapara National Park. As local people sighted the two elephants, they started bursting firecrackers to steer the animals back to the Jaldapara National Park. Soon, a team of foresters reached the village to steer back the tuskers. Forest sources said the elephants started moving and as the duo reached the ground of a local primary school, one of them was suddenly struck by lightning. “The jumbo fell on the ground and died on the spot. The other animal, however, managed to enter the forest safely,” said a forest source. On Tuesday, foresters used a recovery van and a tractor to carry the elephant back to the forest where the vets conducted its post-mortem. “The vets have confirmed that the elephant has died due to lightning,” said a senior forest officer. Additional reporting by Anirban Choudhury in Alipurduar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s ‘gang rape’ charge false: Cops||Police have started a probe against false information of a BJP worker’s gang rape in Birbhum’s Nanoor after the purported incident was mentioned by several party leaders, including MP Soumitra Khan and MLA Agnimitra Paul, in social media and widely circulated through the Twitter handle of Bengal BJP on Tuesday. Khan, the president of the Yuva Morcha, posted a picture of a woman without her face in his Twitter handle and claimed the BJP karyakarta had been gang raped by Trinamul goons at Nanoor. “BJP karyakarta who has been gang-raped by TMC goons at Nanoor, Birbhum. We are also getting distressing reports of rape and molestation from Pakurhansh, Nanoor,” the tweet that tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah read. The Bengal BJP official twitter handle also shared the tweet. The same post was shared by Paul on social media platforms. After the post went viral in social media and attracted many comments, Birbhum police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi said a probe had started to find whether the incident had happened. “We immediately started an investigation and spoke to Tarakeshwar Saha, the BJP candidate from Nanoor, and many others in the area to know whether any such reports were there. Finally, we came to know that it was fake news and done with an intention to spread violence and unrest in the area.” BJP district president Dhruba Saha, however, said: “A few party workers and media cell (reads IT cell) members told us about the incident. Now, there is no law and order problem here. So, the woman was refuting what happened to her. Thousands of homes have been ransacked and women attacked.” The SP also said no such incident of rape or gang rape had happened anywhere in the district. “We have asked the cybercrime department to look into it and find out where the news had generated. We will start a case of cybercrime against those who circulated it.” Police sources said primarily, a group of BJP workers had started claiming that such an incident had happened with a polling agent of the BJP in Nanoor’s Pakurhansh village. The police had traced her and inquired whether any such incident had happened “The woman did not confirm any such incident,” said a senior police officer. On Tuesday evening, Birbhum district president Anubrata Mondal held a press conference with the woman in question. “It was wrong news. A few of the Trinamul workers had threatened me and I went to another village out of fear. But what has been claimed did not happen with me. I have lodged a complaint with the police to take action against those who have circulated the news,” the woman said in the company of Mondal. He said the BJP was trying to play a dirty game and the party’s IT cell was trying to promote communal tension in the district. Former MP Swapan Dasgupta, who unsuccessfully contested from Hooghly’s Tarakeshwar, had also tweeted that thousands of Hindu families in Nanoor were trying to escape “marauding mobs”. Dasgupta’s claim was termed as fake by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Post-poll clashes on in 4 north Bengal districts||The spate of violence after the Assembly elections seems to be far from over in north Bengal, as Tuesday also witnessed a number of incidents from at least four districts of the region. In Malda, district BJP leaders alleged that in a number of locations, Trinamul supporters asked BJP booth committee presidents and other office bearers to leave their villages. “Goons backed by Trinamul have forced a number of workers of our party, including some from the minority community, to shut their shops. At least 15 booth committee presidents are quaking with fear as Trinamul supporters have asked them to leave their localities. In some villages, houses and shops of our workers have been ransacked and looted,” said Gobinda Mandal, Malda BJP chief. He alleged that attacks on BJP workers had been reported in Ratua and Manikchak Assembly seats of the district. Trinamul won both. On Tuesday, Mandal attended a video-conference with BJP national chief J.P. Nadda, where he gave a list of 30 BJP workers who faced attacks, sources said. Nadda reached Calcutta on Tuesday to take stock of the post-poll violence in Bengal. From Wednesday, Mandal said, block level leaders of the party have asked to visit the homes of affected workers. “I will also visit these areas. If attacks continue, we will launch demonstrations at police stations and block highways,” he said. The violence is not one-sided. Raja Roy, a Trinamul worker in Telipukur of Englishbazar police station in Malda, alleged some BJP supporters brandished firearms, ordering him to leave the area. “They asked me to campaign for the BJP at the polls. As I had refused, they charged at with firearms, asked me to leave immediately, or else face consequences,” said Roy. A complaint has been filed with the police, he said. In Jalpaiguri, violence erupted in Dhupguri and Rajganj blocks. On Tuesday, Gopal Roy, a BJP supporter of Baroghoria of Dhupguri alleged that while he was on his way to the railway station, some Trinamul supporters hit him with wooden planks on his head and he ended up with a skull fracture at Dhupguri block hospital. A group of Trinamul supporters organised a rally in Haripal Colony of Rajganj to celebrate the victory of their candidate Khageswar Roy, who won for the fourth time. As the rally was on, some suspected BJP supporters pelted bricks and stones at people and attacked them with rods and sticks. At least three Trinamul supporters were injured. Triggered Trinamul supporters ransacked houses of a couple of BJP supporters. Police rushed to the spot and managed to bring the situation under control. In Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district, both Trinamul and BJP supporters alleged that their houses had been ransacked, and blamed the other. In Maruganj of the same subdivision, supporters of both sides clashed again, leaving at least five injured. Police had to rush to a number of locations to control the sporadic clashes. The situation, however, was peaceful in the Chopra block of North Dinajpur on Tuesday. Chopra saw violence right after the election results were out. Suspected Trinamul supporters had ransacked a number of markets from Sunday night to Monday morning, and had torched a BJP leader’s house on Sunday night. Throughout Tuesday, the police and central forces held route marches in the area. Additional security forces have been deployed in the block to prevent any further breach of peace, sources have said. Around 300-400 BJP workers from Bengal along with their family members have crossed over to neighbouring Assam to escape post-result violence, according to senior cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. Sarma tweeted the development on Tuesday night. “In a sad development 300-400  @BJP4Bengal karyakartas and family members have crossed over to Dhubri in Assam after confronted with brazen persecution & violence. We’re giving shelter & food. @MamataOfficial Didi must stop this ugly dance of demonocracy! Bengal deserves better.” The Assam-Bengal inter-state border is about 127km, spanning two lower Assam districts, Kokrajhar and Dhubri. There are two inter-state check gates to enter Assam from Bengal — Srirampur in Kokrajhar and Chagolia-Boxirhat in Dhubri. BJP workers and family members have not come on road, Dhubri SP Anand Mishra told The Telegraph. “They started arriving in ones and twos since Sunday but the numbers increased from Monday night. They have come through fields and nallahs  from neighbouring Cooch Behar district in Bengal. The district administration, NGOs and local villagers have extended relief. They will also be tested for Covid,” Mishra said. Additional reporting by our Guwahati correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu stays off Nandigram apprehending agitation by Trinamul workers||Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, had to cancel a meeting with BJP leaders in his East Midnapore Assembly segment on Tuesday apprehending agitation by Trinamul Congress workers. There has been widespread violence in Nandigram — both in block 1 and block 2 — since election results were declared on Sunday. “More than 300 BJP leaders and workers had to flee homes in Nandigram as Trinamul supporters unleashed terror in the area. Hundreds of homes of BJP supporters were ransacked and even women were beaten up. The problem started only because Trinamul could not accept the defeat of the chief minister,” said a BJP leader. Trinamul leaders on the other hand said residents of Nandigram could not accept the defeat of the chief minister as Suvendu had manipulated the election results. “Suvendu was supposed to hold a meeting with BJP leaders in Nandigram today (Tuesday) in the backdrop of a series of violent incidents in the area. But he cancelled the meeting apprehending that the situation could turn worse if he entered the area now,” a source in the BJP said. “He spoke to some of our leaders over telephone and promised to extend all kinds of help to them. Suvendu said those who had to flee villages would be given shelter by him. It was a strategy to stay away from Nandigram right now,” added the source. Trinamul leader Abu Taher said Suvendu would face agitation by common people if he tried to enter Nandigram. “Lakshman Seth could not enter Nandigram since 2007 after he had betrayed Nandigram. Suvendu will face the same situation if he tries to come to Nandigram as common people don’t accept his win as it has been manipulated,” said Taher. Meghnad Pal, the election agent of Suvendu, said as the situation was not normal, it was not possible for the newly elected MLA to visit Nandigram. “We have requested police to bring the situation under control. Once the situation becomes normal, he will visit his constituency,” said Pal. An all-party meeting was held at Nandigram police station on Tuesday to restore peace in the area. All the parties, including Trinamul and the BJP, agreed to work to restore peace. “But it is getting tough to bring the situation under control because Suvendu had campaigned in a very provocative way ahead of the polls,” said Taher, who attended the meeting. Trinamul workers continued to stage demonstration in front of the counting centre in Haldia on Tuesday demanding recounting of votes in Nandigram. The wrath of the Trinamul workers was evident when Suvendu had reached the counting centre at Haldia to collect his winning certificate on Sunday night. A group of Trinamul workers had gheraoed Suvendu’s car and pelted the vehicle with stones. “The agitation was so violent that Suvendu could not get off his car and had to go back without receiving the winner certificate. Later, his election agent collected the certificate,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to take oath today ||Mamata Banerjee will take oath as the chief minister of Bengal for the third consecutive term at the Raj Bhavan here at 10.45am on Wednesday. Sources said the swearing-in would be a small ceremony which was likely to be attended by a limited number of invitees. “Only the chief minister is likely to take oath on Wednesday and members of her cabinet would be sworn in either later this week or early next week. All Covid-19 protocols will be followed during the programme,” said a source. According to sources, former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, CPM leader Biman Bose, Congress leaders like Abdul Mannan and Adhir Chowdhury and BJP leaders Dilip Ghosh and Manoj Tigga would be invited to attend Mamata’s swearing-in. After the inauguration, the chief minister is scheduled to leave for Nabanna where senior government officials will welcome her at the portico of the 15-storey state secretariat. The sources said Mamata might hold a meeting with senior government officials on the Covid-19 situation in the state. “The chief minister announced that her priority would be to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The chief minister is likely to take some decisions and measures to handle the situation firmly,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal poll results 2021: Tathagata Roy rant against actresses fielded by BJP||Internal bickering and allegedly inherent misogyny, two problems plaguing the beleaguered BJP, came to the fore yet again on Tuesday when veteran Tathagata Roy issued a contentious statement on Twitter. Roy, allegedly one of the many disheartened chief ministerial hopefuls in Bengal BJP, took to Twitter and went on a rant. He was critical not only of the BJP’s leadership, but also called several women party colleagues “nawgoreyr noti”, which literally means a foremost actress or danseuse of the city in Bengali. “Film and TV actors who never had anything to do with politics, let alone BJP, were handed tickets by BJP’s election management team. Parno Mitra (Baranagar), Srabanti Chatterjee (Behala West), Payel Sarkar (Behala East). These women were so politically stupid that they had gone on a steamer trip with TMC’s playboy-politician Madan Mitra less than a month before elections and shot selfies with him. All were roundly defeated. What great qualities were these women possessed of?” asked Roy. He later clarified that actress Tanusree Chakraborty, the BJP’s candidate in Shyampur, and not Parno, had taken a selfie with Trinamul’s Mitra. Roy was referring to a boat-party on the event of Dol Jatra, which was attended by Madan Mitra, Srabanti, Payel and Tanusree. The actresses were seen playing with colours and dancing with the Trinamul leader at the event. Roy was the chief of Bengal BJP and is a former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya who made his way back into active politics shortly ahead of the Bengal polls. The 75-year-old has, over the years, courted controversy with outrageous remarks. Sources said he had wanted to contest the Assembly polls, possibly from Bhowanipore. Roy also tweeted the same matter in Bengali, where he used “nawgoreyr noti” to describe the actresses, demanding answers from the key BJP leaders from the central leadership — Kailash Vijayvargiya, Shivprakash and Arvind Menon — besides state unit chief Dilip Ghosh. “It must not be forgotten that a BJP electoral ticket carries with it substantial money for running the election. Or for other purposes!” he added. According to several BJP sources, Roy had articulated the rage of large sections of the party. Many leaders and workers hold Vijayvargiya, the BJP’s Bengal minder and a national general-secretary, responsible for the debacle it faced in the polls. He played a major role in deciding who was to be fielded from where. “We would have scored much better if the choice of candidates was proper. Kailashji was one of those people who had suggested names of candidates to central leaders. What Tathagatada did is absolutely correct. These leaders are not above the party,” a BJP old-timer said, trying to play down the “nawgoreyr noti” part of the statement as an “emotional outburst”. Asked to react to Roy’s statement, state BJP chief Ghosh appeared visibly displeased. “I am not into the politics of running away. Someone can live in a world of his own imagination, but we are fighting in reality... this was an unequal fight. Yet, we have won a record number of seats (77 out of 294),” said Ghosh. “We are with the workers who have fought, endangering their very lives…. The process of change in Bengal, in the hands of the BJP, has begun. It will take place today or tomorrow,” he added. Some women in the BJP objected to Roy’s rant, albeit off-record. “Nawgoreyr noti? Politically stupid? It is a shame that the party did not come out in all-out condemnation of these remarks against women,” said a leader of the party’s women’s wing in the state. Reacting to Roy’s allegations, Srabanti demanded proof. “Does he have any proof…? How can he say such things about women? He is such a senior leader, he has been associated with BJP for so long,” she said. Trinamul’s Mitra called Roy out on his misogyny. “These people have not learned their lesson even now,” he said, referring to the pivotal role women voters played in shutting the door on the BJP. “This is a different soil. He can’t insult women like this here and get away with it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: Nadda draws Partition parallel||BJP’s national president J.P. Nadda, who reached Calcutta on Tuesday on a two-day visit to take stock of Bengal’s post-poll violence after Trinamul’s landslide victory, compared the situation to the Partition in 1947. Clashes erupted in various parts of the state after Sunday’s results, with at least 17 political workers getting killed, and many more wounded or threatened. The BJP claimed nine deaths while sources put the toll in the Trinamul camp at six and Sanjukta Morcha at two, after the May 2 results. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee on Monday had appealed for peace in the state. Focusing solely on Trinamul atrocities, Nadda told journalists after his arrival in Calcutta airport: “These incidents remind me of the time of Partition. The post-poll violence we are seeing in Bengal is shocking...In independent India, we’ve never heard of such post-poll violence.” Nadda added: “Our commitment is to fight this battle democratically. This is an ideological battle against Trinamul activities... I want to assure BJP workers of Bengal that crores of BJP workers across the country are with them.” Nadda visited three places in and around Calcutta where BJP workers have either died in violence or their homes were ransacked. At Gopalnagar in Narendrapur’s Kheyada in South 24-Parganas, Nadda met party workers who were attacked by goons with alleged Trinamul links. A few kilometres away in Sonarpur’s Pratapnagar-Motiary, Nadda met the family of Haran Adhikari who was beaten to death. He met the children of the deceased and said: “Chinta koro na (Don’t worry).” Later, Nadda met the ailing mother of Abhijit Sarkar, a resident of Calcutta’s Beleghata, who was allegedly dragged out of his house and lynched by Trinamul supporters. “You can hear the cries of Abhijit Sarkar’s mother. The people sitting at the helm of power here are trying to reject such grave issues by dubbing them stunts. BJP won’t tolerate this bloody politics just for the sake of being in power in Bengal…Mamata Banerjee thy name is intolerance…I’ll go everywhere, our workers will go everywhere and talk about these incidents and tell people that the next five years will go like this in the hands of Mamata Banerjee…She doesn’t represent the culture of Bengal…Intolerance thy name in Mamataji,” Nadda said after meeting Sarkar’s mother. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, former state president Rahul Sinha, MPs Locket Chatterjee and Bhupender Yadav accompanied Nadda on his visits. He also met party leaders of the state to discuss the future course of action. According to party sources, Nadda will visit Jagatdal to meet the family of Shobha Rani Mondal, mother of a BJP booth president, also allegedly killed by Trinamul workers on Wednesday. He may visit the family of Uttam Ghosh, a murdered BJP worker in Ranaghat. The BJP has made a list of 273 incidents where workers were attacked by alleged Trinamul goons, and claimed it was “the tip of the iceberg”. The saffron camp claimed so far nine of its workers were killed in post-result clashes. Responses from some senior BJP leaders to the violence also angered some state party leaders. Asansol MP Babul Supriyo, who lost the Assembly polls from Tollygunge, took to Twitter to say his car would be targeted if he tried to reach a worker who had been attacked, in a reply to a Tweet from one Prabhakar Pai who requested the MP for help. The MP wrote that the Trinamul “goons” were “out in open rioting” and the “police have tucked themselves inside. But trying sincerely”. Replying to Supriyo’s tweet, Tarunjyoti Tiwari, a state BJP spokesperson and member of the party’s youth wing, tweeted: “Car is important. @narendramodi (Narendra Modi) ji, @AmitShah (Amit Shah) ji, @blsantosh (BL Santosh) Ji @JPNadda (JP Nadda) ji you should increase the security of our leaders. Let Karyakartas die. You have taken them for granted. @KailashOnline (Kailash Vijayvargiya) @shivprakashbjp (Shivprakash) thanks for your wonderful selection of candidates. Namaste BHAISAAB” BJP has planned sit-ins against the violence in Bengal across the nation on May 5. In Bengal, every mandal (BJP’s smallest organisational unit) will take part in the sit-in. A stage had been put up for Nadda in front of the BJP’s Calcutta headquarters for the sit-in, but the police dismantled it, said party sources. Violence was directed at Trinamul workers too. On Tuesday, Trinamul worker Gopal Santra, 45, was killed and nine others were injured in a clash between the party and the BJP in Math-Chowtara village of Hooghly’s Tarakeshwar. On Monday, Srinibas Ghosh, a Trinamul worker in East Burdwan's Ketugram 1 block, was allegedly hacked to death by BJP workers, and three more Trinamul workers were injured. Abhijit Ghosh, the son of the deceased, filed a complaint with Ketugram police against 20 persons. The police have so far arrested five. Attacks on CPM workers also continued on Tuesday. Kakali Khetrapal, a CPM worker in East Burdwan’s Jamalpur, was allegedly hacked to death. A source said district leaders have not been able to reach Khetrapal’s family. “Central forces have cordoned off the entire village. We won’t be let in,” this source said. In Calcutta’s Kasba, a teacher couple — Arnab Bhattacharya and Tamali Jha — were allegedly targeted by Trinamul goons for being CPM supporters. Their home was vandalised, leaving the couple’s 14-year-old child in trauma. “Trinamul goons hurled bricks on Tuesday evening,” Arnab said. Tamali appealed on Facebook to Kasba’s Trinamul MLA Javed Ahmed Khan for security from Trinamul goons. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
