06-05-2021||West Bengal||Rs 2 lakh for kin of 16 killed in post-poll violence, says Mamata; promises jobs for Sitalkuchi families||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said 16 people have lost their lives in post-poll violence in the state and announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each for their families. Mamata, who was addressing the media, also said that her government would provide jobs of Home Guard to one family member each of all five persons killed in CAPF firing in Cooch Behar's Sitalkuchi area last month. “At least 16 persons - mostly from the BJP and the TMC and one of the Samyukta Morcha -- died in post-poll violence. We will pay a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to their family members. Our government will also provide jobs of home guard to the next of kin of Sitalkuchi victims," she said. She also added that a CID team had initiated a probe into the incident of firing in Cooch Behar that took place when the voting exercise was underway for the fourth phase of assembly elections, on April 10. Her announcements came in the backdrop of allegations that Union minister of state for external affairs  Murlidharan's car was attacked while he was visiting a village in West Midnapore to look into alleged post-poll violence. BJP chief J.P. Nadda also criticised the attack, claiming that "TMC-sponsored" violence was in full swing in Bengal  after the assembly poll results were declared. Condemning the attack, Nadda alleged that law and order has completely collapsed in Bengal. "If a Union minister can be attacked then what would be the condition of common man?" he asked. Mamata did not respond to Nadda’ specific allegation. But she took a swipe at the BJP, saying the saffron party was yet to come to terms with the people's mandate. She accused central leaders of inciting violence in the state. "Not even 24 hours have passed since I was sworn-in as the CM and letters, a central team have started arriving. This is because the BJP has not yet reconciled to the mandate of the common people. I will request the saffron party leaders to accept the mandate," she told reporters, referring to the Union home ministry’s announcement that a four-member team, headed by an additional secretary, was being sent to Bengal to look at all aspects of the post poll violence. Mamata said, “Please allow us to focus on the Covid situation. We do not want to engage in any squabble," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-05-2021||West Bengal||External Affairs minister V Muraleedharan's convoy attacked in Bengal||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan's car was vandalised at Panchkuri village in West Midnapore district on Thursday while he was visiting the area in connection with alleged post-poll violence on saffron party workers. Muraleedharan alleged in a tweet that the "TMC goons" were behind the attack on his convoy. "I went to West Midnapore to meet party workers who have been attacked and their homes were vandalised. I was moving from one house to another with my convoy and then all of a sudden a group of people started charging towards us and attacked," Muraleedharan said. "I am safe, but my driver was injured, few car windows were also smashed," the minister told PTI. BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha who was accompanying the minister claimed that the attack took place despite the presence of the police personnel. An officer of Kotwali police station in West Midnapore said that they are probing into the incident of the attack on the minister's convoy. "It happened at around 12.30 pm today when some unidentified people attacked the minister's convoy," he said. No one has been detained or arrested so far, the police officer said. Nadda slams attack  BJP president JP Nadda condemned the attack on Union Minister V Muraleedharan's convoy in West Bengal and claimed that "TMC-sponsored" violence was in full swing in state after the assembly poll results were declared. Condemning the attack, Nadda alleged that law and order has completely collapsed in Bengal. "If an Union minister can be attacked then what would be the condition of common man?" he posed. "TMC-sponsored violence is in full swing in West Bengal after assembly elections in the state," the BJP president alleged. He also claimed, "Murderous attacks on BJP workers, rapes happening in Bengal and people in thousands are fleeing to save lives."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Newly elected MLAs of Bengal being sworn in||The swearing-in ceremony for the newly elected legislators in Bengal got underway on Thursday morning, with pro-tem speaker Subrata Mukherjee administering the oath of office and secrecy to the MLAs. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee attended the ceremony for a short while before leaving for the state secretariat. The entire programme was held following COVID-19 protocols, an official said. At least 143 MLAs -- most of them from the assembly constituencies of Calcutta, North- and South-24 Parganas, Purba and Paschim Medinipur, Howrah, Hooghly and Jhargram -- are set to take oath on Thursday. Seventy-four of them would be sworn-in during the first half of the day, and the rest in the second half. So far, senior TMC leaders including Partha Chatterjee, Shashi Panja, Madan Mitra, Sovandeb Chattopadhyay and Nirmal Majhi have taken oath in the state assembly. No BJP representative, however, took part on Thursday. The oath-taking ceremony will continue till Saturday. The TMC has swept the just-concluded West Bengal assembly elections, bagging 213 seats, while its bitter rival, the BJP, managed to pocket 77 constituencies. One seat has gone to the ISF, which contested under the symbol of Rashtriya Secular Majlis Party, and another to an Independent member. Elections in Jangipur and Samsherganj were countermanded following the death of two candidates. By-poll to Khardaha assembly seat, where late TMC nominee Kajal Sinha won by a margin of over 18,000 votes, would also be held later, an election official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata says she will deal with any political violence 'sternly'||Mamata Banerjee hit the ground running after taking oath as chief minister for a third term, prioritising the pandemic and political violence for her immediate attention minutes after taking oath at 10.45am on Wednesday in the Throne Room of the historic Raj Bhavan. The foremost priority now will be the Covid-19 situation, Mamata said in a brief statement to journalists gathered at the hall, built in 1803 under British India’s governor-general Richard Wellesley. “I will tackle law and order from today, and deal with these (incidents of political violence) sternly… that is my second priority,” the chief minister added, referring to the clashes that have allegedly claimed 23 lives since the election results were announced on May 2. “Everybody is being told strictly (that) not one incident of any nature will be tolerated,” Mamata said later after a meeting at Nabanna. “I have noticed that most of the incidents have been taking place in places where the BJP won…. When the atrocities took place, the administration was under the Election Commission, not under me,” she added. “There too, a handful of sporadic incidents (occurred). Not everything being said is true. We ran a fact-check and found out that many were fake images or footage of old incidents from elsewhere being circulated by the BJP.” Her statement came against the backdrop of a concerted effort by the Right-wing ecosystem to build a campaign for central intervention by making communal statements, false claims and preposterous demands, including one to trifurcate Bengal. The Centre too has been playing to the gallery by sending a terse reminder to the Bengal government on Wednesday to submit a detailed report on the post-poll violence. The Union home ministry said the matter would be taken seriously if the state government  failed to do so. “We are not going to give respite to anybody (responsible for the political violence)… and we will do everything to restore law and order,” Mamata said at the Raj Bhavan, repeatedly urging all political parties to play their part in maintaining peace and keeping order. “I have taken charge just now…. The police and the administration were being run for three months by the Election Commission of India,” she said, before hinting at an overhaul of the administrative set-up as the commission had made numerous changes at all levels. “I will form a new set-up right away (and) ensure that nobody (responsible for the violence) is spared.” Although Trinamul’s third victory at the hustings was equally – if not more – significant for the state as the first one a decade ago, the oath-taking ceremony had to be shortened to a bare minimum because of Covid. The invitees were as few as 48 and the duration 15 minutes. The BJP, despite its state unit chief Dilip Ghosh being an invitee, boycotted the event in “protest” against the alleged atrocities on its workers. The Bengal Opposition was represented by Congress veteran Pradip Bhattacharya. In the saffron echo chambers, a chorus has been rising for the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal. One demand has been for a trifurcation of Bengal, culling out parts that voted in favour of the BJP and giving them separate BJP-led governments. There have also been calls from the Right-wing Twitterati for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to step aside -– for being “too soft” or “too inclusive” – and allow Union home minister Amit Shah or Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to seize the reins and teach “Bengalistan” or “West Bangladesh” a lesson. There have been calls for an invasion of the state by central paramilitary forces and for far-Right outfits such as the Bajrang Dal being given a free hand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Slew of steps to combat virus in Bengal||Local train services will be suspended in Bengal from Thursday while buses and Metro trains will be allowed to operate at half their capacity to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Mamata Banerjee announced a raft of measures to tackle the Covid crisis soon after being sworn in as chief minister for the third consecutive term on Wednesday. “We have to impose some restrictions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Don’t misunderstand us. We have to take some measures to prevent further spread of the virus,” the chief minister said. The April 30 order closing shopping malls, gyms, sports complexes, cinemas, bars and restaurants will continue to be enforced. After holding a meeting with senior government officials in Nabanna following her swearing-in at the Raj Bhavan, the chief minister tweaked some existing measures and announced new steps, adding that the situation would be monitored daily. Bengal reported its highest-ever daily case count — 18,102 — on Wednesday. “Additions and alterations to the existing order will be done based on how the situation unfolds in the next few days. The chief minister is against a complete lockdown. She is in principle against measures that would cast a shadow on people’s livelihood,” an official said. The new restrictions announced by the chief minister, which would come into force from Thursday, are: ⁍ All local trains will be suspended. ⁍ All modes of road transport will run with 50 per cent passenger capacity. ⁍ Metro trains will operate with 50 per cent of the passenger capacity. ⁍ Bank working hours have been curtailed; the banks will operate from 10am to 2pm. ⁍ Political gatherings will be discouraged. ⁍ A negative RT-PCR test report is mandatory for all air passengers entering Bengal. The test has to be done within 72 hours before boarding. This will come into effect from May 7. ⁍ Anyone who arrives without a negative test report will have to remain in 14 days’ quarantine at their own cost. ⁍ A negative RT-PCR test report has been made mandatory for those coming to Bengal on long-distance trains and inter-state buses. ⁍ Private organisations will be encouraged to operate with 50 per cent attendance in each shift while government offices will continue to function with half their employees at any given time. ⁍ Attendance at factories, industries, mills, manufacturing units and tea gardens will be restricted to 50 per cent of the total strength in each shift. ⁍ Not more than 50 people will be allowed at cultural and religious programmes. Prior permission will be necessary. ⁍ A maximum of 50 people will be allowed at marriages and other family gatherings. Not more than 20 people will be permitted at funerals. The following changes have been made to the April 30 order: ⁍ Shops selling essential items and markets can be kept open from 7am to 10am and from 5pm to 7pm. Earlier, shops were allowed to operate between 3pm and 5pm in the afternoon while the morning timings have remained unchanged. ⁍ Jewellery shops will be allowed to remain open between noon and 3pm from Monday to Friday. The state government will for now focus on giving the second dose of the Covid vaccine because of the irregular supply from the Centre. “More than 1.2 crore people who are above the age of 45 years have been vaccinated so far. Of them, 40 lakh people have got their second dose. The focus is to complete the second dose for the remaining 80 lakh people,” an official said. The chief minister directed that transport workers and hawkers be inoculated immediatey. “They come in contact with many people every day. So we have decided to bring them under the vaccination programme immediately,” Mamata said. Efforts are on to add a total of 3,000 Covid beds at private and government hospitals. Bengal will then have 30,000 Covid beds. The state government has decided to involve more than 2.5 lakh “quacks”, or untrained medical practitioners, in Covid care. “These quacks will provide primary treatment to Covid patients. They will be given primary guidelines,” Mamata said. Sources in the health department said the decision was significant against the backdrop of a sharp increase in Covid cases in the rural areas. The sources said the virus had not spread to the rural areas during the first wave but the situation was different this time because of the election rallies. “As rural areas don’t have a strong infrastructure to deal with serious patients, the number of deaths is high this time. The quacks will come in handy for us as they can inform the officials about the spread of the disease in a particular area,” an official said. The government has also decided to sanitise all school buildings that had been taken over to put up central force jawans or police personnel during the Assembly elections. Offices and markets will also have to be sanitised regularly. Emergency services such as medicine shops, milk booths and sweet shops and all centres relating to health, fire services, electricity, telecom and municipal services will be kept out of the purview of the restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata urges Modi to ensure free vaccination against Covid-19||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged the Prime Minister to ensure free and universal immunisation against Covid-19 and drew his attention to other aspects of the pandemic’s management such as hospital beds, medicines and oxygen. Mamata made the appeal in her first letter to Narendra Modi on the first day of her third consecutive term as the Bengal chief minister. “I would again like to emphasise on free vaccination for all. You may recall my letter of February 24, 2021, wherein I had requested you to allow the government of West Bengal to procure vaccines from designated points for providing vaccination to people of the state free of cost. This has not yet been addressed,” she wrote in the two-page letter. The chief minister had on April 20 formally reminded Modi of the February 24 communication, while terming his government’s new vaccine policy as “hollow” and accusing it of evasion of responsibility amid such a crisis. In Wednesday’s letter, Mamata asked Modi to look into four aspects of the war against Covid-19. “Free vaccination as universal immunisation for all in a transparent and time-bound manner. At present, vaccine availability is too inadequate to provide to eligible beneficiaries and government of India direction to extend vaccination up to 18 years plus makes it unrealistic to achieve. So, supply of vaccines is the core issue to address now,” Mamata wrote. “Ensuring adequate availability of essential drugs including Remdesivir and Tocilizumab to the states to meet their rising demand,” she added, asking for 10,000 doses of Remdesivir and 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab for Bengal. Mamata had demanded free and universal vaccination by the Centre at least twice in the past. The chief minister on Wednesday pointed out the consumption of medical oxygen had rapidly increased from 220 million tonnes per day to 400 million tonnes in the state, which is likely to increase to 500 million tonnes daily in the next seven days. “Concerned authorities may kindly be advised to allocate at least 500 MT of medical oxygen per day out of total oxygen produced in Bengal on an urgent basis to prevent any shortage,” Mamata wrote, adding that the dearth of oxygen cylinders was also a matter of concern. “I am told that 70 PSA units have been allotted to Bengal recently which is likely to take time to be installed. As such, to meet immediate necessity, the current system will have to be strengthened,” she said. Mamata concluded with the assertion that the battle against Covid-19 would be won with “coordinated and collaborative” efforts of all stakeholders in augmenting infrastructure and earnest drive for universal vaccination free of cost. “I am looking forward to your kind cooperation in this regard,” she wrote. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said she was unwilling to start her “government to government” communication in the third term with the belligerence that marked the intense campaign for Bengal and that was why there was that general tone of cooperative federalism. The chief minister had, earlier in the day, responded to Modi’s tweet congratulating her on Sunday evening, after the trends made her sweep fairly certain. There too, she had spoken of cooperation and working together. “Thank you @narendramodi ji for your wishes. I look forward to the Centre’s sustained support keeping the best interest of WB in mind,” she wrote on the microblogging site. “I extend my full cooperation & hope together we can fight this pandemic amid other challenges & set a new benchmark for Centre-State relations,” she added. In her media interactions during the day, she had been critical of the BJP, but had not specifically attacked Modi. “She did not want to come across as a gloating victor, and gave him (Modi) a break on her first day in office. There will be enough fireworks soon as she ups the ante nationally,” said a Trinamul vice-president. He pointed out how in the slew of responses to congratulatory tweets from major non-BJP leaders from across the country, right after Modi, she underscored how the BJP’s politics of “hatred” and “divisiveness” was booted out by Bengal, and hoped the same would happen across the county. “Thank you @RahulGandhi ji for your warm wishes. People of Bengal have paved the way for the rest of the country. BJP’s politics of hatred shall be booted out of India very soon,” she wrote in response to the Congress leader, for instance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee reinstates DGP and other officers||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday started the process of reinstating officials, who had been transferred by the Election Commission of India after the Assembly polls had been declared on February 26, in the state civil and police administration. On her first day as the chief minister for the third consecutive term, Mamata reinstated Virendra as the DGP of the state. Virendra had been removed by the EC and P. Nirajnayan was appointed as the DGP by it to conduct the polls. Nirajnayan has now been appointed as the director general (fire and emergency services). “The DG (Virendra), who was in the post before the election, has been brought back. He would retire in May,” the chief minister told a news conference at Nabanna. Mamata also reinstated Jawed Shamim as the ADG (law and order), who was the first IPS officer to be transferred by the EC this year. Jag Mohan, who was appointed as the ADG (law and order) by the EC, has been transferred to the civil defence department. Sources in the state administration said Mamata had brought back those two senior IPS officers in their posts only to ensure that she could have a grip on the law and order. “She promised to stop the post-poll violence. That is why she reinstated her trusted officers in the crucial posts as soon as she took oath as the chief minister,” said another officer. Moreover, the state government on Wednesday transferred a total of 27 IPS officers at one go. Vivek Sahay, who was removed as the director of security by the EC after the chief minister had suffered injury to the leg in Nandigram on March 10, was reinstated in the post. Besides, SPs of East Midnapore, South Dinajpur, Jhargram and Diamond Harbour, Sunderbans and Baruipur police districts were transferred. Interestingly, the SP of East Midnapore, Sunil Kumar Yadav, who was appointed as the SP of the district by the poll panel after the chief minister had been injured, was placed on compulsory waiting. “Majority of the officers removed by the EC during the elections have been reinstated in their posts. Some other changes have also been made to handle the law and order properly in the backdrop of the post-poll violence,” said a senior government official. Not only IPS officers, the state government has transferred two district magistrates also. The DM of East Midnapore, Smita Pandey, who was appointed in the post by the EC after the incident in which the chief minister had been injured in Nandigram by removing Bibhu Goyel, was transferred as the MD of Webel. Purnendu Maji, a WBCS officer, has been appointed as the new DM of the district. Maji was removed from the post of the district magistrate of West Burdwan by the EC. The state government has also removed the Purulia district magistrate, Abhijit Mukherjee and sent Rahul Majumdar, another WBCS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP ups ante on post-poll violence ||National BJP president J.P. Nadda on Wednesday compared the post-poll violence in Bengal with the Direct Action Day of 1946, thereby giving the political clashes a communal colour with an intention to malign Mamata Banerjee who was sworn in as the state’s chief minister for the third time. “I condemn the brutal killings of the Bengali people and all citizens residing in Bengal. This makes me remember the Partition days. I also remember August 16, 1946, when the Direct Action Day was declared…it resembles May 2, 2021, when the results were declared...which became the ‘Khela hobe day’,” Nadda told a news conference in Calcutta. “Khela hobey”, loosely translated means ‘game is on’, was the Trinamul Congress slogan in this election. The Direct Action Day, also known as the day of the Great Calcutta Killings, was the day when All India Muslim League leader Muhammad Ali Jinnah had called for a nationwide protest in 1946. The protests led to large-scale communal violence which took the lives of more than 4,000 people and rendered about 1 lakh people homeless in 72 hours. Comparing the post-poll violence with this incident clearly carries communal overtures, admitted multiple BJP leaders. Nadda also accused Mamata of being silent for 36 hours since these incidents broke out and said her “silence speaks about her involvement (in the incidents)”. “She starts her third term with blood on her hands,” he added. Just a few hours before Nadda made these allegations, Mamata said at a news conference that she had asked police and the administration to take strict action against perpetrators of violence. Previously, on multiple occasions, she has appealed for peace in the state. Multiple sources in the BJP said the central leadership had decided to blow the post-poll violence out of proportion and profile the victims and attackers communally to portray Mamata as a poor administrator and anti-Hindu leader across the nation. Although BJP’s Hindutva chant has received a drubbing in Bengal, its national leaders believe polarisation would still work for the rest of the country. “Our leaders strongly believe that the 38 per cent vote we have received in the polls amounting to 77 seats is courtesy polarisation. We have nothing to lose here anymore. If Mamata can be further maligned for her appeasement, the BJP only stands to gain in Bengal and nationally,” a state BJP office-bearer said. BJP’s intention to align all its resources to focus on communal polarisation became clear when the former Union health minister accused Mamata of appeasement, an allegation the BJP top-rung has repeatedly hurled at her during the poll campaign.“We will demolish the politics of appeasement,” Nadda said. He mentioned that entire villages in Gosaba, Sandeshkhali and Canning in South 24-Parganas had been ransacked. “People there had suffered Amphan last year. This time, they are suffering Mamataphan,” he added, claiming that around 80,000 to 1 lakh people had fled Bengal since May 2. However, there was no corroborative evidence to prove this claim. Till Tuesday, the BJP had claimed nine of its workers had been killed. On Wednesday, Nadda claimed that the number had risen to 14. Nadda later met party worker Kamal Mondal in Bhatpara, who lost his mother Shobha Rani Mondal in an alleged attack by suspected Trinamul supporters after announcement of election results on the night of May 2. Accompanied by local MP Arjun Singh and Purulia MP Jyotirmay Singh Mahato and other local leaders, Nadda expressed condolence on the death of the elderly woman and assured that all-out efforts would be initiated by the party to ensure justice. At the same time, he told party workers present there that the BJP would highlight these incidents of violence across the country to expose how Trinamul had unleashed terror after winning polls. Later speaking to media persons, he said: “It appears Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul leaders are not interested to know that the common people are screaming in fear. To remain in power, they have turned Bengal into a blood-stained state. We are committed to stop this political violence in Bengal. We shall fight democratically.”In Nadia, All India Matua Mahasangha chief and BJP MP Santanu Thakur issued a video appeal to chief minister Mamata Banerjee asking her to get the police to stop political violence in the state. He said if such violence wasn’t controlled immediately, there would be a major breakdown in law and order in the state. At the same time, he urged BJP workers to resist the attack if it continued unabated. “Please do not sit idle. Be prepared to resist if such inhuman activities continued.” On the other hand, BJP workers in Nandigram complained that Trinamul-linked goons had either torched or ransacked more than a thousand betel leaf farms. Several such incidents have been reported since Tuesday night. Sunil Mondal, a BJP supporter from Nandigram’s Bheturia, said two of his betel leaf farms had been torched by Trinamul linked goons. BJP supporters in Nandigram also alleged that in areas where Trinamul had not received enough votes, ration supply to the commoners had been stopped. In a locality called Kanchannagar, a ration dealer named Ananta Mondal said members of a specific political party had asked him not to provide ration to BJP supporters till Thursday. “They have threatened me and said they’ll later tell me whether I should restart supplying ration to BJP members,” Mondal said. At multiple villages of Nandigram, people are guarding their localities all night as they had done during the 2007 anti-land acquisition movement. “For self-defence against the Trinamul we are guarding the villages. Whenever we are sensing a possible attack, we are blowing conches to alert the people,” said local BJP leader Pralay Pal. Local Trinamul leader Abu Taher refuted allegations of violence and said that such incidents were happening because of BJP’s provocation. When asked if all these incidents made Bengal a fit case for the implementation of President’s rule, Nadda said it was a matter the administration had to look into and his party would not demand it. “We had also said previously that even if it is a fit case for President’s Rule we will not demand it. People have given us a mandate to be the opposition in Bengal and we will serve that democratically,” he said. “We will fight till a conclusive end for the people of Bengal,” Nadda added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Two Trinamul leaders killed in north Bengal||Two Trinamul Congress leaders were killed in north Bengal on Tuesday night as the spate of violence following the counting of votes continued unabated in the region. Deepak Roy, 32, a vice-president of the Trinamul Youth Congress’s Alipurduar 1 block unit and a resident of Mathura, was killed when he was returning home from a wedding party. When a car carrying Roy and five of his friends reached near a stone crushing unit around 11.30pm, they found that the road had been blocked with a tractor. Before Deepak and his friends could gauge what was happening, men carrying weapons circled the car and attacked them. “His friends somehow got out of the vehicle and fled. The attackers, who we suspect were BJP workers, caught hold of Deepak. They rained blows on him and repeatedly stabbed him. When he collapsed, the assailants fled,” said Mridul Goswami, the Alipurduar district Trinamul president. After some time, the friends returned and found Roy bleeding. They rushed the youth leader to a nearby health centre in Panchkelguri where doctors pronounced him dead. Roy, Trinamul leaders said, was also a booth committee president of the party in the block.After the murder, a group of villagers came out of their homes and went on the rampage at the stone crushing unit which they alleged was owned by some of the attackers. The villagers also torched an excavator parked at the spot. Police reached the spot and brought the situation under control. “Three persons have been arrested. Our officers are in search of some others,” said Anindya Bhatatcharjee, the inspector in charge of Alipurduar police station. District BJP leaders, however, denied the charges. “We do not support such acts. It is an unfortunate incident but seems to be the fallout of a fight between two lobbies of Trinamul. Police should find out the truth,” said Gangaprasad Sharma, the district BJP president. In Cooch Behar, Shahinur Rehman, 32, a Trinamul leader at Chilakhana in the Tufanganj subdivision, was hacked to death on Tuesday night. Sayra Bibi, his sister who is also a member of Tufanganj 1 panchayat samiti, said a group of BJP workers had attacked Trinamul supporters at Chilakhana on Tuesday evening. After the incident, Shahinur and Prasenjit Saha, another Trinamul worker, went missing. Later at night, Prasenjit was found near a local club. He suffered serious injuries and is under treatment at a private nursing home in Cooch Behar. “However, we could not locate my brother. This morning, we found him dead in a corn field. He was hacked with sharp weapons. A group of anti-socials backed by the BJP were involved in the incident,” said Sayra. Local people torched a motorcycle and demonstrated to protest the violence. Tufanganj police and central forces arrived and brought the situation under control. Rabindranath Ghosh, a former minister and the defeated Trinamul candidate of Natabari Assembly seat — the locality comes under Natabari — reached the spot. He spoke to local people and requested the police to nab the killers. “Ever since the BJP won the Natabari seat, leaders and workers of the party have been perpetrating violence and attacking our supporters. Police should take stringent action,” said Ghosh. Sanjoy Chakraborty, a district general secretary of the BJP, denied the charges. Senior police officers said two men had been arrested in connection with the incident. “In the past few days, there were some violent incidents in the district. We are taking all necessary steps to prevent violence. A section of people is circulating fake messages to foment tension. Residents of the district should not pay heed to the messages and maintain peace,” said Cooch Behar district police chief Debasish Dhar. State police and central force personnel have been posted across the district to prevent any further breach of peace, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid patient body muddle in East Midnapore||A bizarre incident of swapping the body of a Covid patient with that of another patient who recovered from the infection came to light in East Midnapore on Wednesday. Sources said a 50-year-old farmer from East Midnapore’s Patashpur infected with Covid-19 was admitted to Chandipur Covid Hospital on April 18. Another Covid patient from Panskura — of same age and surname as of the farmer — was brought to the facility a day or two later. On the morning of May 29, the patient from Panskura died at the hospital. Hospital staff erroneously called up the family of Patashpur patient and informed them that their patient had died. However, on May 1, the family members of the Patashpur patient — declared dead earlier — received another call from the hospital, this time asking them to take their patient home as he had been cured of the infection. The incident came to light after the district unit of the CPM lodged a complaint with state health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam and district magistrate Smita Nandy seeking stern steps against the chief medical officer and other hospital staff involved in the gross negligence. The son of the Patashpur patient told The Telegraph: “It was not only bizarre but shocking for us. We went to the hospital and requested them to show the face of the body but they only showed us part of the face from a distance for a brief few seconds. We had doubts and I told the hospital staff that the face does not look similar to my father. But they convinced us by saying that there had been changes to his facial features because of the infection.” According to the family of the Patashpur patient, they paid Rs 5,800 and went to Digha along with the staff hospital to perform the last rites of the body given to them. “When we got a call from on May 1 informing us about the recovery of my father. We spoke with the hospital authorities who admitted their mistake. We took our father home but it was a sheer callousness on part of the hospital administration,” the son added. The wife of the recovered patient said: “It is a relief for me that my husband is alive.” The family of the deceased patient from Panskura said till May 1 they were told that their patient was stable and would be released soon. “I had no idea about the death of my husband. Now, I am told that he has been cremated,” said the wife of the deceased patient. The DM admitted the mistake and said the hospital was warned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: TMC leaders at Raiganj asks 'BJP voters' not to approach them for any help||Two Trinamul Congress councillors at the Raiganj municipality have made social media posts, asking those who voted for the BJP in the Assembly polls not to approach them for any help. Kalpita Majumder and Prosenjit Sarkar made the controversial posts after the BJP had won the Raiganj Assembly seat for the first time. “The civic body (run by Trinamul) provided all possible services to people and we stood with them in their hour of need. A series of developmental works has been carried out by the state government in Raiganj and across North Dinajpur district as a whole. Even then, a large section of people here supported the BJP. That is why I have made the post, asking those who voted for the BJP not to approach me for any help,” said Sarkar. In a similar manner, Majumder, who is also a prominent woman Trinamul leader of the town, wrote a post in the social media, asking the “voters of BJP” not to meet any elected representative, leader or worker of Trinamul for any help. In North Dinajpur, Trinamul has won seven of nine Assembly seats — its best ever performance — but the Raiganj (district headquarter) and the neighbouring Kaliyaganj seats have gone to the BJP. Sarkar, sources said, not only made the post but allegedly also refused to help an elderly woman who had turned up at his doorstep on Wednesday for getting food grains under the state government’s general scheme. “He instead asked me to visit the BJP office near a cinema hall,” said Manju Roy. The posts and Sarkar’s alleged misbehaviour prompted the BJP to raise questions. “Being elected representatives, they cannot discriminate against people. It is a blatant violation of the Constitution. We apprehend more common people, particularly those who are economically weak, will have to face such biases and harassment in the coming days. Trinamul leaders have become vindictive after the election results came out. The administration and civic authorities should intervene,” said Basudeb Sarkar, the district BJP president. Kanaialal Agarwala, the district Trinamul chief who contested from the Raiganj seat, was behind the BJP candidate by 9,945 votes. “The Trinamul leadership has never expected such a result as the party has councillors in all 27 wards of the town,” said a source. District Trinamul leaders aren’t, however, happy with the councillors’ posts. Arindam Sarkar, the vice-chairman of Raiganj municipality, said a directive had already been given to leaders to refrain from such post. “They have done it out of disappointment as the BJP won the Raiganj seat despite our services and efforts. But we do not endorse such posts. The civic body as well as the party asked councillors to be cautious. The councillors should never act in a biased manner,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||GNLF believes social works led to victory in 2 seats||An analysis of Assembly election results by the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) suggests the party’s decision to concentrate on social works over political activities in the past one year has paid dividends. GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba won the Darjeeling seat on a BJP ticket. The GNLF also supported BJP candidate B.P. Bajgain, who won the Kurseong seat. However, the GNLF-backed BJP candidate Suva Pradhan lost the Kalimpong seat by a margin of 3,500-odd votes to Ruden Sada Lepcha of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang faction. “We had not been able to do much social work at Bijanbari and Rimbick in the Darjeeling constituency and if we analyse the poll data, it shows we did not do well in these areas,” said Ajoy Edwards, the president of the GNLF’s Darjeeling branch committee. It was Edwards who had decided to undertake social work in a major way during the first phase of the Covid-19 pandemic last year. “When we had talked about the need to concentrate on social activities, many senior (GNLF) leaders did not agree on this approach initially,” said Edwards. Edwards used his family foundation, Edwards Foundation, to undertake philanthropic activities. “We bought two bulldozers and reached out to nearly 170 villagers in the Darjeeling and Kurseong Assembly segments over the past one year,” said Edwards. The bulldozers were used to build roads and playing fields at different villages. Other social activities undertaken by Edwards included distribution of essential items, providing medical help and addressing village-specific issues like water scarcity. “Our approach to adopt the servant politician philosophy has worked as we believe the ‘silent majority’ is with us now,” said Edwards. The GNLF-BJP combine also did well in areas like Lopchu-Peshok and Sonada, which falls under the Kurseong Assembly constituency, where Edwards Foundation has worked. Political analysts in the hills, too, admitted the GNLF’s “social work approach” had helped the party tremendously at the hustings. “The GNLF and particularly Edwards is in a very strong position in the Darjeeling municipality area. Their social initiative has helped create a new image of the GNLF in many areas,” a hill observer said. The observer, however, cautioned that “it is not to say that the GNLF-BJP bagged all the votes only because of social work”. “But, yes, the GNLF has been able to attract a section of the hill population with Edwards’s social works,” said the analyst who pointed out that areas like Vah-Tukvar, Bimal Guurng’s former GTA constituency, still voted for the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader. Gurung’s Morcha faction, however, came third in all the three hill seats. Sources said the Edwards Foundation had spent more than Rs 1 crore on philanthropic activities in the past one year. The Foundation has carried out social works mostly in the Darjeeling Assembly constituency and a part of the Kurseong seat but has not yet reached out to the Kalimpong segment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Doles, rejig help TMC sweep Jungle Mahal||Jungle Mahal — comprising four Bengal districts with 40 Assembly seats where the BJP had established significant leads in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — has played a major role in the massive mandate that helped the Trinamul Congress storm to power in Bengal for the third time in a row. Trinamul won 28 of the 40 Assembly seats in the Jungle Mahal this time, dashing the hopes of the BJP in a region where the party had taken lead in 31 Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Jungle Mahal is dominated mostly by adivasis and those belonging to the Scheduled Caste and other backward castes. The 40 Assembly seats in the Jungle Mahal are spread across four districts — Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapore. Sources attributed Trinamul’s comeback in the Jungle Mahal to schemes like pension for thousands of elderly and physically challenged people and the party’s campaign to showcase the BJP as one that tried to amend the land rights act of the tribal people. Trinamul also exploited the people’s anger against the arrogance of BJP leaders and workers in the areas where it runs gram panchayats or panchayat samitis. The change in leadership and bringing in Chhatradhar Mahato in the Jungle Mahal also helped Trinamul strengthen its organisation in the region. “People did not trust the BJP because of false assurances given by the party after it started winning power in the region’s panchayats since 2018. The attitudes of the BJP leaders made the poor people in our areas angry. The tribal people became worried about protecting their rights to land and forest as the BJP tried to amend the Chottanagpur Tenancy Act (CNT) and Santhal Parganas Tenancy (SPT) Act in the neighbouring Jharkhand,” said Dulal Murmu, the Trinamul president in Jhargram. Sources said Duare Sarkar drive by which Trinamul reached out to the rural people mainly with its old age pension of Rs 1,000 for SC and ST communities and Swasthya Sathi (health insurance) had played a big role in Trinamul winning back people ahead of the polls. “It is a poor area and such benefits towards the people helped us a lot. People understood that the Mamata Banerjee government was working for them when the BJP was busy campaigning for polarisation in the region,” said a Trinamul leader. Trinamul insiders said the BJP-run Jharkhand government had tried to change the British-formulated CNT-SPT Act in 2016 to enable sale of land belonging to adivasis. The Jharkhand government had wanted to amend the act to facilitate private players to buy tribal land for setting up their businesses. “The issue played a major role in the BJP’s defeat in the 2019 Jharkhand Assembly polls. In Bengal, Trinamul had exploited the issue and managed to convince the tribal community about the BJP’s agenda to snatch their rights to land, water and forest,” said Opel Mandi, state convener of the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal. In July last year, Trinamul had reshuffled its organisation in the four Jungle Mahal districts that Trinamul leaders considered a proper step to take the ride to grab the region which was once the stronghold of the party. Trinamul changed all the four district presidents and included former Trinamul MP from Purulia Mriganka Mahato in the 21-member committee in the state. Chhatradhar Mahato, the face of the Lalgarh movement, was included in the party’s state committee. “The earlier leaders were replaced with those whom the people identified with tribal movement in the region. The organisational restructuring worked,” said a Trinamul leader. In districts like Purulia and Jhargram, BJP runs around 70 gram panchayats and four panchayat samitis which they won in the 2018 panchayat polls. Sources said the experience of the people of the Jungle Mahal in dealing with BJP leaders made them angry. Bidyasagar Chakrabarti, the BJP president in Purulia, however, said the reason behind “poor performance” would be investigated by the party. “There could be many reasons but we need time for post-mortem,” said Chakrabarti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal traders seek revision of business hours from state govt||An apex organisation of trade bodies in north Bengal has written to the state government, seeking revision of business hours after the administration imposed restrictions on opening of markets to curb the spread of Covid-19. The Eastern ABC Chamber of Commerce & Industries, which represents 102 trade associations in the region, sent a letter to the chief secretary, requesting him to change the business hours from 10am to 3pm. Shortly after Mamata Banerjee had taken oath as the chief minister for the third time on Wednesday, she announced that markets would remain open from 7am to 10am and from 5pm to 7pm. “We have written to the chief secretary, urging him to revise the business hours. In Siliguri and most other parts of Bengal, business commences from around 9am and onwards. That is why we want the state to let the markets remain open from 10am to 3pm,” said Surajit Paul, the convener of the trade body. He has said the time slot from 7am to 10am is fine for vegetables, grocery and similar food items. “But it is not so for other items. Most of the staff report at the shops and business establishments around 9am and are supposed to work till 7pm. After they leave at 10am, they are reluctant to return for the second shift. Some of our members have even offered them transport costs but they are not ready to join the second shift. This has become a huge problem for us,” said Paul. A hardware merchant in Siliguri said the scale of business had already come down by 60 per cent because of the restrictions. “We are also concerned over the situation but instead of two slots (of three and two hours), the state government should allow us to keep the shops open for five hours at one go. This would largely reduce the inconveniences we are facing these days,” he mentioned. Some other shopowners of the town pointed out that opening and closing a shop twice a day was a cumbersome job. Also, in the first three hours, few customers turn up. In the second half, people swarm in and it becomes tough for them to handle each customer and close down the shops within the stipulated time. “The scale of business has already come down. We cannot afford to lose customers now. But on a number of occasions, we had to down our shutters in the evening despite having customers waiting because we do not want to flout the government directive,” said a garment shopowner. Another announcement made by Mamata on Wednesday left tea planters perturbed. While addressing a news conference in Nabanna, Mamata said only 50 per cent of the workforce could be engaged in a shift in tea gardens. According to the planters, production starts gaining momentum from May and the following three-four months account for the maximum output. “We have been adhering to health safety protocols since last year. Social distancing and other guidelines can be easily followed in the tea industry because the area of operation is vast. Last year, the production had dipped and we do not want it again. We hope the state government will understand the situation and let us function with full workforce,” said a tea planter based in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
