07-05-2021||West Bengal||Disband Phase-III vaccine policy, introduce new one, Bengal government tells SC||The Bengal government moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking directions to disband Phase-III vaccine policy of the Centre and adoption of a uniform policy of procuring 100 per cent doses of Covid-19 vaccines from manufacturers, which can be equitably distributed to all the States and Union Territories for free decentralised distribution. The state government also sought to set aside the differential pricing mechanism for Covid-19 vaccines and capping the price for Covid-19 vaccines at a uniform price of Rs 150 per dose. The intervention application has been filed by the state government in the pending matter taken suo motu by the top court for ensuring distribution of essential supplies and services during the pandemic. It sought directions to the Centre to place a single bulk order for Covid-19 vaccines on a war footing basis on both domestic and foreign manufacturers to ensure universal coverage at the shortest possible time frame. The state government claimed that it is yet to receive its allocated share of vaccines from the union government despite a commitment from the Centre that it would be supplied four lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines by May 5, 2021. The Government of West Bengal is yet to receive these 4 lakh doses as of May 6, 2021, the application said, adding that there are reports that on account of vaccine shortages and uncertainty over vaccine availability, States such as Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Assam, Tripura, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, and UT of Chandigarh had to postpone the scheduled rollout of Phase-III of the Covid-19 immunisation program. It said that the State government was also unable to commence Phase-III of the vaccine roll out on account of unavailability; the ongoing inoculation process for those above 44 years of age is however continuing at different medical facilities depending on the availability of vaccines. The instant application is being filed praying for urgent directions from this Court inter alia directing the Government of India to procure Covid-19 vaccines and distribute the same to the States and Union Territories across India in an equitable manner and within the earliest possible time frame; The other directions prayed for in this application are also necessary for achieving universal coverage within the shortest possible time frame, the plea said. The state government said that at present, there is an acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines for achieving universal coverage in India and the Centre must take urgent steps on a war footing basis to ensure that Covid-19 vaccines are made available to the States for free decentralized distribution to the masses without any further delay. It said, “Such a course of action is necessary to ensure that the Covid-19 chain of transmission is broken and human lives are saved so that the current crisis does not become a catastrophe. It is respectfully submitted that universal coverage is the single best panacea against the second wave of the pandemic.” The state government said that India is contributing to over 40 per cent of the number of daily new infections worldwide and these figures are expected to rise exponentially as the country enters the peak phase of the second wave of the pandemic. "It has been estimated by a team of the Indian Institute of Science at Bangalore that a staggering 4,04,000 deaths will occur by June 11, 2021, as the death toll may double from the current levels, it said. The state government further said that in order to reach herd immunity, at least 70 per cent of the adult population (approximately 650 million adults) would have to be vaccinated which would require approximately 1.4 billion doses. “The Government of India on May 1, 2021, under the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination (vaccine policy) opened up vaccination for the 18-45 age group under Phase III of its vaccination drive, which comprises approximately 590 million or 59 crore persons,” it said. It said that the policy will result in an inequitable distribution of vaccines and defeat the very objective of universal coverage, which is crucial for achieving herd immunity. “This is because States will be made to compete with each other for obtaining vaccines for its residents and will be forced to bargain with private manufacturers on pricing and supply; the poorer States will have lower bargaining power and therefore residents of such States will have unequal access to vaccines thereby being deprived for their fundamental right to health enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution,” it said. The plea further said that it is painfully clear that there is an acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and the objective of achieving immunisation of the 59 crore eligible persons between the age group of 18-44 years is currently a distant possibility. The Government of West Bengal had on April 27, 2021 requested the Government of India for a vaccine stock of 2 crore doses for the 1 crore population within the 18-45 demographic in the State, it said. The state government said that instead, the Centre vide its letters dated April 29, 2021, had indicated to the Government of West Bengal that it would facilitate the rollout of vaccines for Phase-III on the basis of its discussions with the vaccine manufacturers under the ‘Other than Government of India’ channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP is Opposition, but it’ll be Trinamul vs ex-Trinamul in Assembly||The BJP may have 77 MLAs, making it the primary Opposition party in Bengal in 2021, but its charge against Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress in the Assembly will have to be led by former Trinamul leaders, a prospect that is making the saffron camp deeply uncomfortable. Although only a handful of Trinamul defectors to the BJP could make it to the Assembly this time, only Suvendu Adhikary and Mukul Roy carry enough political acumen and experience to take on a firebrand leader like chief minister Mamata Banerjee. After all, they were both part of Mamata’s inner circle when they were with Trinamul. “There are not enough leaders to challenge the chief minister on the floor of the House. In such a scenario we have to depend on those coming from Trinamul,” admitted a BJP leader. On Friday, Mukul Roy, who left Mamata and joined the BJP in 2017 and is now a national vice president of the party, took oath as an MLA after winning his maiden election from the Krishnagar North constituency. He spent some time with state Trinamul president Subrata Bakshi at the Assembly but did not attend the meeting of BJP legislators called by state party president Dilip Ghosh. Another notable absentee at the BJP meeting was Adhikary, who retained the Nandigram seat on a BJP ticket, defeating the chief minister no less. Now, the BJP’s main worry is centred around the rivalry between Roy and Adhikari, and the prospects of it being carried over to their new party. During their days in the Trinamul, Roy and Adhikary shared testy ties, each trying to outdo the other in front of Mamata. In 2011 and 2016, the Left and the Congress had emerged as the main Opposition parties. In 2011, it was Surjya Kanta Mishra and five years later Abdul Mannan led the Opposition on the floor of the House. Today, the BJP, which was banking on late entrants from the Trinamul camp to help the party navigate the complex legislature processes, is now left with just two strong contenders, both coming from Trinamul. Turncoats did not have it easy in this election. Most sitting Trinamul MLAs who switched camps ahead of the election lost their seats. Although Roy won comfortably by over 35,000 votes, his son, Subhrangshu, failed to make the cut. Likewise, Adhikari’s men failed to win the bulk of the seats in his home turf of East Midnapore. Among those who joined the BJP with Adhikary but lost the elections are former minister Rajib Banerjee, Vaishali Dalmia, Probir Ghoshal, Saikat Panja, Biswajit Kundu and others. “The reason why the party took them in and gave them tickets was that they had proved capable of winning and getting others to win too. The move did not help us gain power in the state,” rued a state-level BJP functionary. BJP will now try to keep up the pressure on the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul government. It seems to have started off badly, as it has been wrong-footed several times for trying to give a communal spin to post-poll violence by spreading fake images and videos on social media. In 2014 too, the BJP had tried to focus on the politics of violence in Bengal soon after the Lok Sabha elections with the party’s central leaders visiting trouble spots in Bengal. But little came of it politically. A similar strategy is being tried this time at the administrative level too. The Union home ministry has sent a delegation to probe the post-poll violence. Members of the team called on Governor Jagdish Dhankar on Friday and asked for a report on the violence from Raj Bhavan. With 77 MLAs, this is the highest number of seats that the BJP has ever won in Bengal. “There will be occasions for us to hammer the government. While Mukul is good in the background, he has shown little to inspire confidence as a speaker,” said a BJP leader. After Friday’s meeting with party MLAs, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said they would boycott the election of the Speaker and the rest of the session as a mark of protest against post-poll violence. "Many of our MLAs could not take oath because of the condition in their constituencies. They won't come to Calcutta to take the oath till the violence stops. Our MLAs will not attend the session," Ghosh told the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to Modi, seeks increase in supply of medical oxygen||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking increased supply of medical oxygen for COVID-19 treatment. Banerjee also said that the Centre hiked oxygen allocation for other states out of the total production in Bengal, despite its enhanced requirement. The chief minister said daily consumption of oxygen in her state has gone up to 470 MT in the last 24 hours and is expected to increase to 550 MT per day in about a week. "I would request you to kindly have the allocation of medical oxygen reviewed and instructions issued for an immediate allocation of at least 550 MT per day of MO," she said in the letter to Modi. Any allocation less than the requested amount will not only adversely affect the supply, but may also result in loss of lives of patients in the state, Banerjee said. "... Government of India has increased allocation of MO to other states, from the total production in West Bengal, during the last 10 days from 230 MT to 360 MT, keeping allocation for us constant at 308 MT per day despite its requirement of 550 MT," the CM aaded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: MHA team meets Governor||A four-member team of the Union Home Ministry, tasked with looking into reasons for the post- poll violence in West Bengal, met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at the Raj Bhawan on Friday. The team, led by an additional secretary of the ministry, had arrived in the state on Thursday and held meetings with the chief secretary, home secretary and the DGP at the secretariat, officials said. The ministry has sought a report from Dhankhar on the law and order situation in Bengal, particularly the post-poll violence that erupted following the announcement of the assembly election results on May 2. The team visited several places in South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas districts on Thursday and spoke to family members of the deceased and locals, they said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said 16 people lost their lives in post-poll violence in various parts of the state. The BJP has alleged that TMC-backed goons have killed a number of its workers, attacked women members, vandalised houses and looted shops. Rejecting the charges, Banerjee maintained that violence and clashes were taking place in those areas where saffron party candidates emerged victorious in the assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata announces compensation, jobs for kin of post-poll violence victims||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each for the families of those killed in post-results violence in Bengal irrespective of their political loyalties, emphasising her government would practise the inclusive politics she has promised. The assistance is for victims from “every party, every community, every creed... any murder”, Mamata stressed at a news conference in Nabanna. She urged the BJP to come to terms with the Bengal mandate and “show some restraint”, blaming the party for most of the violence. “You know well that most of the violence took place by May 3, while the (Election Commission’s) model code of conduct was in force. During that time, when the Election Commission was in charge of the state’s law and order, 16 people were killed,” she said. “Of them, half owed allegiance to the BJP while the other half were Trinamul Congress workers... one was from the Sanyukta Morcha.”The saffron ecos ystem, smarting from the poll drubbing and unable to digest the failure of its Hindu consolidation bid, has been playing victim and continuing to push its divisive agenda that had bombed at the booths. It has been portraying — often with fabricated social media content — the victims as BJP-supporting Hindus and the attackers as Trinamul-supporting Muslims in an apparent attempt to de-legitimise the election mandate and fuel calls for President’s rule. On Thursday, Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, who ran a bitterly polarising poll campaign in Nandigram against Mamata, made an overtly sectarian remark in public when asked to comment on the alleged attack on the convoy of junior foreign minister V. Muraleedharan in West Midnapore. “Nobody is safe in Bengal. Especially, Hindus are not safe here at all,” said Adhikari, whose narrow and contested victory over Mamata in Nandigram has been one of the rare highlights of the election for the BJP. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh told reporters: “Whatever the state government here is claiming is false…. The situation here is as terrible as that of Afghanistan or Syria.” Mamata derided the Union home ministry for beginning to act tough with Bengal within hours of her taking charge as chief minister for the third time. “This government is not even 24 hours old, and already stern letters are being sent (from the Union home ministry); (central) teams are being sent, (Union) ministers are being sent,” she said. “I haven’t seen anything like this in my life. May their good sense awaken; may democracy triumph.... Doing this will anyway yield them no benefits.” She added: “I ask the BJP to show some restraint, to accept the people’s verdict, accept this mandate. Only because they have not yet been able to accept the people’s mandate are these things taking place.” Mamata asked why similar teams are not sent to other (BJP-ruled) states during crises. “Why aren’t teams sent when there is a dearth of oxygen, of saline, of vaccines? When ghastly incidents take place at Hathras (site of a brutal rape and murder in Uttar Pradesh)? When riots take place in Delhi? When lives are lost to riots in Uttar Pradesh? When journalists are murdered?” the chief minister said. Turning to Covid management, she said her government would get all air passengers to Bengal, even Union ministers, to undergo RT-PCR tests unless they can furnish certificates proving they are Covid-negative. “The laws cannot be discriminatory…. If they test positive, they have to spend out of their own pocket and get quarantined for 14 days,” Mamata said. “We shall take care of everything for the poor but not for those who can afford quarantine at hotels and such facilities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Former TMC MLA Udayan Guha attacked in Cooch Behar||Former Trinamul Congress MLA Udayan Guha was attacked by suspected BJP supporters while he was moving through Dinhata town on Thursday. The right hand of the ex-Dinhata MLA was fractured and his security guard suffered an injury to the head. The attackers also ransacked the vehicle in which Guha was travelling. Trinamul called for a 30-hour bandh in Dinhata from 6pm on Thursday in protest against the attack. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said Guha had been attacked by BJP supporters. “Udayan Guha has been attacked and one of his arms got fractured. In Cooch Behar, the BJP is becoming more violent. There had been violence wherever the BJP had won (in the Assembly polls) across the state. We want to make it clear that police will take appropriate steps against the perpetrators,” she said at a news conference in Nabanna. Sources said suspected BJP supporters had ransacked a club in ward 3 of Dinhata municipality on Wednesday night. Since then, there had been tension in the area. While Guha was passing through the area on Thursday morning, he got off his car and asked a group of youths why they were standing front of the club. “This led to an altercation and a youth identified as Ajay Roy, who had recently defected to the BJP from Trinamul, along with others, attacked Guha. As the Trinamul leader tried to save himself, he was hit on the right hand with a stick. His security guard was beaten up and the car ransacked. The attackers then fled the spot,” said a police source. Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul president, said the attack on Guha had betrayed the BJP’s desperation to foment tension in Dinhata. “Trinamul supporters are panicked now,” said Roy. Guha has been admitted to the Dinhata subdivisional hospital. Roy and former minister Rabindranath Ghosh called on Guha at the hospital. Both Trinamul and the BJP have strong bases in the Dinhata Assembly segment where sitting MLA Guha was defeated by Cooch Behar MP and BJP candidate Nisith Pramanik. Cooch Behar district BJP president Malati Rava has denied that his party was behind the attack on the Trinamul leader. “Guha was defeated because of Trinamul’s internal squabbling. Whatever happened today (Thursday) was because of Trinamul’s infighting. No BJP worker was involved in the attack,” said Rava. Police said a probe was on. “Investigation has started. Our men are patrolling different areas to prevent any breach of peace,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee stresses on free rations for poor after imposition of Covid-related restrictions||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday laid stress on ensuring free rations to the economically weaker sections after several restrictions had been put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “I understand that suspension of local trains would leave daily wage earners in trouble. We have to ensure that free foodgrains reach them... We had to take such measures to contain the spread of the virus,” said the chief minister at a news conference at Nabanna on Thursday. The Bengal government decided to suspend suburban local trains while allowing road transport and Metro trains to run with half of their capacity. Besides, the state government initiated measures like closure of shopping malls, gyms, sports complexes, swimming pools, restaurants and bars. It has also allowed markets and shops to remain open for five hours a day. Sources said the chief minister was in principle against any kind of steps that affected the livelihood of common people. “But she is aware that the minimum steps that had to be initiated to arrest the spread of the virus would also affect the livelihood of certain people. That is why she laid stress on proper distribution of free foodgrains to the poor as she does not want to leave them in trouble,” said a senior official. According to sources, the plight of poor people during the lockdown last year still haunts the chief minister. “That is why she gave a clear instruction to her officials to ensure proper distribution of foodgrains during the period when restrictions would be in place,” said a source. Mamata also said all the hospitals, where Covid-19 patients were being treated, had been allowed to increase beds by 40 per cent. “This will help the private hospitals increase at least 2,000 beds. This effort would also help us have 30,000 Covid beds in the state,” said the chief minister. Mamata also said 30 percent of the employees at a jute mill would be allowed to work in each shift. She made it clear the norm for entering Bengal from other states would be applied to central ministers and officials too. “If they cannot produce an RT-PCR negative report, we will conduct tests. If found positive, 14 days’ quarantine is mandatory at their own cost. This will be applied to all, including those coming by special flights or private aircraft,” said the chief minister. Besides, all third-year postgraduate medical students and nurses would be inducted into the Covid care facilities across the state. “They will be given additional benefits... This will help us get 3,000 doctors and nurses in this crucial time,” said the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Oxygen crunch triggers interns of Kalyani hospital to protest ||Interns attached to the Kalyani-based College of Medicine & JNM Hospital staged a demonstration, accusing the authorities of negligence after oxygen cylinders at the 1,000-bed healthcare facility ran out of stock, triggering panic among patients and their relatives. The interns alleged that oxygen at the hospital ran out around 12 noon on Thursday, but the authorities did not bother to ensure its arrangement to meet the emergency requirement where 80 per cent patients had been admitted with breathing troubles. Sources said the Domjur-based supplier of oxygen cylinders had failed to provide oxygen in the past three days because of the ongoing crisis. Nevertheless, the hospital authority did not make any temporary arrangement of oxygen, the doctors alleged. On Thursday evening, the supplier agreed to send a consignment that was expected to reach the hospital around midnight. “There is a crisis of oxygen across the country. But it is unimaginable that a medical college has no stock of oxygen and the medical superintendent did not take action despite our repeated appeals. We have been told cylinders would be coming late at night. That means the patients will remain without oxygen for about 12 hours and who will take the responsibility if anything untoward happens,” an intern said. Medical superintendent of the hospital Avijit Mukherjee said: “There is a crisis everywhere...I have been trying my best to ensure supply by late night.” Amid such a crisis, the state government in an attempt to reduce the burden of non-availability of oxygen, the south Bengal districts have on war footing began setting up oxygen plants at state government run hospitals. The National Highways Authorities of India (NHAI) and the state Public Health Engineering (PHE) department have been approached to set up the required infrastructure at the earliest considering the crisis of oxygen in view of the rise in the number of Covid cases. State government had announced earlier this week that 55 oxygen plants would be set up at several government hospitals. The government also said the gas would be produced and directly supplied to the wards through pipe lines. At present, the state government has 12,500 Covid beds with oxygen support at 105 hospitals. In the first phase, the state government has planned to augment 3,000 more such beds with oxygen support at 41 hospitals. But since the supply of oxygen cylinders has become a problem, the government has laid emphasis on installing plants inside the hospitals to meet the demands. Under this endeavour, many hospitals in south Bengal have begun the installation of the plants. In Nadia till Thursday, the district administration has decided to install four such plants, which will come up at Kalyani-based JNM Hospital and the Netaji Subhas Sanatorium & Tuberculosis Hospital, Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar as well as the Tehatta subdivisional hospital. The plant at the district hospital will be the biggest one with a production capacity of 1,000 litres per minute, whereas the others will have a capacity of 500 litres per minute. “Once the infrastructure is prepared, the Defence Research Development Organisation will take up the job of launching the production plant at all the four hospitals. This will reduce the dependence on oxygen cylinders,” a senior official of Nadia administration said In Murshidabad, construction of an oxygen plant at the Behrampore Covid hospital has been completed by the NHAI. Chief medical officer (health) Prasanta Biswas said: “The pipeline laying works has been completed. The work of installing the plants is awaited.” Sources at the district administration said similar plants had been proposed for all subdivisional hospitals at Jangipur, Sagardighi, Domkal and Lalgola. Bankura district has also been facing acute shortage of oxygen. District magistrate K. Radhika Aiyar said: “We have sent proposals for at least four plants in the districts to overcome the crisis.” Despite a shortage, the East Midnapore administration is yet to prepare a proposal for setting up an oxygen plant because of repeated transfer and posting of senior officials by the Election Commission in the district. The nursing home operators in the district have demanded the need of a filling station in the district. “We have an oxygen plant in Haldia. Nevertheless, we are compelled to depend on other districts in absence of a filling station,” Kanailal Das, a nursing home owner said. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain, Snehamoy Chakraborty and Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Release funds under PM-Kisan scheme for eligible farmers in Bengal: Mamata to PM||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to direct the Union ministry of agriculture to release funds under the PM-Kisan scheme for eligible farmers in Bengal immediately. “I had written earlier on 31.12.2020 to the Union Minister of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare on providing benefits of PM-Kisan (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi) Scheme to the farmers of the State of West Bengal. Several communications were also made from the State government... However, no concrete response has yet been received from the Ministry on this,” the chief minister wrote. Sources in the agriculture department said Mamata’s move was considered to be smart as it would put pressure on the Centre to release the doles. The BJP had used the PM Kisan scheme to campaign against the Trinamul Congress in the Assembly polls, alleging that the Mamata government was depriving 72 lakh farmers of the benefits of the central scheme. In December last year, the state government had agreed to implement the scheme after more than 21 lakh farmers had applied for the same. The chief minister wrote that the state had already verified 14.91 lakh farmers’ applications but no fund had been transferred so far. According to the state government, all formalities for 9.84 lakh farmers were completed and they are ready to get benefits under the Public Financial Management System (PFMS). The PFMS is a platform for e-payment of subsidy under Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to both Aadhaar-based & non-Aadhaar-based bank accounts. “Out of 21.79 lakh farmers who had registered for the scheme as per letter on Union Agriculture Minister, dated 6th November, 2020, 14.91 lakh data have been uploaded in portal, which were duly verified and of which 9.84 lakh data are ready for PFMS,” read Mamata’s letter. The chief minister also put pressure on Modi, pointing out that the Centre should also release two years’ arrears to the farmers along with this year’s entitlement as he had assured Bengal’s farmers of the same during his election rallies. “I would like to further impress that during your recent visit to the State, you gave repeated assurances on releasing the arrears amount of Rs 18,000 to each farmer, but till date, no fund has been received by the State of West Bengal or the farmers,” the chief minister wrote. Sources said Mamata had pointed out the issue as the PM had promised that two years’ backlog of Rs 12,000 and this year’s Rs 6,000 for each farmer would be given at one go once the BJP came to power in the state. “If the PM says amount due in the past two years would be given to the farmers, there must be a way to clear the arrears even if the state did not join the scheme for two years. The PM now has to prove that he is not a Prime Minister of the BJP but all Indians,” said a source. The chief minister also pointed out that her government had disbursed Rs 1,498 crore to 57.67 lakh farmers under the state’s own Krishak Bandhu scheme announced in December 2018. “This point was raised by the chief minister only to make it clear that the state has a verified database of more than 57 lakh farmers. If the Centre wants to bring more farmers under the scheme, the state would readily verify the names. This would also put the Centre under pressure,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP top leadership summons former Bengal BJP chief Tathagata Roy in Delhi||Former Bengal BJP chief Tathagata Roy, who has been lashing out at the leadership on Twitter for the party’s electoral drubbing in the state, has been summoned by the central brass in Delhi. Sources in the BJP said the public display of Roy’s rage did not go down well with the central leadership. “I have been asked by the topmost part leadership to come to Delhi ASAP. This is for general information,” Roy wrote on his Twitter handle on Thursday. Speaking to The Telegraph, Roy said he was currently in home quarantine after having tested positive for the coronavirus. He will go to Delhi after he has recovered, said Roy. Since Tuesday, Roy has made a series of tweets blaming people namely, BJP’s national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, his deputy Arvind Menon, national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash and the party’s Bengal Dilip Ghosh, for the poll debacle. Though BJP leaders had claimed that they would form the government in Bengal with more than 200 of the 294 seats this time, they could only manage to win 77 seats. Roy, the former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya, like many other party members have held certain leaders, including people like the ones mentioned by him, for the loss. “In the depths of my frustration I think of my icons Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay. How they had suffered, and compared to that what is my suffering! And the thoughts of PP Doctorji and Guruji. Such thoughts, such suffering will not go in vain. Never!” Roy wrote on Twitter on Thursday. He added: “Kailash-Dilip-Shiv-Arvind (KDSA) foursome have dragged the names of our respected Prime Minister and Home Minister through mud and have sullied the name of the biggest political party in the world. Sitting atop Agarwal Bhavan of Hastings (W Bengal BJP’s election headquarters) don’t I blame the central leadership? A central leadership in a country of 1.3 billion has to be briefed by the state leadership who are just clueless.” Roy apprehends that Trinamul turncoats whom he describes as “the garbage who came from Trinamool” and old BJP workers will now quit the party. “And that will be the end of the party in West Bengal,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Cooch Behar residents in Assam camp||Sheltered around 15km from his home, 60-year-old Shukur Ali has no idea when he will be able to return to his native Jhaukuthi village in the Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district. Meghu Das, his neighbour and a farmer, has been staying with him at Ranpagli M.V. School at Jhapusabari in Dhubri district of the neighbouring Assam for the past four days. Das is equally perturbed. “After the election results were announced, we were attacked by armed groups and fled to save our lives. The attackers didn’t identify Hindus or Muslims but indiscriminately went on attacking our houses. We really don’t know what made them organise such attacks on petty villagers like us,” said Ali. Altogether, over 600 residents from Tufanganj — the subdivision that shares border with Assam — have abandoned their houses and crossed over to Assam. Around 100 Muslims were among them. While around 250 of them are staying at the school in Ranpagli, the remaining 400 are sheltered at a similar camp in Pokalagi, another hamlet in Dhubri. After reports came in that some people from Cooch Behar district had entered Assam, the saffron brigade tried to play the polarisation card. The BJP said the attacks had been organised on people who had voted for the party which won seven of nine Assembly seats in Cooch Behar. However, those who have fled their homes, narrate a different story. “It is not about any religion…….those who are strong at a village attacked the other side. It is not that only BJP supporters were beaten up…. A number of Trinamul supporters have also left their homes,” said Abdul Halim Mondal, who is staying at a camp. Pabitra Kumar Roy, a BJP supporter at Balabhut of Tufanganj, said: “On May 2, as the day rolled, there was a simmering tension at our village. Jahirul Haque, a prominent face of Trinamul at the village, came to my house. He requested me to leave and said anti-socials, who are not residents of our village, are attacking houses of BJP supporters. As I moved out with my family, he accompanied me till I crossed the interstate border.” The affected residents also pointed out that while the saffron brigade had tried to build a narrative on religious lines, nothing as such had happened in Cooch Behar. On Thursday, the Cooch Behar district police led by Pankaj Thapa, the inspector-in-charge of Baxirhat police station, visited the camps twice, along with vehicles. Thapa spoke to the affected residents and asked them to return homes, while assuring security. The residents, however, did not respond. “We need some more time. Even today, there were clashes in Dinhata,” said Nanibala Burman, an elderly woman who is from Nakkatigach of Tufanganj. Malati Rava, the newly-elected MLA of Tufanganj and also the Cooch Behar district president of BJP, also visited the camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||MHA team arrives in Bengal to assess reports of post-poll clashes ||A four-member team led by Govinda Mohan, additional secretary of ministry of home affairs (MHA), arrived in Bengal on Thursday to assess ground realities after reports of post-poll clashes began pouring in from across the state. The team’s arrival coincided with the attack on Union minister V. Muraleedharan’s vehicle when he went to visit the homes of assaulted BJP workers at Panchkhuri in West Midnapore. “TMC goons attacked my convoy in West Midnapore, broken windows, attacked personal staff. Cutting short my trip,” tweeted the minister. Sources said the minister had visited Midnapore town after two BJP supporters had allegedly been attacked by Trinamul workers. Local BJP leaders said the minister’s car was attacked in front of police. The minister escaped unhurt but three journalists accompanying the convoy were injured. The central team was rushed to the state after the MHA sought a report from the state government on post-poll violence that has so far killed 17 people. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her displeasure on the central team’s visit, saying the BJP could not digest the defeat and that’s why the officials had been sent. “The MHA sent a letter last evening within hours after the new government took oath. Now, a team was sent to the state. I never saw something like this before,” said the chief minister during a news conference at Nabanna on Thursday. Mamata also urged the BJP leaders to accept people’s mandate. “The BJP could not digest the defeat. I urge them to accept people’s mandate. We have served the team members tea and they went back,” said the chief minister. The central team, after reaching Calcutta, held a meeting with the chief secretary, the home secretary and the DGP at Nabanna for more than 30 minutes. State BJP leaders met the team members at the BSF guest house here in the afternoon and briefed them on incidents where their cadres were attacked allegedly by Trinamul supporters. After visiting the damaged houses of BJP workers in Midnapore town, Muraleedharan went to visit Panchkhuri in Kharagpur (rural) of the district where his convoy was attacked. “The Union minister was attacked in front of policemen. If a Union minister can be attacked, imagine the fate of ordinary BJP workers. The minister has seen how BJP workers and their houses have been attacked by Trinamul goons. He will submit a report to the central government,” said organisational general secretary of BJP’s Midnapore unit, Arup Das. Trinamul leader Ajit Maity, however, rejected the charges Das levelled against his party. “No Trinamul worker is involved in the attacks on BJP supporters,” Maity said. The chief minister also said that central ministers were visiting the state to ignite tension at a time Covid cases were going up alarmingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: CID summons probe officer to gather details of CISF firing ||The CID on Thursday summoned the investigating officer of Mathabhanga police station in Cooch Behar district to gather details of his initial probe into the CISF firing outside a polling booth in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment during the fourth phase of the voting. A Special Investigation Team of the CID — set up to probe the firing on April 10 — sent out the summon to the investigating officer, asking him to depose at Bhabani Bhavan, the state police headquarters in Alipore here, within next few days. The CID said the officer should come with all documents and evidence that he had collected so far. Sources in the CID said the probe would revolve around three key questions. While sending out the summon, the investigating officer of the case has been asked to report within the next few days in Calcutta. Sources in the CID said based on the statements of the investigating officer, the inspector in charge of Mathabhanga police station would be summoned next. While a team will remain busy questioning the police officers, another team will leave for Jorpatki village. Officers of this team would visit the booth. The SIT will also talk to police personnel who rushed to the booth after the firing on April 10. Immediately after the firing, Trinamul had claimed the deceased were its supporters who were gunned down when they were standing in queue to cast their votes. The government on Thursday sent the chiefs of three police districts — Alipurduar, Burdwan East and Howrah Rural — on compulsory waiting. Rajesh Kumar, additional director general of police in charge of Western Zone, was also sent on compulsory waiting. The government also shifted the chiefs of Ranaghat, Jangipur and Krishnanagar police districts. “More transfers are likely as the chief minister begins taking stock of the law and order in each district,” said a senior officer of the home department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Numbers show polarisation did not work ||Mamata Banerjee’s promise of preserving the inclusive tradition of Bengal helped her pull off the decisive victory in the Assembly polls, the district-level poll percentage figures suggest.According to the data, Trinamul has done well not only in the minority-influential areas but also castled the BJP in the tribal-dominated districts. The BJP, which attempted polarisation hoping to consolidate Hindu votes, trailed in the eight districts — such as West Midnapore, Hooghly and Nadia — where over 60 per cent of the population are Hindus. Rather, the BJP's high-pitched attempt to polarise Bengal seems to have helped Trinamul bag more than 50 per cent votes in seven districts where minorities make up over 20 per cent of the population. The seven districts are Murshidabad, North Dinajpur, Malda, East Burdwan, South 24-Parganas, Birbhum and Howrah. “The Trinamul swept these seven districts but the BJP failed to win the majority votes even in Hindu-majority areas.… The BJP also lost ground in tribal-dominated districts like Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia and West Midnapore, where it had performed better in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls," said political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty. In 2019, the BJP was ahead of the Trinamul in 13 of the 23 districts but the number came down to 5 this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Five die in collision on highway in North Dinajpur||Five persons, including three children, died when a truck rammed into an e-rickshaw and a motorcycle on NH12 at Itahar in North Dinajpur district on Wednesday night. Police sources said the e-rickshaw and the bike was plying on the wrong lane when the accident occurred. After the accident, locals rushed to the spot and rescued the victims. They rushed the victims to Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital where doctors pronounced them dead. “Preliminary investigation suggests that the e-rickshaw and the bike were moving along a wrong lane. The truck was coming from the opposite side and it rammed into vehicles at Chavor More,” said Sumit Kumar, SP, North Dinajpur. “A probe is on and searches are on to nab the truck and its driver,” he added. The police said the deceased — identified as Swapan Das, 40, Pinki Das, 32, Panchami Das, 15, Ishan Das, 2, and Anirban Basak, 14, — were residents of Itahar. It appers that the victims were relatives and were returning home after attending a marriage function.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Dozen gram panchayat and panchayat samiti functionaries of Trinamul resign||At least a dozen gram panchayat and panchayat samiti functionaries of Trinamul working on the sly for the saffron camp in East Midnapore, against whom Trinamul had moved no-confidence motion, resigned from their posts following the debacle of the BJP in the Assembly polls. Sources said after Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP, around a dozen of Trinamul functionaries of several party-run gram panchayat and panchayat samitis had started to sabotage the prospects of the Trinamul by working hand in gloves with the saffron camp. Trinamul had show caused many of them and moved no-confidence motions against several chief of panchayat samitis and gram panchayats in the run up to the polls. However, those functionaries stuck to their posts and resigned only after the BJP lost the polls. “They thought that BJP would come to power and take over the rural bodies. But after the party lost in many areas of the district, the leaders considered close to the Suvendu camp began to resign,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Dibakar Jana, the chief of Shahid Matangini Panchayat Samity is one of those against whom no confidence motion had been moved. Sources close to Jana said he resigned from his post on Wednesday as most of the members who assured to support him before the polls did a U-turn after the BJP lost the Tamluk Assembly seat under which the panchayat samity falls. “As a section of members brought a no-confidence motion against me, I thought it is better to resign,” Jana said without explaining why he took the decision after the polls. Like Jana, the chief of Kumorchak gram panchayat in Nandakumar Basudeb Mantri and Pratappur-II gram panchayat chief Shankar Samanta have also put down their papers in view of the no confidence motion. “We marked out the betrayers in the party and moved no confidence motion against them. It is good that they have resigned,” said Mamud Hossain, the Trinamul district coordinator. BJP’s president in Tamluk organisational district, Nabarun Nayek, however, said they had invited all who are with Trinamul to join hands for a better Bengal. “We have won seven of the 16 seats in East Midnapore this time. We consider it as our success as earlier the party did not have any seat in the district. We will work for better results in the next elections. We have asked many local level Trinamul leaders and panchayat functionaries to join us if they wish,” Nayek added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Suspension of suburban train services lead to crowded buses||The suspension of suburban train services brought back crowds on Calcutta-bound buses on Thursday in most south Bengal districts. Although both the state-run and private buses were allowed to operate at almost half their capacity, passengers were seen on the rooftops of vehicles because of the halt in the train services. At certain places, police tried to stop passengers from climbing on the rooftops of buses, but failed in the face of collective protest by them. On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced suspension of suburban train services in the state for two weeks from Thursday in the wake of worsening Covid-19 situation. She also announced that metro rail and state-run bus services would operate with 50 per cent occupancy. Since state-run buses were hardly seen on the roads, private buses, which also ran in less numbers, were overcrowded with passengers. Sukanta Majumdar, who works with a medicine manufacturing company in Calcutta, said: “I tried to catch the special train for railway employees. But I was prevented from boarding it by the RPF. Later, I tried to board a Calcutta-bound bus on NH12 point from Ranaghat. But I couldn’t because of the heavy rush.” After the state government announced the suspension of local train services for two weeks, the railway authorities have issued an order for running “patrolling car” for its employees. But both the Eastern Railways and South Eastern Railway authorities said barring employees, none would be allowed to travel on such special trains. “We will not even allow any person on emergency medical need to travel by these special trains. This is mainly because there is an alternative mode of communication available. So, we will not take any risk and make the situation vulnerable for our employees who will be travelling by those trains,” a senior official of Eastern Railway said. A number of motormen have tested positive for Covid, prompting the ER and SER authorities to reduce the services from Sealdah and Howrah. On Thursday, railways authorities at many prominent stations under Eastern and South Eastern Railways launched surveillance engaging RPF personnel to prevent general people from boarding the special trains. Police were seen at stations urging people to leave the premises. “It is a difficult situation for persons like me who are compelled to go to Calcutta for unavoidable professional obligation,” said Satyen Barik of Diamond Harbour who works at a Calcutta-based private agency. “In the absence of trains, I was compelled to travel in a jam-packed bus. I don’t know how to take precautions from Covid during such a journey. But I am left with no option. Our livelihood has become uncertain now,” he added. Partha Das, who works with a clearing agency at Kidderpore dock, said: “The state government should allow train service with restrictions and precautions. Else, the sole motive of containing the virus’ spread will fail with overcrowded buses and trucks entering the city.” However, the Asansol Railways Division on Thursday allegedly flouted the state government’s order not to run trains. Railways officials claimed there was no instruction of suspension of passenger train services from the higher authorities. “Those were not local trains, rather inter-state passenger trains,” a railway official said in Asansol. An official of the West Burdwan administration alleged that one of the three trains was a local one that runs between Asansol and Burdwan. “It was not an inter-state passenger train,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
