08-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Governor summons chief secretary over post-poll violence||Stating that the state Home Secretary failed to apprise him of law and order situation regarding post-poll violence, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday asked the Chief Secretary to see him by evening. Dhankhar tweeted that the home secretary did not forward reports of the state's director general of police (DGP) and commissioner of Kolkata police to him in this regard. "Chief Secretary @MamataOfficial has been called upon to see me today before 7 PM as ACS Home @HomeBengal failed to impart status report on law and order regarding post-poll violence," the governor said in his tweet. "Such drifting of governance @MamataOfficial from constitutional prescriptions is unfortunate and cannot be overlooked. "While the state passes through most severe post-poll violence, there is just no input to the constitutional head. This is least expected," Dhankhar wrote. The West Bengal has been marred with large scale violence after completion of bitterly fought state elections. The chief minister has said that 16 persons of different political parties have lost their lives in clashes after the end of the polls. A four-member team of the Union Home Ministry, tasked with looking into reasons for the post-poll violence in Bengal, had met Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan the previous day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt calls meeting with industry stakeholders on May 10 over Covid situation||The West Bengal government has called a meeting on May 10 with stakeholders of industry, factories, tea gardens to ensure protection of workers from the pandemic and continuity of business due to the raging second wave of COVID pandemic, sources said. The state government has restricted the number of workforce at a time to 50 per cent including in tea gardens. But, in case of the jute mills the number of workers in a single shift had been reduced further to 30 per cent. "A virtual meeting will be held on May 10 which will be presided by the principal secretary of the Labour department to ensure protection of workers in industries, factories, mills, manufacturing units and tea gardens, from the current Covid pandemic and effective role of management in strictly implementing various guidelines," sources told PTI. The government has advised wearing of masks, maintenance of physical distancing and Covid related health and hygiene protocols must be followed at all times. Sanitisation of offices, work places, industrial units, commercial establishments must be carried out at regular intervals. The state government has also instructed that all jute mills and other premises that had been occupied by Central security forces during the election period, should be thoroughly sanitised. Jute is a labour-intensive industry with 2.5 lakh industrial workers in over 60 jute mills of Bengal and mills work in three shifts and around 4,000 bales of jute bags are produced every day. But with 30 per cent workforce, the backlog of jute bag supply to wheat producing states like Haryana, Punjab, MP, UP and Bihar, will increae, mill officials said. Indian Jute Mills Association had committed for supply of 14 lakh bales of jute bags in the Kharif season between June and November 2021. The 30 per cent workforce regulation in jute industry has been imposed with an aim to prevent the spread of the deadly disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Fresh violence in Raiganj as a TMC worker hit with gun’s butt, BJP blamed||Fresh violence erupted on Friday in Raiganj, the district headquarters of North Dinajpur, as a young Trinamul worker of ward 25 of the town was allegedly attacked by a local BJP leader and his associates with firearms. The BJP won the Raiganj Assembly seat for the first time. Trinamul worker Abhijit Sarkar, in his early 30s, could escape alive as residents came out and resisted his attackers, who then fled from the spot, he later said. A complaint has been filed. The police have initiated a probe. Sources said that on Friday morning, Abhijit, who stays in Debinagar, was heading towards a local market. Then, Ashim Adhikari, a former Trinamul ward councillor who joined the BJP before the polls, and some others with him, intercepted Abhijit. Trinamul leader Prashanta Mallick accused Adhikari of taking out a revolver and hitting Abhijit with its butt. “Ashim Adhikari’s associates also joined him and rained blows on Abhijit. The BJP leader also tried to shoot our party worker. Abhijit was saved as some residents came out when he started screaming. He has suffered multiple injuries and has been admitted to the Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital,” said Mallick. Mallick also alleged that Adhikari and his aides had been threatening Abhijit, a popular face of Trinamul in the area, and his family for the past few weeks. “This attack (on Abhijit) has again proved what the chief minister said yesterday (Thursday). Wherever the BJP has won, its workers have been perpetrating violence and attacking our people without provocation,” added Mallick. Adhikari denied the charges and instead said some Trinamul workers had attacked him. A police team reached the site later. “We will speak with the injured person. Our officers are getting information from the spot,” said a police officer. On Thursday, a group of BJP workers attacked Udayan Guha, the former Trinamul MLA of Dinhata in Cooch Behar, who lost to the BJP by only 57 votes. Guha ended up with a fractured right hand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Crowded TMC and BJP rallies flout Covid norms||The BJP and Trinamul on Friday took out flagless processions and meetings in East Midnapore’s Nandigram, accusing each other of spreading violence. With attendees numbering hundreds in each event, both violated the state government’s Covid-19 safety directive that bars the assembly of more than 50 persons at a time. After being sworn in as the chief minister for a third term, Mamata Banerjee issued a directive on May 5 of not allowing more than 50 persons at a time in any type of assembly. In case of such assemblies, any organiser has to take permission from the administration. On Friday morning, the BJP and many saffron organisations took out a procession without party flags with at least 1,000 people to protest against the alleged non-stop violence on workers of Opposition parties in Bengal. The procession was led by BJP’s district vice-president and a close aide to Suvendu Adhikari, Pralay Pal, who later held a street-corner meeting at Birulia Bazar, where Mamata was injured during her campaign on March 10. “Even after the chief minister took oath, the violence and attacks on workers of the BJP and other Opposition parties haven’t stopped. Trinamul-backed goons are attacking those who worked for the BJP in the state polls,” said Pal. Asked why they violated Covid protocols, Pal said they were forced to do so as the “degree of violence had become intolerable”. Trinamul leaders headed by party leader Abu Taher took out a flagless procession under the banner of Nandigram Nagarik Committee from Kurighata to Hazraghata under Nandigram I block area. Taher accused the BJP of spreading fake news and misinformation to foment tension. Trinamul leaders also addressed a street-corner meeting in Kurighata without party flags. Asked how he could violate the Covid protocol despite the directive of the chief minister, Taher said participants in the procession had followed physical distancing and other Covid safety protocols during the procession and meeting. “The BJP is trying to spread its propaganda of hatred and divisive politics. They are spreading rumours and fake news on social media, which trigger tension. Our procession without party banner was to alert the people of Nandigram to stay away from such provocation,” said Taher. Avneet Punia, the subdivisional officer of Haldia, under which Nandigram falls, said he had no idea about the Covid safety violation in the processions. He promised to inquire about them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh PM and foreign minister congratulate Mamata on poll win||The outcome of the Bengal Assembly polls has prompted Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen to send congratulatory messages to Mamata Banerjee. The gestures have been described as unusual by a retired diplomat, and the contents of the messages hint at a sense of relief in Dhaka. “The huge victory of Trinamul Congress in the Assembly election of 2021 is a reflection of deep-rooted trust of West Bengal people in you,” Hasina wrote in her letter to Mamata on Wednesday. The Bangladesh premier wished overall development and continued progress of Bengal under the leadership of Mamata and underscored her expectations that the relations between Bangladesh and Bengal will deepen further in the coming days. Hasina also spoke of a joint battle against the pandemic by the people of the two countries. Mamata has already responded to both the letters. In her letter to the Prime Minister, the chief minister has fondly mentioned Hasina’s sister, Rehana. Although Mamata and Hasina share a personal rapport, the message from Dhaka has been termed “unusual” in diplomatic circles as foreign heads of state do not normally send congratulatory messages following state elections. “It is quite unusual,” said a retired diplomat who had served as the Indian high commissioner in Dhaka. The eight-phase Bengal elections were closely tracked in Bangladesh with television channels and newspapers giving saturation coverage. “Mamata evokes a strange response in Bangladesh…. While people are still upset with her for not allowing the Teesta water-sharing deal (which was to be signed in September 2011), ordinary people like Mamata for upholding secular values and principles. I can tell you with utmost certainty that most people of Bangladesh are happy to see her back as the chief minister,” said the editor of a popular news network in Bangladesh. According to the editor, people in Bangladesh watched with dismay how Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah kept referring to illegal infiltration from Bangladesh in almost all their rallies. The portrayal of Bangladeshis as illegal infiltrators — Shah had in the past called Bangladeshis termites and this time he said that not even a pigeon would be allowed to fly into this side if the BJP comes to power — has not gone down well on the other side of the border. The persistent promise of the saffron ecosystem that the BJP would ensure implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) on coming to power and deport illegal infiltrators also ruffled feathers in Bangladesh that already has 1.5 million Rohingya refugees. Mamata’s repeated assurances, on the other hand, that everyone was a citizen of India and she would oppose the citizenship tripod till her last breath endeared her to the Bangladeshi masses. While Hasina’s message was balanced, the feeling of the majority in Bangladesh was captured in an earlier message that foreign minister Momen had sent congratulating Mamata. “We are grateful to you as you spiritedly upheld the long-cherished values of Bengal, the principle of religious harmony and brotherhood that Bangabandhu (Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman) spearheaded throughout his life,” Momen had written in his letter in the immediate aftermath of Mamata’s victory. In his letter, he also dropped hints that Bangladesh was expecting a resolution of the Teesta water-sharing issue as he mentioned that the relations between the two countries would be strengthened further and help resolve the outstanding matters. The comments of Momen created a flutter in the diplomatic circles because some felt that it was a soft critique of the BJP’s Hindu nationalist agenda. “A close reading of the content gives an impression that there was also a message for Delhi in his letter,” said a retired Indian diplomat. The biggest challenge facing the ruling Awami League under Hasina is the rise of fundamentalist forces. Multiple sources in the party had told this correspondent during the election in Bengal that they were afraid of a BJP sweep in Bengal as it would boost the Muslim fundamentalists in their country. With Momen hinting at Bangladesh’s happiness with the outcome, his message was appreciated in that country. “It was a well-crafted message…. It is true that the manner in which Bengal withstood communal polarisation is very similar to the idea of Bangladesh,” said Shamser Mobin Chowdhury, former foreign secretary of Bangladesh. Some sources in Delhi, however, said that Dhaka was a bit worried about the fallout of Momen’s letter as the Hasina establishment is keen to keep the central government in good humour. “Probably that’s the reason why Hasina wrote another letter to Mamata, two days after Momen’s message, that attempted a diplomatic way of congratulating her…. The intention was also to take the focus away from Momen’s letter, which some official sources are describing as his personal view,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata requests PM Modi to allocate 550 tonnes of medical oxygen daily for Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to allocate 550 tonnes of medical oxygen daily for Bengal as requirement had gone up rapidly over the past few days because of a surge in Covid-19 cases. “In my earlier letter dated 05.05.2021, I had mentioned that the consumption of MO is increasing rapidly due to an increase in Covid positive cases in the State. It has gone up to 470 MT per day in the last 24 hours and is expected to increase to 550 MT per day in the next 7-8 days,” wrote the chief minister. Sources said the state had realised that the requirement of oxygen would go up as Bengal had been witnessing a steady growth of Covid cases since the third week April. State chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had taken up the issue with the Centre at that time, pointing out that Bengal might require more oxygen in the coming days and pleaded for more oxygen. “Till the last week of April, the requirement of medical oxygen was around 230 tonnes per day. As several other states required more oxygen, the Centre had allotted a large portion of the medical oxygen produced in Bengal to those states. The chief secretary had said at that time that the Centre should ensure that Bengal did not face a crisis of oxygen during its requirement,” said a source. The chief minister mentioned in her letter that despite requests from the state, the Centre did not increase the allotment of medical oxygen for Bengal. “However, instead of allocating the same as per the requirement of West Bengal, Government of India has increased allocation of MO to other states, from the total production in West Bengal, during the last 10 days from 230 MT to 360 MT, keeping the allocation for West Bengal constant at 308 MT per day...,” read the letter. Sources in the state administration said a total of 560 tonnes of medical oxygen were needed in Bengal every day. “There was nothing wrong to allot oxygen to other states when demand in Bengal was low. But when our state is requiring more oxygen, it is natural that we would demand that oxygen produced in Bengal cater for the patients here first,” said the source. “Considering the critical situation, I would request you to kindly have the allocation of MO reviewed and instructions issued for an immediate allocation of at least 550 MT per day of MO preferably out of the total produced MO in West Bengal,” Mamata wrote. She also expressed concern as the Centre was not increasing allotment despite several requests. On Friday night, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted a four-page letter he wrote to Mamata. The letter outlines a series of measures through which the Centre has helped the state. “Rest assured @MamataOfficial Didi, whatever Bengal needs, Shri Narendra Modi Ji’s government stands resolute to provide in order to help it effectively fight the pandemic,” Vardhan tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Violence unleashed after poll results came out appears to be well conspired: Dattatreya ||RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale on Friday said the post-poll violence in Bengal appeared to be “well conspired” and urged the Centre to take “all possible steps” to “ensure the state government acts”. Hosabale, who was recently elected as the executive head of the BJP’s parent body, said in a statement: “But the violence unleashed state wide, soon after the election results came out, is not only highly condemnable but appears to be well conspired also.” The 65-year-old is seen as close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The RSS leader accused the state administration of remaining “mute spectators” to the violence and demanded that the new government establish rule of law. “The role of the state administrative machinery was completely passive and they remained mute spectators was the most heinous part of this unabated and inhuman violence,” the statement said. Hosabale accused police of making no effort to stop the violence. “We also urge upon the Central Govt to take necessary and all possible steps to establish peace in WB and to ensure that the state Govt acts in the above direction,” reads the statement. The Hindutva ecosystem has been pitching for President’s rule in Bengal and seeking to communalise the violence by claiming that only Hindus were being attacked. Hosabale refrained from making any divisive pitch and didn’t call for the central rule in Bengal. BJP chief J.P. Nadda, too, has claimed law and order in Bengal collapsed but stopped short of demanding the President’s rule. Hosabale’s alleged that “barbaric and despicable” misbehaviour was unleashed against women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy skips first BJP meeting in House||The BJP’s newly elected MLAs met in the Bengal Assembly for the first time on Friday, deciding to boycott the House till post-results violence in the state stopped completely, but the absence of the party’s national vice-president Mukul Roy created a buzz. Former railway minister Roy — previously Trinamul’s de facto No 2 who had switched sides to the BJP in 2017 — won the first election of his life as the BJP’s Krishnagar North candidate, emerging as one of the saffron camp’s 77 MLAs in the 294-seat House. But the 67-year-old’s absence from the crucial meeting, which followed a conspicuous exchange of pleasantries with Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi and his departure before the BJP’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh’s arrival, triggered speculation. “Mukulda had to go back to Krishnagar. Some cases of violence against our workers were reported from there, so he had to rush. He informed me,” said Ghosh when asked about Roy’s absence. However, several state unit functionaries of the BJP refused to buy Ghosh’s version. Three of them said that Roy — who chief minister Mamata Banerjee had repeatedly spoken fondly of in her otherwise aggressive campaign against the BJP — had been “inattentive” and “disinterested” in the saffron camp for a while now. “In almost all recent meetings, Mukulda was present, but he stayed quiet, spoke only when spoken to, and was distant and preoccupied,” said one of them. A functionary of the party’s state women’s wing said the veteran backroom boy was unhappy with the party fielding him as a candidate. She said Roy had expressed discontent among his confidants but said he couldn’t refuse home minister Amit Shah’s personal request. In the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Roy had been placed at the helm of the BJP’s election committee and led the party to unprecedented success. In the 2021 Assembly polls, the central leadership — spearheaded by Shah — commandeered the state unit and Roy was left with little to do. Roy’s diminished role — despite his reputation as a master strategist with the ability to deliver electoral triumphs — had upset him, said sources. “Mukulda isn’t happy with the party….He had been issuing vital warnings, identifying crucial inflection points, but his advice went unheeded. For instance, he had advised against an all-out campaign with polarisation, saying it would not produce the desired results in Bengal. Now we see he was right,” said the source in the women’s wing. “We won’t be surprised if he takes a drastic decision about his political future shortly,” she added, pointing out that Roy’s foremost concern would be to ensure his 38-year-old son Subhranshu’s political future. Subhranshu, a two-term MLA from Trinamul, contested from his Bijpur seat on a BJP ticket this time and lost. There are murmurs within the BJP that many of its 77 MLAs — and 18 Bengal MPs — are in touch with the Trinamul leadership, looking for ways to defect. The list of probable names includes Roy. Roy has largely been silent on the BJP’s Bengal poll debacle. On Friday too, he maintained his silence. While leaving the Assembly, Roy told journalists: “I’ll not say a word to anyone today. When I decide to speak, I’ll call everybody and speak.” At the meeting, the BJP’s legislative party decided against attending any House proceedings till the alleged persecution of BJP workers and supporters stopped in Bengal. “No BJP legislator will come to the Assembly, unless the violence is fully stopped. They will not participate in the Speaker’s election either,” said Ghosh after the party meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Glare on role of BJP ‘outsiders’ in defeat||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Friday told his colleagues that he had asked national leaders to leave for Delhi and the local unit would be able to manage on its own, multiple sources in the party said. Several state BJP leaders claimed that Ghosh’s statement finally vindicated Mamata Banerjee’s claim that the people campaigning for the saffron camp during the Bengal elections were “bohiragawto (outsiders)”. “While addressing us, Dilipda said he was asked by the central leaders if they should stay or leave. He said he had told them to leave if they wanted to and the state unit could take care of the party’s affairs in Bengal,” a state committee member of the BJP said. The meeting held at the BJP’s state headquarters in 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane in Calcutta was presided over by Ghosh and attended by state vice-president Pratap Banerjee, state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty and national general-secretary Tarun Chugh. Ghosh’s comments were received with applause by members of the state committee present at the organisational meeting. For them, it was a delayed vindication of the grudge they had against the central leaders whom they held responsible for the BJP’s electoral drubbing in Bengal. A section of the Bengal unit believes the Midnapore MP’s remarks suggested that the national leaders had failed to identify themselves with the culture of Bengal, an issue Mamata had flagged multiple times in the past six months. “Mamatadi is our rival and we had refuted her ‘outsider’ narrative during our campaign. It now turns out that she was right when she said the bohiragawto leaders wouldn’t understand Bengal. Dilipda will of course not say so in these many words, but what he said at the meeting today suggests the same thing,” a source present at the meeting said. The source said Ghosh had made it clear to the central leaders that the state unit was equipped to take care of the party’s internal and legislative matter as well as the violence against the workers. A large section of the BJP has held the central leadership’s unnecessary intervention responsible for the poll debacle. They believe the national leaders whom BJP parachuted during the poll campaign failed to identify themselves with Bengal and also made multiple wrong decisions like the selection of unfit candidates which finally led to their defeat. Asked whether he had made any such statement, Ghosh didn’t elaborate but said: “There hasn’t been a discussion as such. I’ve told them samley nebo (we will manage). We will go to districts to speak to the workers.” BJP sources said it was important that the state leadership took things in their own hands and started visiting the families affected by the post-poll violence. Workers at the grassroots are fuming against senior party leaders and candidates who were fielded from outside. The workers said the leaders had left them to fend for themselves in the face of alleged attacks by Trinamul goons following the BJP’s debacle. The BJP leadership has promised to provide financial compensation to those who have lost their property in the post-poll violence. Many BJP workers, who were either deputed as polling agents or as the party’s ‘karyakartas’ across Bengal, accused the candidates and party leaders of not even taking their calls during the crisis. A Mahila Morcha member in Bolpur, whose house was attacked on May 2 night, said the leaders, including Birbhum district president Dhruba Saha and the candidate from Bolpur, Anirban Ganguly, left them to face the violence and did not communicate further even after repeated calls. “I will never hold a BJP flag in future as I saw the leaders who provoked us to campaign left us alone on the ground after the defeat. The candidate, Anirban Ganguly, had left Bolpur on May 2 evening even without informing us. Before the polls, all leaders were asking us to bring people to the meetings and they vanished immediately after defeat,” said the 33-year-old woman, who did not want to be identified. According to the woman, on May 2 night, a group of Trinamul workers armed with iron rods and bamboo sticks reached her doorstep and ransacked a part of her house when she was sleeping along with her six-year-old son. After the threat and the ransack, she informed police who came and gave her protection from further attacks. “We attacked state police during our campaign but they came and secured me from the further attack. I hate to say that neither the BJP district president nor our candidate came to save me or were available over phone,” she said. Saha said the candidates could not take calls as violent incidents were uncountable. “I was very ill from the evening of the poll result and the candidates could not take calls as there were hundreds of complaints. We are trying to be with them but we are few in numbers in the district now,” said Saha. Ganguly, however, did not take calls from this newspaper. Not only in Bolpur but the allegations against outsider candidates like Swapan Dasgupta emerged in areas like Hooghly. Apart from many grassroots workers, several senior BJP leaders accused Dasgupta, who lost the Tarakeswar seat, of leaving the workers at the mercy of “Trinamul goons”. “Our participation in Dasgupta’s election campaign earned us the wrath of Trinamul. Dasgupta did not care to stand by BJP workers when they were facing attacks. We alerted our senior party leaders and requested them never to field outsiders like Dasgupta as they will not be with us,” said Ganesh Chakraborty, a BJP vice-president in Hooghly. Sensing the anger of party workers, the BJP leadership has promised to provide compensation to those whose homes have been vandalised. BJP district presidents have been asked to prepare a list and work out a possible compensation that the party will need to pay its workers. The list has to be sent to the state committee within a week. “The party has decided to stand by the affected workers financially and medically. Whatever we can, we will support our workers. This is our only programme for the coming few days,” said Samik Bhattacharya, the chief spokesperson for the party in Bengal. Trinamul workers allegedly gheraoed the BDO office Dhaniakhali in Hooghly while a meeting between BJP MP Locket Chatterjee and the BDO was on. Chatterjee also complained of bomb blasts near the BDO office. She later called the district magistrate, who sent the police to rescue her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal moves SC for free vaccines for all citizens||The Mamata Banerjee government on Friday urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre to provide free vaccines to all citizens of the country as a matter of fundamental right and in keeping with the policy of universal immunisation that has been in vogue in India for over 73 years. The Bengal government alleged the Centre was shirking its constitutional duties at a time the country was grappling with the unprecedented crisis brought on by the epidemic. In an application, the state government questioned the differential vaccine price policy adopted by the Centre that has allowed private players such as the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to determine prices. The application is expected to come up for hearing on May 10. “The immediate singular objective of the Government of India ought to be to take drastic steps to achieve universal coverage at the earliest. The current differential pricing mechanism will result in low coverage of the population. Vaccines must be considered as a ‘public good’ and therefore should be free of cost for the public at the time of an unprecedented crisis and cannot be reduced to a market commodity. In fact, western countries are vaccinating their populations free of cost,” the Bengal government said. “It must be remembered that Covid-19 is an inter-state communicable disease and therefore the universality of vaccine coverage must be the Government of India’s responsibility…. “The state government would like to recommend that the time-tested immunisation programmes in operation for the last 73 years that deliver universal coverage should function as a vaccination model at the time of this pandemic. This model envisages the Government of India providing the vaccines to the states to cover every citizen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Glenary’s to turn its restaurant section into free Covid isolation centre||Glenary’s, the Darjeeling eatery, has decided to convert its restaurant section into an isolation centre for treating Covid-19 patients free of charge. Ajoy Edwards, the owner of the 130-year-old eatery, said the decision had been taken as it was time for every citizen to “fight this war” in his/her own way. “We have decided to convert the restaurant on the top floor into an isolation centre with a basic oxygen supply facility. We will also provide food and medicines to patients free of cost,” said Edwards. The state government had on May 3 issued an advisory requesting social organisations to set up isolation centres for people with mild Covid symptoms. This is, however, the first time in the hills that a restaurant has decided to start an isolation centre offering services free of cost. “We have been keeping track of hospital beds in our region and we are anticipating that it will be difficult to get beds for Covid patients in the days to come. This prompted us to start the initiative,” said Edwards. The isolation centre of Glenary’s is being set up by Edwards Foundation run by his family in collaboration with Darjeeling Initiative (a social organisation) and Planter’s Hospital here. The 200-seater restaurant will start as a 20-bed isolation centre “most probably from Wednesday as health officials will be inspecting the facility on Tuesday.” Plans are afoot to double the bed capacity depending on the need. Glenary’s has three floors, with a resto bar on the ground floor, bakery on the first floor and the restaurant on the top floor. The bakery will remain open. “We will completely seal off the top floor and follow all SOPs,” said Edwards, whose family also stays in the same building. Efforts are being made to procure as many oxygen concentrators as possible. Glenary’s always stands out for its business model. It neither retrenches nor retires employees and stood by the policy during the lockdown last year. All workers are paid their full salaries through their life. This policy was started in 2000 when Edwards took charge of the business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||One killed as ambulance rams into auto-rickshaw, another passenger loses arm||A passenger died and another commuter lost his right arm when an ambulance rammed into an auto-rickshaw — ferrying three passengers — in Nadia on Friday morning. Police and eye-witnesses said the ambulance driver lost control of the vehicle and first crashed into the auto-rickshaw on Krishnagar-Karimpur road near Mahisbathan-Koruitala area. The ambulance then hit another auto-rickshaw in the rear and overturned. It came to a halt after hitting a roadside tree. The impact of the collision was so strong that the ill-fated auto-rickshaw — heading towards Karimpur from Nazirpur — was thrown off the road killing Biswajit Pramanik, 30, one of the four occupants in the three-wheeler, on the spot. Sources said the vacant ambulance was travelling at high speed in a zigzag manner when the driver lost control of the vehicle. They said the driver was exhausted as he was on continuous Covid duty. The sources said that the deceased was a resident of Natna. He was going to the Karimpur rural hospital to see his elder brother who had been admitted to the facility there on Thursday evening with suspected Covid symptoms. Two other passengers Mantu Ghosh, 36, Anima Ghosh, 67, and driver of the autorickshaw Panchanan Saha, 48, were grievously injured in the accident. They have been admitted to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar. Mantu, a resident of Hogolberia, who was sitting on the right side of the driver in the three-wheeler, lost his right arm in the accident. “The arm of the victim was completely snapped from the body and fell around 20 metres away,” an officer of Karimpur police station said adding that it was retrieved and immediately sent to the district hospital. The police have detained the ambulance driver, who was also injured in the accident. He was taken to Karimpur rural hospital but released after primary treatment. The police have started a case of reckless driving against the ambulance driver. An investigating official of Karimpur police station said: “It could not be immediately ascertained how the accident occurred. But it appears that the driver was in temporary slumber while driving that led him to lose control over the vehicle. We are examining the possible reasons behind the accident.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Deb assumed as chairperson of board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation||Senior Trinamul leader and former minister and MLA Gautam Deb assumed the office of the chairperson of the four-member board of administrators (BoA) of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation here on Friday. After taking charge, Deb said he would work to streamline the management of the pandemic situation and put efforts to revive the work culture in the SMC. “We have to work on a war footing to curb the pandemic from spreading across the SMC area. We will ensure round-the-clock services for which none of the civic employees will be allowed to go on leave other than in extraordinary cases. Our priority is to provide civic services and some allied services to the residents, in coordination with the district health department, the administration and others concerned,” Deb said. On Friday morning, Deb reached the SMC with Ranjan Sarkar, Alok Chakraborty and Vivek Baid — three other board members — and took charge. Deb then held a meeting with Surendra Gupta, the principal secretary of the north Bengal development department who has been made the nodal officer of state health department for Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts. Sources in the SMC said that the state urban development department appointed two nodal officers for Covid management in all 47 wards of Siliguri. On Saturday, the chairperson will hold a meeting with officials of the health department of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts, SMC and representatives of NGOs SMC. “We need to restrain the pandemic. Also, regular civic services with 50 per cent of the total staff is yet another challenge that we will have to carry out. I will visit all the SMC wards and communicate with former board members too…,” the senior Trinamul leader said. On his very first day, Deb passed a clear instruction that all civic employees would have to deliver their responsibilities regularly. “If required, they have to visit the wards to confirm that civic services are being provided properly. Supervisors who look after the conservancy service in wards will have to regularly monitor the work from 7am to noon,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul’s trade union wing demands replacement of pro-BJP factory workers||The owner of a poly product firm in East Midnapore’s Haldia subdivision has sought the administration’s intervention, citing that an agitation led by Trinamul’s trade union wing disrupted work in his factory since Tuesday. Kalipada Bhunia, whose firm is a supplier of Exide Industries, said the agitators had demanded the replacement of 40 of his 52 workers as they joined the BJP before the polls. The letter, which Bhunia wrote on Thursday, was sent to the working president of East Midnapore’s INTTUC unit Sibnath Sarkar, the union’s state president Dola Sen, the Federation of Small and Medium Industries and the District Industries Centre. “I can’t do this. My workers are here on the basis of merit. I can suspend them if they perform badly, but I’ll never intervene in their political leanings,” Bhunia told this paper. Haldia was known as a bastion of Trinamul turncoat and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari. When he joined the BJP in December, workers at the grassroots also switched sides. Local Trinamul leader Ashok Maity, who is leading the agitation at the gates of Bhunia’s factory, said he had demanded the replacement of 40 workers who had switched over to the BJP and “betrayed the party (Trinamul)”. “We have nothing against the factory. We just want these 40 men be replaced,” Maity said. Trinamul lost the Haldia seat to the BJP. It, however, secured the Mahishadal seat where the factory is situated. However, most of the 40 workers stay in the Haldia Assembly seat. Maity and his aides claim they contributed to Trinamul’s loss in Haldia. In his letter, Bhunia said several attempts to talk to Maity and his men failed. “We are suffering production loss, possibility of cancellation of our order from M/s Exide Industries Ltd., loss of reputation of our company and financial loss without any cause...,” Bhunia wrote. On Thursday, Biswanath Bhattacharya, the president of The Federation of Small and Medium Industries, wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and principal secretary of the MSME and textiles Rajesh Pandey, on Bhunia’s predicament. The general manager of the District Industries Centre forwarded Bhunia’s representation to East Midnapore’ district magistrate and superintendent of police, and requested their “kind consideration”. Haldia SDO Avneet Punia said he has asked the SDPO of Haldia to sort out the problem. INTTUC’s Sibnath Sarkar said this couldn’t go on. “I’ve received a complaint from Bhunia. Representatives from another factory have also verbally complained to me. This can’t be tolerated. I’ll request the police to take action against anyone who causes disruption,” Sarkar said. Tapasi Mondal, Haldia’s BJP MLA, accused that work in 12 factories, including that of Bhunia, had been disrupted because of Trinamul’s protest. “Trinamul supporters are demanding the replacement of people who voted for the BJP. That should not be the ground for such a demand. I request the administration and SDO to ensure that industries work properly,” Mondal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Two teens found dead, suicide whiff||The bodies of two teens were recovered from a mango plantation in Uttar Laxmipur area in Malda district’s Mothabari on Friday. The duo were identified as Manoj Mandal, 19, and Chaitanya Mandal, 18. Policemen said preliminary probe suggested suicide but they were awaiting an autopsy report. Police said both the teenagers were depressed. Last year, Manoj bagged ninth spot in the state merit list of higher secondary examines, getting 491 out of 500. But hailing from a marginal farmer’s family, he could not study in Calcutta. He was a student of Malda College and also had to work as a daily wage earner to support himself and his six-member family. Chaitanya was a school dropout who could not earn enough. “All these seemed to have left them depressed.  Preliminary probe suggest suicide but we are waiting for post-mortem reports,” said a police officer. In another incident, two women and a teenager died after they were struck by lightning at different areas of Manikchak police station on Friday evening. The deceased were identified as Samima Bewa, 75, Faizuddin Khan, 17, of Mathurapur and Tikli Mandal, 24, of Bhutni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||TMC bandh in Dinhata over attack on ex-MLA ||Dinhata town in Cooch Behar wore a deserted look on Friday as Trinamul observed a 30-hour bandh in the town in protest of the attack on party leader and former MLA Udayan Guha. In the Assembly elections, Guha lost to the BJP’s Nisith Pramanik by only 57 votes. On Thursday, Guha was attacked by suspected BJP supporters when he was moving through a locality in town. He ended up with a fractured right hand. His security personnel were hit on the head and the vehicle he was traveling was attacked. Local BJP leaders alleged the attack on Guha was a fallout of Trinamul’s infighting. After this, BJP and Trinamul supporters clashed in a number of areas in and around the town. Police moved in to control the situation. So far, three persons were arrested for organising the attack on Guha. Another eight have been arrested for perpetrating violence and ransacking homes and shops. On Friday, vehicles remained off road in Dinhata, shops and markets were closed and very few people were seen outside. Policemen patrolled in different places of the town throughout the day. Guha, under treatment at the Dinhata subdivisional hospital since Thursday, is likely to be shifted to Calcutta on Saturday, said sources. “He is stable but needs surgery in his hand. It has been decided to fly him to a private hospital in Calcutta for the surgery,” said a party leader. A district BJP leader said: “None from our party was involved in the attack. But after the incident, houses and shops of many BJP supporters were ransacked across Dinhata. It seems Trinamul leaders and workers of Dinhata could not accept Udayan Guha’s defeat.” In another development, the family members of Ananda Barman, a Rajbanshi youth who had lost his life in a Sitalkuchi booth during the polls, met district Trinamul president Partha Pratin Roy in Cooch Behar. On April 10, Ananda came in between warring supporters of Trinamul and BJP and was hit by a bullet. On Thursday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced in Calcutta that a member of Ananda’s family, along with members from the families of four other youths who succumbed to CISF’s bullets in Sitalkuchi’s Jorpatki the same day, would get jobs as home guards. “After the two firing incidents, the chief minister went to Mathabhanga (the subdivision under which Sitalkuchi falls) to meet all bereaved families. But BJP leaders played politics and stopped Ananda’s family from meeting her. Today, his brother and mother met me and thanked the chief minister for her announcement. We assured them of all possible help,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||200 extra doctors to tackle Covid at government hospitals in north||Around 200 additional doctors have been deputed on contractual basis for two months at the state-run hospitals and medical colleges in north Bengal to handle the spike in Covid-19 cases, sources in the state health department said here on Friday. They include general physicians, doctors of respiratory medicines and anaesthetists who will function as medical officers and specialists at the government hospitals. “Altogether, 198 doctors have been deputed by the government for the next two months. They will be posted for general duty as well as at critical care units and other intensive care units. As Covid cases are on the rise, it was necessary to have more doctors to handle the situation. They would be posted at 22 hospitals in the region and will join duties on Saturday,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty of the state health and family welfare department in north Bengal. According to him, 25 new doctors have been posted at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, the principal referral hospital of the region in Siliguri. Additional doctors have been posted at the medical colleges in Cooch Behar (11), Raiganj (7) and Malda (20) also. In Alipurduar district, 10 new doctors will join duties, while 32 extra medical practitioners will be posted at different hospitals and safe homes in Jalpaiguri. “Additional doctors will also join subdivisional and district hospitals and safe homes of other districts. We want to ensure that doctors are available round the clock wherever Covid patients are under treatment,” said a health department official. The Jalpaiguri district administration has started preparing an inventory of oxygen cylinders to facilitate oxygen supply to patients at the hospitals and safe homes. “We have held a virtual meeting with oxygen suppliers and made it clear that if required, green corridors would be created with the help of police so that oxygen cylinders can reach the hospitals and safe homes directly from the plants. We are also working on the proposal to set up oxygen plants at the hospitals,” Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said. Administrative sources said teams had been formed to find out empty cylinders so that those could be used for treatment of patients. In the neighbouring district of Alipurduar, district health officials said four oxygen plants would be set up at the district hospital, the super-specialty hospital in Falakata, the Tapshikhata Ayush Hospital(the only Covid hospital in the district) and the Birpara state general hospital in the next 15 days. “The plants would be ready within a fortnight. Once commissioned, these would largely help us deal with the demand for oxygen in the district,” said Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
