09-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata asks Modi to waive taxes on Covid equipment||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to waive all forms of taxes and customs duty on equipment and drugs being used to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Mamata also urged Modi to strengthen health infrastructure and augment supplies of equipment, medicines and oxygen for the treatment of coronavirus-positive patients. "A large number of organisations, individuals and benevolent agencies have come forward to donate oxygen concentrators, cylinders, containers and Covid-related drugs. "Many of the donors have approached the state government to consider exemption of these from customs duty, SGST, CGST, IGST," she said in the letter. "As the rate structure falls under the purview of the central government, I would request that these items may be exempted from GST/customs duty and other such duties and taxes to help remove supply constraints of the above-mentioned life-saving drugs and equipment and contribute towards effective management of the Covid pandemic," Mamata said. She has been attacking the Centre for "failing" to control the spread of the disease in the country. On Saturday, Mamata blasted the BJP and its Centre of mismanaging the nation’s war efforts against the pandemic. “For six months, they did nothing to prepare against Covid-19. They pushed the country to the brink of ruin in their desperation to conquer Bengal... All its honchos did not budge from Bengal,” she said. “Countless crores they spent...to maliciously influence the election. Had they spent that on vaccination instead, universal free immunisation would have happened by now,” she added. “Around 140 crore Indians, for their universal, free immunisation, need around Rs 30,000 crore. To the Centre, that amount is nothing…. But they are spending Rs 50,000 crore instead on a new Parliament building, a new house for the Prime Minister,” Mamata said, addressing the Bengal Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Last journey breaks barriers of religion||A Muslim private tutor in Birbhum’s Rampurhat spent an entire day to overcome hurdles and cremate the body of a Hindu trader who died of Covid-19 on Friday. Sudhanshu Karmakar, 37, a trader hailing from Bankura who stayed in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar, died at a private nursing home in Rampurhat town on Friday. Radharaman, his elder brother who stays in Bolpur, came to Rampurhat but had no idea how to cremate Sudhanshu. “I was completely helpless after hospital authorities asked me to receive the body. I had no idea what to do apart from crying out loud,” said Radharaman. He tried to reach out to people at the hospital but most did not help as the body was of a Covid patient. It was at this point that Ataur Rahaman, 47, appeared. Ataur, a member of the local social outfit Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, assured Radharaman that he would arrange everything for him. “It was my first experience in handling a Covid body. I took the risk seeing Radharaman’s helplessness,” said Ataur. However, Ataur had no idea what he would have to face. He arranged a hearse for Rs 1,000 from Rampurhat Municipality but the driver backed out when told he would have to ferry a Covid body to the crematorium. A local driver, Akbar Ali, agreed to drive the hearse to the crematorium. But the challenges did not end here. As soon as the body reached the crematorium in Nalhati, people who found out that the body was of a Covid patient started pelting stones at the hearse. Ataur called up the former chairman of Rampurhat municipality, Aswini Tiwari, who asked him to take the body to a crematorium dedicated to Covid-19 bodies. “There, I was told Covid bodies are cremated after dusk to avoid protest from residents. But I had to break my Ramazan fast in time too,” he said. He added that he hired three people who knew Hindu cremation rituals, and went and bought garland and other items needed for last rites. Then, Radharaman cremated his brother and Ataur broke his fast. “I honestly never thought whether the body was that of a Hindu or a Muslim,” the private tutor told this paper. Almost in tears, Radharaman said: “I have no idea if there is a God or Allah but he (Ataur) appeared to be that supreme power. I am really grateful to Ataur bhai.” Samirul Islam, president of Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, said what Ataur did sent the message that Bengal would never allow division on communal lines. “We have seen forces trying to divide Bengal on religious lines. But it can’t be done in Bengal. Here, brotherhood is beyond religion and politics,” said Islam. The Covid-infected couple who had travelled 850km in an ambulance from Ayodhya to Bengal’s Hooghly for oxygen, have recovered and were  released late on Friday. Lalji Yadav, 50, and his wife Rekha, 48, who were denied treatment in their home state Uttar Pradesh, apparently for lack of oxygen, recovered in a private hospital in Hooghly’s Chinsurah. The couple profusely thanked the hospital and the Bengal government. Lalji said he would return to Uttar Pradesh and tell people that if there was some hope for life amid the pandemic, it was in Bengal. “I have no words to thank the Bengal government and hospital,” said Lalji. The state government had also arranged Remdesivir for him at the private hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Left lifeline for patients and kin during pandemic||A young brigade of the CPM and other Left parties, who formed the Red Volunteers group last year, has been providing aid to people during the pandemic across the state. Debashis Nandy, a member of the group and resident of Hooghly’s Kotrang Ghoshpara, arranged an oxygen cylinder within half an hour for a 12-year-old boy after receiving a call from his father around 3.20am on Friday. “The patient’s father was on the verge of sobbing. He was anxious as the oxygen supply was available for about 30 minutes only and afterwards he had no back-up. I assured him that we would arrange something within 30 minutes and we were able to live up to our word,” said Nandy, a member of the CPM Kotrang area committee said. Another Red volunteer, Arka  Bhowmik of Kalobaari Sporting Club in North 24-Parganas’ Ashoknagar returned home around 6am on Saturday. Bhowmik had spent the entire night at the Khardah Sri Balaram Seva Mandir State General Hospital to admit a 62-year-old Covid patient after getting a call from the patient’s daughter. The oxygen saturation of this patient had dropped to 62 per cent. The normal level in human blood is 95-100 per cent. “The patient and his wife were both Covid-19 positive. Their daughter had just returned from Bangalore. I had to accompany this person to the hospital and ensure that he was admitted,” Bhowmik said. Bhowmik added that he put on a PPE kit and went with the patient and his daughter to Khardah in an ambulance and returned home only after the senior citizen was hospitalised. Red Volunteers have been arranging oxygen cylinders, donating blood and plasma and delivering groceries, food and medicines to those who need them across the state during the pandemic. Srijan Bhattacharya, state secretary of the Left-backed students’ outfit SFI, pointed out the shift in one year of the pandemic, now in its second wave. “A year ago, there wasn’t such a scarcity of oxygen. Our job then used to be mainly arranging food and medicines. This time the cry for oxygen and hospital beds is alarming. This is why the nature of our work has changed,” he said. He added: “As far as I remember the name Red Volunteers was suggested by our leader Samik Lahiri. In a year the network has grown so wide that I won’t be able to tell you how many teams are actually working at the moment.” Volunteers have strategised their operations to accommodate local needs. In Hooghly’s Uttarpara, Red Volunteers have divided all work in four groups. One group has collated the data of people willing to donate blood and plasma. About 250 such names have been collected. A second group organises oxygen for patients. A third group arranges food, groceries, medicines for patients or families who cannot go out. The last set of members coordinates the entire operations. “We called out to local people saying whoever is willing to help patients with blood and plasma can get in touch with us. Around 250 people from Uttarpara Assembly constituency have got in touch with us. On an average we serve at least eight oxygen requests every day,” said Arnab Das, an SFI state committee member and representative of Red Volunteers in Konnagar. Akash Kar, an SFI member activist and a member of the Red Volunteers Ashoknagar group, said his team attends to at least 150 to 200 distress calls every day. “One of our groups is looking after the oxygen needs. Another group visits patients to check their oxygen saturation level. A third team keeps database of beds available at hospitals and nursing homes. A last team keeps in touch with Covid-19 patients until he or she recovers,” Kar said. The Bengal poll results have shown that no Left party has any representation in the Bengal Assembly for the first time. However, that hasn’t dimmed the morale of Red Volunteers. “Many volunteers have been attacked by Trinamul goons after May 2. Female members have been abused over phone. Some of our own party members asked us to withdraw the service. But an overwhelming majority of volunteers decided to carry on,” Srijan said. The Red Volunteers Facebook group created in July 2020 has over 75,000 members now, and is flooded with distress requests, around 3,000 each day. Praise also floods the page. One Paromita Roy wrote on the Red Volunteers’ Facebook page that she has always been “a TMC supporter”. But she lavished praise on the Red Volunteers. “Apart from helping the people they’ve kept in touch with the patients…I bow down to these boys and girls today.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Isolation beds in Bengal rural areas amid Covid surge||The Bengal government has decided to include isolation beds in all block primary health centres, rural hospitals and primary health centres with basic facilities after a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in rural areas. “All BPHC (block primary heath centres), RH (rural hospitals) and bedded PHCs (primary health centres) must have 5-10 (as per existing infrastructure) isolation beds for admission of suspected Covid-19/SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) patients,” reads an order issued by the director of health services. On Saturday, the state reported the 58th consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases, with 19,436 new infections. The total number of deaths reported on Saturday was 127. The state has now over 1.25 lakh active Covid cases. According to sources, coronavirus cases has reached an alarming level in the remote corners of the state. Hundreds of suspected Covid-19 patients are visiting hospitals located in rural areas daily. As health infrastructure in the rural areas is not capable enough to treat serious Covid cases, the state government has decided to develop existing primary health centres into facilities where initial treatment could be provided to stabilise Covid patients. Sources said the principal idea to include isolation beds in local heath centres is to give basic treatment to Covid-19 patients and stabilise their condition. “Once their health becomes steady, the patients will be sent to dedicated Covid hospitals,” said a source. The state health department has made it clear that all suspected coronavirus patients must undergo Covid-19 test and positive patients will have to be managed under Covid  protocol in these local health centres. The state health department has asked primary health centres to ensure that they have necessary oxygen supply and basic medicines for Covid patients. A senior government official said: “Each of these health centres would have one or two ambulances in its disposal so that patients could be sent to dedicated Covid hospitals as soon as their condition is stabilised.” The sources said that the initiative of having isolation beds was taken after it was found that people in rural areas were finding it difficult to get themselves tested after Covid symptoms developed and also faced trouble in getting beds at dedicated Covid hospitals even if their health deteriorated. “This initiative would help in two ways. First, all suspected patients would get a place to get themselves tested. Second, in the case of Covid-positive patients who need immediate support of oxygen or medicines, the local health centres can step in with help,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Gautam Deb query on nursing home beds||Gautam Deb, the new chairperson of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, on Saturday lashed out at authorities of the city’s private nursing homes for allegedly not working in sync with the state government’s guidelines amid the pandemic. Deb said most private nursing homes did not update the administration about their infrastructure, including beds, and charged abnormally high fees from Covid patients. “A section of private nursing homes are charging exorbitant amounts from patients... They are not giving updates about beds....Many are not even ready to accept the state’s Swasthya Sathi card (free health insurance). We won’t tolerate these,” said Deb. On Saturday, 13 Covid warriors from Alipurduar— who recovered from the contagion last year and were helping Covid patients —  left for Calcutta to help manage the Covid situation. Surendra Kumar Meena, Alipurduar district magistrate, said all had been administered with two doses of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Oxygen tankers exempt from highway toll||The Centre has announced toll or user fee exemption for tankers and containers carrying liquid medical oxygen — treating such vehicles as ambulances — for the next two months or until further orders. The move aims to ensure uninterrupted movement of tankers and containers with liquid medical oxygen (LMO) over national highways across the country. The ministry of road transport and highways (toll division) authorities instructed the chairman of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is responsible for the construction and management of national highways, to implement the decision with immediate effect “in the current medical crisis”. According to NHAI fee rules, ambulances are categorised as toll-free vehicles. Sources said that the decision has been taken following directives in this regard communicated by the ministry of home affairs on April 26. The NHAI in turn issued instructions to its project directors and others concerned to ensure “uninterrupted passage” to tankers containers carrying the life-saving gas in compliance with the order. NHAI’s Krishnagar project director Soutam Pal said: “We have received the order and the directive has been implemented as the need of the hour is uninterrupted supply of liquid medical oxygen.” The decision comes at a time the second wave of Covid is raging across the country with around 3 lakh new cases being recorded every day. On an average 3,000 Covid deaths are reported every day in India, many allegedly from lack of oxygen. At present, India has about a 1.51 lakh km stretch of national highways, of which only 30,000km is tolled road. Till March 2020, the country had about 600 toll plazas on this 30,000km stretch. In normal times, tankers and containers, which are tagged as commercial vehicles, need to pay user fee while accessing these tolled stretches based on the tariff decided by the NHAI. Tankers and containers are generally charged toll according to the vehicle type. A container with three axles is charged around Rs 330 for a single trip. Vehicles with seven or more axles are charged Rs 575. Apart from 30 types of official vehicles, only ambulance and funeral vans are exempted from toll. But now, amid the raging second wave of the pandemic, transporters and suppliers of the liquid medical oxygen have welcomed the Centre’s gesture of exempting toll. “This new rule will help expedite the movement of oxygen-carrying vehicles, which often lose time at toll plazas,” said a tanker driver while refilling liquid medical oxygen at a private oxygen plant in Kalyani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: Trinamul worker killed on Birbhum’s BJP turf||A Trinamul worker was killed and six others were injured in a clash allegedly with BJP workers in Muktinagar village of Birbhum’s Khoirasol early on Saturday morning. The area falls under Dubrajpur Assembly segment, which is the only seat in Birbhum district that the BJP won this time. Police sources said the deceased was identified as Kanti Bauri, 38. Four of the six injured persons have been admitted to a private hospital in Durgapur. One of the injured is critical, police said. Sources said that a group of Trinamul workers were attending a feast near Muktinagar village when armed BJP workers allegedly attacked them fearing that the ruling party had gathered to attack the homes of BJP workers. “It was a planned attack by the BJP as the party won the Assembly seat. Our party workers were participating in a feast by themselves when armed BJP goons attacked them. One of our workers was hacked to death with a sharp weapon and two others are fighting for their lives,” said Malay Mukherjee, a Trinamul vice-president in Birbhum. The BJP MLA from Dubrajpur Anup Saha, however, said the villagers had together retaliated against an attack by armed Trinamul goons. “Armed Trinamul goons attacked the village as this area had given a lead to the BJP and helped us win the Dubrajpur Assembly seat. It was nothing but a spontaneous protest and retaliation by the villagers. There is no connection to politics at all,” said Saha. The police said they had arrested 10 persons in this connection and started a probe into the incident. On Saturday morning, BJP workers also allegedly attacked houses of local Trinamul leaders, including a panchayat samiti functionary of the Trinamul, in a village in Dubrajpur. In another development, a four-member team of the ministry of home affairs reached Birbhum and visited two areas of Nanoor to talk to the victims of post-poll violence on Saturday afternoon. Biman Bose, the Left Front chairman, said in Calcutta that had sent a letter to the ministry of home affairs and the home secretary of Bengal in protest against the continuous post-poll violence in the state. “It is important for all of us to maintain peace and tranquility in the entire state in a strict manner. We have written a letter to both the MHA and the home secretary of Bengal in this connection,” said Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata seeks ‘bias-free’ Election Commission||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday directly accused the Election Commission of India of having colluded with the BJP to enable electoral malpractices against her party, Trinamul, repeating her demand for immediate electoral reforms to ensure the poll panel does not work with bias towards a particular party. The chief minister began her address in the Assembly after Biman Banerjee was elected Speaker for the third consecutive term, by hailing the Trinamul sweep in the election as “historic, incredible, miraculous”, and lauding Bengal’s people, especially its women and youth, for taking a united stand against the BJP. Almost immediately, she broached the subject of the EC and its alleged role in the polls. “There were many conspiracies. I used to know that the Election Commission of India stops rigging, prevents it. That’s the role of the commission we had been seeing since the time of T.N. Seshan. Now, it is the complete opposite,” said Mamata to thunderous table-thumping applause from the treasury benches. The BJP’s 77 MLAs, in the 292-seat House for now (two other seats have pending polls) had boycotted the proceedings. “With direct help from the Election Commission, in various places, rigging was carried out,” she added. “I can challenge that if the Election Commission had not helped them (the BJP) directly, they (the BJP) would not have managed to win even 30 seats.” Through the eight-phase election process, Mamata had repeatedly questioned the EC’s motives, directly accusing it of collusion with the BJP and of being controlled by Union home minister Amit Shah, placing the blame squarely on the EC, Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of letting the second wave get to devastating proportions in India out of the saffron camp’s desperation to win the Bengal election. “Three nominated people (the EC’s full bench), with a handful of retired officers… transferring officials by passing chits around…. This cannot go on. Then democracy in India will not be protected,” she said on Saturday. “This is a matter of great sadness, great shame,” she said in the Assembly on Saturday. “I firmly believe – we are raising our voice from here today...electoral reforms… must take place immediately,” added the chief minister. After the results on May 2, Mamata had vowed to move a constitutional bench of the Supreme Court against the EC, to ensure what the poll panel allegedly did in Bengal does not happen elsewhere in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP can’t digest verdict, says Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday mounted a scathing offensive on the BJP and its government at the Centre, accusing them of de-prioritising Covid-19 for six months to try and win Bengal, of continuing with “Goebbelsian lies” about the state even now, and being “unable to digest” the people’s verdict. The chief minister, addressing the Bengal Assembly after the election of Trinamul’s Biman Banerjee as Speaker for the third term, did not pull any punches in her diatribe against the saffron ecosystem. “They are unable to tolerate, digest, accept the mandate, the verdict of the people. That is why, in the name of violence they have started this whole business of fake videos…. Step-motherly treatment began within 24 hours of swearing in,” said Mamata. The saffron camp, yet to apparently recover from the shock of getting 77 MLAs to Trinamul’s 213 after two years of assertions of the “certainty” of a 200-plus tally, has accused  Trinamul of violence of apocalyptic proportions in Bengal. However, the violence is far from one-sided. Also, numerous fact-checking exercises by AltNews and others have revealed that many videos and pictures circulated by the saffron camp and its followers on social media — and given substantial coverage by pliant sections of the television media — had little or nothing to do with Bengal. “Bengal would never have rewarded you. The people here do not like the divisiveness, which is your very basis. They do not like riots. Bengal believes in a culture you can’t comprehend,” she said, advising the BJP to accept the defeat and move on. “We caught all your lies, 99 per cent fake videos, fake news…,” she said. “Insulting the women of the state (saffron camp’s allegations on crimes against women) as they played a pivotal role in our victory. No party in the history of state elections in India got such a massive mandate,” she added. In the saffron echo chamber, there have been outlandish demands ranging from the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal and “reducing it to a Kashmir-like rubble” to a “third Partition” of the state (culling out parts in the north and the west that voted for the BJP and giving them separate BJP-led governments). “Some people are trying to trigger riots. Some are saying things that make one shiver…one feels intensely provoked....But we must not get provoked. Bengal is the place where Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists… live in amity, it is cosmopolitan, inclusive, humanist,” Mamata said on Saturday. “I request all legislators to ensure peace and harmony in their areas. If someone tries to foment tension, file FIRs, explain to people that these are all lies, lies, lies…. Communalism will not be tolerated. That’s all they (the BJP) know, all that they can. It is their mental pollution. They have nothing else by way of a goal or ideology,” she added. Mamata mocked the Modi-Shah duopoly’s pitch for a “double-engine sarkar” in Bengal (same party ruling the Centre and state) by saying people responded with a “double century” for Trinamul. “Abraham Lincoln had famously said: ‘You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time’…. I had predicted their overused Goebbelsian lies won’t work this time,” she said. Mamata went on to attack the BJP and its Centre of mismanaging the nation’s war efforts against the pandemic. “For six months, they did nothing to prepare against Covid-19. They pushed the country to the brink of ruin in their desperation to conquer Bengal.... All its honchos did not budge from Bengal,” she said. “Countless crores they spent...to maliciously influence the election. Had they spent that on vaccination instead, universal free immunisation would have happened by now,” she added. “Around 140 crore Indians, for their universal, free immunisation, need around Rs 30,000 crore. To the Centre, that amount is nothing…. But they are spending Rs 50,000 crore instead on a new Parliament building, a new house for the Prime Minister.” She also underscored what the BJP’s defeat in Bengal meant for the rest of India. “The win was historic, incredible, miraculous…. Bengal won, and it saved the rest of India too, remember this,” she said. “The whole world was watching us, and in every corner, people are relieved...”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||‘The party decided against Jyotibabu becoming PM... and later, Somnath Chatterjee was expelled... that is when our downfall began||As the absolute defeat of the Left Front (LF) in the Bengal elections became clear on May 2, 63-year-old Tanmay Bhattacharya, sometime DYFI president, retired bank employee, former MLA from Dum Dum North and member of the district committee of the CPM, laid the blame at the feet of the state leadership on live television. The district committee has distanced itself from the views. Excerpts from a conversation with him: Q: What according to you is the reason for the LF not winning any seats in this election? A: This vote was a vote against Modi and the people did not have faith that the LF would be a viable alternative against him. The people gifted the captainship of this state’s fight against Modi to Mamata Banerjee. We can argue whether they are right or wrong but the truth is the people have entrusted Mamata Banerjee with the captainship of the state. So the first and most important thing for us is to bow down before this verdict of the people. That said, I want to bring up one more point. In social engineering, two things are very important — one, a feasibility study, and two, requirement analysis. A design is only prepared after a feasibility study and a requirement analysis. Have we done the opposite? Have we prepared the design without doing a feasibi-lity study or a requirement analysis? Are we imposing a design on the people without taking into consideration their views on the matter? As far as the Sanyukta Morcha is concerned, did we do a requirement analysis? Did we analyse whether people at all required this front? I don’t know. I am not a leader of that stature, of the stature where this requirement analysis is supposed to be done. If the leaders at the top had done a requirement analysis and come to the conclusion that a United Front was needed then, after the election results, they will have to admit that they misunderstood. And if they did not do a requirement analysis at all then the concerned leaders will have to publicly admit to it and not make excuses. They will have to clearly admit that they failed to understand the mood of the people, the requirement of the people, that they had no feasibility study of what people wanted politically. The design we took to the people has been rejected by them. This is not only a defeat, this is a rejection. The people have totally rejected the Leftists. This truth will have to be admitted. Q: Was aligning with the Indian Secular Front (ISF) a mistake? A: The ISF is an umbrella organisation of nine different outfits, seven of them champion Hindu backward castes and tribes while two of them champion Muslim backward castes. The problem is that no one knows that ISF is a collection of these nine organisations. The only one everyone knows is Abbas Siddiqui, a pirzada. When both the BJP and the TMC are indulging in competitive communalism, the use of the word pirzada actually strengthens the hands of polarising forces. We were unable to establish the reality of the diverseness of the ISF and, unfortunately, Abbas himself failed to mention the various organisations and their demands in any of his speeches. In fact, he is not the secretary or president of the ISF but only its prishtoposhok or patron. He is a great speaker and a lot of people attended his meetings to hear him. But it has already been proven that attending meetings and voting for a party are not connected. We failed to take the truth to the people. Q: Why do you think the LF has lost credibility in Bengal? Has the Left lost touch with ground realities? A: There is something we keep on saying, that we have not been able to make people understand. But we first have to look within us and introspect. Forget about making people understand, are we capable of understanding ourselves? To explain something to someone, I first need to understand the person. Can I understand the people? If we cannot understand the people, then the question of making them understand does not arise. Q: What is the way forward? Can the Left ever recover lost ground in Bengal? A: The way to recovery will be long. In historical terms 15 years is a very small span of time, though it may encompass the entire youth of an individual. Communists will have to walk a long way. And, like Kakababu [Muzaffar Ahmed], I believe that you have to walk all the way on the path you choose, you cannot take any shortcuts. I do not expect the way to be paved with roses, part of the path will naturally be covered in thorns but we will have to cross it nevertheless. But before we start on this long journey, we will have to do a little planning. First is the need to set up a separate cell for data analysis, planning and execution. Second, to prepare for the next elections we should have workshops and should start preparing for them right now. Responsibilities should accordingly be delegated right now and possible candidates put to work in their respective constituencies. The importance of social media cannot be underlined enough in these times and we need a professional team running it. We should stop depending on people who do it as a hobby. It is time to run the social media team professionally and in accordance with the party line. I don’t know if the top leaders have this, if they don’t then we should have a statewise geographically defined demographic breakdown for each district. We should already be having this but I do not know whether everyone has all of it. While we have had an infusion of youthful candidates for this election, many of them have not yet learned to read the voting process — bhot bojha. There should be workshops to address this weakness. There is something called a vote manager. These people work on the ground all through the year to gather data for candidates. Instead of depending on cheap, gimmicky city-based politics, we should focus on our main labour organisations such as Citu and Krishak Sabha. We should be more proactive about building up movements based on definite, defined demands. Students and the youth are emotional, sensitive but a political fight cannot be based on emotions alone. A political fight demands maturity and awareness. What the party needs is not only new faces but an infusion of youthful thinking, of fresh ideas. If the party thinks that it will conduct an election the same way it did 30-40 years ago, it will think the same old thoughts and the only thing young will be the candidates, I am sorry but that does not mean it is thinking afresh. Q: Is there a genuine sense of correction in the party? Does the party brass discuss the problem frankly? A: This question can only be answered by the state leadership of the party. I am not a state leader, therefore I cannot and should not answer this question. That will be overstepping my limits. From where I am in the party, at my level, all I can say is that there is a very large gap between discussion on the issue and taking corrective measures. We are discussing a lot but implementing little. Q: When did you think things began to go wrong with the Left? Was there frank introspection and criticism in the party over the direction? A: People wanted Jyoti Basu to become the Prime Minister after the 1996 Lok Sabha elections but our party decided against it. I don’t know whether the decision was wrong or right but I personally believe it had an adverse effect on Bengali pride. The Left lost votes in the 1998 and 1999 Lok Sabha elections. Fortunately, we still had leaders like Jyoti Basu, Anil Biswas, Subhas Chakraborty. The leadership realised that votes were bleeding away, realised the potential of future losses and took corrective steps. Jyoti Basu finally retired, handing the baton to Buddhadev Bhattacharya. I think the 2001 Assembly elections was the toughest the Left had faced till then. According to analysts, there was a very large chance that the Left would lose the election. But timely corrective measures and able leadership prevented that. The expectations raised by the 2001 state government brought the LF its biggest victory in the 2004 Lok Sabha elections. We were asked to join the government but preferred to support it from the outside. Somnath Chatterjee became the (Lok Sabha) Speaker. But then, in 2008, we withdrew support from the Manmohan Singh government for a reason that people could not comprehend. We may have been correct on principle but people were unable to understand why we withdrew support and were disgruntled. The reaction was amplified when Somnath Chatterjee was expelled from the party for doing what many people thought was his duty. I still remember what he said then. My heart bleeds when I remember his words, “I wasn’t this saddened even after the loss of my parents.” This statement resonated with the people of Bengal and there was a reaction. That was the start of our downfall. Our story of losses started in the 2008 panchayat elections. People gave us a signal. What we learned, how much we learned, what we did about this signal I do not know. But the 2008 panchayat vote was the beginning of the end. We lost in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections. We lost the 2011 Assembly elections. We lost the 2013 panchayat elections, the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, 2015 municipal corporation elections. Then we lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and now the 2021 Assembly elections. Basically, the rift between the Left and the people of Bengal is steadily increasing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||My cup bloometh over||As charming nomenclature goes, there are few to beat Margherita or Monabarie in Assam, Happy Valley and Rungamuttee in Bengal, Nallathanni in Kerala, or Craigmore and Glendale in Tamil Nadu. These are some of the tea gardens in India whose initial appeal lies in lilting names. The sylvan expanse that overwhelms the senses comes only on reaching the destination. Thus it was with a sense of disbelief that we learnt the name of the garden we were headed to, that boasted of India’s first boutique tea resort: one as mundane as New Chumta! Founded in 1866, this huge (14,330 acres) plantation is the pioneer of tea plantations in the Terai. Located near Siliguri, the garden is not only a refuge for the Covid-haunted, serenity-seeking wayfarer, it also houses antiques that make its Director’s Lounge a veritable treasure trove. Reaching there from Calcutta was a breeze: a 45-minute flight to Bagdogra and a 30-minute drive to the tea estate. Just about the length of time it used to take me to commute to work every day in pre-Covid times!  What could be easier in pandemic mode? The last two kilometres entailed a rough ride, but it helped induce a sense of adventure amid the miles of tea bushes. What had been the New Chumta tea estate’s main building has now been renovated to comprise an elegant staycation. The rooms open out into tea bushes and for the first time in my life (my dalliance with tea gardens had begun at the age of four) I spotted a tea flower. The cause for celebration is justified since spying a flower of the camellia family is as rare as a blue moon. Having replenished ourselves with steaming bowls of nourishing thukpa, we set out to explore. We were fortunate to meet Ravi Mohapatra, who has written a book on this wonderland. The corridors were steeped in the history of tea. Records say one Major C.M. Fitzerland acquired the title deed of this land in March 1866. He transferred a part of the holdings to Rechard Southby, who was the first to plant tea on this land. An account by Southby reads: “I applied for the lands now held by the Darjeeling Terai Tea Company in January 1866. I got the lands, the pattas were granted and signed by Major Blair Reid dated July 1866. I asked the Deputy Commissioner... and immediately commenced cutting the jungle and prepared to plant seed at stake. I put in stakes and branches of shimul trees and planted out before January 1867. This tea was bearing in 1868 in which year we got about a maund an acre. We began to pluck around August 1868 and continued to the end of the season (November 15).” Tea anecdotes and interesting snippets, as well as the names of garden managers since the early years adorned the walls. But nothing had prepared us for the antiques. An antediluvian telephone and an ancient typewriter had been placed in our room. The lounge had several of these, each more archaic than the other. But the best was saved for the last. We reached the Director’s Lounge, with its elegant tea room that serves the best first flush brew and delectable, freshly baked cookies. It leads into a large room which is occupied by the oldest camera I had ever seen, a huge, antique film projector, shelves crammed with old suitcases containing metal containers of Cavender’s Magnums and Passing Show, a 1910 handcrafted German grand piano (by Rachael’s) which said “do not touch” but played beautifully, wooden radio sets of yore, coffee dispensers and coasters proclaiming Lloydin Tee, Ty-Phoo Tea and Brisk Lipton’s! The bar was just as vintage — it sported a red Ford vehicle and Palmer & Co. champagne from Reims. Brut’s Grand Champagne Napoleon from Vertus kept it company. All this had quite made us forget the election drumrolls in the foothills of the Himalayas. Prime and chief ministers decided to coincide campaigns and tensions escalated faster than the mercury in summer. Our fleeting stay was robbed of its idyll by the cacophony of poll machinations, compelling us to flee in the early hours to avoid being stranded in rallies and road shows that not only had people and banners but also unwieldy objects like LPG cylinders. Enough fusillade to halt those headed to the airport in their tracks. Once we reached Bagdogra, the propensity to flee was evident in every passenger. No one wanted to be caught in a VIP melee. Elections in a democracy may be a leveller from a certain angle, but effectively robs the voter of every right, especially the one pertaining to the freedom of movement. The stay-home Covid-19 protocol possibly works best!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
