10-05-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu is BJP's leader of Opposition in Assembly  ||The BJP named Suvendu Adhikary as the party’s legislative party leader on Monday, making it clear that he will be the face of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly. The decision once again exposed the BJP’s lack of confidence in members from its own fold, mainly the Rashtriya Swayasevak Sangh and dependence on politicians poached from other parties. “Overwhelmed to have been nominated by my party as Leader of Opposition in the Bidhan Sabha. I thank @BJP4India and @BJP4Bengal leadership for reposing their faith in me. Will hold the government accountable and defend the rights and interests of the great People of West Bengal,” tweeted Suvendu after the announcement. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and BJP’s all India general secretary Bhupendra Yadav were entrusted with the task to find the party's legislative party leader. According to BJP sources, his former rival in the Trinamul Congress Mukul Roy, who is a national president of the BJP,  proposed Adhikari's name  as leader of the Opposition. “By making Mukul da propose his name, the party has sent out a signal that whatever differences the two might have had in the past, they are now working together for BJP in the state,” said a senior BJP leader. Once a minister and a key strategist for the Trinamul across several districts in South Bengal, Adhikari is a new entrant to the BJP. His poll victory over chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram is believed to be the reason behind the party’s central leadership handling him the key responsibility. 'Giant killer" Adhikari won the seat by 1,956 votes, although Trinamul has alleged manipulation during the counting process. Having defeated Mamata, Adhikari is one up on Mamata, who will have to enter the Assembly through a by-election in the next six months. “When he stands to speak on any issue inside the floor of the House, the chief minister will be rattled. By making Adhikari the leader of Opposition, the party’s central leadership has given a strong face. Plus, he knows the Trinamul too well,” said a BJP source. Of the 77 MLAs the BJP has in Bengal this time, none has the experience of parliamentary politics like Adhikari, who has been an MLA and an MP in the past. Even Roy is a debutant MLA and is seen as more of an organisation man. Speculation was rife whether Roy would be the leader of Opposition as he has been in the BJP longer than Adhikari and is a tested political strategist. A section of the BJP felt, instead of “outsiders”, the Sangh would like someone from within to lead the 76 other MLAs in Bengal. “Frankly, there was no one to give this responsibility,” admitted a BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Stay indoors, Mamata appeals to Bengal, next fortnight crucial  ||Bengal is under an unofficial lockdown and will remain so, indicated chief minister Mamata Banerjee while making it clear while the state would not force residents to go indoors, shut down businesses and work establishments, it could ill afford people mingling on the streets. “People have to behave like there is a lockdown in place, though there is no such announcement. A lockdown will hurt the interests of the common people. The poor will suffer without food and we cannot allow that,” Mamata said at the state secretariat on Monday while meeting senior officers of the administration, police and community leaders, her first major interaction with them since winning the Assembly polls for a straight third-term. Earlier in the day, 43 members of the third Cabinet of the Mamata Banerjee-government were sworn-in as ministers at a low-key ceremony at Raj Bhawan. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administered the oath of office and secrecy to the ministers. “We had to stop local train services, but we have left room for businesses to run by minimising the risk of infection,” she explained. On April 30, the state government had ordered an indefinite shutdown of shopping complexes, malls, restaurants, cinemas, bars, beauty parlour, spas, gyms, swimming pools and sports complexes. Neighbourhood shops selling groceries and pharmacies have been exempt, but local markets have been restricted to open for a few hours every day. Gatherings for social, academic, entertainment and cultural purposes have been banned indefinitely. Last week, the state government stopped all local trains from running, while Metro and bus services were curtailed. Till Sunday evening, Bengal had recorded 19,441 fresh Covid cases and 124 deaths. Keeping in mind the approaching Id festival, Mamata has requested the Muslim community leaders to have fewer people attend the community namaz this time. “I have been told there will be no public namaaz at Red Road this year. The Superintendents of Police in the districts should talk to the mosque committees and other community leaders to not allow large congregations,” Mamata said. The chief minister, who also heads the health department, said May could prove to be crucial for the state. “For the next 15 days, at least all of us must strictly follow the Covid protocol. It is likely that the virus will strike big in the coming fortnight or so. There is a shortage of oxygen and vaccines. Therefore, we must all take every step possible to avoid exposure,” she said. “We must stay at home as much as possible, follow Covid porotocol and we must not roam around.” Reiterating her promise to provide free vaccines to all residents of the state, Mamata accused the Centre of not lending a helping hand to state governments. “We asked for 3 crore vaccines, and we have received only one lakh. What can we do with one lakh? If the Centre has sent vaccines abroad, then it is its responsibility to bring the same from another country,” she said. “The government is helping us with neither funds nor vaccines. Why they are doing so we are not aware,” she said. The chief minister said her government would provide one crore vaccines to private sector hospitals in the state. Mamata has asked the administration to rope in Durga Puja committees across the state to work for sanitisation in the respective areas. She also attacked the Centre for collecting goods and services tax on medical equipment for tackling Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Indian-American diaspora hold rallies against post-poll violence in Bengal||Non-resident Indians, including the Bengali diaspora, have staged protests in more than 30 American cities, condemning the post-poll result violence in Bengal. Several incidents of violence were reported in West Bengal after the announcement of assembly poll results on May 2. The BJP has alleged that its several workers were killed and many were injured by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the aftermath of the elections. TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee led the party to a massive victory in the state assembly polls last week. Protestors carried placards reading "Hindu Lives Matter", "Protest Against Hindu Genocide" to draw attention to the killings that followed soon after the poll results. Judhajit Senmazumdar, a technology entrepreneur from Silicon Valley who frequently travels to Bengal, said the anguish felt by the diaspora was palpable. "After the results were announced, my friends and I got frantic calls for help from people facing targeted attacks; shops were being looted and bombs were being thrown inside houses," he said. The anguish coalesced into a spontaneous protest in the major cities of the US, the UK and many other locations. The systematic annihilation of BJP workers and supporters in Bengal under the patronage of the West Bengal administration has the Bengali diaspora up in arms against Mamata Banerjee. Widespread protests across US, Canada, UK, Nigeria, Thailand, etc demanding #MamataStopViolence, BJP's West Bengal in-charge Amit Malviya tweeted on Sunday. The protestors demanded "justice and a probe" into the widespread violence in West Bengal. "My mind recoils at the manner in which Hindu women have been dragged by the hair, flung on the floor, battered and raped," said Houston-based author Sahana Singh. "I grew up in Calcutta and soaked in the culture of the Divine Feminine. So, I cannot fathom how a state with a woman at the helm of affairs can sanction such cruelty and vendetta against women simply due to differences of political opinion, Singh said." The BJP has blamed the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for the violence, saying its workers and sympathisers targeted the rivals. "I had heard of the immense atrocities committed during the Partition, but I have never seen such post-poll violence that is occurring in West Bengal after the declaration of election results (on May 2)," BJP president J P Nadda said last week. "We are committed to democratically fight this ideological battle and the activities of the TMC, which is full of intolerance," he told reporters in Kolkata. The BJP has claimed that at least six of its workers and supporters, including a woman, were killed in violence allegedly unleashed by the TMC. The TMC has claimed that its three supporters have been killed in violent incidents. Members of other parties, including the Left and the Congress, have also attacked the TMC for the violence in the state, which they said has been aimed at their members and sympathisers as well. The TMC, however, has denied the charges. Chief Minister Banerjee had earlier asked people to show restraint and not be involved in any form of violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||43 TMC legislators sworn-in as ministers at low-key ceremony||At least 43 members of the third cabinet of the Mamata Banerjee-government were on Monday sworn-in as ministers during a low-key ceremony at the Raj Bhawan, amid the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administered the oath of office and secrecy to the ministers. Three TMC leaders Amit Mitra, Bratya Basu and Rathin Ghosh were sworn-in virtually. Mitra is unwell and both Basu and Ghosh are recuperating from COVID-19. Other elected legislators like Partha Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim and Sadhan Pande also took oath at the ceremony, where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was present along with other state government officials. Banerjee is scheduled to hold a cabinet meeting at the secretariat later in the day, during which she is expected to allot portfolios to the ministers. Those who were sworn-in include 24 cabinet ministers and 10 ministers of state (independent charge). Seventeen ministers from the previous term — including Gautam Deb, Rabindranath Ghosh, Purnendu Basu, Ashis Banerjee and Tapan Dasgupta — did not make the cut this time. Some among these 17 were not fielded in the elections, some others lost, a few won.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: How deep is the CPM’s debacle||The CPM bagged a little over 28 lakh votes this Bengal election. Trinamul won 35 lakh votes in South 24-Parganas alone, and 31 lakh in North 24-Parganas. These figures, from the Election Commission, reflect the drubbing the onetime rulers of Bengal took this election almost as succinctly as the number of seats they won: zero. The CPM’s vote share was a pitiful 4.70 per cent — less than a tenth that of Trinamul which, of course, contested 289 seats compared to the Marxists’ 139. “The CPM, once a king in Bengal politics, became a beggar within a decade,” political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty said. He was referring to the haemorrhage that began in the CPM’s vote bank with the 2009 general election —in the aftermath of the Singur and Nandigram movements — and could not be stanched even after 12 years. The party that had been master of all it surveyed in Bengal since 1977 had received its first electoral jolt in 2009, watching Trinamul bag 19 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. The Marxists’ vote share tumbled to 33.09 per cent from the 37.13 per cent they had polled in the 2006 Assembly polls. Since then, it has all been downhill, with the state lost in 2011, a desperate bid for power in alliance with the Congress in 2016 falling flat on its face, and an even more desperate attempt to stay relevant this time with a third, unexpected, bedfellow going up in smoke. “Our vote share would have been even more dismal but for the decent haul from a few seats in Congress strongholds like Murshidabad,” a CPM source said. In Bhagabangola, Murshidabad, the CPM candidate received 21.15 per cent of the votes to seal the second position after Trinamul. It was the only instance of the CPM bagging second spot this election. In Siliguri, which had elected CPM heavyweight Ashok Bhattacharyya five times before, the party limped to third position with 16.14 per cent votes. Nor could the younger candidates who had raised the hopes of some senior comrades do much better than finish a distant third in their seats although a few of them did better the party's average vote share. Aishe Ghosh and Srijan Bhattacharya polled 14.89 per cent and 14.3 per cent from Jamuria and Singur, respectively. But in the high-profile seat of Nandigram, Minakshi Mukherjee’s spirited and much acclaimed effort earned her only 2.74 per cent of the votes. Several CPM insiders said the party's biggest mistake had been its desperate and deluded efforts to return to power by any means rather than admit the errors of the last few years of Left rule and attempt rectification. In 2016, the CPM had entered into an ill-planned, unofficial, half-hearted “arrangement” with the Congress that couldn't convince its own grassroots workers. Several of the party’s prominent campaigners criticised Mamata Banerjee's anti-land-acquisition movement, suggesting a party in denial that refused to learn the lessons of Nandigram and Singur even after a decade. Contesting 148 seats, the CPM won just 26 and suffered the mortification of losing the post of leader of the Opposition to junior partner Congress. Still, the party won over 1 crore votes. But the itch to ride on others' shoulders persisted. This time the party, sworn to secular politics and a communist ideology, did the unthinkable by tying up with a fledgling forum led by the cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui, the Indian Secular Front. The CPM contested only 139 seats, leaving 92 for the Congress, 37 for the ISF and the remaining 26 for its long-time Left Front allies. Only a handful in the CPM are, however, ready to admit — and only in private — that this desperation to remove Mamata from power instead of undoing the damage at the grassroots has been the party’s biggest folly. Many CPM insiders believe that it was a mistake to tie up with the ISF, a decision sources said came at the insistence of a politburo member who was desperate to win an Assembly seat. Although the forum represents a range of marginalised communities, Abbas’s identity as a peerzada and some of his past pronouncements hurt the CPM’s reputation as a staunchly secular party. “It wasn’t clear to the voters whether we were trying to go after Mamata by splitting the minority vote or contesting the BJP’s communal agenda. This confusion led to a desertion by Hindu as well as Muslim voters,” a party source said. “A large number of Hindu voters had gone over to the BJP in 2019; this time many liberal Hindu voters rallied behind Trinamul to stop the BJP. The Muslim voters coalesced towards Trinamul with the same objective,” a CPM leader said. Some CPM leaders this correspondent spoke to said that Alimuddin Street's dismissal of CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya’s suggestion to identify the BJP as the “primary enemy” had bared the party’s confusion before the voters. “More than backing a particular political party, the voters' priority this time was to keep the BJP out. They voted for Trinamul since we had failed to project ourselves as a force that could stop the BJP from coming to power in Bengal,” said Gautam Ghosh, a CPM state committee member, in Bolpur. Several CPM leaders said the decision to equate Trinamul with the BJP was a mistake, and that listening to Bhattacharya's suggestion might have reduced the scale of the humiliation the party faced this election. “Not only did our leaders compare Trinamul with the BJP, they even criticised several of Mamata Banerjee’s developmental projects that had greatly benefited the rural poor,” another CPM state committee member said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Land Port Authority accused of ‘non-cooperation’ in ensuring safety at work||An organisation of clearing agents and labourers who work for exporters and importers at the Petrapole land port in North 24-Parganas have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) of “non-cooperation” in ensuring their safety at work amid the pandemic. Members of the Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association said that during last year’s lockdown, the LPAI had offered “commendable” support and ensured hygienic protocols. But safety initiatives for workers, including vaccination drive, mask distribution and temperature checks with thermal guns, are missing in the second wave of Covid-19, they alleged. “Clearing agents and labourers are frontline workers in this Covid situation, and they have been continuing export and import activities despite health threats. Unfortunately, the LPAI has been ignoring their security (in terms of health),” said Kartick Chakraborty, secretary of the Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association. “The LPAI officials have not arranged sanitisation measures…There is no protection for about 800 labourers who work at the port daily,” Chakraborty said, alleging that even masks were not handed out to them. Members of the staff welfare association, however, said they would not call for ceasework as that would create a survival crisis for some 1,000 families and adversely impact the country’s economy as well. Sources said that the labourers, clearing agents, and drivers of exporting and importing vehicles had panicked after a number of officials attached to the Customs, BSF, Central Warehousing Corporation and parking tested positive for Covid. “There was a sanitisation bay at the entrance of the Customs office, which is missing this time. Authorities have not taken precautions despite its officials testing Covid positive,” a clearing agent said. In the letter to Modi, the organisation said, “....unfortunately so far we have not received any cooperation.” The manager of LPAI, Petrapole, Kamalesh Saini, however sought to refute these allegations and instead accused labourers and clearing agents of violating Covid safety norms. “We have been strictly maintaining Covid protocols. But labourers and clearing people often try to enter the premises without masks, which we don’t allow” he said. Claiming the LPAI gives masks, sanitisers and PPE kits, Saini said they also sanitise exporting vehicles on their return and had written to the North 24-Parganas district magistrate for the vaccination of workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid care: Mamata Banerjee seeks tax relief on life-saving drugs and medical oxygen ||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exempt life-saving drugs for Covid-19 patients and items associated with the supply of medical oxygen from customs duty and GST. The chief minister wrote that the Bengal government was trying to augment the medical system, including infrastructure, equipment, medicine and oxygen, by seeking help from various organisations and individuals. “We all are trying our best to face new challenges and making all efforts to channelize resources from different sources, including ensuring availability of life-saving drugs and oxygen for Covid treatment... However, many of the agencies have approached the State government to consider exemption of these items from customs duty/SGST/CGST/IGST,” the chief minister wrote. Mamata had appealed for donations to the disaster management relief fund set up by the state government last year to deal with the pandemic more efficiently. Sources said the chief minister had appealed to donate to the relief fund following a realisation that it was almost impossible for the state government to shoulder the Covid-related expenditure alone, particularly when the Centre’s assistance was negligible. “The state is spending more than Rs 100 crore every month to provide free treatment to Covid patients at 100-odd dedicated hospitals in the state. Medicines and food for the patients also cost more than Rs 50 crore a month. So, the chief minister had sought help from different agencies and individuals,” said an official. The sources said many organisations, as well as individuals, had come forward to help the state by donating drugs and other important components required in the treatment of Covid patients. But they have requested the state to exempt the items from GST or customs duty. “A large number of organisations, individuals and benevolent agencies have come forward to donate oxygen concentrators, cylinders, cryogenic storage tanks, tankers and tank containers and Covid related drugs. Donations from these organisations will greatly supplement the efforts of the State government in meeting the huge gap in demand and supply,” wrote the chief minister. The sources said Mamata had pointed out that all the support from agencies would help the state meet the gap in terms of medicine and oxygen to put pressure on the Centre, particularly when the state government was seeking help from Delhi repeatedly. The chief minister made it clear that the onus was on the Centre to help the state get those equipments and medicines without much difficulties. “As the rate structure falls under the purview of Central Government, I would request that these items may be exempted from GST/customs duty and other such duties and taxes, to help remove supply constraints of the above mentioned life-saving drugs and equipment and contribute towards effective management of Covid pandemic,” read the letter. The state government is now trying to focus on arranging oxygen by setting up oxygen plants at hospitals themselves. “The state has plans to set up oxygen plants at 105 hospitals. But it will take some time. Till that time, we need steady supply of oxygen. If the Centre clears the chief minister’s proposal, the state would be able to manage the crisis,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Tea industry stakeholders to seek relaxation in state’s order to engage workforce in shift||Tea industry stakeholders on Monday, in a virtual meeting with senior labour department officials, will seek relaxation in the state’s order to engage half the usual workforce in a shift. After chief minister Mamata Banerjee assumed office for the third time recently, she announced that in the tea industry, only 50 per cent of the usual workforce would be allowed to work per shift as a safeguard against crowding amid the pandemic. The announcement came as a jolt for tea companies and over three lakh workers in the sector. “Because of this restriction, each tea estate is incurring production loss. From May to August, yield at plantations is higher, so is production. If gardens work with 50 per cent capacity during this crucial time, production will be hit,” said Amritangshu Chakraborty, principal adviser to the Indian Tea Planters’ Association. A senior planter in Siliguri said around 65 per cent of the total tea production happens during these months. “We believe the state government officials will realise that unlike other industries, Covid safety protocols can be easily adhered to in the tea sector (because of large, open gardens). We can maintain social distancing and other safety measures like we did last year. That is why the number of Covid cases are low in the tea sector,” he said. On Monday, a virtual meeting has been scheduled with the principal secretary and other officials of the state labour department, the first such meeting after the Trinamul government returned to power in Bengal for the third time. Chinmay Dhar, the manager of Majherdabri tea estate on the outskirts of Alipurduar town, spoke on their losses. According to him, at this time of the year, around 1,500 workers usually serve in a shift at plantations and in factories. “But because of the cap on people, we can engage only 750 workers a day. On the production side, 16,000 to 18,000 kilos of tea leaves are usually plucked and processed daily. But now, we hardly get 8,000 kilos of tea leaves because of fewer workers,” said Dhar. A trade union leader in the Dooars said the curb also halved the income of workers. “In a garden, wages are distributed after every 12 days. Earlier, a worker got wages for all these days but now that only half of them can be put to work at a time, they are getting six days’ wages. In the tea industry, no work, no pay is the usual practice,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Reopening of Assam airport brings cheers among residents of Cooch Behar and Alipurduar||A World War 2-era airport at Rupsi in Assam’s Kokrajhar district reopened after 35 years on Saturday, bringing cheers to the residents of Cooch Behar and Alipurduar districts in Bengal as they could avail themselves of flights after a two-hour travel by road. Alipurduar and Cooch Behar are the two districts located farthest from Calcutta. For the people of these two districts, they have to travel by road for around four hours to reach Bagdogra, their nearest airport located around 200km away. Rupsi, on the other hand, is just 70km from the two districts. Prasenjit Dey, the secretary of the Alipurduar Chamber of Commerce, said there had been a longstanding demand of the residents of the two districts that the Cooch Behar airport, which was operational during the royals’ regime, be reopened. “A number of initiatives were taken up by both the state government and the Centre to reopen the Cooch Behar airport, but all such efforts were short-lived. It is good that the Rupsi airport has reopened. We can now easily take flights to Guwahati and Calcutta. It is just a one-and-a-half hours’ road ride to reach Rupsi,” said Dey. The airport, sources said, has been made operational under the RCS-UDAN (regional connectivity scheme) of the Centre. On Wednesday, a trial run had been conducted and flight operations formally resumed on Saturday. On Saturday, an ATR 72 aircraft carrying 24 passengers from Guwahati landed at the Rupsi airport. Later, the flight departed for Calcutta. The airport has 10 check-in counters and is located on 337 acres of land. Tour operators have welcomed the development. They said a considerable number of tourists who entered Bhutan via Phuentsholing, the commercial capital of the neighbouring country and the most popular transit point located around 40km from Alipurduar, could avail themselves of flights at Rupsi. “Tourists used to disembark flights at Bagdogra and then take car to reach Phuentsholing. More than four hours are needed for travel from Bagdogra to Phuentsholing. But now, it would hardly take two hours to reach the border town from Rupsi. Tourists bound for Jaldapara National Park and Buxa Tiger Reserve in the eastern Dooars can also take the Rupsi flights,” said Biplab Dey, the secretary of the Dooars Tourism Development Forum. Also, Bhutanese nationals staying in and around Phuentsholing can avail themselves of the flights from Rupsi, instead of travelling for six hours to reach the Paro airport near capital Thimphu. The Rupsi airport caters for lower Assam districts like Dhubri, Kokrajhar, Bongaigaon and Goalpara. The Rupsi airport’s reopening left the Cooch Behar residents also elated. “It will largely help the people of Cooch Behar, especially the business fraternity and patients who need better treatment at Calcutta or other places. We had expected a similar service here but it is good that we have an airport close to us now,” said Narayan Modak, the president of the Cooch Behar Byabsayee Samiti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||If I can fight Covid, so can you, says Darjeeling schoolgirl ||A 12-year-old, who along with her parents contracted Covid-19 last month and recovered since then, has written a letter of hope and courage that is making waves on social media. Daughter of a businessman and a teacher, Darjeeling schoolgirl Ashnaa Pradhan sent her letter to various Facebook pages of portals such as Darjeeling Times and The Darjeeling Chronicle, where her honest and spirited narration has struck a chord with readers. In The Darjeeling Chronicle alone, Ashnaa’s letter received over 4,600 likes throughout Sunday. Ashnaa said she decided to share her experience to send out a positive message to people scared amid the second wave of the pandemic. “Here is why I am sharing my experience. If I, a- 12 -year old girl, can fight Covid, so can you all. So it’s my humble request that if any of us are going through hard times, the best medicine is we all have to stay positive.” The Darjeeling girl’s letter states the names of well-wishers and family members for helping out her family, including Sikkim chief minister P.S. Golay, who arranged Remdesivir for her father when the medicine ran out of stock in Darjeeling district. “It all started on 16 April," Aashna writes. “My mother got sick. She had fever, headache, body ache basically all the symptoms of covid 19. Side by side my father also was not well. So I was the only fit person in the house. I had to take on all the responsibilities. I had to attend my own classes, look after mom and dad, cook whatever I could cook and so on.” “…But, then from Wednesday evening I was also not feeling well, even though I was working on my (school) project,” she continued, and wrote that she did not want to stress out her parents but finally had to tell them. “When none of us were getting any better, we decided to go get our covid test done. So we went to do the test on 24 April and we all tested positive. We started home isolation from that day. It was the worst thing that ever happened in my life," she wrote. Things took a turn for the worse on April 28 when her father’s condition worsened and their family friends arranged an ambulance and took him to the Darjeeling district hospital to give him oxygen, and then he was taken down to Siliguri where he was hospitalised. She admitted that she and her mother were “very desperate and stressed out", but then “I kept motivating mom telling her that he would be ok and did not lose our hope". He got better for which she thanked “all the medical staff, who took very good care of my dad". She writes how, during his hospitalisation, the Covid medicine was out of stock in Darjeeling, but they got supply from Sikkim. “We thank everyone for all for your support, unconditional love, and all the prayers... How can we ever thank you,” she wrote, adding “special thanks to our almighty”. Ashnaa has a word of advice. “…it’s my humble request that if any of us are going through hard times, the best medicine is we all have to stay positive.” Online commentators to this letter are hailing the girl’s maturity and courage. Priya Nembang Rai, among the hundreds to comment on the letter, wrote: “Thank you nanee (child) for inspiring us to be strong and positive.” Another commentator, Uttam Jhawar, said more such stories should come out in the open. “God Bless…We need more and more ppl who’ve recovered to come out and share their experience …and bring in some HOPE,” Jhawar wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Forty-three members of state cabinet to take oath on Monday||Forty-three members of the Bengal cabinet, in the third straight term of Mamata Banerjee as chief minister, are likely to take oath at 10.45am on Monday, in the historic Throne Room of Raj Bhavan. The cabinet currently has only Mamata, who was sworn in on Wednesday. It can have a maximum of 44 members — 15 per cent of the 294-seat Bengal Assembly. In the list of people likely to take oath as ministers on Monday, there are 24 of cabinet rank (the 25th being the Trinamul chief herself), 10 ministers of state with independent charge, and nine other ministers of state. “The list (of ministers) is fairly balanced with no drastic changes. The choices indicate a fair amount of thought has been given to performance, as well as consideration to proper representation to various quarters such as districts, communities, gender and lobbies,” said a Trinamul vice-president. Seventeen ministers from the previous term — including Gautam Deb, Rabindranath Ghosh, Purnendu Basu, Ashis Banerjee and Tapan Dasgupta — did not make the cut this time. Some among these 17 were not fielded in the elections, some others lost, a few won. Still, the list has no real surprises, the highlight being Amit Mitra’s inclusion despite his withdrawal from the election this time on account of his poor health. Should Mitra take oath on Monday according to schedule, he is likely to get a third consecutive term with the vital portfolio of finance. He and Bratya Basu, because of their failing health, are likely to be sworn in virtually, in a first in Bengal’s legislative history. East Midnapore’s Akhil Giri, known for years as being bitterly opposed to Suvendu Adhikari and his clan, made it to the list as a minister of state with independent charge. The list also includes two others from the anti-Adhikari lobby in the form of Soumen Mahapatra, who is getting his third consecutive term as a cabinet minister, and Seuli Saha, as a minister of state. The anti-Adhikari camp existed in the ruling party much before Adhikari defected to the BJP in December last year. Though most candidates from the entertainment industry that Mamata had fielded in this state election emerged victorious, none (other than Bratya Basu and Indranil Sen, who have had experience as ministers in the past) is on the list of ministers as of Sunday evening. However, former Team India cricketer Manoj Tiwari, who entered politics just before the elections, is on the list as a minister of state. Humayun Kabir, the IPS officer who took voluntary retirement to contest and win the Bengal polls, is apparently being rewarded with a minister of state (independent charge) berth. A quick look at the names who, along with Mamata, will run Bengal in Trinamul’s third term: Cabinet ministers: Subrata Mukherjee, Partha Chatterjee, Amit Mitra, Sadhan Pande, Jyotipriya Mullick, Bankim Chandra Hazra, Manas Ranjan Bhunia, Soumen Mahapatra, Moloy Ghatak, Aroop Biswas, Ujjal Biswas, Arup Roy, Rathin Ghosh, Firhad Hakim, Chandranath Sinha, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, Bratya Basu, Pulak Roy, Shashi Panja, Ghulam Rabbani, Biplab Mitra, Javed Khan, Swapan Debnath and Siddiqullah Chowdhury Ministers of state, independent charge: Becharam Manna, Subrata Saha, Humayun Kabir, Akhil Giri, Chandrima Bhattacharya, Ratna De Nag, Sandhyarani Tudu, Bulu Chik Baraik, Sujit Bose and Indranil Sen. Ministers of state: Dilip Mondal, Akhruzzaman, Seuli Saha, Srikant Mahato, Sabina Yasmin, Birbaha Hansda, Jyotsna Mandi, Paresh Adhikary and Manoj Tiwari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
