11-05-2021||West Bengal||Two Bengal BJP MPs who won Assembly seats to quit  ||Two BJP parliamentarians who won their seats in the just-concluded Bengal Assembly polls are likely to continue as MPs and will resign from the legislative Assembly, the move leading to byelections in the constituencies within six months. Nisith Pramanik, the Cooch Behar MP, and Jagannath Sarkar, the MP from Ranaghat, won Assembly seats of Dinhata and Santipur respectively. “The official announcement is a matter of time. The central leadership is keen that the two continue as MPs,” said a BJP source, adding that the  decision had been conveyed to the two Pramanik and Sarkar who are yet to take their oath. In this year's Assembly elections, the BJP had fielded four Lok Sabha MPs in all, the other two being Locket Chatterjee and Babul Supriyo. Both Chatterjee and Supriyo lost, too, and will, therefore, continue as MPs. A fifth nominee, Swapan Dasgupta who was a member of the Rajya Sabha, had resigned before filing his nomination from the Tarakeswar seat. Dasgupta lost the Assembly polls. In BJP’s scheme of things, losing two Assembly seats will not make any difference to the party’s status in the Assembly. However, when the next Lok Sabha polls are held, the saffron camp would like to go ahead with all the 19 Lok Sabha seats it has in its kitty. Those defecting from Trinamul will be a gain for the party. While Sarkar had a handsome lead of 15, 878 votes over his nearest rival from the Trinamul Ajoy De, Pramanik managed to wrest the seat from Udayan Guha by a mere 57 votes. Udayan, son of the late Forward Bloc leader Kamal Guha, had switched over to the Trinamul Congress in 2016 soon after the Assembly elections. Five days back, he came under attack from BJP supporters in Dinhata, while on the way to meet victims of post-poll violence. Pramanik too is a former Trinamul member who joined the saffron wing before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “#BJP fielded 4 sitting LS MPs, incl a Union Min & 1 RS MP for #BengalPolls. 3 lost. 2 won. Now these 2 to quit as MLAs. They were elected last week! World’s largest (sic) party have set a world record for electoral egg on face. One Nation One Election! What say Narendra, Amit,” tweeted Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien on Tuesday. While O’Brien has reasons to gloat over the BJP’s failure to come even close to form a government in Bengal, the ruling party itself is dithering over a decision concerning the powerful Adhikary family of East Midnapore. Trinamul’s East Midnapore district unit has recommended action against Dibyendu Adhikary, the party’s Tamluk MP and younger brother of Bengal’s newest leader of the Opposition from the BJP, Suvendu. Local Trinamul leaders had complained that Dibyendu did not work for the party in the recently concluded Assembly polls. The BJP had nominated Suvendu from Nandigram where he defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee by 1,956 votes. Suvendu and his second brother Soumendu had joined the BJP in December 2020, while his father and Contai MP Sisir and Dibyendu remained in the Trinamul. In the run-up to the Assembly polls, Mamata and the Adhikarys had hurled invectives at each other, with the exception of Dibyendu, who hasn’t said a word against Mamata. On the other hand, Sisir, who is yet to quit Trinamul, had shared the dais with Union home minister Amit Shah during the poll campaign. Most Trinamul leaders believe it is a matter of time before the entire Adhikary clan joins the BJP. With Suvendu’s elevation to the chair of leader of Opposition, the East Midnapore district will occupy central stage in Bengal’s politics over the next five years. “If he is expelled from the party, he will remain an MP for the rest of the term and can do as he pleases. The party leadership would want to avoid that situation,” said a Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet: Mitra retains finance, Partha gets industry, education for Bratya||Mamata Banerjee has brought back Partha Chatterjee as industries minister and Bratya Basu as education minister and given the shape of her third cabinet in a manner that reminded many of her first ministry after the change of guard in Bengal in 2011. The chief minister allocated berths to her 43 ministers after convening the first cabinet of her third term at Nabanna on Monday. They were sworn in three batches by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar around 10.45am on Monday because of Covid-19 protocols. Three ministers — Amit Mitra, Bratya Basu and Rathin Ghosh — took oath of office and secrecy virtually. Mitra has been unwell for some time, while Basu and Ghosh are recuperating from Covid. “This time, 20-odd new ministers have taken oath. There are nine women ministers, including myself. There are four minority ministers, four Scheduled Caste ministers and four Scheduled Tribe ministers in the new cabinet,” Mamata said after the first cabinet meeting. Mamata continued with her trusted lieutenants in their departments that they had been holding since the first cabinet. For example, Amit Mitra was allotted the finance department, while Subrata Mukherjee got the panchayat and rural development department. Another senior minister, Moloy Ghatak, will continue with the land and judicial departments. He has been given an additional responsibility of the public works department. Arup Roy, also a senior minister, has been given the charge of the cooperation department which he has been in charge of since 2011. Two members of Mamata’s first cabinet when they were in the Congress, which was an ally of Trinamul in 2011, were sworn in on Monday. Manas Bhuniya, the Trinamul MLA from Sabang in West Midnapore, has been appointed as water resources investigation minister, while Sabina Yeasmin has been made the junior minister in irrigation and north Bengal development departments. Bhuniya was the irrigation minister in the first cabinet of Trinamul and Sabina was a junior minister in the labour department. “The way the chief minister distributed berths, it reminds me of her first cabinet. Many of the ministers were given responsibilities which they discharged in the first cabinet or continued to work in the departments since 2011,” said a Trinamul insider. Firhad Hakim who was the urban development and municipal affairs minister in the last government has been given the responsibility of transport and housing departments. Chandrima Bhattacharya would hold the charge of urban development and municipal affairs department as an independent minister of state. Another senior minister, Aroop Biswas, was sent to the power department from the PWD which he was looking after in the last government. Similarly, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay has been made agriculture minister. Jyotipriyo Mallick, the food and supplies minister in the last government, is the new forest minister. Mamata appointed a full-time minister — Md. Ghulam Rabbani — in the minority affairs and Madarsa Education, instead of keeping the portfolio with herself. “Since 2011, the chief minister had been herself holding the charge of the minorities affairs. This is the first time she appointed a full-time minister,” said a source. Sources in the department said the majority of the development projects had already been implemented or work for those started. So, the chief minister might have wanted a fresh face in the department as this can bring fresh ideas in the department. Although Mamata left the charge of the minority affairs department, she would continue to hold departments like home and hill affairs, personnel and administrative reforms, health, land and land reforms, information and cultural affairs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata's Cabinet: Jungle Mahal rewarded with seven ministers,  Murshidabad  gets two MLAs ||The Trinamul Congress performed well in Jungle Mahal districts and Murshidabad in the Assembly polls, but the number of ministers in Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet has left one area elated and the other disappointed. Jungle Mahal — comprising four Bengal districts — has been rewarded with seven ministers in the third Mamata Banerjee government, while Murshidabad feels let down after she inducted two MLAs into her cabinet. Trinamul had made a big turnaround in the Jungle Mahal after the party had conceded leads to the BJP in 31 of the 40 Assembly segments in the 2019 general election. In this election, Trinamul won 24 of the 40 Assembly seats. The ruling party also breached the Congress bastion of Murshidabad and won 18 of the 20 seats that went to the polls. Election was not held on two seats because of the death of two candidates of Covid. In the second Trinamul government, there were only four ministers from the Jungle Mahal. Trinamul insiders have said it was very interesting that among the seven ministers, three are tribal women — Sandhyarani Tudu from Purulia’s Manbazar, Birbaha Hansda from Jhargram and Jyotsna Mandi from Bankura’s Ranibandh. Four MLAs from West Midnapore were sworn in as ministers, including Manas Ranjan Bhunia. Purulia got one minister. Sandhyarani is the minister of state for Paschimanchal Unnayan Parishad with independent charge, while Jyotsna is the minister of state for food and supplies. Birbaha has been made the minister of state for forests. “Mamata Banerjee has included representatives of two important communities — adivasis and Kurmis — from the Jungle Mahal in her ministry,” a Trinamul leader in West Midnapore said. In contrast, a section of Trinamul leaders and people in Murshidabad feels let down by the district’s share in the cabinet. “The decision to give two ministers of state to the district that gave Trinamul 18 MLAs is not fair. West Midnapore has contributed 13 MLAs to Trinamul’s tally and have got four ministers,” said Muzibur Rahaman, a retired college principal and resident of Behrampore. A section of Trinamul leaders said when the district gave Trinamul only four MLAs there was one minister in Mamata’s team, but after getting 18 MLAs from Murshidabad, Mamata has picked two. “In 2016, Trinamul won only four seats but got a minister of state. This time we expected more because of the district’s performance,” said a district Trinamul leader. Abu Taher Khan, the party’s president in Murshidabad, however, said: “All hopes cannot be fulfilled and it is good that we have two ministers from our district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Total lockdown will hurt poor,  we appeal to people to abide by safety protocols: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, after the inaugural meeting of her cabinet on Monday, said her third-term government’s first priority was a war effort against Covid-19, and lambasted the BJP-led Centre over its alleged mismanagement of the pandemic and discourtesy towards her government. Speaking to journalists, Mamata virtually also ruled out a total lockdown in view of livelihood concerns. Before repeating her demand for waiver of GST on vaccines and other essentials in pandemic management, Mamata said: “The Centre has not been giving us any money by way of assistance….We are asking for 3 crore vaccine doses, being given one lakh. One lakh doses is vaccination for 50,000 people. Our state has 10 crore people.” “The Centre has a lot of money. If it gave just Rs 30,000 crore, universal free immunisation for all in the nation could have been done,” said Mamata, who has been questioning the Narendra Modi government’s priorities such as the Central Vista and the new PM residence. “Whenever we get vaccines from the Centre, we will vaccinate everybody in the state free of cost.” On a lockdown, Mamata said: “We have so many restrictions in place....Instead of us imposing a total lockdown, if we behave like there is one… we appeal to people to abide by safety protocols....Total lockdown would mean countless people will starve....daily wage earners.” She questioned the saffron ecosystem’s IT cell’s propaganda after her party’s win. “‘Genocide’? Where did ‘genocide’ take place? Other than in Sitalkuchi (the CISF firing on April 10)?” she asked on charges from the saffron ecosystem of her overseeing a “Hindu genocide”. She also condemned the central team sent by Amit Shah’s ministry, which toured Bengal to allegedly pay heed exclusively to BJP complaints of violence, and said law and order was a state subject. “Those who send a central team in less than 24 hours of the government taking oath, do they have the minimum courtesy? This landslide of a mandate, even after that. Law and order is a state subject,” she said, on a day Calcutta High Court “appreciated” her government’s measures for restoration of normality. “Why is the central team (still) here, going to places and fomenting tension? They came and spoke to the (state) chief secretary, that’s okay. Why are they still going around, visiting BJP homes? Have they visited even one Trinamul home? Why not? Any SUCI home? Why not? A home of any other party? Why not?” she asked, adding half the victims of the post-results violence were from her party. “We gave compensation to every victim family, even those of BJP workers. Did they do anything of the kind, despite what they did in Tripura, for instance?” she asked. In the saffron echo chambers, there has been deafening noise from the chorus of outlandish demands ranging from the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal and “reducing it Kashmir-like rubble” to even a “third Partition” of the state (culling out parts in the north and the west that voted in favour of the BJP and giving them separate BJP-led governments).Numerous fact-checking exercises by the likes of AltNews have revealed many videos and pictures circulated by the saffron camp and its followers on social media – given substantial coverage by pliant sections of the national television media – as “evidence” had little or nothing to do with Bengal. By bringing up Sitalkuchi, the chief minister was referring to the April 10 event, where central forces under the Election Commission of India – in an act defended even by the Prime Minister – opened fire in a polling booth, killing four villagers. Several BJP leaders, underscoring the religious identity of the victims, had vowed during campaign to ensure such incidents took place in many other parts of the state. “Only because the BJP’s IT cell, with RSS branches in 30 nations… is still sending fabricated content, alleging it’s taking place in Bengal. Nothing happened in Bengal. Bengal has been peaceful,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC satisfied with state's handling of post-poll violence||A five-judge special bench of Calcutta High Court expressed satisfaction over the action taken by the newly formed Mamata Banerjee government in Bengal to restore normality after post-results violence in pockets of the state. “The steps taken by the state in bringing the situation to normalcy are appreciable,” acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal said during the hearing. “However, the central government has similar responsibility to maintain the law-and-order situation of the state after the poll results,” he added. The bench turned down a prayer by the additional solicitor-general, representing the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, to set up a special investigation team to probe the post-poll violence. On Friday, the acting chief justice had formed the special bench following two separate petitions, one by advocate Anindya Sunder Das and the other by advocate Priyanka Tibrewal, the BJP candidate for the Entally Assembly seat this time. The other four judges on the special bench are Justices I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar. The special bench fixed May 19 for the next hearing and asked state advocate-general Kishore Datta to file a status report. During the hearing, Datta told the court that soon after taking charge (Mamata took oath on May 5 morning), the chief minister had taken several steps to stop the violence. “Since May 7, no one was killed in any further violence,” Datta said. On May 7, Dutta had said a number of killings had taken place soon after the poll results were declared on May 2 but the state government had no role to play as the administration was then under the control of the Election Commission of India. The purported death toll has been put at 25, with 15 deaths from the BJP, 8 from Trinamul and 2 from the Sanyukta Morcha. On May 6, a day after taking oath of office for the third consecutive term, Mamata had announced an assistance of Rs 2 lakh each for the dead victims’ families, irrespective of their political leanings. Over May 5 and 6, she had made a slew of administrative changes to overturn the transfers made by the poll panel and ensure that normality was restored promptly. Justice Bindal asked the advocate-general to take the responsibility so that all employees and others related to the legal community could get Covid-19 vaccines with immediate effect. The judge was responding to a petition demanding immediate vaccination of the court staff. The acting chief justice said in order to run the court normally, members of the legal community, including its staff, should be vaccinated. Datta assured the court that he would take steps in accordance with the directive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||CM keeps key north Bengal portfolio, hands Rabbani minority affairs||Mamata Banerjee kept the north Bengal development department (NBDD), the decision drawing loud cheers from the region as many believe it indicates that the chief minister herself would look after the region’s development. After coming to power in 2011, Mamata set up the department but she took charge of it for the first time now. A senior party leader in Siliguri said they could draw two interpretations when the key portfolio of the region does not go to an elected MLA from there. “First, it indicates that the chief minister herself intends to focus more on north Bengal, a region where the saffron camp has won 30 (of the 54) seats. Secondly, it hints that after the defeat of senior ministers (of the region) like Gautam Deb and Rabindranath Ghosh, she preferred to keep this department instead of giving it to a new MLA.” Deb and Ghosh headed this department in the first two terms of the government. Mamata, however, inducted Sabina Yeasmin, an MLA from Malda, as the minister of state (MoS) of the NBDD. Yeasmin will also be the MoS of irrigation and waterways. The number of representatives from north Bengal in the third cabinet of the Mamata government stayed the same  as the second formed in 2016, with five Trinamul MLAs — each from a different district. The manner in which portfolios were given to the other four Trinamul MLAs of north Bengal shows Mamata is still focussed on the Rajbanshi and tribal populace, though most sided with the BJP this time. She made Bulu Chil Baraik, the MLA of Malbazar (of Jalpaiguri), the MoS (independent charge) of backward classes’ welfare and tribal development. Ghulam Rabbani of Goalpokhor (of North Dinajpur) is the cabinet minister of minority affairs and madarsa education. “Rabbani is the sole MLA of north Bengal to be in the cabinet for the second time,” a political adviser said. Biplab Mitra (of South Dinajpur) is the new minister for agricultural marketing. Paresh Chandra Adhikary (of Cooch Behar), a former Left Front minister, became the MoS of school education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal records 2,350 Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours||Covid-19 cases continued to go up in north Bengal with the region recording 2,350 infections in the past 24 hours. The surge in cases is also leading to more deaths in the region. Nawang Thendhup Sherpa, the joint BDO of Englishbazar block, who got infected with the disease on April 21 breathed his last on Sunday night. Sherpa, 48, had initially been treated in Malda but was shifted to a facility in Siliguri later. In Jalpaiguri, a training programme — theoretical and practical — for doctors and paramedical staff commenced on Monday so that they could provide proper critical care treatment to Covid patients. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty of state health & family welfare department in north Bengal, said the on-hands (practical) training would be conducted by specialists from Calcutta at the Covid-19 hospital set up at the Biswa Bangla Krirangan. “Doctors, nurses, paramedics and technicians from five districts of north Bengal will attend the training in batches,” Roy added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP elects Suvendu Adhikari to lead Opposition||BJP MLA from Nandigram, Suvendu Adhikari, whose poll campaign had been shrilly communal, was on Monday elected by his party as the leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly. This unanimous decision of the BJP’s legislative party conveys the message that the saffron camp would stick to its polarisation strategy in Bengal. “Our party will tread the path of Hindutva politics in Bengal as it has done in the rest of the country. The choice of Suvenduda reflects the party’s mood as he successfully emerged as the poster boy of Hindutva in Bengal,” a party insider said. Suvendu’s first address to his colleagues after being elected as the leader of the Opposition also set the tone. “…We are not happy. Over a lakh BJP workers at the grassroots and voters who had fought to establish democracy in West Bengal… just because they belong to a specific community…are homeless today,” Suvendu said in line with the saffron camp’s propaganda that Hindus were being targeted in Bengal’s post-poll violence. The reality, however, is that the violence affected people cutting across religious and political affiliations. Suvendu also pointed out three unique features of the new Bengal Assembly, that this is the first time a defeated candidate (Mamata Banerjee lost to Suvendu by 1,956 votes) has been sworn in as chief minister, the Assembly will have no one from the Left or the Congress, and the BJP for the first time in Bengal is the Opposition party. Suvendu’s name was proposed by another Trinamul turncoat and BJP MLA from Krishnagar North, Mukul Roy, at a meeting of legislators at the party’s Hastings office. BJP MLA from Madarihat Manoj Tigga was named the party’s chief whip. Of the BJP’s 77 MLAs, on Monday, around 52 were present at the meeting. The rest, including MP Nisith Pramanik who was elected as Dinhata MLA, were absent. Sources said while some had contracted Covid-19, others were helping families affected in the post-poll violence. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and BJP MP Bhupender Yadav, appointed observers for the election of the leader of Opposition, were present at the meeting. A former minister in Mamata’s cabinet, Suvendu joined the BJP in December 2020. During his campaign, Suvendu called Mamata many names, including “aunt of the Rohingyas” and “Begum”. Yet, Mamata garnered 1,08,808 votes in her favour while Muslim votes polled in Nandigram was around 54,000. Sources said the BJP MLAs also appealed to the Centre for central security for each of them. “Given the track record of the Bengal police and the post-poll violence, our MLAs have demanded central security. In all probability, their appeal will be granted,” a state BJP office-bearer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC pushes for Covid vaccination to legal community||Calcutta High Court Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Monday asked the state advocate-general to take the responsibility so that all employees and others related to the legal community could get Covid-19 vaccines with immediate effect. The judge was responding to a petition seeking immediate vaccination of the court staff. The acting chief justice said that in order to run the court normally, members of the legal community, including its staff, should be vaccinated. State advocate-general Kishore Datta assured the court that he would take steps in accordance with the directive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Fresh plea to lift tea worker rider||Tea planters on Monday requested the Bengal labour department to reconsider the decision to restrict the workforce engaged in gardens to 50 per cent in the wake of the second wave of Covid 19. The plea was made at a virtual meeting of labour department officials, the tea planters and trade union leaders. “We have requested the principal secretary of the labour department and other officials to reconsider the restriction that has been imposed on the engagement of workers during the ongoing peak season. The state government said tea gardens could engage only 50 per cent workers in one shift, but that is leading to loss of production. We have underscored that since last year, the industry has been strictly adhering to all health safety protocols and that is why Covid caseload is much lower in the tea belt,” said Sanjoy Bagchi, the secretary of the Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association. The stakeholders of the tea sector also highlighted a number of other issues which include monitoring the return of migrant workers to the tea belt and arrangements of quarantine centres and medical facilities for the tea population. “The state health department should see that at least two oxygen cylinders are provided to each tea garden to handle critical patients. Like last year, quarantine centres should be opened on tea estates to keep the migrant workers who started returning homes,” said a tea planter. He also said vaccination drive in tea plantations, many of which are located in remote areas, should be intensified. Alipurduar chief medical officer of health Girish Chandra Bera said people arriving at railway stations, bus depots and airports had to carry RT PCR negative reports according to the existing guidelines. “Those found without such reports are being asked to stay in home quarantine and our staff will monitor them. If required, they will be taken for tests. However, no instruction to open quarantine centres for migrant workers has reached us so far,” said the CMOH.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
