12-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to Modi, calls for proactive import of vaccines ||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has urged the Centre to identify international pharmaceutical companies to make Covid vaccines and have them imported on a war footing, promising land in Bengal for any manufacturing facility that may be required to be set up. "Production of vaccines in the country is extremely inadequate... Globally, there are many manufacturers now... it is possible to identify the reputed and authentic manufacturers and speedily import vaccines from them from different parts of the world. Liberal, pro-active and discerning vaccination is the paramount need today,” Mamata said in a letter to Narendra Modi on Wednesday, her missive coming amid a vaccine crisis that has undermined the country’s fight against the coronavirus the spread of which in its second wave has overwhelmed India's health infrastructure. . “…If we could encourage the world players to open up franchise operations in our country. Even the national players could be inspired to go for the franchise mode for the bulk production of vaccines. We, in West Bengal, are ready to provide land and support for any manufacturing/franchisee operation for authentic vaccine manufacturing," Mamata said in her letter to Modi. “About 10 crore people in West Bengal and 140 core people in the country need vaccination here and now. But only a microscopic percentage has been covered,” the chief minister said. As of 7 am on Wednesday, the Union health ministry said that a total of 4,79,282 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years had received their first dose of the vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 30,44,463 across 30 states and UTs since the start of the phase-3 of vaccination drive. On Tuesday, there were 3,48,421 new Covid cases recorded in the country. While the Centre and the state government announced universal vaccination for those above 18, no bookings for vaccines are available in any of the hospitals in Calcutta. On social media, residents of other cities too have been complaining about the non-availability of vaccines. A Twitter user who goes by the name of Raj tweeted, “Can anyone please help to know that COVID vaccine is available for 18+ in Tamil Nadu and in my place Nagercoil. Called up maximum hospital everyone is saying no stock no supply.” On the same day, Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin said in Chennai, 13 lakh vaccines allocated for 18-45 years olds weren't enough and the TN government would float global tender s to import vaccines. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also  complained about vaccine “mismanagement by the Centre.” “Covaxin refuses to supply vaccine citing directives of government and limited availability. Once again I would say exporting 6.6 crore doses was the biggest mistake. We are forced to shut down 100 Covaxin-vaccination sites in 17 schools due to no supply,” Sisodia tweeted. Last August, the Centre constituted a National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 to monitor the entire process from conception to inoculation. The recommendations of the expert group were never made public. The Centre had placed its first orders as late as in January 2021 and has since then been busy patronising religious gatherings like the Kumbh Mela and an election campaign in Bengal that ran for eight phases coinciding with an upward spike of Covid cases. In Calcutta, only two private hospitals have stocks of the first dose of vaccines, while the second dose is available only in government hospitals. Though Mamata had announced the state government would start vaccination for those between 18 and 45 from May 5, the programme is yet to take off. According to sources, the Bengal government will start vaccination for those above 18 only when the vaccine supply is “comfortable”. Till then it will focus on those above 45 needing the first or second dose. Serum Institute of India, the makers of the Covishiled vaccine, has told most private vaccination centres that doses won’t be available till July. Its  CEO Adar Poonawalla said in a statement on Monday: “Vaccine manufacturing is a specialised process. It is therefore not possible to ramp up production overnight. We also need to understand that the population of India is huge and to produce enough doses for all adults is not an easy task.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
12-05-2021||West Bengal||‘Unbecoming’ of a governor, says TMC on Dhankhar’s visit to violence-affected areas||Ruling Trinamul Congress hit out at Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday for his decision to visit areas affected by violence after the announcement of the state Assembly poll result. The party, which has shared an acrimonious relation with Dhankhar since its previous term in the government when he assumed office in July 2019, also flayed him saying he is behaving in a manner ''unbecoming'' of one holding the gubernatorial post. TMC MP Kalyan Bandyopadhyay told reporters here that he did not know if a governor can conduct himself in such a way. "Being a lawyer I cannot recall any other instance of a governor behaving in such a manner. It is unbecoming of one who holds the gubernatorial post. I think it is aimed at influencing the judiciary as a case is being heard in Calcutta High Court," he said. The HC is hearing a case on post poll violence in the state. A PIL had been filed by lawyer petitioner Anindya Sundar Das, who raised the issue of violence taking place in various parts of the state after the state assembly elections in which the Trinamul Congress trounced BJP. Dhankhar, who had been expressing concern about post poll violence in Bengal in his tweets since May 3, the day after the declaration of the poll result, had said on Tuesday that he will visit areas affected by post-poll violence in Cooch Behar district on Thursday, May 13. "Governor... will be leaving Kolkata by BSF Helicopter on May 13 to visit post poll unprecedented violence affected areas @MamataOfficial #Sitalkuchi and other places in Coochbehar to connect with sufferers," he tweeted. State minister Rabindranath Ghosh, who hails from the north Bengal district, said "Dhankhar is coming to disrupt the peaceful situation in Coochbehar." Countering TMC charges, BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya wondered why would TMC object if the governor visits a place rocked by political violence and he wants to be on the side of the affected people. "They (TMC) have got the mandate of the people. Then why are they upset if the governor of the state wants to meet the people? Are the injured and affected in political violence not residents of Bengal?" he asked. Dhankhar had said on Monday that he will visit the violence-affected areas of Bengal to take stock of the situation. He also said that despite asking the state government to make arrangements for his visit, there was no response from the administration. At least 16 people were killed in post-poll violence in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had said on May 6. Meanwhile, a TMC activist injured in a clash with the BJP on May 4 at Nanoor in Birbhum district, died at a city hospital on Tuesday, TMC sources said. While TMC alleged that the victim Shyamal Das had been brutally attacked by BJP, the saffron party claimed that TMC men were beaten up by villagers when they tried to unleash terror in the area. "Any death is unfortunate and BJP is in no way involved in his death," a district BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Fighting pandemic top priority of new Bengal govt, says Firhad Hakim||Fighting the COVID-19 pandemic is the priority of the new government in West Bengal, state minister Firhad Hakim said, maintaining that the focus would also be on creating more jobs, infrastructure and retaining the top spot in the agriculture sector. Hakim, a close aide of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, said the new government would work to fulfil the promises made in the interim state Budget ahead of the elections. "The priority is on handling the COVID situation. Thereafter, the focus will be on creating more employment opportunities and building new infrastructures that were announced by Didi (Banerjee) in her last Budget," Hakim told PTI in an interview. "One of our priorities will also be retaining the state's top position in the agriculture sector. I think, these are the main challenges," he added. Hakim, who holds the Transport and Housing portfolios in the new government besides heading the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, has announced a slew of initiatives in tackling the pandemic over the last few weeks. Among those are setting up new safe homes and oxygen parlours. "We are now fighting a big battle against the coronavirus. We have to bring the healthcare system of the state back on track. It was derailed by the frequent visits of the Union ministers and outsiders during the elections," he said. "We are fighting day in and day out, and I am sure that our government will be in a very comfortable position to handle all the issues," he said. Hakim, 62, won the elections from the Port seat with a massive margin of 68,302 votes. "Frankly speaking, I did not expect winning with such a huge margin. I was sure that Didi was coming back to power with the two-third majority but this was beyond my imagination," he said. Hakim said that he would do his best to carry out the responsibilities of the new departments -- Transport and Housing. "I am with Mamata Banerjee and she is the pride of my life. I can even die for Didi. I will do my level best to carry out the responsibilities she gave me," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Siliguri private clinics to ensure better treatment and acceptance of  health card||Authorities of all private nursing homes in and around Siliguri must put up a display board at their establishments saying they accept the Swasthya Sathi card and update health officials of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts daily on the availability of beds and medicines and treatment charge for Covid-19 patients. The decision was taken at a meeting in Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) in the presence of Gautam Deb, who is the chairman of the four-member board of administrators of the civic body, on Tuesday, with representatives of nursing homes within the civic area. “Over the past couple of months, a number of complaints have come to us out against these private clinics...over-charging, non-transparency on beds and denial of (Covid) treatment in lieu of the state’s health card (Swasthya Sathi, given to people under the state’s free health insurance scheme). That is why we held this meeting” said Deb. He said a committee of representatives of the district health department and administration will monitor the entire Covid-19 treatment procedure at these clinics. “None of these clinics can charge abnormal fees from any patient. In case of emergency, they have to admit the patient first and later claim admission charges,” added Deb. Deb said an oxygen plant will be operational at the Siliguri district hospital from Sunday. A similar project at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital will be operational soon. “The proposed oxygen plant at NBMCH is a major project and will have the capacity to produce 1,000 litres of oxygen in a minute,” he said. “The district magistrate of Darjeeling has been instructed to be in touch with the agency that will develop the plant and see that the project is expedited,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Teenager ‘abandoned’ with Covid positive report at Sealdah Railway station||A 13-year-old boy found with a Covid-positive report at the Sealdah railway station parking lot has told officials that he was abandoned by his father on Monday morning. The officials are yet to verify the account with the father of the boy. As the parent does not have a mobile phone, the officials had been unable to contact him till Tuesday evening, a Childline official said. The father — a daily wage earner from Diamond Harbour — had taken his only son to a city home as the parent was finding it difficult to make ends meet, the child told the railway officials who spotted him at the parking lot around 11am on Monday. The home wanted the child to undergo a Covid test first before admitting him. After the positive rapid antigen test report found in the boy’s hand suggested he had contracted Covid-19, he was not allowed in the home. The father, who apparently had no other means, left the child at the Sealdah station compound, the teenager has told the officials. Railway officials found the child standing alone in the almost deserted parking lot on Monday morning, lost and confused. Asked, he managed to say that his father had left him there because he was “ill” and handed out the report he was carrying. Members of the NGO Childline later shifted the boy to a state-run safe house with the help of health department officials. “He (the boy) was not crying. But he was looking dazed and confused. He did not even have a mask. When we asked about his family, he could barely answer. He showed us the rapid test report and said he was ill and that was why his father had left him,” said Debprasad Mandal, a member of the NGO’s arm that works with the railways. The purported test report from a diagnostic chain’s centre on Narkeldanga Main Road — not far from Sealdah station — identified the boy by his name and mentioned his age as 13, Mandal said. The report mentioned that a fee of Rs 1,000 had been collected for the test. It is not clear who paid the money. A few minutes later, after a lot of coaxing, the boy drank some water and ate biscuits that were offered to him, Mandal said, adding that the boy told them his mother had passed away. Mandal said the Child Welfare Committee and the Swasthya Bhavan had been informed of the incident. An official of the Child Welfare Committee said they had been receiving several cases where the parents were unable to take care of their children. The committee will try to locate the child’s father by taking the help of police. “We try to counsel the parents who abandon their children. Every child deserves a family. If the family refuses to accept the child, the child is sent back to the care home,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: BJP delegation faces protests by Trinamul Congress supporters ||A BJP delegation comprising Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and Siliguri MLA Shankar Ghosh faced several demonstrations by alleged Trinamul Congress supporters when the legislators reached the Chopra block in North Dinajpur district on Tuesday to visit the shops and houses damaged in the post-results violence. While the BJP leaders were trying to enter the Chopra police station in the morning to hand over a list of 42 violent incidents which had occurred following the counting of Assembly election votes on May 2, a group of Trinamul supporters raised protests. Wielding black flags, the protesters raised “go back” slogans. There was jostling between the BJP delegates and the demonstrators. After meeting the police officers, Bista and other BJP leaders visited markets in areas like Sonapur in the Chopra block where a number of shops had been damaged in the violence. The delegates couldn’t, however, visit the houses of affected BJP supporters as Trinamul went on holding demonstrations. “While we were visiting Chopra, a group of anti-socials gathered near the police station and tried to assault us. Central forces could prevent any untoward incident. Trinamul has been unleashing terror in Chopra for the past two weeks, looting BJP supporters’ homes and shops,” Bista said after the visit. Chopra Assembly seat is in the Darjeeling Lok Sabha segment. “So far, police have arrested five persons but there are many others who have perpetrated violence. We want the police to be more active to restore law and order in Chopra,” said the MP. Local Trinamul leaders denied Bista’s charges and accused the MP of trying to foment tension. “The MP had been elected in 2019. After that, we didn’t see him in our area. Now, he has come to foment tension. That is why our supporters held protests peacefully,” said Arindam Sarkar, the convener of North Dinajpur district Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 20,136 new cases and 132 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported the 61st consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases amid the second wave, with a record-resetting 20,136 new infections and 132 deaths. The number of active cases has crossed 1.27 lakh. On Tuesday, the state also reset the record for the highest number of recoveries in a day, yet again, with 18,994. The 132 deaths included 37 from the city and 39 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,973 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,998. In a positive sign, the recovery rate rose for the 10th consecutive day, touching 86.42 per cent. On Monday, the state had recorded 19,445 new infections and 134 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Post-poll violence forces Nandigram to relive memories ||Post-poll violence has forced Nandigram in East Midnapore to relive the memories it wanted to forget in these 14 years. Only, the political colours have changed. Ill-fated nights of people guarding their villages against impending attacks are back in the aftermath of the May 2 poll results in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee was defeated by her former protégé and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in a close fight in this constituency, despite Trinamul’s massive victory overall. Fourteen years ago, during the anti-land acquisition movement in the Left Front era, Nandigram’s people would guard their villages against police excesses and political adversaries in a similar manner. For the last four days, residents of Sonachhura, Kendamari, Kalicharanpur, Muhammadpur, Satengabari, Birulia and Haripur, spread across Nandigram blocks 1 and 2, have been on night patrol in their localities. Sources said that villagers — irrespective of political colour — have deployed themselves in at least 100 points across Nandigram. These “guards” alert other villagers of an imminent attack by blowing whistles and ringing phones. As part of a relay, when others get these “signals”, they blow conches and ring bells to alert more people. “BJP supporters are being targeted by Trinamul goons,” alleged Joydeb Halder of Sauthkhali village under Sonachura panchayat. “We don’t want these goons to enter. So we are guarding our villages since May 4.” Sources said Mamata’s defeat was sealed by votes polled by the electorate of Sonachura panchayat. Suvendu got the final edge over Mamata because people of Sonachura majorly voted in his favour. “This is why our villages (under the panchayat) are facing most attacks,” Halder added. Sonachura is also the site of the police firing that claimed 14 lives on March 14, 2007. People involved in the anti-land acquisition movement that worked as a catalyst in Mamata’s ascension to power in 2011 are unhappy. “We had fought against the CPM like this 14 years back. Didn’t expect a similar situation under Mamata Banerjee. The police are inactive. People don’t trust the administration and hence are forced to protect themselves,” said Sabuj Pradhan, a leader of the anti-land acquisition movement. However, a resident of Mansabazar, Samiran Das said goons were creating havoc “irrespective of party colour”. Trinamul supporters have also been affected in the post-poll violence, he said. “They (attackers) are not bothered about political affiliation. They are attacking villagers and leaving after looting,” Das said. He added that residents are taking turns to guard their villages. Local BJP leader Proloy Pal said his party leadership asked him to set up human barricades to resist attacks. Though local Trinamul leaders admitted to post-poll clashes in Nandigram, they alleged the BJP was trying to blow things out of proportion. “Rumours are being spread to create tension. We have set up a Nandigram Citizen’s Committee and are guarding villages. In case of any incident, we are calling the police. We are organising peace rallies across Nandigram,” said Trinamul leader Abu Taher. Amarnath K., the new East Midnapore SP, said the administration had increased night patrol in Nandigram. A company of central force is stationed. “Police are going to people to say there is no need for them to guard their villages at night. Police will take care.” At least 1,000 homes and shops have been ransacked in Nandigram since May 2. A similar number of people, supporters of both BJP and Trinamul, have been attacked, too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Two BJP leaders to quit as MLAs and stay as MPs||The central BJP leadership has asked two party MPs who were elected as MLAs to quit the Assembly and retain the membership of the Lok Sabha. The decision with regard to Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar and Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik betrayed the BJP’s jitters about bypolls in the two Lok Sabha seats in the aftermath of the Trinamul Congress’s landslide victory in the Assembly elections. The BJP had fielded four Lok Sabha members in the Assembly polls. But Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee and Asansol MP and Union minister Babul Supriyo were defeated. Swapan Dasgupta had resigned as the nominated member of the Rajya Sabha and contested the Assembly elections as a BJP candidate. He also lost. Jagannath Sarkar defeated senior Trinamul leader Ajoy De by 15,878 votes in the Santipur Assembly seat in Nadia district. Nisith Pramanik won from Dinhata in Cooch Behar district, trouncing Trinamul’s Udayan Guha by 57 votes. The Santipur Assembly constituency is part of the Ranaghat Lok Sabha seat. The Dinhata Assembly seat falls in the Cooch Behar Lok Sabha segment. “I have been instructed by the party to resign as the MLA. I will continue as the MP of Cooch Behar. Once the byelection is announced in Dinhata, the party will field a suitable candidate and all of us will toil to increase the margin,” Pramanik said on Tuesday. The fact that the BJP was working on such a plan was evident last week when unlike other party winners who took oath in the Assembly, both Pramanik and Sarkar stayed away. The decision of the duo continuing as MPs was taken at a BJP meeting in Delhi on Saturday, party insiders said. “If these two MPs continue as members of the Assembly, they will have to resign from Parliament, which would necessitate bypolls in the two Lok Sabha seats. It seems the BJP wants to retain the Lok Sabha seats instead of taking the challenge of bypolls,” said a political observer. Although Sarkar and Pramanik hadn’t taken oath as MLAs, they still have to quit the Assembly. This is because both received winners’ certificates and the Election Commission of India handed over the list of candidates who won the polls to the governor. Contacted, the Ranaghat MP gave a terse reaction. “We fought the Assembly elections according to the directive of the party. We will resign, too, if the party asks us to. There is no question of personal choice,” said Sarkar. The BJP’s decision to ask Sarkar and Pramanik to continue as MPs and face the Assembly bypolls in Santipur and Dinhata didn’t go down well with a section of party leaders in Cooch Behar. A BJP leader in Cooch Behar said it would have been better to let Pramanik continue as the MLA of Dinhata. According to him, instead of contesting the Assembly bypoll, the BJP should have asked Pramanik to resign as the MP and opted for the Lok Sabha byelection. “In the seven Assembly segments of Cooch Behar (Lok Sabha seat), we won in six. The Lok Sabha byelection would have been a better choice. We would have won the Lok Sabha seat again. We will retain the Dinhata Assembly seat as well. But because of this decision, we are sending out a message that we are not confident,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Teachers appeal to state project director to suspend distribution of midday meal||An organisation of head teachers of government-aided schools in Bengal has appealed to the state project director of cooked midday meal scheme to suspend the distribution of dry midday meal items from schools to prevent the spread of Covid-19. With classes on hold, school authorities give raw midday meal items to parents of students under the state government’s order. Teachers are supposed to go to schools for at least six days a month and make packets of rice, lentils, potatoes and soya beans, as well as soaps to hand over parents. Members of the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses alleged that distributing dry midday meals from schools made teachers vulnerable to coronavirus that has claimed the lives of many teachers. As an alternative, head teachers requested the project director to transfer allotted cash to parents’ bank accounts. “Guardians hardly wear masks. Teachers need to get close to each parent to hand over meal packets and get their signature. This exposes teachers to the infection. We have lost at least 25 head teachers so far, and many more assistant teachers,” said Chandan Kumar Maiti, secretary of the organisation, also headmaster of a school at Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas. However, a senior education department official said the cash-transfer idea wasn’t feasible. Acknowledging the teachers’ concern, he said the gross value of midday meals, if sent to parents, would be too meagre to buy groceries. Schools buy items in bulk and hence they came cheap. “A student is allotted Rs 7 to Rs 8 per day for cooked food served at schools. Within this, the students get rice, daal, egg (twice a week) or soya bean, and chhana. Such a meal for a month would be impossible to arrange in Rs 210 to Rs 250. Schools manage as they buy in bulk,” the officer added. The organisation members also said that when Centre and state government have implemented 50 per cent attendance rule in offices to avoid crowds, why distribution of midday meal items was being physically done from schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Darjeeling averse to Glenary’s plan to set up isolation centre ||The Darjeeling district administration is reportedly averse to Glenary’s plan to set up an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients in its restaurant on its top floor, as it is in the heart of the city. The administration is instead looking at similar proposals from St Joseph’s School (North Point) and the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI). The Darjeeling eatery had created a buzz with its plan to transform its 200-seater restaurant into a 20-bedded isolation centre with basic oxygen supply facility. Glenary’s has three floors. The ground floor has a bar “The Buzz”, the first floor has the bakery and the top floor the restaurant. But sources told The Telegraph that health officials headed by Anupam Bhattacharya, the assistant chief medical officer of health, who inspected Glenary’s on Monday, had “issues”. “District health officials felt two major criteria to safeguard the general community (in the case an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients come up) could be compromised,” said a source. “One, Glenary’s is not isolated. It is in the middle of a residential and commercial place.” The other was over the deployment of enough medical staff at Glenary’s. Ajoy Edwards, owner of Glenary’s, while proposing the isolation centre, said on May 7 that they had tied up with Planters Hospital, Darjeeling, for technical support. Sources, however, said the hospital administration developed cold feet. “The hospital feels overburdened and is not confident of supporting the proposed isolation centre at Glenary’s,” said a source. St Joseph’s School and HMI, located in less crowded places, are being considered, said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: District magistrates asked to use gram panchayat funds to cremate bodies ||The Bengal government has asked district magistrates to use funds available with gram panchayats and panchayat samitis to cremate the bodies of Covid-19 victims to save poor and bereaved families in rural areas from harassment. In an order issued by the department of panchayat and rural development, district magistrates have also been directed to seek funds from the department in case gram panchayats and panchayat samitis have no funds for this task. “I am directed to state that the dead bodies of persons affected with Covid-19 from rural areas are (to be) either brought to the crematorium/ burial ground of the adjacent municipality areas or to the local burning ghats/burial grounds for disposal…,” the order signed by the special secretary of panchayat and rural development department reads. “In this context, I am therefore directed to request you to use the available funds lying with the gram panchayats and panchayat samitis for the purposes mentioned above. In case of any shortfall of funds, a proposal may be sent to this department for taking further necessary arrangement from its end,” the order added. Sources in several districts said it was a challenge to handle the bodies of Covid-19 victims minus a directive so far on using government funds so far. Several poor families in rural areas find it tough to bear the cost of cremation in accordance to Covid protocol as individuals engaged in such jobs demand steep fees. “Many patients in rural areas die in home isolation and their families face problems in arranging cremations as private facilitators demand fees as high as Rs 30,000 (for the job),” a district official in Birbhum said. Last Friday, family members of a Covid patient, who died in home isolation, had to spend over 26 hours trying to cremate the body, which was finally done following the intervention of the block administration. “Now the government will bear the cost and arrange everything to cremate the bodies of persons who die in home isolation in rural areas. In case of urban areas, municipal bodies have formed teams to cremate Covid bodies,” said an official. Sources said the government asked district magistrates verbally to use funds available with them to pay for the cremation of Covid bodies if panchayats are unable to do so amid pandemic-induced staff shortage. “If the rural bodies have no funds, then we will give funds from the district (corpus). There will be no delay in disposing of the bodies in both urban and rural areas,” said Devi Prasad Karanam, the Birbhum DM. Sources said that people in several rural areas are not allowing cremation of Covid bodies at local crematoriums. This has led the government to ask district officials to arrange the cremation of these bodies at burial grounds or crematoriums at the nearest municipality areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
