13-05-2021||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar shown black flags during his Sitalkuchi visit||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was on Thursday shown black flags at Sitalkuchi, where five persons died on election day, when he went there to visit people allegedly affected in post poll violence. Dhankhar, whose visit to Cooch Behar was roundly criticised by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, was shown black flags by some people at Golokganj as his convoy travelled from Mathabhanga to Sitalkuchi though a posse of policemen put up a human wall to prevent protesters from coming down on the road. Posters and placards criticising the visit of the governor were also seen at Jorpatki, the scene of firing by central armed police force (CAPF) that killed four persons on April 10 during the fourth phase polling. A first time voter was also killed at Sitalkuchi while waiting outside a polling booth to exercise his franchise. Dhankhar went to Mathabhanga and Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district in north Bengal and talked to people who claimed to have suffered attacks at the hands of goons owing allegiance to the ruling Trinamool Congress after the election results were announced on May 2. Women were seen wailing and falling at the governor's feet claiming that all their belongings had been looted and the men had fled their homes to escape attacks. "The country is facing the COVID crisis, and West Bengal is facing twin challenges of the pandemic and unprecedented post-poll violence only on the ground that some people decided to vote as per their own choice," Dhankhar said during the visit. He said the Mamata Banerjee government must ensure that everyone who took the law into their hands must be brought to justice. "History will judge Mamata Banerjee, the chief minister. History will also judge Jagdeep Dhankhar, the governor, and it will judge the bureaucracy and the media," he said. BJP MP Nisith Pramanik accompanied Dhankhar during his visit to the areas, where the saffron party has alleged loot and attack on its workers by goons owing allegiance to TMC. TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh accused the governor of a partisan attitude and claimed that Dhankhar went to the houses of some BJP workers selectively. He also claimed that Dhankhar was working at the bidding of the BJP and was taking along its leaders during his visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Left Front’s Rambhajan Mahato and Kamal Agarwal join Trinamul||Two prominent faces of the Left Front in Siliguri, Rambhajan Mahato and Kamal Agarwal, joined Mamata Banerjee’s party here on Wednesday. After Shankar Ghosh, a CPM leader who walked out of the party to join the BJP and become the Siliguri MLA, this is the second major defection by Left leaders in the city. Mahato, the immediate past deputy mayor and sole RSP councillor in the last civic board headed by CPM veteran Asok Bhattacharya, joined Trinamul along with Agarwal, a former CPM councillor. Agarwal has served as the member, mayor-in-council, in a number of important departments of the civic body. Senior Trinamul leader Gautam Deb and the party’s Darjeeling (plains) district committee chief Ranjan Sarkar formally inducted the duo. Deb said both Mahato and Agarwal had taken up key responsibilities in the Left-ruled civic board. “They were in touch with us for months and wanted to join Trinamul. Once Assembly polls were over, they approached us again....We will use their experience to expedite better civic services. Our prime aim is to provide support and service to citizens, especially when everybody is struggling amid the pandemic,” said Deb, also chairperson of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). Political observers said the disastrous performance of the Left-Congress-ISF combine in the state election had left many senior Left leaders of the city aggrieved with the leadership. “In the coming months, you will find many leaders from other parties, and prominent apolitical faces, joining Trinamul,” said Sarkar. According to party insiders, though Trinamul lost Siliguri and Dabgram-Fulbari seats to the BJP, the party is upbeat about the dwindling Left support base. “We came second while Asok Bhattacharya finished third. This indicates people are fed up with the Left and Congress. Now that we have formed the government with 213 seats, we are confident of securing the SMC. We are focussing on civic areas as sooner or later, municipal polls will be held,” said a party leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Varsity talk on BJP rout scrapped after protest||Visva-Bharati’s plan to hold an online lecture on May 18 to delve into the reasons for the BJP’s electoral debacle in Bengal had to be cancelled within 12 hours of its announcement on Tuesday following protests from various quarters, including Prime Minister and chancellor Narendra Modi’s nominee in the university’s executive council. Sources said Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty had taken the initiative to hold an online lecture to analyse “Why BJP failed to win West Bengal Assembly Election?”. An invitation letter for the open-to-all online lecture was uploaded on the varsity’s website late on Tuesday. The invitation stated that joint advisor to Niti Ayog, Sanjay Kumar, would speak on the topic on an online platform at 4pm on May 18. Varsity insiders said the VC had picked Kumar as the speaker because of his proximity to the BJP. However, the varsity’s initiative ran into protests. “Visva-Bharati is not a place to analyse reasons for the BJP’s failure in the Assembly polls at a time we are struggling to combat the pandemic. The VC should organise a lecture on how the varsity can help the society and its students and teachers in the time of the pandemic. I strongly protested (the move) as it is not expected of the varsity to discuss the defeat of the BJP,” said Dulal Chandra Ghosh, who is the nominee of Modi. A source said Ghosh had complained about the lecture to top BJP leaders in Delhi and conveyed to them that the event would further tarnish the party’s image. The source added the protests and Ghosh taking up the matter with the BJP top brass had forced the varsity on the backfoot. On Wednesday evening, the varsity uploaded a notice on its website stating that the lecture had been cancelled for the “time being” because of “some unavoidable circumstances”. “After objections from several BJP leaders and protests in social media, the VC was forced to cancel the event. The pressure was such that the invitation letter and the cancellation notice had to be taken down from the varsity’s website later in the evening,” said a varsity official. Reacting to the cancellation of the lecture, Ghosh said: “Organising such an event is unethical. But the effort will also malign the institution headed by our Prime Minister. It is good that the VC finally understood it and cancelled the event.” Sources said this was not the first time Chakrabarty was trying to push the saffron agenda. The VC had come under attack in the past for organising a pro-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) event on the campus. A varsity professor said like in the past, the May 18 event was part of his effort to prove his inclination towards the BJP. The varsity’s officiating public relations officer, Anirban Sircar, did not take calls from this correspondent. Nor did he reply to text message. Chandranath Sinha, the minister and Bolpur MLA, said: “The lecture plan again proved that the VC is a BJP man.” Controversy has become part of Chakrabarty’s tenure and a varsity teacher said the VC had become an issue in the recent Assembly polls with the Trinamul Congress campaigning against his unpopular decisions like stopping traditional events like Basanta Utsav and Pous Mela. A section of BJP leaders said one of the reasons behind the defeat of BJP candidate Anirban Ganguly was Chakrabarty’s lack of popularity among local residents. Ganguly had also protested against Chakrabarty’s activities and claimed that he had lodged a complaint against him in Delhi for his anti-people policies. The image of the VC was further dented when chief minister Mamata Banerjee referred to him as the BJP’s man during the poll campaign. At a meeting in Bolpur last December, Mamata said: “I don’t have any individual grudge or grievances against the VC. Didn’t they find anyone else for the post of the VC? They had to get someone who has a stamp of the BJP. What do BJP leaders do inside the chamber of the VC every day? What do they do inside Visva-Bharati?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Youth injured in BSF pellet firing||A 27-year-old youth residing at a village near the Bangladesh border in South Dinajpur district suffered serious injuries when a Border Security Force team fired pellets to apparently disperse a mob that was protesting alleged harassment by the security personnel on Wednesday. Ashraful Molla, a resident of Nicha-Gobindapur village, has suffered multiple pellet injuries and is under treatment at the district hospital in Balurghat. He is reported to be in a critical condition. “In the morning, some BSF personnel challenged Ashraful while he was on his way home and an altercation ensued. After some time, Ashraful left for his home,” said a villager. Later, when a BSF team visited the village for routine patrolling, some residents resorted to protest alleging harassment of the youth. Ashraful was also with them. “Suddenly, the BSF personnel fired from a pellet gun. The pellets hit Ashraful and he fell on the spot. We fled the place,” said Farooque, Ashraful’s brother. “A probe is on. We will speak to the BSF soon,” said Rahul Dey, South Dinajpur police chief. Sources said the BSF team had fired pellets to disperse the villagers. The incident has again raised questions over the alleged highhandedness of the BSF in the border areas, an issue that has been time and again flagged by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “We have repeatedly mentioned how the BSF tortures residents living near the borders on the pretext of security. Earlier, there had been incidents when people were gunned down. The state government should take up the issue with the Union home ministry to avert such unprovoked attacks on common people,” said a Trinamul leader in Balurghat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata urges PM Modi to import Covid vaccines from international manufacturers urgently||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to consider import of Covid-19 vaccines from international manufacturers on an urgent basis as the production and supply of vaccines in the country was inadequate to cover 140 crore people. “You are kindly aware that as per experts, vaccination is now the real antidote to the prevailing Covid pandemic. It seems, however, that the production (and hence, the supply and distribution) of vaccines in the country is extremely inadequate, and insignificant in the context of the massive needs of the people at large,” the Bengal chief minister wrote. She said about 10 crore people in Bengal and 140 crore people in the country needed to be administered with vaccines to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “Reports indicate that globally there are many manufacturers now. With the aid of scientists and exports, it is possible to identify the reputed and authentic manufacturers who have international reputation and credibility, and it is possible for us in the country to speedily import vaccines from those ends across the different parts of the world. I urge you to embark upon this endeavour without any further delay,” read the letter. Mamata’s letter came at a time some states expressed desire to float global tenders to procure shots as supplies from two Indian manufacturers had been lagging behind the demand for jabs for the age group of 18 to 44 years. “But the proposal from the Bengal chief minister is more logical as importing vaccines centrally would be a better idea,” said a senior Bengal government official. Sources said the Centre had the back-up of the ICMR, which could guide which shots were right for the country. They have said the chief minister knows administering vaccines to the people in Bengal would not solve the problem until the entire nation gets vaccinated. “For example, the vaccine of Pfizer needs to be stored at -25 to -15 degrees Celsius, which is not possible in India because of scarcity of such cooling centres. In Bengal, there are 900 cooling centres to store vaccines but only four of them have the facility to store the vaccine in temperature below -15 degrees Celsius. That is why the ICMR can guide which vaccine could be useful in Indian conditions,” said a senior official. Sources in the health department said that Mamata’s concern was genuine as the state could give vaccines about 1.3 crore people till now. “Of them, only about 35 lakh people could be given the second dose. More importantly, the state could not start inoculation for the age group of 18 to 44 years for lack of vaccines. This is why the letter of the chief minister is important,” said an official. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said the letter by the chief minister would put pressure on the Centre. “It is the faulty policy of the Centre that has led to the vaccine crunch. Now, we cannot allow the Centre to run away from its responsibility. If we float global tenders, the Centre could wash its hands of the vaccination programme. But we won’t allow them to run away,” said a Bengal minister. Mamata has also proposed that the international vaccine manufacturers be encouraged to start production in the country through franchises. “Even the national players could be inspired to go for the franchisee mode for bulk production of vaccines. We, in West Bengal, are ready to provide land and support for any manufacturing/franchisee operation for authentic vaccine manufacturing,” the chief minister wrote. The sources in the health department said they needed a steady supply of vaccines in the next few days to ensure a second dose of vaccines to lakhs of people who had been given the first dose. “We are in regular touch with the Centre to ensure that people who have received the first dose can be given the second one on time,” said an official. On Wednesday 4.8 lakh doses of vaccines reached the state, but officials said more supplies were required this week to continue with the second dose of vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s decision to use a BSF chopper for Sitalkuchi visit raises brows||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s decision to use a BSF chopper to visit Sitalkuchi on Thursday “… to connect with sufferers” has raised questions in the state’s power corridors on whether he should spend taxpayers’ money to assess law and order in a Cooch Behar pocket when normality has been restored. Four youths lost their lives in a CISF firing outside a polling booth in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment on April 10, triggering uproar across the state. The BSF in Bengal has two advanced light helicopters, currently stationed in Agartala (Tripura) and Guwahati (Assam). Based on orders the BSF’s eastern command gets from its headquarters, one will be brought to Calcutta to fly Dhankhar to Sitalkuchi, sources said. “Whether a chopper can fly a VIP or not for an emergency or any other situation is decided solely by the Union home ministry (under Amit Shah),” said a senior BSF staff officer from Delhi. After tweeting on Tuesday about his plans to visit Sitalkuchi, which received criticism from Trinamul and praise from the BJP, Dhankhar’s Twitter handle on Wednesday posted more details. “West Bengal Governor will reach Coochbehar by BSF Helicopter at 11 am on May 13 to visit post poll violence affected areas @MamataOfficial. Governor will visit places at •Mathabhanga •Sitalkuchi •Sitai and •Dinhata. Governor will meet people & media at CB Circuit House,” read a tweet, adding Friday would be spent on visits to (BJP-ruled) Assam’s Ranpagli and Srirampur. Assam’s new chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma recently claimed hundreds of Bengal BJP workers and their families had to seek refuge in Assam amid post-poll violence. His Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee dismissed this narrative as a BJP-backed conspiracy. Dhankhar’s handle mentioned “post poll retributive violence”, tagging Mamata. This prompted a stern missive from the chief minister on Wednesday evening, with a rebuttal from Dhankhar later. The developments around Dhankhar’s Sitalkuchi visit, sources said, made it clear that it was planned in Delhi to discredit the Mamata government. That’s why unlike in the past, Dhankhar didn’t ask for a chopper from the state government but got it from the BSF under the home ministry. Many senior officials in the state’s home department pointed out the alacrity with which the home ministry accorded permission to the BSF to fly Dhankhar to Sitalkuchi stood in contrast to the apparent lethargy of six CISF personnel to turn up for questioning over the Sitalkuchi firing. In booth 126/5 of Jorpatki village in Sitalkuchi, the CISF, under the Election Commission, gunned down four villagers on April 10. Several BJP leaders had harped on the religious identity of victims and promised “more Sitalkuchis”. Mamata called it “genocide”, and it became a key inflection point in the Bengal polls. The newly re-elected Trinamul government formed a special investigation team  under the CID to probe the incident, which sent notices to six CISF personnel to come for questioning on Tuesday. None did. A senior IPS officer of the CID said: “We want to know from these CISF personnel what happened outside the booth that they had to open fire and why victims were shot on the upper part of their bodies.” In the evening, Mamata told Dhankhar in her letter that his travel plans violate long-standing protocols followed by his predecessors, and of alleged direct communication with state government officials and dictating them, despite her previous requests to him against doing so. Dhankhar responded with a letter, which he posted on Twitter, in which he argued that he was following constitutional provisions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government requests Centre to extend service of chief secretary by three months||The Mamata Banerjee government has requested the Centre to extend the tenure of chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who is set to retire on May 31, by three months, citing the need of continuity at the helm of the state administration to fight the second wave of Covid-19. “The chief minister has already requested the Centre to extend the tenure of the chief secretary by three months. The decision was taken as the chief secretary has been handling the Covid-related affairs for the past eight months or so. The chief minister wants continuity in the battle against the deadly virus,” said a senior government official. According to norms, the DoPT (department of personnel and training that reports to Prime Minister Narendra Modi) takes a call on the extension of service of IAS officers after receiving requests from state governments. After the Trinamul Congress had come to power in 2011 in Bengal, tenure of the then chief secretary, Samar Ghosh, was extended by six months “As there was a change in power after 34 years in the state, the Centre had approved the extension of then chief secretary’s tenure for six months — two extensions of three months each. It was approved to help the new government,” said a source. Although chief minister Mamata Banerjee had held a series of meetings with senior government officials during the elections and passed on several instructions to deal with the second wave of the pandemic efficiently, it was the chief secretary who had implemented the plan. He also put in place a detailed administrative set-up to tackle the situation. Sources in Delhi said there was a provision of extending IAS officers’ career by six months — in two stints of three months each — in the service rule of the All India Cadre officers. “But the Centre considers applications under the provision on a case to case basis. Extension is given in extremely urgent cases,” said an officer in Delhi. But of late, such applications are treated on political grounds, sources said. “In case of Bengal, the application for the chief secretary’s service extension might be a political decision rather than an administrative one,” said another officer in Delhi. The sources said the Union government had approved in June 2020 the extension of tenure of the then Tamil Nadu chief secretary, K. Sanmugam. But it had rejected a similar request for Rajeeva Swarup, the then chief secretary of Rajasthan, in October last year. “So it would be interesting to see how the Centre reacts after the BJP failed to capture power in Bengal,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal’s holistic Covid war||The spike in Covid-19 cases across north Bengal districts has made the state health department and respective district administration draw up new plans to combat the ongoing second wave of the pandemic and simultaneously try and augment healthcare facilities for patients. In Jalpaiguri, the administration increased the bed capacity across various hospitals and safe homes spread across the district and is now working to augment oxygen supply. “Altogether, we are adding around 1,000 extra beds in these hospitals and safe homes. This will increase the bed capacity to 1,450 in the district and more patients can get treatment. Beds include general and those with CCU and HDU facilities,” said an official of the district administration. On Wednesday, Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate, held a meeting with health officials and representatives of three civic bodies in the district. “Oxygen plants will come up in a number of hospitals soon. Meanwhile, we have decided to use cylinders to give oxygen to patients in some of these locations. Accordingly, the administration and the police have arranged around 100 cylinders from industrial units, more would be arranged in due course,” she said. The district administration has also taken up the task to start vaccination of transport workers and hawkers. “According to the chief minister’s announcement, we will start the vaccination of these people. Instructions have been passed to prepare a database (of transport workers and hawkers). The civic bodies will help in this regard,” the DM added. In neighbouring Alipurduar district, the block administration of Kalchini has taken a first of its kind initiative in tea gardens. Prashanta Burman, the BDO of Kalchini, said from Wednesday, they started conducting swab tests of residents in tea gardens. “In my block, there are 21 tea gardens. As thousands live in these gardens and migrant workers have started returning home, we felt this assessment (of Covid spread) is necessary so that appropriate arrangements can be made in due course,” said Burman. In Malda, 274 fresh cases and four deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours. As of now, there are around 2,600 active cases in the district. The surge in Covid cases has made the administration in Malda close down prominent “haats” (weekly rural markets) across the district for next two weeks. “Later, we will review the situation,” said Rajarshi Mitra, DM, Malda. The pandemic situation has also prompted the Id celebration committee at Kaliachak in Malda to cancel the mega gathering at the Idgah ground in Noi Mouza of Sujapur. It is considered the second largest gathering in the state on the occasion of Id, after Red Road in Calcutta. “Nearly one lakh people offer prayers on the day of Id-ul-Fitr here. But this time, we have cancelled it and have been making public announcements to make people aware. We are urging people to offer prayer at local mosques or at homes with minimum gathering to avoid infection,” said Hamidur Rahaman, secretary, Noi Mouza Idgah Prayer Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
