14-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to PM on setting up more oxygen plants in Bengal ||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has sought clarity from Narendra Modi on the installation of oxygen generation plants in Bengal and other states, an initiative that could mitigate the crisis of oxygen that has thrown up a serious challenge in the fight against the raging Covid-19 pandemic. “…PSA plants are meant to enable the hospitals to make oxygen out of the air in the environment, and PSA plant is a great apparatus for a hospital needing to serve patients in dire need of oxygen,” the chief minister wrote in a letter to the Prime Minister on Friday, highlighting the urgent need to set up such plants that use pressure swing adsorption technology. Mamata reminded Modi that although the Centre has been contemplating the project, there has been little progress on it even after a year into the pandemic. “Priorities are being fixed and re-fixed, implementing agencies are being settled and unsettled, quota for West Bengal is being downwardly revised and further downwardly revised every day,” she wrote. PSA plants enable absorption of nitrogen from ambient air by using specific absorbents like zeolites, activated carbon, molecular sieves and others to concentrate oxygen, which thus generated can be supplied via a dedicated pipeline or compressed to fill cylinders. Mamata said there was no clarity on the project on how and when it would be implemented. “We were told we shall get 70 PSA plants. Now we are told that we shall get four in the first phase, with no clarity on the remaining PSA plants,” she wrote. “I request you to kindly get the priorities, implementing agencies and the quota fixed justly, fairly and quickly. Our own supplementary PSA installation plants by our state agencies and on the strength of our own funds are getting disturbed because of the indecisiveness at Delhi,” she added. The Bengal chief minister had earlier complained to Modi about increasing allocation of oxygen to other states from Bengal's share. In early May, production of medical oxygen in the state was around 560 MT, while consumption was recorded at 470 MT, which is likely to touch 550 MT as the number of Covid positive cases go up. Till Thursday evening, Bengal had 20, 839 new Covid patients. Mamata had said that even after the state chief secretary raised the issue with the Union health secretary, the Centre continued to ignore Bengal’s demands. “Government of India has increased allocation to other states, from the total production in Bengal during the last 10 days, from 230MT to 306MT… keeping the allocation for West Bengal constant at 308 MT,” the chief minister wrote a week ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal farmers get funds from PM's scheme after two-year wait||Seven lakh Bengal farmers received the first instalment of funds from the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi on Friday, ending a deadlock for over two years with both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP claiming victory over the release of the funds to farmers. “Due to demand and actions of CM and government of West Bengal, seven lakh farmers of West Bengal got their due entitlement, the first instalment of Kisan Samman Nidhi today by direct transfer as per data submitted by state. State will fight for its farmers,” read a tweet by the Bengal home department on Friday. Under the PM-Kisan scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to beneficiaries, payable in three four-monthly instalment of Rs 2,000 each, which is transferred directly to their bank accounts. Till the 2021 Assembly elections, Bengal had not joined the scheme which had become a talking point of the BJP’s poll campaign. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had accused the Mamata Banerjee government of not allowing central schemes to be implemented in the state at many of his election rallies. “She did not want the people to benefit from any of the central schemes for the fear of losing votes. Now that she is the chief minister again with a whopping majority, she sees no threat from the central funds,” said a BJP leader. On Thursday, a letter from the chief minister’s office addressed to farmers stated that the Centre was not releasing funds under the Kisan Samman Nidhi and whatever little was being disbursed was after her “relentless fight.” Two days after the Assembly poll results were declared, the Mamata Banerjee government gave the nod to implement the scheme here. According to the Union agriculture ministry had the Bengal government agreed to join the scheme, 69lakh farmers in the state would have received Rs 9,600crore by December 25, 2020 when funds from the previous instalment of the scheme—the seventh one—was released. On Friday, Rs 20,000 crore was released as the eighth instalment of the scheme to 9.6 crore farmers across the country. Modi also interacted with farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir and Andaman and Nicobar islands. “We have eased availability of loans to farmers. Kisan credit cards are being issued for the last 18 months. The Centre will distribute another two crore Kisan credit cards this year,” Modi said in the virtual meet. Modi said the Union government was also planning to revise the minimum support price for agri-produce. During the meet, Modi told a farmer from Meghalaya, a Farmer Produce Organisation was being set up for small farmers across the country. “The confidence with which you do things makes the model a sought-after one,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar visits Assam, meets BJP supporters claiming to be victims of poll violence||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday visited a camp in Assam's Ranpagli, where several families claiming to be BJP supporters have taken shelter after they had allegedly faced atrocities at the hands of ruling Trinamool Congress workers following the assembly elections. Accompanied by Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP from Cooch Behar in north Bengal, Dhankhar went to the camp in Assam's Dhubri district and interacted with the people, including women and children, who have taken refuge there. People at the shelter claimed to have fled their homes in Bengal after the poll results were out on May 2. They also alleged that their houses were "ransacked by Trinamool Congress goons". The Bengal governor travelled to the camp at Ranpagli by road from Cooch Behar as his helicopter could not take off owing to bad weather conditions. Dhankhar had on Thursday visited various places in Cooch Behar and met people who were allegedly affected by the post-poll violence. He was shown black flags at Sitalkuchi, where four villagers died after firing by central forces during the elections, while "go back" slogans were raised at Dinhata during his visit to the district. The run-up to his visit was marked by a war of words between the governor and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The chief minister on Wednesday wrote to him claiming that his visit to the post-poll violence-affected Cooch Behar district violates norms, while Dhankhar hit back saying he was discharging duties mandated by the Constitution. He wrote back saying that he has been following the Constitution since taking oath as the governor and his visit to Cooch Behar was to share the pain and agony of the people suffering from the post-poll violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||RSS mouthpiece lists 3 reasons BJP’s Bengal debacle||RSS mouthpiece Organiser has pointed out three reasons that led to the BJP’s Bengal debacle in the Assembly elections — the induction of Trinamul turncoats, the Centre’s mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis and the network of beneficiaries that the Mamata Banerjee government created through welfare schemes. “The beneficiaries created by TMC through different schemes, some of BJP’s wrong steps like welcoming TMC leaders without judging their strength and impact of Covid-19 on last two phases (of the elections) resulted in such decimated performance,” says the article titled “Bad Experiments in Bengal”. “Only 2% reduced vote share of BJP and 5% votes of Congress + Left shifting to TMC made all these situations,” the article by Naveen Kumar, who has been described as a founder of Pro Survey, Skill and Data Analysis Communications Pvt. Ltd, states. To point out the severity of the BJP’s drubbing, Kumar in his article said that of the 121 Assembly segments where the BJP led in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, it won in only 65 seats in the 2021 Assembly polls. Without naming the Narendra Modi government, the article says monumental mismanagement of the second wave of Covid-19 might have gone against the BJP in the last two phases of polls. A table with the article shows that of 69 seats that polled in the seventh and eighth phases, the BJP won only 13. “The mouthpiece of our ideological parent is criticising our poll strategies. What can be more shameful?” a state BJP office-bearer said. “Only if our leaders had listened to us before opening the floodgates for Trinamul turncoats.” The article is replete with graphs and tables to show how the BJP faltered. Adding insult to injury, it also carries a picture of new BJP convert Mithun Chakraborty with the caption — “the face of the TMC in Rajya Sabha”. The other striking image with the article is that of Union home minister inducting Suvendu Adhikari into the BJP at the December 2020 rally in West Midnapore. Suvendu is Mamata’s former protégé. Induction of leaders such as Suvendu was the BJP’s bid to create a perception that Trinamul was on the verge of collapse, a ploy that did not work, said a party leader reacting to the Organiser article. Most turncoats lost. Though Suvendu managed to humble Mamata in Nandigram, the BJP lost nine of 16 seats in East Midnapore, touted as his bastion. “We have realised Suvenduda’s image can’t be a counter to Mamata Banerjee’s. She might have lost the key seat to him, but Trinamul won many other seats banking on her charisma,” a BJP leader said. Criticism had come from across the country and abroad against Modi and home minister Amit Shah for crowded rallies in Bengal during the second wave of the pandemic. Failure of the vaccination drive and Covid deaths for lack of oxygen in many parts of the country added to the underwhelming tally, party sources agreed. “Anyone can always analyse the results. We as a party are yet to analyse them. However, there are other issues apart from the ones mentioned in the article,” Sayantan Basu, a state BJP general secretary said. Though he didn’t elaborate on the “other reasons”, sources cited anti-incumbency against some BJP MPs. For instance, Hooghly’s sitting MP Locket Chatterjee lost from Chinsurah Assembly segment, which falls under her own parliamentary constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Clash over mask in Nadia||Residents of Kuchaidanga village in Nadia district’s Hogolberia, who were allegedly lathicharged by police in a mask awareness drive, reportedly retaliated by thrashing the men in uniform and hurling stones at their vehicles. Angered at the “random police lathicharge” that severely injured a man and a woman, they lashed out at the cops. Five cops suffered mild injuries and at least three police vehicles were vandalised. The policemen, who were taken to Karimpur rural hospital, were released after primary treatment. However, Kuchaidanga residents Newton Akhtar Khan, 27, and Masuda Biwi, 32, were seriously injured in the police lathicharge on villagers that provoked the attack on the police, residents alleged. Khan and Biwi had to be rushed to the Berhampur Medical College and Hospital. Around 11.30am, a team of Hogolberia police started an awareness drive in the village to ensure people wore masks amid the pandemic. Central forces accompanied the police. Sources said villagers were angered when police began a “random lathicharge”. Not all victims of police caning were without masks, they said. “People panicked when a police vehicle began chasing them. They (the police) were thrashing people with sticks mercilessly when a man wearing a mask was injured. The police did not spare women also,” said a villager. “The police beat up a youth resting at home while on Ramazan fast. Homemaker Masuda Biwi faced police brutality in the name of mask awareness drive and is hospitalised,” another villager alleged. Police refuted the allegations. “Some people roaming without masks got into an argument with the police and refused to obey safety measures. The heated argument led to some villagers attacking cops. It was an unprovoked attack as the police were trying to enforce Covid safety protocols,” a senior police officer of Krishnagar police district said. Police have started a case on the alleged attack on cops and government vehicles. Till evening no one was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP to lose control of Malda rural bodies||The Trinamul Congress is set to take back the control of the Malda zilla parishad and gain majority at two panchayat samitis in the district. All the three rural bodies are controlled by the BJP now. Mamata Banerjee’s return to power in Bengal for the third successive term has enabled Trinamul to retake the zilla parishad where the party lost majority to the BJP earlier this year following the defection of the sabhadhipati, Gour Chandra Mandal, and some other members to the BJP. Some of the defectors returned to Trinamul following the BJP’s rout. “We will table a no-confidence motion against Mandal. The motion is signed by 23 elected members,” said Hemanta Sharma, a coordinator of Malda district Trinamul. Sharma said the BJP, which had been running the panchayat samitis of Habibpur and Bamangola since 2018, would also lose control of the two rural bodies. “Four BJP members of Bamangola panchayat samiti have joined Trinamul and now, we have the support of 12 of the 18 members,” Sharma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Dalit panel scan on Bengal post-poll violence ||A team of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes on Thursday reached Bengal on a two-day tour to visit areas hit by post-poll violence amid stiff resistance from the Bengal government. The two-member team led by its chairperson Vijay Sampla visited Jamalpur and areas close to Burdwan town in East Burdwan district on Thursday and met family members of some Dalit BJP workers who were allegedly victims of the violence. The duo are scheduled to visit some “trouble-torn” areas of North 24-Parganas on Friday, sources said. Although the team has sought a meeting with the chief secretary and the director general of police, it was still not clear whether the meeting would be held on Friday. “The state government has already opposed the visit by sending at least two letters saying there had been no post-poll violence since May 8 and also citing prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. Despite the opposition, the team is visiting some areas. Now, it is still not clear whether top officials would meet the team,” a source said. The sources said when the commission had sent a letter to the government about its decision to visit Bengal, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay wrote two letters on May 11, requesting the body to cancel the tour given the grim Covid situation in the state. “The NCSC team was informed that Calcutta High Court also suggested that if there was any complaint of atrocities, the same should be forwarded to the DGP for proper action. The NCSC was requested to forward the complaints, if any, to the DGP, instead of visiting the areas in two districts,” said a government official. But the commission made it clear that it would continue its visit as it had “constitutional obligations”. “The NCSC told the state that the commission was receiving complaints about atrocities on Dalits even if the state claimed there was no violence after May 8. And the team’s visit is to meet the responsibilities given through the Constitution,” said a source. According to a source in the NCSC, it is the mandate of the commission to conduct spot visits if there are cases of violence against Dalits anywhere in the country and set up an inquiry, seek reports and even summon state government officials. “I don’t know what would happen if the state does not cooperate with the commission or stops the team from visiting three spots the commission has identified as it has never faced a situation like this,” said a source. The sources also said the team would soon submit a report after completing its visit. A section of the officials said the Centre was sending a number of teams to the state citing atrocities on a cross-section of people after the polls. “The Union home ministry had first sent a team and then representatives of the National Women’s Commission arrived. We heard a team of National Child Rights Commission would visit the state soon,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal governor greeted with black flags ||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar faced protests in multiple locations of Cooch Behar district on Thursday when he visited some areas that saw post-poll clashes. His convoy faced black flags, “go back” slogans and questions on why he was silent on the Sitalkuchi deaths. Dhankhar did not meet the families of four youths of Sitalkuchi who had fallen to CISF bullets on April 10 during polls. Neither did he meet the kin of Ananda Barman, a youth shot on the same day in a clash in another poll booth. “The governor has always crossed his brief....His visit to Cooch Behar is nothing but a BJP-conceived plan (to further a lopsided version of post-poll violence),” said senior Trinamul leader Sougata Roy. At Mathabhanga and Sitalkuchi, Dhankhar visited homes of BJP supporters, who alleged Trinamul-backed goons had ransacked their properties. Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar Trinamul chief, said: “We don’t have problem with the governor visiting homes of BJP supporters, but he should have met injured Trinamul supporters and families who lost their dear ones in Sitalkuchi. He acted in a biased manner and violated the Constitution.” Dhankhar told journalists: “I represent a constitutional post and no one can force me to act against constitutional provisions. (But) during and after the elections, inciting remarks were made to trigger violence.” As his convoy headed for Sitalkuchi and Mathabhanga from Cooch Behar, a group of people near Golokganj area on the way wielded black flags and shouted “go back”. On the way to Sitalkuchi, another group under Jorpatki Nagarik Mancha demonstrated when the governor moved through the outskirts of Jorpatki, the village where the CISF opened fire on April 10. At Dinhata, he had to face similar protests. Dhankhar was accompanied by BJP MP Nisith Pramanik and many new BJP MLAs. “He appears so concerned over the situation in Cooch Behar but could not find time to meet us,” said Rahila Khatun, wife of Maniruzzaman Mian, one of the four who died in the CISF firing. He is staying in Cooch Behar on Thursday night and will visit camps on Friday in Assam, where around 600 Cooch Behar residents have allegedly taken refuge from post-poll violence. On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee in her letter to Dhankhar said he was bypassing the state government by planning visits on his own. Some bureaucrats had also questioned why Dhankhar was using a BSF chopper to visit a district that had calmed down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Extortion blot on last rites  in Durgapur||Relatives and friends who came to cremate the bodies of Covid-19 patients at the lone electric crematorium in the industrial city have complained that handlers charged “arbitrary fees” and harassed them, forcing the administration to try and take steps to stop the alleged extortion racket. “We have received some complaints of extortion and harassment by doms at the crematorium. We have set up a committee that will look into these grievances,” said Arghya Prashun Kazi, the subdivisional officer (SDO) of Durgapur in West Burdwan district. SDO Kazi has iterated the cremation service was free of cost for the bodies of Covid-19 victims. However, in their complaints, the bereaved have said that crematorium handlers or doms were forcing them to cough up anything between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 for each body for the last rites. Complainants said though the government offers the service free of cost for victims of the pandemic, they had to shell out money. One of the complainants, Ranjan Mitra, said his brother Adeep Mitra, 45, died of Covid-related complications on Tuesday night at a private hospital. When he took the body to the crematorium at Birbhanpur, handlers asked him for Rs 15,000 for carrying the body to the electric furnace. “When I refused, they said they won’t carry the body to the furnace. I pleaded but they were adamant,” said an inconsolable Ranjan, a private firm employee. Ranjan said he then approached a police patrol team nearby for help. “The police officer on duty intervened and settled the matter after persuasion. But once he left, the handlers were back with their cash demands. They finally agreed to lift the body after we paid them Rs 4,000,” he said. Adeep’s body was cremated after a three-hour tussle around 3am on early Wednesday, Ranjan said. He later lodged a complaint with the subdivisional officer of Durgapur where he reported his ordeal at the crematorium. Another resident, Chandan Bhowmik, said he had to pay Rs 10,000 to handlers at the crematorium for carrying his father’s body to the electric furnace last week. “I was mentally upset after losing my father and at that vulnerable time, the doms forced me to pay Rs 10,000 for a service that I was supposed to get for free,” said Bhowmik. Private company employee Ganesh Chakraborty had to pay Rs 1,500 to the handlers who carried his father’s body. His father was not Covid positive but died of a heart attack, he said. “We were unable to carry the body. But the doms demanded Rs 4,000. They did the job only after I paid them Rs 1,500,” said Chakraborty. Durgapur civic authorities, who run the crematorium, said because of the rush of Covid bodies they had assigned the job to a private agency. “On an average we handle around 15 to 20 bodies daily but because of the pandemic the number of bodies has doubled. We have assigned an agency only to handle the bodies of Covid-19 victims,” said a civic body functionary. The crematorium at Birbhanpur has only two electric furnaces. The time for cremating Covid-19 bodies is between 5pm and 7am. The Durgapur administration met some of the complainants, civic authorities and the police on this issue and set up a committee, including policemen and civic authorities, to be present throughout the time of cremation, the SDO said. “The committee will smooth out any kind of problem people may face,” he said. The SDO said he received complaints of extortion by ambulance operators for carrying patients, including those with Covid. Some ambulance operators have been asking for sums between Rs 6,000 and Rs 12,000 from patients for rides of less than 10km. “We are also conducting vigilance in front of hospitals and ambulance stands to check this menace,” the SDO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Scurry to increase hospital beds in Bengal||The biggest challenge facing the Mamata Banerjee government during the second wave of Covid-19 is the steady spike in infection across rural Bengal where medical facilities are inadequate to treat critical patients. Senior government officials said unlike the first wave in 2020 when infections had been concentrated mainly in urban and semi-urban areas in Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly, Covid cases reached remote rural belts of Purulia, Murshidabad, Birbhum and East Burdwan in the second wave. “The main challenge is the exponential surge in Covid cases in rural areas. The struggle is tougher as the healthcare system in rural areas is inadequate to treat thousands of critical patients,” said a senior official in the health department. The data provided by the health department show the degree of difficulty in the battle against the pandemic this year. For example, on May 11, 2020, the Malda district had only 13 active cases but on the same date this year, the number of active cases there was 3,033, a rise of over 23,330 per cent. Like Malda, the picture is almost same in districts like Murshidabad, Birbhum and East Burdwan (see chart). Against this backdrop, the state government has already taken steps to open special Covid wards at every subdivisional and district hospital and set up safe homes in different south districts, besides expanding the infrastructure for oxygen and medicine supply. In Burdwan, several government buildings have been taken over by the administration to open safe homes and Covid care units. In Birbhum, a 200-bed Covid hospital has been opened in Suri, in addition to the existing facility that has 100 beds. “The government has opened 488 Covid hospitals with around 33,000 beds across the state, but the arrangement is not sufficient at a time around 20,000 cases are reported daily,” said an official in Nabanna. Officials in several districts echoed the Nabanna source and said lack of adherence to the restrictions — like shortened market hours, maintenance of Covid protocol — was compounding the problems. “It is not Calcutta where we can control the partial lockdown. We can’t monitor thousands of villages in the district as we don’t have the infrastructure. We are getting information that a large number of people at villages is even hiding their symptoms primarily to avoid hazards of testing,” said an official in Birbhum. Health officials in districts like East Burdwan and Hooghly said they were facing a challenge in testing as many medical technicians were down with the disease. Apart from the technicians, nurses, doctors and other persons involved in Covid treatment are also infected in the second wave. “We have 150 nurses in Bolpur and around 20 of them became Covid positive in the past two weeks. If the trend continues, it would be hard for us to provide treatment,” said a senior official at the Bolpur subdivisional hospital. Officials said as the active cases had increased, the number of deaths also went up in the rural areas. The districts are now in search of new crematorium or burial grounds in rural areas to ensure last rites of people dying of Covid. Several senior officials and doctors blamed the infection in rural areas on the eight-phase Assembly elections during which the desperation of the political parties to organise large rallies threw the Covid protocols out of the window. “The eight phases of election played a major role in spreading the virus mainly in rural Bengal. The data coming from several Bengal districts prove how the election rallies and processions had affected the areas. It is a real challenge,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, the convenor of the global advisory committee and a member of the expert committee on Covid-19 in Bengal. According to the statistics provided by the health department, Bengal had only 216 active cases on February 26, the day when the Election Commission announced the eight-leg polls. On May 11, the number of active cases was 1, 27, 673 across the state. “The Centre and the Election Commission are responsible for this situation... Besides, the Centre has not planned a proper roadmap for vaccination. People of Bengal should realise how the BJP-led Centre has landed us into trouble like this,” said Trinamul leader Anubrata Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
