15-05-2021||West Bengal||Madhyamik, HS postponed for indefinite period amid second wave||The Bengal government on Saturday postponed the state board examinations for Class 10 and 12, which were scheduled in June, for an indefinite period, amid a raging second wave of COVID-19, an official said. The decision was taken soon after the government announced a complete lockdown from Sunday till May 30 to contain the spread of the disease in the state, he said. Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said a revised schedule for the state board examinations will be announced later. "No secondary and higher secondary examinations will be held in June," he told reporters at the state secretariat, 'Nabanna'. Making arrangements for holding the Madhyamik examinations for Class 10 students and the Higher Secondary tests for Class 12 will be difficult during the lockdown period, he said. The Madhyamik exams 2021 were set to begin on June 1 and Higher Secondary tests on June 15. The education department will hold meetings with the authorities of the state boards to decide on a revised schedule for both the exams, Bandyopadhyay added. Earlier in the day, the government announced that Bengal will go under complete lockdown from Sunday till May 30, with only essential services allowed to remain open, amid a surge in Covid cases across the state. Schools, colleges and e ucational institutions will remain closed, the government notified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal jab centres start implementing 12-16 week interval between two Covishield doses ||With the Covid Vaccination Centres (CVC) in West Bengal implementing the minimum gap of 12 weeks or 84 days between the first and second dose of Covishield vaccine from Saturday a large number of people who had come to the CVCs had to return home. Earlier the interval between the two doses of the Covishield vaccine was six to eight weeks. A large number of people including senior citizens had come to Covid vaccination centres for their second dose of Covishield vaccine from far off places as they were not aware that the government has started implementing the 12 week to 16 week interval between first dose and second doses of the Covishield vaccine. "We have come from Naihati. We were not aware the gap had been extended and we came to know about after arriving here that a second dose will be available after 84 days," said a middle-aged woman who came along with her husband. "We have to take huge trouble and spend a lot of money to come to the vaccination centre as local train services are suspended. We were earlier told to come after 42 days and now suddenly it had been changed and we were not informed. We dont know when we will get our second dose at all," the woman said. Many people had queued up in the vaccination centres in the city and in the districts from the morning for their second dose of the vaccine after 42 days but had to return as they had not completed the 84-day interval between the two doses. The West Bengal government in an order on Friday said the second dose of the Covishield vaccine would be administered to beneficiaries at 12-16 weeks interval after the first dose instead of the earlier interval of 6-8 weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to go under complete lockdown from May 16 to 30  ||Bengal will go under complete lockdown from Sunday till May 30, with only essential services allowed to remain open, amid a surge in Covid cases across the state. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s brother Aseem succumbed to Covid on Saturday, after a month’s battle with the disease. On Friday, the number of fresh cases in the state had crossed the 20,000 mark with the highest number of cases in neighbouring North 24-Parganas followed by Calcutta, prompting the government to go for stricter curbs, though Mamata was opposed to such stern measures considering the economic impact on the livelihood and lives of the people. Adding to the list of establishments, mostly private, that were closed earlier the shutdown now includes state government offices and private offices, with the exemption being granted to production and supply of medicines, medical oxygen and medical equipment.  Tea gardens can function with 50 per cent staff and jute mills with 30 per cent, though there is no restriction on e-commerce activities and home delivery services. Vehicular movement including private and government buses will be completely stopped along with Metro while taxis, app-based cabs and auto-rickshaws would be severely restricted. Private vehicles would be allowed only in case of medical emergency. Trucks, except for those carrying food items, would not be allowed to ply for the next two weeks. Markets and grocery shops which were earlier allowed to open twice a day for two hours will now be open only for three hours from 7am to 10am. Sweet shops will remain open from 10am to 5pm. Schools, colleges and educational institutions will remain closed. Shopping complexes, malls, spas, cinemas and other places of public gathering will remain shut. The government has also announced a curb on all outdoor movements between 9 pm to 5am. Last year during the lockdown, several people had stepped out during the night, which will not be allowed this time. Violation of any of the restrictions will be punishable under the disaster management laws. Bengal has joined several other states and UTs which have imposed lockdowns to curb the spread of Covid-19. Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Punjab, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha, Punjab, Haryana, Jharkhand and Sikkim are among some of the other states that have gone under a complete shutdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||‘Poacher’ held with arms in Alipurduar||A suspected member of poaching gang was arrested by a team of the state forest department on Thursday night after a cache of arms was seized from near his house at a village in Alipurduar district. The foresters first nabbed Parimal Barman from his house at Bonchukamari village and then seized two .315 rifles, three silencers and 20-odd rounds of live cartridges which were concealed in a bamboo plantation near his home. Deepak M, the divisional forest officer of Jaldapara wildlife division, said: “Parimal has been arrested following a tip-off a from three other suspected poachers who are behind the bars for killing a rhino in April and stealing its horn. The arms and ammunition seized from Parimal has left us suspecting that the group had plans to kill more animals. Searches are on to nab the remaining members of the gang as the arrested trio claimed during interrogation that they were a group of six persons.” On Friday, Parimal was produced at a local court here and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. The carcass of a female leopard was recovered from a well at Milan More located on the outskirts of Siliguri on Friday morning. Foresters from Sukna wildlife rushed to the spot and fished it out the body. The animal had strayed into the area and somehow fell into the well, forest sources said. “The post-mortem of the animal was conducted at Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary and it was found that the female leopard was pregnant,” said a forest official. Additional reporting by our Siliguri Correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: BJP worker killed, party blames TMC||A BJP worker was beaten to death allegedly by unknown goons in Birbhum’s Nalhati on Friday afternoon. The BJP has labelled the murder as a fallout of post-poll violence and accused Trinamul goons of killing Manoj Jaiswal, a construction material trader. Jaiswal, 38, had joined the saffron camp ahead of the Assembly polls. On Friday evening, his body was found near Nalhati’s Madhura village. “So far we have not found any political connection behind the murder. We have started a probe and suspect business or personal rivalry could have led to the murder,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, the Birbhum police chief. “We will arrest the culprits soon,” Tripathi added. Sources said Jaiswal, a native of Calcutta, had been staying in Birbhum’s Nalhati for the past 10 years for business. He had joined the BJP a month before the Assembly elections. “He was our active supporter and has been killed by Trinamul goons as he worked for us in the recent Assembly polls,” said Dhruba Saha, BJP’s Birbhum president. Ashok Ghosh, the Nalhati block president of Trinamul, rejected the allegation and said: “Let the police investigate the case and find the culprits. We are sure there is no political link to the murder.” The car of Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar was ransacked when he was on the way to a village near Bankura town on Friday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: Governor jibe on protocol||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Friday drew parallels between the governments of his state and Assam over adherence to protocol. Dhankhar on Friday visited a camp in the Dhubri district of the neighbouring state to meet people who had fled their homes in Cooch Behar following political violence. “In Assam, a number of senior administrative and police officials were present according to the protocol when I reached. But in Cooch Behar, officials of similar ranks were absent during my visit. There is a stark difference,” Dhankhar told newspersons later in Siliguri. He had gone to Cooch Behar on Thursday to meet the victims of the violence. Dhankhar comparing the Mamata Banerjee government of Bengal with the Himanta Biswa Sarma administration in Assam didn’t go down well with Trinamul leaders. “He is always biased and takes no time in raising fingers at the state government. The governor didn’t visit Trinamul supporters who suffered in the violence,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Complete lockdown in Sikkim||Sikkim has announced complete lockdown from May 17 till 24 in view of continuous spike in Covid-19 cases in the Himalayan state, which has been under partial lockdown since May 6. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting of the state government chaired by Sikkim chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay) in Gangtok on Monday. “All state government offices, shops, including ration shops, private commercial establishments, institutions, gymnasiums, markets and factories, other than those engaged in the production of medicines, medical equipment, oxygen and allied sector shall remain closed,” said a notification issued by the home department. Other than medicine shops, which were exempted from the lockdown, only shops selling milk will be allowed to operate from 7am to 11am, the notification added. Despite the partial lockdown, Covid cases continued to increase in the state. The number of active cases in the state on Friday was 3,002. The death rate also witnessed a sharp rise with 60 people succumbing to the disease in the past 20 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Trinamul minister mom quits Nandigram post||The chief of Trinamul-run Nandigram gram panchayat and mother of the party’s Keshpur MLA and minister of state, Seuli Saha, has resigned after a no-confidence motion was brought against her for allegedly being inactive during the Assembly poll campaign in a constituency where chief minister Mamata Banerjee lost to ex-protégé Suvendu Adhikari. One of Trinamul’s veteran faces in Nandigram, Banashree Khanra, said she had resigned from the post. Party leaders accused her of being “inactive” during the election. “She was not only inactive but also worked against the party in the polls. We brought a no-confidence against her for her role during the election,” said Swadesh Das, president of Trinamul’s Nandigram block 1 committee. “She may be the mother of any MLA or minister but before moving the no-confidence motion, we had conducted a probe and she was identified as those local leaders who were inactive during the Assembly polls,” Das added. Sources said after Mamata had lost to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari by 1,736 votes in Nandigram, Trinamul leaders were directed to conduct a survey to find out those who had “betrayed” the party. The leadership asked the local functionaries to take action against the saboteurs. The party had already brought a no-confidence motion against at least half a dozen leaders holding portfolios in several gram panchayats and panchayat samitis and most of them have resigned. Trinamul insiders said Khanra had put down her papers before the Nandigram block 1 development officer late on Wednesday after 11 out of 13 members of her panchayat had submitted a no-confidence motion against her earlier in the day. “I don’t know whether a no-confidence motion had been brought against me. I resigned from the post on Wednesday because of my health,” said Khanra. Seuli Saha, the minister of state in charge of panchayat and rural development, however, said her mother had campaigned for the party in Keshpur. “I will not comment on the Nandigram issue. But I can tell you that my mother was with me in Keshpur to campaign for me and Trinamul,” said Saha. Debabrata Maity, 49, a BJP worker who had been injured in a clash between BJP and Trinamul workers on May 2 in East Midnapore’s Nandigram died on Thursday morning at a Calcutta hospital. BJP workers protested at several places, including Nandigram police station, demanding the arrest of Trinamul workers they have accused of killing Maity. They said they would continue the movement till the accused were held. After the poll results were announced on May 2, Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari visited the constituency for the first time around 11pm on Thursday to pay respects to Maity. Before the body arrived, Suvendu held a meeting with around 100 party leaders and workers. However, he avoided visiting the houses of BJP workers because of the tension gripping the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||North Dinajpur BJP leader held over couple’s murder||A BJP leader from Itahar block in North Dinajpur was arrested on Friday for allegedly murdering a couple who were his neighbours after they had pressured him to return Rs 4 lakh he had purportedly collected in exchange for a job. The decomposed bodies of Gautam Sarkar, 35, and his wife Tapashi, 30, were seized from a house at Gazole in Malda district. Sources said BJP leader Krishna Kamal Adhikary had promised a job to his neighbour and homemaker Tapashi in the state health department. Adhikary hails from Bangar village in the Itahar block. Police said preliminary probe revealed that Adhikary had taken Rs 4 lakh from Tapashi’s husband Gautam for the job. “However, as Adhikary could not provide the job to Tapashi, the couple mounted pressure on him. They asked him to either give the job or return the money. On May 8, the BJP leader took the couple to Gazole after convincing them that he had made arrangements for the job. We suspect Adhikary hacked the couple to death at a rented house in Vidyasagarpally of Gazole. As the bodies are decomposed, we are waiting for post-mortem reports,” said a police officer in Raiganj. Bangar is around 35km from North Dinajpur district headquarters Raiganj. Gazole is 10km from Bangar. Adhikary returned home alone on May 9. As the couple didn’t come back, their relatives became suspicious. “Cellphones of Gautam and Tapashi were switched off. This made some local people and the couple’s relatives demonstrate in front of Adhikary’s house. On May 12, a complaint was also lodged at the Itahar police station,” said Mosharaf Hossain, the newly-elected Trinamul MLA of Itahar. Adhikary is a booth committee president of the BJP. The police started a probe and picked up Adhikary on Thursday. They then took him to the rented house in Gazole and seized the decomposed bodies of the couple who are survived by a nine-year-old son. Gautam’s parents also lived with the couple. The villagers said the family was comparatively prosperous and had farmland. Gautam was also into stock trading. “We have arrested the principal accused and suspect some others are involved in the crime,” said Sumit Kumar, the North Dinajpur police chief. Adhikary was produced in the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Raiganj on Friday and remanded in police custody for seven days. Basudeb Sarkar, the North Dinajpur district BJP president, said: “Adhikary is not associated with our party. Some people are trying to blemish us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Farmers of Bengal get central dole||Farmers of Bengal get central dole Calcutta: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released the first installment of Rs 2,000 each to seven lakh-odd farmers of Bengal under the PM-Kisan scheme but it was still not clear if they would receive the doles of the past two years. A farmer is granted Rs 6,000 annually under the scheme and the cash is disbursed in three tranches of Rs 2,000. The doles had eluded the Bengal farmers for two years as the Mamata Banerjee government had refused to join the PM-Kisan scheme. But the state government decided to join the scheme in November last year after 22 lakh farmers had applied for the benefit. At his election rallies recently, Modi had said the two years’ compounded largesse of Rs 12,000 would be released to each Bengal farmer. “More than 7 lakh farmers, whose applications for the scheme had been verified by the state government in December last year, received the first installment of Rs 2,000 today. But we were not informed whether the dues of the past two years, which equal to Rs 12,000, would be given to them,” said a senior state government official. While farmers of other states received the second installment of this year, those of Bengal received only the first tranche because of the Mamata government’s delay in joining the scheme. “So far, we have verified more than 10 lakh farmers’ applications... We will verify all the applications for the benefit. At the same time, we will continue to give benefits under our own scheme Krishak Bandhu,” said a senior official at Nabanna. The Bengal government said the state’s farmers had not been invited to the videoconference programme at which Modi had disbursed the cash on Friday. “The Prime Minister interacted with the farmers of Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. But it was surprising that farmers of Bengal were not invited to the programme though they got the installment for the first time,” said the senior Nabanna official. In a tweet from its official Twitter handle, the state home department said: “It is clarified that West Bengal did not receive any invitation for the PM Kisan fund release programme today.” Sources in the state government said the issue had been raised officially as many of the farmers had felt bad that they had not been invited to the programme. A source in the state government said there was no word from the Centre on paying the Bengal farmers the dues of the two years under the scheme. “He (Modi) had promised that farmers of Bengal would get the dues of the past two years. But today, the Centre did not say anything on the PM’s promise. We hope the farmers of the state would not be cheated,” said a source. The state also said the farmers of Bengal had received the funds only because of its continuous fight for them. “Due to demand and actions of CM and GOWB, 7lakh farmers of West Bengal got their due entitlement, the first installment of Kisan Samman Nidhi today by direct transfer as per data submitted by state. State will fight for its farmers,” the home department said in another tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Jab denial triggers protest in Hooghly’s Goghat||Over 1,000 people, mostly senior citizens, who had queued up from around Thursday midnight to get the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine at a primary health centre in Hooghly’s Goghat, lost their cool on Friday afternoon when they were told that only 400 persons could be given jabs. The vaccine seekers at Kamarpukur primary health centre said the elderly should not be subjected to such an ordeal and like postal ballots, they should be given jabs on the doorstep. Sources said a lot of people had been given the second dose after 10pm on Friday, but as the queue continued to become longer, officials at the health centre said a maximum of 400 jabs could be given a day. “By then, hundreds of senior citizens had stood in the queue for 12 hours. They burst into anger and accosted the health officials,” said a source. Tutul Sarkar, a 65-year-old farmer from Goghat, was among those who stood in the queue. “It was very unethical. The hospital authorities had not informed us earlier that they could only vaccinate just 400 people. I had come here before midnight last night and it was only at 12.30pm today that we were told there was a scarcity of vaccines. During the polls, the Election Commission went to collect votes of elderly people on doorstep. If that can be done, why can’t we get vaccines in the same way.” In the recent Assembly polls, the Election Commission had arranged for postal ballots for people who were physically-challenged and aged over 80 years in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials of the EC visited their homes with postal ballots. “Here, the people aged over 80-year-old are queuing up to get vaccinated. We will be infected in this rush just by queuing up to get jabbed,” said a person who had been in the queue for over seven hours. A health official in Arambagh, however, said: “We have nothing to do if people come and queue up from midnight. It is becoming impossible for us to control the crowd. It is not possible to vaccinate a thousand people on a day for any health centre.” Officials of Hooghly district administration said following the pressure, they had decided to prepare a list of people to be vaccinated and then, inform them over the phone about the date and time of their visit. Out-of-turn vaccination will not be allowed, said the officials. A state health department official said several districts were vaccinating people whose second dose was due on a first-come first-served basis. Chief medical officer of health, Hooghly, Subhranshu Chakraborty, did not take calls from this correspondent. But a senior health official in Arambagh said: “We are calling up people to inform them about the time of vaccination. We have already put up a notice at the health centre, informing people that they should not queue up unnecessarily. Even then, people are coming in huge numbers.” Two doctors in Murshidabad died of Covid-19 on Friday. Health officials said Sandipan Mondal, 37 a general physician at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital, died at a private hospital in Behrampore on Friday morning. Mondal was a resident of Basirhat in North 24-Parganas and tested positive 10 days ago. Uttam Dasgupta, 52, a private practitioner, died at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital on Friday evening. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Prod for oxygen plants at Bengal hospitals||Mamata Banerjee on Friday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to be fair and quick in allotting PSA plants for hospitals amid the surge in Covid-19 cases as repeated change in plans were hurting Bengal’s efforts to set up such plants on its own. PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) plants makes medical oxygen for hospitals from the air in the atmosphere and it has become a need for the Covid care facilities amid the huge demand in the midst of the second wave of the pandemic. Supply of medical oxygen to the hospitals has become irregular because of rise in demand in different states. “For quite some time now, the GOI apparently has been contemplating to supply PSA plants to hospitals in states. But the matter is not progressing much. Priorities are being fixed and refixed, implementing agencies (DRDO, NHAI) are being settled and unsettled, quota for West Bengal is being downwardly revised and further downwardly revised every day,” the chief minister wrote in her letter. Sources said Mamata Banerjee was upset with the Centre’s repeated changes in the plan because the state was not getting the due priority despite it remained in the list of the states where the rate of infection was very high. Also, the repeated changes in the plan were hurting the state’s own efforts to set up the plants on its own. “We were told we shall get 70 PSA plants, now we are told that we shall get 4 in the first phase with no clarity on the remaining PSA plants,” Mamata wrote. Sources in the health department said the state government had prepared a plan to set up PSA plants at 105 hospitals across the state. But at that time, the Centre had announced that it would set up 551 such plants across the country. Bengal was supposed to get 70 of them. “As a result, the state’s plan was tweaked and we have later heard that only four PSA plants would be set up in the first phase. But we were not informed about the fate of the remaining plants,” said a senior health department official. According to sources in the health department, the state’s requirement of medical oxygen is more than 450 tons a day these days. “We are managing to meet the requirement somehow. But the problem is that supply is getting delayed in some of the hospitals for transport and refilling-related issues. The PSA plants would help in the hospitals’ continuous supply of oxygen, which is the need of the hour,” said an official. The chief minister urged Modi to set up such plants by setting priorities as Bengal remains one of the states where the requirement of medical oxygen could go up in the next few days, the sources said. “I request you to kindly get the priorities, implementing agencies, and quota fixed, justly, fairly and quickly. Our own supplementary PSA-installation plans by our state agencies and on the strength of our own funds are getting disturbed because of the indecisiveness at Delhi,” Mamata wrote. Sources in the state government said the chief minister had sent the letter only to make Delhi aware that the state needed more oxygen in the coming days as infections were rising. “Now, the requirement in Delhi has come down and some states like Maharashtra are showing signs of getting stable in terms of new Covid cases. But states like Bengal need to get the priority as cases are still going up,” said an official. The chief minister had earlier written a letter to the PM urging him to allot more medical oxygen for the state. But the sources said the state was yet to get any reply from Delhi on additional allotment of oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
