16-05-2021||West Bengal||Streets deserted, shops closed as 15-day lockdown comes into force in Bengal||Streets were largely empty in the metropolis and elsewhere in West Bengal on Sunday as the 15-day Covid-19-induced lockdown came into effect in the state, with just a few vehicles seen ferrying essential items during the day. Buses and other passenger vehicles stayed off the roads, and shops selling non-essential items had shutters down, in accordance with the curbs imposed by the government as part of the lockdown. Police officers deployed in the city’s nooks and corners intercepted some of the vehicles that plied on the roads to check their papers before allowing them to proceed. A handful of people were seen waiting for their turn outside grocery shops, while some queued up next to vegetable and fish stalls at local marketplaces early in the day. The state administration has allowed sale of essential items for three hours amid the shutdown - 7 am to 10 am. A senior police officer here said necessary measures were being taken to generate awareness on the lockdown norms, and action would be taken against those flouting the rules. On the industrial front, jute mills functioned with a 30 per cent workforce and tea gardens operated with a 50 per cent manpower in each shift. Passengers returning in long-distance trains were stranded at Sealdah and Howrah stations with a negligible number of vehicles plying and some operators demanding exorbitant fares. “App cabs were demanding three times of the normal fare, while yellow taxi operators wanted Rs 2,000 for travelling around 16 km from Sealdah to Sonarpur,” Santosh Naskar, a passenger who reached the city this morning, said. Similar scenes were witnessed at Howrah station. In Asansol, a police officer was seen requesting a newly-wed couple not to organise a lavish feast inviting many people at the time of the pandemic. “Please don’t organise a lavish feast on return home at the time of Covid crisis. Please avoid inviting a large number of people. Life is more important and you can always organise it later,” the cop said. In several bazars in the city and its outskirts -- such as Hatibagan, Gariahat and Sodpur -- customers, however, did not maintain physical distance and many vendors were spotted without masks. Some hawkers who had their shops open beyond 10 am were forced to close down by the police. Sukumar Saha, a fish vendor in Kakdwip area of South 24 Parganas, said, “The government could have imposed a total shutdown on marketplaces. This three-hour window is more of a hassle. Just when the business was at its peak, we were told to shut down.” Sweetmeat shops, conforming to the government orders, lifted shutters after 10 am, but not many customers were seen visiting the outlets. With Metro services in the city having been suspended, several frontline workers complained that they had difficulty reaching their place of work. “I and my colleague got late to work, as he had to take a detour and pick me up from home,” a junior doctor at a private hospital, off EM Bypass here, said. West Bengal had on Sunday registered 147 Covid-19 fatalities and 19,117 fresh cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Prolonged poll campaign responsible for Covid surge in rural Bengal: Experts||Since the announcement of elections, nearly three months ago till Saturday, West Bengal's riverine, largely rural hinterland has seen a 48-fold jump in active Covid-19 cases, with medical experts attributing it to the unprotected poll rallies. Most medical professionals blame the mass gatherings at election rallies for the huge surge in the disease. On February 26, when the Election Commission announced the poll dates, West Bengal’s number of active Covid cases was just 3,343, while it stood at 1.32 lakh on Saturday, a near 40-fold increase. However, the spread in districts, other than Calcutta, is far more. From a mere 2,183 active cases on February 26, the number of active cases on May 15 has risen to 1.06 lakh, a worrying 48-fold increase. “There is no doubt that the reason behind this surge of Covid in rural Bengal is the prolonged election process. The reason is nothing but political and only political,” said Dr Amitava Nandi, a senior expert in tropical diseases and formerly of the School of Tropical Medicine (STM). Elections were held from March 27 till April 29, in an unprecedented eight phases, prolonging the campaign period. Many of the districts which saw pitched political battles with leaders extensively touring them such as Hooghly, Purba Bardhaman, Paschim and Purba Medinipur, Nadia, Darjeeling and Murshidabad reported near 100-fold rise in cases during the period. Dr Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, community medicine specialist and vaccination supervisor of the Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General (ID&BG) Hospital blamed the unscientific holding of elections in eight phases and movement of people including paramilitary forces across state and district boundaries for the surge. “If you cannot allow people who had gone to other states to work as migrant labourers to return home here without RT-PCR tests, how have you allowed large numbers of central forces and other people to travel remote areas without any such tests? This has definitely helped in the surge of cases,” he said. According to Dr Nandi, the new Bengal strain (B.1.618), the second mutant strain discovered in India, started spreading across the state because of movement of people during the elections. “The administration was never prepared for this despite our warnings. Both the central and the state government were complacent as if they had won the battle against corona. They reduced the number of beds in the hospitals, never thought of increasing testing facilities. Then they allowed people to move, migrate without proper tests and flout the safety protocols,” said Dr Hiralal Konar of the Joint Platform of Doctors. On Saturday, Howrah reported 1,276 new cases, South 24 Parganas (1,257), Hooghly (1,193), Nadia (1,038), Purba Medinipur (753), Paschim Bardhaman (977) and Darjeeling (662), according to the state health department's statistics. The total number of cases, including recoveries, in West Bengals districts other than Calcutta, also went up from 4.45 lakh on February 26 to nearly 8.64 lakh as of Saturday, May 15. The figures may be the tip of the iceberg, given the fact that people in rural areas have limited access to testing facilities. North 24 Parganas, wedged between Calcutta and the international border with Bangladesh, has just three government RT-PCR testing centres, whereas it has 26,047 active cases as on Saturday, marginally fewer than the tally for the capital of West Bengal. “Definitely there has been under-reporting. Primarily, people are not taking the tests and also there are not adequate tests taking place. And the current RT-PCR tests are sometimes unable to detect the contagion because the virus has genetically mutated,” Dr Nandi said. West Bengal at the moment has 115 testing laboratories in different parts of the state with a daily average of around 33,000 tests held daily, as per the state health bulletin. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Jitters over cap on jute workers in Bengal||Trade unions and jute mill owners alike have expressed concerns over the Bengal government’s decision to allow operations in jute mills with 30 per cent of the total workforce in three shifts. The cap on workers has been put to avoid crowding in factories to help prevent the spread of Covid-19. There are around 2.5 lakh registered jute mill workers in Bengal. Both trade unions and jute mill owners in their respective correspondences with the government have said that this decision would adversely affect the economic health of the workers as well as the industry as a whole. The restriction on the attendance of jute mill workers was first imposed through a government notification on May 7 and has been extended till May 30 on Saturday. On an average, a jute mill labourer works for 26 days a month. According to trade union activists, if a mill is allowed to run with 30 per cent of its workforce during each shift, a worker will lose 16 working days. “We had already written to the government about this…If a worker gets work for 10 days, he will be paid for 10 days…Either the government pays the full month’s wage to the workers out of its own pocket, or it must ask the jute mill owners to do so,” said Anadi Sahoo, state secretary of the CPM’s trade union Citu. At least 21 jute workers’ unions have written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, other stakeholders in her government and the jute commissioner to take necessary steps in this regard. The letter was written on May 13, yet the restriction on workforce at jute mills remains unaltered in the notification on the new curbs that the government has issued on Saturday. “The restriction has been extended, but there is no answer to our demands,” Sahoo said. The Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA), which represents mill owners, had also written to Becharam Manna, the labour minister, on May 12 to revise the norms and sought an appointment from him to discuss the related issues. However, there has been no positive response to the letter yet. “It is very difficult to run jute mills with such a scanty workforce. We will make our submission again to the government (to reconsider the 30 per cent cap on workers),” said Raghavendra Gupta, the chairman of IJMA. Others have also expressed their disappointment that this restriction has remained unaltered in the state government’s Saturday notification. Even before the curb was enforced, the jute industry was far from healthy. At least eight jute mills have issued suspension of work notice in the last few months over unavailability of raw jute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Teams to monitor curbs in Bengal||Authorities of the Alipurduar civic body have decided to impose fines on shop owners and traders in the town from Sunday if anyone is found violating curbs imposed by the state government to control the Covid-19 surge. The municipality can take more stringent steps such as cancellation of the trade licence issued by the civic body to commercial units. “From Sunday, fresh restrictions have been imposed by the state and business hours of shops and trading establishments have been fixed. To confirm that shop owners and traders of Alipurduar town follow curbs and don’t keep their places open beyond stipulated hours, we have formed teams that will move across the town to check for violations,” said Mihir Dutta, the administrator of Alipurduar municipality. According to him, a shop is supposed to remain open from 7am to 10am. If found open beyond 10am, the owner has to pay a fine ranging from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000. “If after repeated warnings, a shop flouts restrictions, we may cancel its trade licence. For residents, our message is that all should wear masks. Anybody found without a mask will be charged a fine of Rs 200. Other legal steps will follow,” added Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19 vaccination exempt from restrictions in Bengal||Covid-19 vaccination has been exempted from the curbs announced on Saturday in Bengal to combat the surge of the virus. Police said they would not stop vehicles headed to the vaccination centres but expected the occupants to produce some proof that their jab was due that day. “Prospective recipients can show an electronic message on their phones saying their vaccine is due at a centre. They can also show a physical printout,” said an officer at Lalbazar, the police headquarters. The notice issued by the Bengal chief secretary on Saturday said: “Movement of private vehicles, taxis and auto-rickshaws will be prohibited except to and from hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, clinics, vaccination centres, airports… those movements relating to essential/ exempted goods and services will also be exempted.” Many people, especially senior citizens, do not prefer going to a vaccination centre alone. Saturday’s notice did not say anything about people accompanying a vaccine recipient. Police officers said they would not object to a person accompanying someone to a vaccination centre. “But one person due to get jabbed should not be travelling with a group,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: ‘Trinamul men’ flee with body||Suspected Trinamul workers allegedly beat up doctors and nurses, including the medical superintendent, of a private hospital in East Midnapore’s Panskura and ransacked it before fleeing with the body of a party leader who died of Covid-19-related complications on Saturday. Trouble broke out at Baroma Covid hospital shortly after Tamluk-based Trinamul leader Harun Rashid, 53, died on Saturday morning. Shortly after the death of Rashid, a group of about 200 youths stormed the hospital premises, beat up staff and damaged hospital property before fleeing with the body of Rashid. Hospital superintendent Bhaskar Roy suffered head injuries. Trinamul has denied its hand in the incident. Police have begun a probe on the basis of a complaint lodged by the hospital’s managing director Afzal Shah, but no arrest has been made so far. Afzal accused Trinamul trade union leader Dibyendu Roy of the attack. “It was on Dibyendu Roy’s request that we admitted the patient. But it was he (Dibyendu) who was behind the rampage. The patient was very critical at the time of his admission, but we did our best to save him. Even then, Roy’s men ransacked the hospital,” Afzal said. After police arrived at the hospital, doctors and nurses suspended work demanding the arrest of the culprits and their security. They also had a heated exchange with police officers, who left after assuring action. Though Afzal lodged a complaint against Dibyendu Roy and a few others, the INTTUC leader denied any involvement. “People may have had grievances against the hospital for other reasons and that prompted the attack,” he said. Trinamul insiders, however, hinted at behind-the-scenes politics. Two years ago, Afzal’s brother Qurban Shah, a former Trinamul leader and deputy chief of Panskura panchayat samity, was murdered. Panskura civic body’s chairman Anisur Rahaman Khan is in jail as one of the prime accused. Anisur’s bail plea was rejected by a court in Tamluk on Wednesday because of Afzal’s objection. Trinamul tried its best to secure Anisur’s bail and had deployed party MP and lawyer Kalyan Banerjee to handle the case. Afzal told this paper that it was a planned attack. “Some Trinamul leaders asked me to withdraw the case, but I had refused to oblige. I have requested the administration to ensure security at the hospital for the sake of the Covid patients,” he added. Subdivisional police officer of Tamluk, Atish Biswas, said: “We have received a complaint and have begun a probe.” Baroma Hospital in Panskura has 300 beds and the district administration has been using it as a designated Covid care facility. It has 100 dedicated Covid beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt announces Covid restrictions for next 15 days ||The Bengal government on Saturday announced stricter Covid restrictions for the next 15 days, from 6am on Sunday to 6pm on May 30, to “contain and combat” the spread of the epidemic. The government has taken care not to call it a lockdown, allowing limited activity by the retail business and a narrow window of operations for jewelleries when the wedding season is on. But one key change is that retail shops selling food and other everyday items will function only in the morning, unlike last time when some of these shops remained open through the day. On April 30, a day after the Assembly elections had ended, the state government had announced several Covid restrictions such as the closure of malls, restaurants, bars, spas, gyms, sports complexes and swimming pools. It had at the time allowed markets and shops to remain open three hours in the morning and two hours in the evening. “The restrictions are being implemented to bring down the number of deaths and (contain the) spread of the virus,” chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said at Nabanna on Saturday. The following are some of the key features of the restrictions that kick in from Sunday morning: What’s closed ⚫ All educational institutions including schools, colleges, universities, polytechnics, ITIs and Anganwadi centres. ⚫ Government and private offices and establishments. ⚫ Malls, shopping and market complexes, spas, beauty parlours, cinemas, restaurants, bars, sports complexes, gyms, swimming pools, parks, zoos and animal sanctuaries. ⚫ All outdoor activity and movement banned between 9pm and 5am except for the exemptions mentioned below. What’s functional ⚫ Healthcare facilities including Covid vaccination centres, veterinary services, sanitation services. ⚫ Shops and markets selling vegetables, fruits, groceries, milk, bread, meat and eggs to be open from 7am to 10am. ⚫ Medicine shops and optical stores to have regular working hours. ⚫ Sweet shops to stay open between 10am and 5pm, and jewellery and sari stores between noon and 3pm. ⚫ Home delivery of all commodities allowed. ⚫ Banks to operate between 10am and 2pm. ⚫ Petrol pumps, auto repair shops, and LPG offices and distribution centres. ⚫ Print and electronic media, MSOs and cable operators. Gatherings ⚫ All academic, administrative, political, religious and entertainment-related gatherings banned. ⚫ Only 50 people can attend a wedding and only 20 can attend a funeral. Transport ⚫ Local trains, Metro trains, intra-state buses and inland water transport including ferry services to remain closed apart from those serving emergency and essential services personnel. ⚫ Taxis and auto-rickshaws cannot ply except to and from hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, clinics, vaccination centres, airports and media houses. Industries ⚫ Industries shut except for those related to the supply of medical products, Covid protective gear, health and hygiene care, oxygen and oxygen cylinders, and to the production and packaging of essential food commodities and beverages including milk, poultry, fish and meat. Continuous-process industries can stay open. ⚫ Tea gardens can operate with half the total workforce in each shift, and jute mills with 30 per cent of the workforce per shift. The government has advised people to wear masks and observe physical distancing and hygiene protocols at all times. Mamata Banerjee had announced a few more restrictions after taking oath as chief minister on May 5, reducing attendance at government and private offices to half the workforce, allowing only 50 per cent occupancy in state transport including the Metro, and suspending the suburban train service. “These measures seem to have slowed the infection rate but we needed stricter restrictions to bring down the number of daily cases,” a senior government official said. Bengal reported 20,846 new positive cases on Friday. The count was 6,769 on April 15 and 17,411 on April 30. While the health department’s official figures show that only 40.47 per cent of the state’s 20,043 Covid beds were occupied on Friday evening, sources said it had become tough to get hospital beds in districts like Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Both districts have been registering about 4,000 cases a day on an average, they said, adding that the Calcutta Metropolitan Area had just about 10,000 Covid beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s brother dies, active Covid cases rise||One of Mamata Banerjee’s six brothers, Ashim Banerjee, succumbed to Covid-19-related complications on Saturday morning, after battling the infection for around a month. At 62, he was younger than the chief minister by four years. This personal tragedy for Mamata came on a day Bengal reported the 65th consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases amid the second wave, with 19,511 new infections and 144 deaths in 24 hours, ending at 9am. With this, the the number of active cases in Bengal has risen to over 1.31 lakh. The state also logged 19,211 recoveries, the most in a single day in this pandemic. The 144 deaths recorded till 9am on Saturday included 30 from Calcutta and 35 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,951 new infections on Saturday, North 24-Parganas reported 4,279. In the only significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 14th consecutive day, riding the steady rise in recoveries, to 86.98 per cent. Ex-minister demise Former Union minister of state for finance, Dr Debi Prasad Pal, in the era of Prime Minister P.V. Narsimha Rao and finance minister Dr Manmohan Singh, passed away on Friday. Born on November 1, 1927, he was 93. A three-time parliamentarian who had also been a Supreme Court lawyer and judge of Calcutta High Court, Dr Pal had an illustrious career. Among his many achievements, he was one of the founders of the Cancer Society of India. He also addressed seminars organised by Direct Taxes Professionals’ Association and various Chambers of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Income shadow on death of family||A couple and their three daughters died in a blaze at their hutment in North Dinajpur district on Friday night. Residents suspect that Ram Bhowmik, 40, set the house on fire when his family members were asleep and then committed suicide in the blaze as he was in economic distress for the past few days. Officials of the district administration and police, however, have not confirmed the theory. On Friday night, residents of Bharatpur village in Hemtabad found the hutment of Ram, who was a motorised van rickshaw puller, in flames. “We tried to help the family members but could not enter the hutment because of the intensity of the fire. After some time, we found Rani, 12, Ram’s elder daughter, somehow coming out of the hutment. She had severe burn injuries. We rushed her to Raiganj Government Medical College and  Hospital where she succumbed,” said Sajidur Rehman, a villager. While Rani was being taken to the hospital, she reportedly told the villagers that her father had sprinkled kerosene oil on them while they were asleep and then set the house on fire. Police sources said Ram, his wife Shankari, 32, and their younger daughters Parana, 7 and Saraswati, 4, died on the spot. Kajal Bhowmik, a relative of the victims, said for the past few days Ram could not earn enough to run his family as Covid safety restrictions were imposed across the state. “He used to carry people to Hemtabad and adjoining areas from our village. He was not getting adequate passengers afterthe recent restrictions were imposed, because of which he was depressed. We, however, never thought that he would take such a drastic step,” Kajal added. On Saturday afternoon, Arvind Kumar Mina, the district magistrate, Sumit Kumar, North Dinajpur police chief, and other senior officials visited Bharatpur village. They spoke to the villagers to gather information about the family. Mina, when told about the villagers’ claim that the family had been undergoing economic crisis, said the administration was taking efforts to ensure that needy people across the district receive aid under different state welfare schemes. “Whatever has happened is unfortunate. The police are probing the case and we cannot comment on it right now. But if the incident is a fallout of an economic crisis, we will take steps to ensure that free ration and other benefits from the state government under different social welfare schemes are extended to all needy people in the district,” the district magistrate added. The police said the charred bodies had been sent for post-mortem and a probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid curbs throw up challenges in Bengal districts||The administration  in districts across Bengal is chalking out plans to implement stricter curbs that the state government ordered on Saturday in a bid to break the chain of infection of Covid-19 amid the surge in cases in the second wave of the pandemic. After the Nabanna order reached district magistrates and superintendents of police, the top officials held back-to-back meetings with ground-level officials in panchayats and blocks to map the steps on implementing the new set of curbs. Based on conversations with senior officials, The Telegraph presents the challenges facing the administration while implementing new curbs in the districts. Rural spread Unlike last year, rural Bengal has seen a spike in infection this time, the biggest concern for the government. Officials in districts have held meetings with gram panchayat functionaries and asked them to be a part of the team with the police to implement curbs in their areas. The move has been taken in districts like Birbhum, Bankura, East Burdwan and Murshidabad. Murshidabad SP K. Sabari Rajkumar told this paper: “We have asked officers in charge of all police stations to talk to panchayat pradhans to form coordination teams for the enforcement of restrictions.” Some police officers said intensive monitoring was easier said than done as they didn’t have enough manpower to monitor huge swathes of the interiors. For example, Birbhum has over 1,800 villages. “We will get information from the health department where infections are alarmingly high, and focus on those hubs with special care,” said Shyam Singh, the Bankura police chief. Interstate borders Officials in districts with interstate borders like West Burdwan, Birbhum and East Midnapore said they have to focus on interstate bordering areas this time as there is no nationwide lockdown and different states have different policies. East Midnapore shares borders with Odisha and the plying of vehicles was not restricted till Saturday. Officials said they have informed the bordering police stations not to allow vehicles from Odisha from Sunday morning except those with special permission. Districts such as Birbhum, West Burdwan and Murshidabad share borders with Jharkhand. Birbhum shares borders with Jharkhand in at least eight police station areas and thousands cross the borders for livelihoods. “There will be a naka checking at each border with Jharkhand,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, the Birbhum SP. Railway stations Unlike last year, train services have not stopped completely in the state so far. Several trains are running between Calcutta and different states and north Bengal. So, important stations will be under special focus. Also, as local trains are cancelled, transport of passengers in major stations of South Bengal, like Burdwan, Asansol, Bolpur and Rampurhat has to be arranged. “We have planned to allow hired vehicles for passengers, who will get off trains in our district,” said Birbhum official. Markets and shops Authorities are worried about district towns, which are trade hubs and attract people from villages. Police officers said vegetable and grocery traders will be slapped with criminal cases and fined if they violate timing curbs (7am to 10am) from Sunday. A trader faces a minimum fine of Rs 500, said a policeman. The police have been asked to arrest those who violate the order repeatedly. Additional reporting from Subhasish Chaudhuri, Alamgir Hossain and Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Health staff fret about transport in Bengal||The biggest challenge for the state government amid the stricter curbs in place is to provide uninterrupted health care in government and private hospitals as thousands of health workers living in rural pockets wondered how they would commute to their workplaces from Sunday. Sources in the health department said unlike the 2020 lockdown when the number of active cases was minimal in rural areas, the situation of the pandemic in 2021 is different as there is a surge in infections in both urban and rural pockets. Also, in 2021, healthcare workers are saddled with the pressure of vaccination and testing at the same time. Last year, there was no vaccination drive. “Last year, we asked the grassroots level nursing staff to commute to the rural health centres twice or thrice in a week. This time we can’t do so as the infection has spread in villages too. Again, last year, there was no pressure of vaccination but this time it is a major job,” said a senior health official in Calcutta. The health officials in districts have held several meetings after employees started reporting transport problems amid the curbs in the second wave of the pandemic. Some districts have implemented solutions that are not possible to scale up across districts, said sources. In East Burdwan, the district health department has booked two government guest houses — one of Burdwan Municipality and another of Burdwan University — on Saturday to accommodate doctors and staff on Covid duty. “We can accommodate at least 100 persons every day at the two guest houses....We have asked blocks and subdivisions to arrange vehicles to reach the staff at vaccination or testing centres,” said Pranab Roy, the Chief Medical Officer of East Burdwan. Health officials in districts, however, said there are over 1,000 health staff in every district handling Covid related jobs and it is impossible to give all of them transport or housing by the health department. Dipanwita Malick, an Ayush practitioner posted at the Burdwan CMOH office, who comes to her office from her residence in Hooghly’s Uttarpara, is worried about the latest curbs. “Our problems started when the local trains were cancelled. Then, we started boarding special trains meant for railway employees but they were too crowded. Now (from Sunday), I will have no option to get a bus if I miss the special train. Last year (during lockdown), I had to stay in Burdwan in a rented room of a guest house. I am a contractual employee and have no money to commute to work by hiring a private car,” said Dipanwita. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid patient dead on paper, alive in person||A 28-year-old Covid patient admitted to the Netaji Subhas TB Sanatorium was found alive after a death certificate was issued in his name and his family summoned by hospital authorities for his last rites on Friday. On Thursday, the youth from Hijuli village in Ranaghat had been admitted to the high dependency unit of the Kalyani Covid hospital. He was declared “dead” on Friday morning. The death certificate said the youth died of “severe acute respiratory distress syndrome, encephalopathy, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, hypertension, Covid-19 pneumonia”. The youth’s father was informed about the “death”. “A nurse called me, asking me to go to the hospital to identify the body and sign the no-objection certificate for disposal of the body and receive the death certificate. My wife and I went to hospital,” said the 60-year-old father. After the couple got the death certificate on Friday evening, they were told to wait for the corpse handler (dom) to show the body of their son. But when the dom brought the body, the couple said it was not their son. The man went back to the ward and called out the name of the patient. The youth, whom the hospital authorities had declared dead, responded, said the parents. Shocked, the parents charged hospital authorities with “negligence” and left with their son, who was critical. Nadia’s chief medical officer Aparesh Bandopadhyay acknowledged the “mistake” and said there was another patient with the same name that led to the mix-up. He refused to say if both the patients’ fathers had the same names and addresses. SDO Kalyani Hirak Mondal said: “I have heard about the incident and sought a report from the CMOH.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||And then there were None||He had adopted them around October last year, about eight of them, all strapping roosters. By February they were gone, given away to those who could afford to feed them. Then in April, Nimaida himself crossed over to the other world. And a corner of this one turned empty. Those we think ordinary and pass by also have stories, often the best ones; untold, they turn to losses we never care to count. Nimai Bagh ran a small tea-stall in this south Calcutta neighbourhood, a shop that grew its roots much before the malls and residential complexes sprouted. Made of split bamboo boards and topped by thatch, his establishment looks like any other nondescript tea shop, except that it isn’t. A large window allows one a full view of the earthen stove, a huge hanri of milk that used to be on the boil always, two polished kettles, jars of somethings — some sweet, some savoury. But beyond the hearth lay a thousand and one things. Buckets and utensils neatly arranged on wooden benches, and underneath too, old machine parts, exhausted tyres, a couple of solar batteries with wires oozing out of every inch, hurricane lanterns, a fishing basket hung on one wall, a niche for the gods. All of it seemed to speak for the 70-year-old soft-spoken man, who went about life and times without much ado. In fact, he was like the chronicle that was never printed. We would often call him the Morog Man. It wasn’t unusual that Nimaida decided to bring home the roosters. His shop had remained relatively unfrequented during the months of the lockdown. The garrulous creatures filled out the time and the engagements that had fallen vacant. After all, they were fighters, having displayed their prowess in battlefields far and near. A couple of them even came with gnashes that needed special attention. But their keeper knew how to stitch them up and the kind of protein-rich diet they required, and would also coo to them. Each magnificent morog (rooster) had its spot under the sun — tied to a pole or tree, at a safe distance from the others — a name and tale of its own. Their constant crowing and glistening plumage ensured all was well. “My favourite used to be the spotted one, Mayuri... That one was very clever and obedient; he would look right into my eyes when I called out his name. ‘Do you want to eat now,’ I’d ask. And he would nod vigorously!” Nimaida had once said as I sat there sipping a cup of sweet, strong tea. It was not often that the man spoke about himself, much less about his precious birds. That morning, the old man was hunched over his bonti, peeling and chopping drumsticks. “My nephew climbed up the tree today; he gave me some and took home some,” he said. Nimaida spoke of the moringa tree that stood behind his shop like it were an old mate. If one stepped into his little backyard, one would find more crammed vegetation. A thicket of seem (flat beans) vines that sheathed much of the roof — “there was very little fruit this year though” — with a gaunt strand of pui saak (Malabar spinach) resting in between. An emaciated lemon tree that barely ever bore a flower. An earthen pot holding a few sprigs of thankuni pata, the medicinal herb that works wonders in stomach disorders. Not long ago, Nimaida had acquired the companionship of a mongoose too. It moved around restlessly in its cage until one night it escaped to a much bigger playfield. The drumsticks are more than mature, quite ripe actually, I observed. “They will be just right for my machher jhol,” he said. I ventured some more, talking about the importance of vaccination against the coronavirus. “Biddey thekey amar buddhi boro — I haven’t read books, but I believe I am not short of wisdom,” he replied, in no uncertain terms. “The disease is affecting the rich mostly, very few among the poor have been felled. I’m not boasting but I’m good the way I am. I slog in the heat all day long; corona will be afraid to come near me.” Just then a stately black rooster sauntered in. But seeing an unfamiliar person, darted off in the other direction, squawking furiously. “Kaali is the only one I have left; I didn’t have the heart to give him away,” said Nimaida. With a bit of prodding, he mumbled, “How could I keep them? They were expensive creatures, their food and medicines cost a lot. I don’t quite understand the business of cockfighting, so I could never be sure if a bird will lose or win... They used to take up a lot of my time as well. Who would look after my shop if I ran after them all day long? They are like human children — if you don’t give them food on time they will create a ruckus.”  Word got around one cursed morning that Nimaida was no more. “It wasn’t Covid,” said the woman who brought the news. “He suffered a stroke in bed... he complained of uneasiness and was gone in minutes.” It is said roosters wear out if you look at them too much. In Nimaida’s case, that probably was not true. He may not have worn out had those creatures been following him with their sharp eyes. Perhaps one day they will join him after their battles are fought and lost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
