17-05-2021||West Bengal||Protests erupt across Bengal after arrest of TMC leaders in Narada case||Hundreds of TMC activists on Monday took out protest rallies in the city and elsewhere in West Bengal, thumbing their noses at lockdown regulations, after the CBI arrested two state ministers, an MLA, and a former party leader in connection with the Narada sting case. Many of them were seen demonstrating outside the central agency's office here and Raj Bhavan, prompting the police to push them back. The CBI, earlier in the day, apprehended state ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee for their alleged involvement in the case. The agitators, waving TMC flags, raised slogans outside Raj Bhavan against Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who had recently sanctioned the prosecution of the four leaders. At the CBI's Nizam Palace office, the TMC supporters broke barriers set up before the main gate and took to sloganeering against Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Some of them hurled stones and plastic bottles at the security personnel posted outside the agency office. In several other areas, including Arambagh in Hooghly district and Kamarhati in North 24 Parganas, the protesters burnt tyres and blocked roads, demanding immediate release of party leaders. TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, who is also the party's youth wing president, urged the demonstrators to have faith in judiciary. "I urge everyone to abide by the law & refrain from any activity that violates lockdown norms for the sake of the larger interest of Bengal and its people," the Diamond Harbour MP, who is also CM Mamata Banerjee's nephew, tweeted. The party's spokesperson, Kunal Ghosh, taking a dig at the BJP, said that "the daily passengers to Bengal, who were summarily rejected by the people of the state during elections, have hatched a conspiracy for backdoor entry, amid this pandemic-induced crisis". Ghosh, too, urged the party supporters to exercise restraint, and not get swayed by emotions. He also sought to know why no action has been taken against Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari, two leaders who have quit the TMC to join BJP, given the fact that their names had also surfaced in the case. Rejecting the allegation, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said both Roy and Adhikari had "co-operated with the CBI investigation, unlike those who have been taken into custody". He slammed the protesters for openly flouting the lockdown norms. "Instead of demonstrating on the streets, the party should seek a legal remedy," he added. The sting operation was purportedly conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada TV news channel in 2014 wherein people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were allegedly seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours. The tapes were made public just before the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the sting operation in March 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||CBI arrests 2 Trinamul ministers, MLA and ex-mayor in 2016 Narada bribery case||Two Trinamul Congress ministers, a legislator and a former first citizen of Calcutta were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation on Monday morning, hours after they were brought to the agency’s office at Nizam Palace here in connection with a 2016 television sting featuring a purported video showing several politicians accepting bribes in exchange of promised favours. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a dharna at Nizam Palace for over six hours since morning, daring the CBI to arrest her too, her stand indicating that the current situation was likely to snowball into a major political controversy weeks after results of the Bengal Assembly gave the Trinamul a runaway majority to govern the state for the third consecutive time. “Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee have been arrested today by CBI anti-corruption bureau and are being produced in the jurisdictional court,” read a statement issued by the CBI. “On completion of investigation, prosecution sanction was sought against the public servants… Further investigation of the case shall continue.” All four were granted bail late on Monday evening by a CBI court. But CBI moved the Calcutta high court challenging the bail. Late on Monday night, the high court stayed the bail till the next hearing which is scheduled on Wednesday. Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee will remain behind bars till the high court hearing. CBI has also appealed before the high court to move the case out of Bengal, considering all four arrested are influential people. Earlier, appearing on behalf of the accused, lawyer and Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee argued why Suvendu Adhikary and Mukul Roy (both now in the BJP), who were also caught in the Narada sting, had not been arrested. The CPI(M) state committee in a statement condemned the arrests as politically motivated. “In the wake of the current pandemic in the country and Bengal we strongly condemn the step taken by the central probe agency… BJP should remember the people of Bengal gave a clear mandate that they don’t want a BJP government. The chief minister should also remember the people’s verdict was not an endorsement of Trinamul’s corrupt practices. A fierce opponent like BJP cannot be fought by compromising on corruption,” the statement read. The arrests were made five years after the Narada News portal tapes went public in which several Bengal politicians including ministers, MPs and other functionaries and senior police officers, were caught on camera purportedly accepting bribes from a fictitious company. Hakim, the current mayor and state transport and housing minister, Mukherjee, the panchayat minister, Mitra, the Kamarhati MLA, and Chatterjee, a former mayor, were all brought to Nizam Palace a little after 9am for questioning in connection with the television sting that has come to be known as the Narada bribery scam. According to the CBI, on May 7, it had received sanction from Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to arrest the four, all of whom were ministers when the case broke. The fifth arrest in the case is police officer S.M.H. Meerza, who was picked up earlier and is currently on bail. Soon after the four were brought in for questioning, Mamata reached Nizam Palace. She held a dharna there for around six hours while Trinamul supporters were out on the streets, shouting slogans against the Narendra Modi government and the CBI on what was the second day of a two week-long statewide lockdown meant to be enforced strictly to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. "I came to meet them," Mamata told newspersons upon reaching there. Later in the day, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar sent out a number of tweets alleging violent protests by Trinamul Congress members outside Nizam Palace. “On channels and in public domain I notice arson and pelting of stones at CBI office. Pathetic that Kolkata Police and West Bengal Police are just onlookers. Appeal to you to act and restore law and order,” he tweeted. “Total lawlessness & anarchy. Police and administration in silence mode. Hope you realize repercussions of such lawlessness and failure of constitutional mechanism. Time to reflect and contain this explosive situation that is worsening minute by minute.” “Concerned at alarming situation. Call upon Mamata to follow constitutional norms & rule of law. Kolkata Police, Bengal Police must take all steps to maintain law & order. Sad- situation is being allowed to drift with no tangible action by authorities.” Before leaving his Chetla residence, which was surrounded by personnel of the central forces, Hakim said he had been arrested. “CBI arrested me in the Narada sting operation. I have been arrested without any prior notice,” he said before boarding a CBI vehicle. “I will challenge this in court.” After the Narada tapes were made public during the run up to the 2016 Assembly polls Mamata had said she would not have given tickets to any of the accused if she had known. The accused went on to win the elections in 2016 _ and 2021 _ and are still ministers in her government. Many of the names that came up in the scam are now prominent faces of the BJP in Bengal and elsewhere. Chatterjee’s estranged wife Ratna, currently an MLA, is also at Nizam Palace. Trinamul leaders questioned the procedure followed by the CBI while detaining the four for questioning. Trinamul party men also asked why current BJP leaders Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari, who are also part of the purported tapes, had not been arrested. "West Bengal arrestees cannot be proceeded against without Speaker's sanction. Hence lack of jurisdiction plus vindictive arrest plus timing of arrests, all smack of, steeped in and clearly proves cheapest and most vile vendetta,” tweeted Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Bengal and senior lawyer. Arrests not unlawful But senior Supreme Court advocate Sanjay Hegde told The Telegraph Online that the arrests were not unlawful. “The Governor is the sanctioning authority for prosecution. In so far as arrests are concerned, when the legislature is in session, the Speaker’s permission is sought, to avoid a breach of parliamentary privilege. Not seeking permission, or not informing the Speaker will not render the arrests unlawful. But, the arresting officer maybe answerable to the Assembly,” Hegde said. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI inquiry into the scam in March 2017. Charge sheets were filed against 13 leaders and other functionaries of the Trinamul Congress. For these five years, the BJP was accused of using the Narada sting to further its own political interests in the state, where it fought a high-pitched campaign during the recently concluded Assembly polls but fell far short of the majority mark. Chatterjee, the former mayor of Calcutta, had earlier quit the Trinamul and joined BJP. However, he wasn’t given a ticket in the Assembly elections and is not associated with the party any longer.  Mitra, who won from the Kamarhati Assembly seat this time, had been arrested earlier by CBI in connection with the Saradha scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||CBI picks up Trinamul ministers, MLA for questioning in Narada scam ||Two ministers, an MLA and a former mayor of Calcutta were brought to the CBI office here at Nizam Palace on Monday morning in connection with the five-year-old Narada scam, amid deteriorating relations between Bengal and the Centre. The current mayor and the state transport and housing minister Firhad Hakim, panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, Kamarhati MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee were brought to Nizam Palace a little after 9am for questioning in connection with the televison sting in which several politicians and police officers were caught on camera allegedly accepting bribes from a fictitious company. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is understood to have reached the CBI office too on her own accord. "I came to meet them," Mamata told newspersons upon reaching there, but sources close to her said she has vowed to stay put till such time the CBI released her party leaders. Before leaving his Chetla residence, which was surrounded by personnel of the central forces, Hakim said he had been arrested. “CBI arrested me in the Narada sting operation. I have been arrested without any prior notice,” he said before boarding a CBI vehicle. “I will challenge this in court.” Sources said West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had given the nod to prosecute the ministers. Charge sheets are scheduled to be filed against the four accused in the CBI court on Monday, they added, and that the four were brought in for questioning on Monday morning. However, the CBI is yet to issue a statement . Questions are been raised on procedure followed by the central investigative agency while detaining the the four for questioning. First, no permission was taken from the Speaker’s office before proceeding to question/ detain the two ministers and an MLA. “Clear indicators of mala fides of central government and CBI regarding West Bengal arrests. Necessity of arrest must exist before arresting. Power of arrest never means obligations to arrest. Narada is a decade old; even tapes are of 2016; matter also came to Supreme Court; why necessity to arrest now?” asked Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Bengal and senior lawyer. “West Bengal arrestees cannot be proceeded against without Speaker’s sanction. Hence lack of jurisdiction plus vindictive arrest plus timing of arrests, all smack of, steeped in and clearly proves cheapest and most vile vendetta,” he tweeted. After the Narada tapes were made public during the run up to the 2016 Assembly polls chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said she would not have given tickets to any of the accused if she had known. The accused went on to win the elections in 2016 _ and 2021 _ and are still ministers in her government. Many of the names that came up in connection with the scam are now prominent faces of the BJP in Bengal and elsewhere. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI inquiry into the scam in March 2017. Charge sheets were filed against 13 leaders and other functionaries of the Trinamul Congress. For these five years, the BJP was accused of using the Narada sting to further its own political interests in the state, where it fought a high-pitched campaign during the recently concluded Assembly polls but fell far short of the majority mark. Chatterjee, the former mayor of Calcutta, had earlier quit the Trinamul and joined BJP. However, he wasn’t given a ticket in the Assembly elections and is not associated with the party any longer.  Mitra, who won from the Kamarhati Assembly seat this time, was earlier arrested by CBI in connection with the Saradha scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||First day of Calcutta lockdown: fearful city complies||Most of the people who were out in the morning on Sunday, the first of the 15 days of strict Covid control measures in Bengal, were those heading for the market. As the day progressed, the roads became deserted. Most of the vehicles were two-wheelers of food delivery personnel and ambulances. The Telegraph takes stock of Day One. Better compliance Several police officers in the city said this time they had to spend less time and energy explaining the “lockdown rules” to people on the roads, compared to the efforts they had to make last year. The reason they cited — the fear of the virus has struck home much more effectively than it did last year. “Fewer people were outside and the majority of them were aware of the lockdown rules. Most of the people who were prosecuted today were the ones travelling in private cars without any urgent or valid reason,” said an officer in the Bhowanipore area. The markets, which had opened at 7am, started wrapping up from 10am. In Lake Market, Jadubabaur Bazar and Gairahat market, policemen were seen using hailers to prod traders and shoppers to leave as the 10am deadline approached. By 10.30am, most markets were shut. On April 30, while announcing the first set of curbs, the state government had allowed markets to remain open in two windows — from 7am to 10am, and again from 3pm to 5pm. The afternoon slot was later revised to 5pm to 7pm. But Saturday’s notice allowed only one slot — 7am to 10am. “After the first announcement, we had trouble enforcing the 10am deadline. Some markets had stalls in the interiors that operated till noon. But today, the traders started wrapping up much earlier, many of them showing urgency without being prodded,” said a police officer. Less panic The markets and grocery stores were crowded on Sunday evening, raising fears of a rerun of the early stages of the lockdown last year, when people tended to hoard essential items. Many people had hoped the Sunday morning market would be chaotic. But the day unfolded differently. The shops, from those selling groceries to fish, chicken and vegetables, were busy but the rush was manageable. “I usually buy fish once every four or five days. Today, I am buying just a little more so that it lasts a week. But I will come to the market again next week,” Rumpa Sarkar, a Bhowanipore resident, told Metro at Jadubabur Bazar. Grocery stores bore much of the brunt of the panic buying last year as people stocked up on everything they could — from edible oil and cereals to hand wash. “The rush today was much less than last year,” said a grocer at Gariahat market. Pharmacies were busy throughout the day but not any busier than they had been so long. Store owners said people were still stocking up on paracetamol and common cough syrups but the tendency was less acute than last year. Not so sweet Sunday The sweetmeat shops can remain open from 10am to 5pm, according to the Saturday notice. But even after the announcement, people flocked to sweet shops across the city on Saturday. The traders were buoyed by the rush and expected a decent footfall on Sunday as well. But that was not to be. Most shops remained empty throughout the window. “The only customers that we had were people returning from bazars in the morning,” said the owner of a sweet shop in New Alipore. “The footfall was disheartening. Our Park Circus outlet still had some customers. But the Gariahat outlet was almost empty,” said Nilanjan Ghosh, of Mithai. It was online orders that drove the sales on Day One, said the store owners. Liquor leeway Sale of liquor from retail counters has been suspended till May 30. Liquor stores across the city saw mad rush and long queues on Saturday evening, during the 5pm-7pm window. But online aggregators accepted liquor orders on Sunday. So did dedicated liquor delivery service providers. “Liquor can be bought online like any other commodity and there was no embargo of home delivery through the e-commerce services,” said an excise department official. Prosecution Till 8pm on Sunday, Calcutta police had prosecuted 190 people on the charge of violating restrictions and seized 85 private cars after their owners allegedly failed to cite any satisfactory reason for being out on the road. The government order has restricted the use of private cars only for essential services. At least 31 men were arrested and a couple of cars seized in Salt Lake, Lake Town, Bangur and New Town, among other places, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Two BJP leaders ‘beaten’ by party colleagues inside state headquarter||Two BJP leaders were manhandled by their colleagues inside the state headquarters of the party here on May 10, multiple sources in the BJP have told The Telegraph. A senior state BJP functionary said on condition of anonymity that the incident was a fallout of the discontent among the workers over the electoral rout and the alleged indifference of the leadership to the party’s “victims” in post-results violence. Sankar Sikder, the president of the BJP’s South Calcutta organisational district, had convened a meeting of leaders working under him at the party’s state headquarters here on Monday. He was supposed to discuss the issue of post-results violence and the plan to help the “victims”. While the meeting was in progress — inside a room on the first floor — Sikder was allegedly hit by some of the attendees. Gangadhar Chatterjee, general-secretary of the organisational district, was also assaulted. Sikder showcaused 10 persons for the attack. “It is unprecedented that a district president and a district general-secretary were roughed up inside the BJP headquarters by party colleagues. Things went really out of hand…. While five of the attackers are officially recognised as members of the BJP, the other five hold posts in the organisational district,” said a source who was present when the alleged assault took place. Sikder himself admitted the incident, adding, however, that it was “not serious”. “These are internal matters… nothing serious,” he said. However, several other members of the South Calcutta district committee didn’t agree with Sikder’s attempt to play down the incident. A large section of BJP workers in the organisational district — like in most parts of Bengal which handed the saffron camp a drubbing — has been intensely unhappy with the results. In the party’s humiliating 77:213 returns from the 292 Assembly seats that went to the polls, the performance in the southern parts of Calcutta — including the city and South 24-Parganas — was exceptionally bad. The BJP won zero out of 11 seats in the city and zero out of 31 in South 24-Parganas. Like their colleagues in most other parts of the state, BJP workers in and around Calcutta, too, believe excessive intervention of the central leadership — which clearly remains unable to understand Bengal and its complex ethos — in every affair of the party in the state led to the massive defeat. Many of these disgruntled workers and local leaders believe state and district BJP office-bearers should not have parroted what the national leadership said and could have stopped them from making blunder after blunder in Bengal. Similarly, many BJP workers have been fuming against the leaders for not doing enough to support the “victims” of post-results violence. “Neither has there been any honest analysis of our defeat, nor have we been compensated for our losses by the party. Our leaders only give lofty lectures. It is not a surprise some workers couldn’t contain their anger at that meeting,” said a source in the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||CPM’s Red Volunteers bring oxygen to BJP MLA Parthasarathi Chatterjee||A team of the Red Volunteers — an initiative spearheaded by the CPM’s student and youth wings — in Nadia’s Ranaghat rushed with aid and assistance to help the BJP’s newly Ranaghat Northwest MLA Parthasarathi Chatterjee, who developed respiratory issues on Sunday. Since Chatterjee’s oxygen level began to drop and a physician advised immediate hospitalisation, on account of his apparent Covid-19 symptoms, the Red Volunteers — who were already helping him with oxygen — arranged for an ambulance and sent him to a major private hospital in Calcutta. The Red Volunteers were called for help after Chatterjee’s family and colleagues in his new party could not make the necessary arrangements. Sources in the BJP said Chatterjee had already undergone an RT-PCR test for Covid-19, the result of which was yet to be given. On Sunday afternoon, after failed attempts by BJP workers to arrange for oxygen for Chatterjee, an aide called the Red Volunteers helpline for Ranaghat. A team arrived at his residence within half-an-hour with an oxygen cylinder. Debashis Chakraborty, an advocate and the CPM’s Ranaghat area committee secretary leading the team, said: “We received the call to help Chatterjee with an oxygen cylinder at around 1.30pm and sent it by 2pm. “There is no question of political rivalry in any of this. This is a mega humanitarian crisis and every effort must be made to save every life,” said Chakraborty. “We also later arranged an ambulance for him as it appeared that his party colleagues and family members were not being able to and crucial time was getting wasted,” he added. The incident came as a shocker to the residents of Ranaghat, as many expressed concerns about the plight of an MLA, who also happens to be the chairman of the outgoing civic body. “If an MLA and his family find themselves unable to get help from the conventional sources, what must it be like for the common man,” wondered a local resident. MLA Chatterjee expressed his gratitude to the Red Volunteers. “They are the youths of my locality who rushed in to help me without any political prejudice…. I also believe in this culture and always try my best to stand by people in distress,” he said. Last year CPM’s youth wing launched the Red Volunteers initiative to extend support to Covid-19 patients. The Facebook group created in July 2020 has over 1.09 lakh members now, and is flooded with distress requests, over 3,000 daily. Praises also flood the page. The unprecedented debacle of the Left in the Assembly election, with zero seats for the first time since Independence, has not been able to dampen spirits or stymie the flow of aid and assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||No ventilator for Covid-19 patients in Darjeeling||A Covid-19 patient hospitalised in Darjeeling — a district headquarter — has no access to a ventilator, a situation that is reflective of the health care in the hills. The Darjeeling district hospital has eight beds in the Critical Care Unit with ventilators but the CCU is not open to Covid patients. “Separate 10-bedded CCU and HDU (High Dependency Unit) for Covid patients are being set up and they should be ready in the next three-four days,” said Subasish Chanda, superintendent, Darjeeling district hospital. This essentially means severe Covid patients needing life support ventilators need to be rushed to Siliguri, a three-hour drive from Darjeeling, or Triveni Covid hospital, a drive of about two hours from the district headquarter. Even three private hospitals in the hill town don’t have ventilators for Covid patients. “We do not have a cumulative figure of the number of patients (who were in need of ventilators) but we are referring one or two cases daily,” said Chanda. Severe Covid patients face breathing problems as the novel coronavirus is known to attack the lungs. In fact, severe Covid patients cannot be offered advance care in Darjeeling as even the six-bedded HDU is closed to them. “The district hospital also has six beds in HDU (these don’t have ventilators but have systems to monitor multiple parameters). But even it cannot be used for Covid patients now,” said a source in the health department. The Triveni Covid hospital, has 10 ventilators, said another source in the department. Health department officials said work was going on to set up a central oxygen support line system at the Darjeeling hospital that would cater for 20 beds in the general Covid ward, apart from the 10 beds at the CCU and HDU units which were being set up. The Darjeeling district hospital does not have an oxygen plant but the health department officials said a “proposal” for the same had been drawn up. Instances that the health care system in the hills needs more focus are coming to light. On Saturday, relatives of a patient who had died of Covid in Kurseong said they would donate “four stretchers” to Kurseong municipality as civic workers who had come to carry the body neither had a bodybag nor stretchers. On Sunday, Anit Thapa, general secretary, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang camp), which controls the Kurseong civic body, said councillors had decided to remove chairman Krishna Limbu as he was medically unwell and the municipality was not functioning well. “Facilities for CT Scan, presence of chest physician, facilities for D-Dimer test are some issues that need to be addressed,” said a hill doctor who also advised his colleagues not to flout Covid norms while admitting patients to private hospitals as it could jeopardise the community at large. There is an allegation that a patient who had tested positive in a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) was hospitalised following questionable procedure and protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Migrants from Assam fail to produce RT-PCR reports, stopped at Bengal border ||Over 400 migrant workers packed in 10 buses coming from Assam were not allowed to cross into Alipurduar district in Bengal as none of them could produce Covid-19 negative certificate, a pre-condition to enter Bengal since stricter restrictions had come into effect in the morning. Officials said about 400 migrant labourers, who used to work in different construction sectors and in private firms in Assam, were returning their homes in Bengal and Bihar by hiring 10 buses as the Assam government had announced a lockdown in the state. The police team deployed at the border stopped the buses and asked for the negative RT-PCR reports of each of the passengers entering the state. “None of them had the certificates.... So, we didn’t allow them to enter,” said a police officer. Sources said the migrant workers told the police that they would conduct the tests at the nearest health centres at their villages in Bengal, but the cops didn’t let them in. Dhiraj Kumar Pandey, a resident of Bihar’s Katihar and an employee of a private firm in Guwahati, was clueless to the next move to reach his home in Bihar. “I have been stuck here since 12 noon and don’t know how I can reach my village. I didn’t know about this report requirement,” said Pandey. The Bengal government had ordered stricter restrictions to arrest the spread of Covid from Sunday morning for the next 15 days with an instruction to all districts having interstate borders to keep an additional vigil on movement of people from the neighbouring states. The district authorities have been asked not to allow anyone to cross over to Bengal without an RT-PCR negative test report, which is valid for 72 hours. Bengal has borders with states like Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar and Assam and there are at least 100 such border outposts in Bengal. According to the order issued by traffic headquarter in Calcutta to all police chiefs in districts and commissionerates, all the districts have been asked to send daily reports on number of spots under surveillance, number of vehicles approaching the border, the number of passengers and the number of persons who were barred from entering the state for not possessing Covid negative reports. Not just the migrant workers from Assam who got stuck in Alipurduar, similar reports came from other inter-state borders as hundreds of people were refused entry in the state through borders in Birbhum and West Burdwan, which share multiple borders with Jharkhand. “We are strictly following the direction of the government to ensure entry of people from Jharkhand with negative test reports. All police stations have set up Naka checking points at the entry points. We are monitoring the borders round the clock,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, the Birbhum police chief. Sources said the interstate borders play a very important role as a large number of people always visit Bengal for their livelihood and health issues. However, the flow was very low on Sunday compared to other days as nearest police stations of neighbouring states were informed about the stricter restriction in Bengal. Police sources said in a few cases, where the vehicles carrying essential commodities, the police requested the people concerned to get a Rapid test report from the nearest hospitals. “In several areas, we helped people in emergency to get rapid tests done from nearest hospitals,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
17-05-2021||West Bengal||CID’s Special Investigation Team to reach Sitalkuchi on Monday||A team of officers from the CID’s Special Investigation Team will reach Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar on Monday to probe into the April 10 firing by CISF personnel, which had killed four voters during the fourth phase of elections in Bengal. The team, headed by a senior officer of the rank of deputy inspector general of police from the CID, would be talking to a section of residents of the Jorapatki village in Sitalkuchi including some eyewitnesses and find out what had exactly happened that had prompted the CISF personnel outside a both to open fire. The visit follows that of Bengal’s governor Jagdeep Dhankhar who had visited Cooch Behar when the dust was settling on Sitalkuchi. Soon after the incident the CISF had alleged that a group of villagers had attacked them outside booth number 126/5 in Jorpatki in Sitalkuchi assembly constituency on the polling day forcing them to open fire. The SIT has sent out two notices to six CISF personnel asking them to appear for a round of questioning about the firing but the central agency has not responded. Preliminary post mortem report has suggested that the bullets were fired by CISF from a medium range and all the four victims had sustained bullet injuries on their upper body. Chief minister, while setting up a SIT to probe into the incident, had termed it as a had termed as “genocide.” Senior officers of the SIT said they would find out what had exactly happened that CIF had to open fire and not resort to conventional means of handling a law and order situation on a polling day. The team members would be speaking to some of the police personnel of Mathabhanga police station to find out if they were around and whether there was any communication between the state police and the CISF before the central force jawans opened fire. “We have found several leads after questioning the investigating officer of the case and the inspector in charge of Mahthabhanga police station. These leads would be corroborated during the course of our field visit,” said a senior officer of the CID. “All statements including those of the family members of the deceased would be recorded.” Immediately after taking oath as Bengal's chief minister Mamata has announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to each of the family members and a government for next to one of the family members of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s Covid-19 cases drop by 143 after 65-day spell ||Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases dropped by 143 on Sunday after a 65-day spell of relentless rise in the figure. As the state reported 19,117 infections on Sunday, the number of active patients was 1,31,805. Bengal also logged 147 deaths, the highest daily toll in the pandemic. A total of 19,113 recoveries helped the state record the drop in the active cases after 65 days. Prior to Sunday, Bengal had reported a fall in the total active cases the last time on March 11, which was the end of a 136-day spell of the steady drop in the figure. However, sources in the state government urged against premature celebration of the drop as an indication of the turning of the tide. “There are predictions of the second wave peaking around mid-May, following which the numbers are expected to nosedive. But there is no reason to believe just yet that we have reached that stage,” said a minister. “There have been slightly fewer infections detected over the weekend, yes, but there have also been relatively fewer tests (on Friday, there were 70,051 tests reported, compared to Sunday’s 64,327). In fact, the (overall) positive confirmation rate actually rose over these two days, from 9.68 to 9.91 per cent,” he added. However, he pointed out that Bengal was still doing much better than the worst-affected states, with 3.73 per cent of the national total of active cases and eighth place on the list of states with most active cases. “A significantly positive indicator that we do want to underscore is the rise in the recovery rate, for the 15th consecutive day, to 87.2 per cent,” said the minister. The national rate now is 84.65. He said the state government was taking specific, incisive measures to curb the outbreak in the city and its immediate neighbourhood, which had been reporting the most cases and deaths. “Calcutta and North 24-Parganas alone have over 52,000 — nearly 40 per cent — of the total active cases. Add to that another 31,000-odd from Howrah, Hooghly, South 24-Parganas and Nadia… that’s 63 per cent of the active cases,” he added. While Calcutta recorded 3,451 infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,116 on Sunday. The 147 deaths included 33 from the city and 39 from North 24-Parganas. The state’s total toll from Covid now is 13,284, while the mortality rate is 1.17 per cent. The national rate is now 1.09.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad: Three children drown in crater at brickfield ||Three children drowned in a crater filled with water at a brickfield in Ranitala of Murshidabad district on Saturday. The deceased were Sadikul Sheikh, 8, Asha Khatun, 8, and Rohit Sheikh, 6. Sadikul and Asha are Class II students, while Rohit studies in Class I. The crater was formed when the earth was dug up in the brickfield at Nandanpur village. The deceased trio’s family members said the brickfield owner had dug up earth from a stretch of land and hence, several pits had come up at the kiln. Rainwater fills up the craters, one of which turned into a death trap for the children who had gone to the brickfield to play. “We started searching for the children as they hadn’t returned home even after dusk. After over three hours, a villager informed me that a child’s body had been floating in a crater at the brickfield. We rushed to the spot and fished out the bodies,” said Gani Sheikh, father of Sadikul. Murshidabad superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar said: “We have started a probe to find out whether the accident took place because of the brickfield owner’s negligence.” Boy dies in blast An 11-year-old boy was killed when a crude bomb exploded in his hands at Khotipur village near Parui in Birbhum district on Sunday afternoon. Sheikh Nasiruddin had apparently picked the bomb mistaking it for a ball. Family members said the Class V student of a local high school had gone to play at a village ground where he had found the bomb. “According to eyewitnesses, my grandson started playing with a bomb as he thought it was a ball. The bomb went off and he died on the spot,” Nasiruddin’s grandfather Sheikh Jamir said. Birbhum district police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi said: “A boy died while he was playing with a crude bomb. We have started a probe.” Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Three BJP MLAs protest against mishandling of Covid-19 by Mamata Banerjee govt||Three BJP MLAs descended on the deserted Hill Cart Road here on Sunday morning and held a sit-in demonstration to protest alleged mishandling of Covid-19 by the Mamata Banerjee government. Police arrested Shankar Ghosh, Shikha Chatterjee and Anandamoy Barman, the BJP MLAs of Siliguri, Matigara-Naxalbari and Dabgram-Fulbari, respectively, under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and released them later. The trio’s protest in violation of strict curbs put in place by the state government to contain the contagion drew flak from BJP leaders who feared the drama would backfire on the party as the Narendra Modi dispensation came under international criticism for poor handling of the pandemic. Ghosh, Chatterjee and Barman started the dharna at Hashmi Chowk around 10am. “People are dying here every day…. the administration, the health department and the civic body have completely failed to address the situation. Being people’s representatives, it is our duty to raise voice against the death of helpless people because of lack of proper facilities,” said Siliguri MLA Ghosh, who had left the CPM and joined the BJP a few days before the Assembly polls. The MLAs said private nursing homes and a section of ambulance drivers were charging exorbitant fees from Covid patients and their families in and around Siliguri. “There is an acute shortage of oxygen and cylinders and accessories items are not available at normal rates,” said Barman. The trio also alleged that they were never invited to any administrative meeting where they could make some suggestions for the improvement of health care facilities in Siliguri city and the subdivision and the adjoining areas of Jalpaiguri. BJP insiders said the MLAs should have refrained from organising the protest. “Our party and the government at the Centre are under attack for mishandling the Covid situation... Now, if we start attacking others, it will boomerang on us,” said a state BJP leader. According to him, the BJP had been highlighting the post-poll violence in Bengal till the other day to keep the focus away from the Covid situation. “Now, our MLAs go and sit on a dharna... It was not needed,” he added. Trinamul Congress leader and chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation Gautam Deb said the BJP MLAs’ protest was to reap political dividends out of a crisis. “The Prime Minister and his government have miserably failed to counter the second wave of the pandemic that is claiming thousands of lives every day. If they were protesting against the deaths, they should also raise voices over what is happening across India, for which the BJP government is responsible. There is a dearth of vaccines and people are dying because of oxygen shortage. But the Prime Minister looks oblivious to the disaster and is focusing on his dream project of central vista,” said Deb. He added after Mamata Banerjee had assumed charge as the chief minister for the third time, she had been working on war footing to handle the situation. “In the past 10 days, beds have been increased at government and private hospitals, and oxygen plants installed. New safe homes have been opened, additional doctors and paramedics engaged and steps were taken to prevent anomalies in healthcare,” said a government source. “We have never seen any of these MLAs standing beside Covid patients and their families. Instead, they are indulging in cheap political gimmicks,” said Deb. When police officers asked the MLAs to lift the dharna and leave, the trio refused. After about an hour, the MLAs were whisked away to the police station. Later, they were released on bail. The MLAs’ protest has not gone down well with Siliguri residents. “Instead of resorting to protests, the MLAs should have joined hands with other BJP MLAs and mounted pressure on the Centre for supply of more vaccines, oxygen and essential health equipment,” said Swati Dutta, a homemaker who witnessed the death of some of her near ones from Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
