18-05-2021||West Bengal||Arrested TMC leaders likely to seek recall of HC order in Narda case||The Calcutta High Court is likely to hear petitions by two Bengal ministers, a Trinamul Congress MLA and a former party leader on Wednesday seeking recall of its order staying their bail granted by a CBI court in connection with their arrest in the Narada sting tape case. Counsels appearing for ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee mentioned the matter before a division bench presided over by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Tuesday. The bench, also comprising Justice Arijit Banerjee, permitted them to file the recalling petitions. It is also likely to hear the matter on May 19 along with a petition by the CBI wherein it has sought transfer of the Narada sting tape case hearing. The central investigating agency had moved the high court on Monday soon after a special CBI court had granted bail to the four arrested leaders. Staying the order of bail by the lower court in a late evening ruling on Monday, the division bench fixed the hearing in the matter on Wednesday. A division bench had said that it deemed it appropriate to stay the special court's order and direct that the "accused person shall be treated to be in judicial custody till further orders". The sting operation was conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours. The tapes were made public just before the 2016 Assembly elections in Bengal. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the sting operation in March 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
18-05-2021||West Bengal||High drama marks Day Two of arrest of Trinamul leaders, HC hearing Wednesday  ||The arrest of four top Trinamul leaders, including two ministers, in connection with the Narada sting operation was the springboard for drama of all varieties, namely, political, medical and a domestic one. In the wee hours of Tuesday, two of those arrested, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, were brought to SSKM Hospital after they complained of ill health. Chatterjee is a patient of chronic sugar, but his immediate health concern was not known. But standing by him in his hour of crisis were the two women in his life, his wife of 22 years Ratna _ he has filed for divorce from her _ and his friend Baisakhi Banerjee. Ratna, now an MLA from the very seat he represented, had rushed to the Nizam Palace, soon after he was arrested on Monday. At night, while Chatterjee was in a cell at Presidency Jail, Baisakhi was caught on camera outside the jail premises banging a door, demanding that she be allowed to meet him. “He has high sugar. Give him his medicine,” Baisakhi was heard saying a number of times. When Chatterjee was moved from Presidency Jail to the SSKM Woodburn Ward, Baisakhi was there too. Sources said she managed to sneak inside the 40-bed heritage wing of the sate's premiere hospital and demanded admission there. “She said she has severe health complications and has to be admitted. We have been trying to convince her that admission to the hospital is not possible this way. She has refused to leave,” said a source. In case of Mitra, his medical complaint was specific: breathlessness. Mitra was kept on oxygen support for a while immediately after his admission to the hospital and again later on Tuesday afternoon. Mitra was detected with Covid a month ago and has been under treatment. His condition is now reported to be stable. Later in the day, the third and the senior-most among the quartet Subrata Mukherjee too was admitted to SSKM Hospital after complaining of difficulty in breathing. A cardiologist from SSKM has also attended on the septuagenarian Mukherjee. For the time being, cabins 102, 103 and 104 at Woodburn Ward are where the ailing leaders have been kept. The fourth, Firhad Hakim, state minister as well as mayor of Calcutta, is still in Presidency Jail. For the ruling Trinamul, however, the arrest of the four has signalled the beginning of a long politico-legal drama. A series of internal meetings have been held within the party to decide on the next course of action. The four arrested leaders are likely to file an appeal against the Calcutta High Court’s stay on the bail granted to them by the CBI special court. The case will come up for hearing before the bench led by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Wednesday. Mamata’s dharna at the CBI office at Nizam Palace and the Trinamul’s show of strength on the streets outside on Monday did not go down well with the high court, which described the situation on the ground as “extra-ordinary”. Despite the electoral routing that the BJP suffered at the hands of the Trinamul, its machinations to grab power in the state are still on by exercising its control over central probe agencies. The suspicion is that the BJP will continue to let tension simmer on the ground in Bengal and engineer more defections from the Trinamul. The case before the high court was placed by no less than solicitor-general of India Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor-general of India Y.J. Dastoor. Acting on behalf of the CBI, they said the agency was being obstructed in carrying out its duty in the state. The fate of the Trinamul leaders, and whether the case will continue to be heard in Calcutta or moved elsewhere will be decided on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada scam: Madan Mitra, Sovan Chatterjee admitted to hospital ||Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee, who were arrested by the CBI in the Narada sting case, were admitted to a hospital here early on Tuesday after their health condition deteriorated in a correctional home, an official said. They were taken to the state-run SSKM Hospital as both the politicians complained of breathlessness, he said. The central agency had also apprehended two senior West Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee in connection with the case, and all four were taken to Presidency Correctional Home in Kolkata late on Monday night. "Chatterjee and Mitra complained of breathlessness at around 3 am, following which they were brought to the hospital. Both have been kept on oxygen support at the Woodburn Ward of the SSKM Hospital. They are stable now," the official of the medical facility told PTI. Mukherjee, who fell sick in the correctional home, was also brought to the hospital for a check-up early on Tuesday, he said. But the minister was taken back to the jail after completion of the health check-up as he "did not want to get admitted" to the medical facility, the official said. Mukherjee was again brought to SSKM Hospital on Tuesday morning for some tests, he said. The health condition of Hakim, however, was stated to be fine. Following the admission of the two arrested political leaders at the hospital, a large posse of Kolkata Police personnel has been deployed there. The four were apprehended on Monday morning. The Calcutta High Court stayed a special CBI court's decision to grant bail to the four who were arrested and charge-sheeted by the agency in the Narada sting tape case. A division bench said it deemed it appropriate to stay the special court's order and direct that they shall be treated to be in "judicial custody till further orders". The sting operation was conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours. The tapes were made public just before the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the sting operation in March, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports drop in total active Covid-19 cases for second consecutive day||Bengal on Monday recorded a drop in total active Covid-19 cases — by 245 to 1,31,560 — for the second consecutive day after a 65-day spell of relentless rise in the figure. On Monday, the state reported 19,003 infections and 147 deaths, besides 19,101 recoveries. Prior to these two days, the last time the state had reported a drop in the total active cases was on March 11 — which was the end of a 136-day spell of steady drop in the number of active patients. A minister pointed out that while there had been slightly fewer infections detected over the past three days, there were relatively fewer tests — on Friday, there were 70,051 tests reported, compared to Monday’s 60,016. “The positive confirmation rate actually rose from 9.68 on Friday to 10.02 per cent. That means relatively more infections were detected, despite there being fewer tests,” said the minister. “Therefore, there is no reason to believe yet that the widely predicted trough, after the crest till mid-May, is already here,” he added. Bengal now has 3.9 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth place on the list of states with most active cases. In what is being noted as a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 16th consecutive day, to 87.42 per cent. The national rate now is 85.49. Of the 147 deaths, 37 each were reported from the city and North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. While Calcutta logged 3,899 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,220 on Monday. The state’s total Covid-19 casualty count now is 13,431, while the mortality rate is 1.16 per cent. The national rate is now 1.1. “The mortality rate has been falling in the second wave, despite the number of deaths in a day going up from 0-2 to 140-plus in a matter of weeks. This has been possible only because of an exponential increase in the denominator (the total number of cases), so this trend is not really a plus,” said the minister. Exactly two months ago, the state had reported one death and 303 new infections, with the total cases at 5.79 lakh. On Monday, the total cases stood at 11.52 lakh, with 19,003 new infections and 147 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: CBI court grants interim bail to Bengal ministers, Calcutta HC overturns order||A special CBI court here granted interim bail to Bengal ministers and two others in the Narada case, but within hours, Calcutta High Court overturned the order. The CBI had arrested ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee earlier in the day. A high court bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal stayed the interim bail order later on Monday night. The high court will hear the plea elaborately on Wednesday. Until then, the four accused have been remanded in judicial custody. Moving the high court, CBI counsel Dinesh Kumar argued that at the time of hearing bail petitions of the accused persons, five prominent ministers of the state government and several outsiders were present in the special CBI court. “In this situation, it was impossible for the CBI court to judge the case freely,” Kumar argued. The lawyer also claimed that a large number of Trinamul Congress supporters had gathered in front of its office shortly after the arrests. The counsel said the mob had also attacked police and CBI officials as well and prevented the central agency from producing the four accused leaders in the CBI special court physically. The CBI counsel also prayed for transfer of the case from Calcutta to Bhubaneshwar or Guwahati and prayed for judicial custody of the accused leaders at least till the next date of hearing. The high court is yet to decide on the plea to shift the case outside Bengal. Several legal questions were raised on the role of the CBI in dealing with the matter. Congress leader and eminent Calcutta High Court lawyer, Arunava Ghosh, said: “What was the urgency of the CBI to move the high court the same day? When the CBI court had granted bail to the accused leaders, they should have been released immediately.” CPM MP and senior advocate of Calcutta High Court, Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, however, said: “Law has taken its own course.” The ruling Trinamool Congress MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the “CBI has become a puppet of the central government. It is not an impartial investigating agency but the CBI is acting as per the directive of Centre.” Earlier in the day, special CBI court judge, Anupam Mukherjee, had asked the accused persons to furnish two sureties of Rs 25,000 each for interim bail. CBI sleuths picked up the four leaders from their homes and drove them to the investigating agency’s office at Nizam Palace in south Calcutta. It was only after a few hours that the CBI issued arrest orders to the four leaders. When the CBI officials were asked about the reason for the arrest, the leaders were told that they had been shown to be taking bribes in a sting operation conducted by Narada web portal. They were also told that the investigating agency would hand over the copy of the chargesheet to the special CBI court later in the day. After the arrest of the three Trinamul leaders and former mayor Chatterjee, chief minister Mamata Banerjee rushed to the CBI office and an angry crowd of Trinamul supporters gathered outside, making the production of the accused in the court almost impossible. Hence, the CBI prayed for virtual production of the arrested leaders in the special CBI court. After discussing the plea with counsels of both the sides, the special CBI judge agreed to hear the case virtually. Appearing for the CBI, counsel Dinesh Kumar prayed for CBI custody of the arrested leaders and said since they were very influential, they should be kept behind bars for the sake of future course of the investigation. Defending the arrested quartet, senior advocate and Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee opposed the CBI’s prayer and said the arrests were illegal. “Until and unless it is proved that the leaders had demanded money, they cannot be held guilty of the crime. In the sting operation it was shown that the sting operator had offered money and the leaders had taken it,” the lawyer said. At this point, the CBI counsel amended their prayer and demanded jail custody of the accused leaders. They also told the judge that they would submit the chargesheet against the four arrested leaders. The judge then asked the CBI counsel what was the need to seek the custody of the accused persons when the chargesheets was ready. The CBI counsel could not answer the query. Advocate Banerjee claimed that only Trinamul Congress leaders had been arrested, but BJP leaders Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikary, who were accused in the same case, had been spared. Banerjee argued that the Supreme Court had on May 7 asked police not to make unnecessary arrests because of the raging Covid-19 pandemic and added that “the CBI did not bother to obey the Supreme Court”. Banerjee also said the arrests were made after seeking the nod of the governor and he did “not have the power to give such approvals”. After hearing both the sides, the judge issued his order granting interim bail to the four arrested leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: CBI excludes Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari from chargesheet ||For a change, those who were not arrested drew almost the same, if not more, degree of attention as those who were arrested. The exclusion of the names of Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy from the CBI chargesheet in the Narada case prised open the question why the two erstwhile Trinamul leaders who are now in the BJP weren’t arrested by the CBI. Apart from the four arrested — Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee — the chargesheet that was submitted before a special CBI court on Monday named S.M.H Mirza, the then superintendent of police in Burdwan. Neither Roy nor Adhikari found mention in the chargesheet in the case, which dates back to 2016, even though they were among the 13 named in the FIR filed by the central investigating agency back in April 2017. Two years after drawing up the FIR, the CBI had arrested Mirza in September 2019. The suspended IPS officer was later granted bail. The exclusion of Adhikari and Roy from the chargesheet was greeted with surprise by Mathew Samuel, who carried out the sting operation. “I am happy with the arrests made this morning... but I wondered what happened to Suvendu Adhikari,” he said. “I went to his office and gave him the money. It was recorded properly and then forensically tested in Chandigarh and Gujarat. I had given my visuals to the forensic lab in Hyderabad and they went to Gujarat and Chandigarh and all these places.” “This is very sad,” said Samuel, who faced several rounds of questioning from the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate in Calcutta. Trinamul leader and lawyer Kalyan Banerjee asked why Adhikari and Roy had been spared by the central agency. “I think the first person to be arrested should be Mukul Roy.... IPS officer Mirza, who was earlier arrested in this case, had said in his statement to the court that he took money because Mukul Roy had told him to. Still, the CBI did not act,” he said. There was no official word about the exclusions. In the absence of a credible explanation, a perception could gain ground that the CBI was being used as a blackmailing tool to intimidate political rivals to switch sides or face the music. Sources in the CBI said the agency had received sanction from the competent authority to act against the public servants for allegedly receiving gratification from the sting operator after it had investigated the case, which was drawn up on April 16, 2017, following a Calcutta High Court order. “Sanction for one more accused who was then the SP was also received. He was earlier arrested,” said R.C. Joshi of the CBI. “Further investigations are on.” Senior CBI officers said they had sought sanction from the Lok Sabha Speaker in April 2019 for prosecuting Adhikari and others, but it had yet to come. “We have sent a reminder on this appeal. The official nod is yet to come. Once that happens, the law will take its own course,” a senior CBI officer said. Within hours of the arrest of the four, social media had exploded with Twitter users questioning why the two BJP leaders, now elected MLAs in Bengal, had not been named in the CBI chargesheet. In the run-up to the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP had used the video of the sting operation to portray Trinamul leaders as corrupt. Across party offices and social media platforms, the video had become one of the BJP’s strongest weapons against Trinamul. Last December, a day after Adhikari had switched sides in the presence of Amit Shah, the video was removed from the BJP’s official YouTube channel. The BJP’s Bengal leadership had no answer why the video had been removed. Senior leaders couldn’t hide their embarrassment in private, wondering why it had not been taken down after Mukul Roy and Sovan Chatterjee had joined the BJP. On Monday, BJP leader Rahul Sinha said: “It’s not for Trinamul to decide who would be named in the chargesheet by the CBI in this case. The investigating agency has been doing its job. It will be wrong to see any political motive behind the arrests.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Nocturnal legal blow to TMC’s day of fight||The Trinamul Congress came out firing on all cylinders on Monday, sustaining pressure and building momentum through the day, in taking on the “politically motivated” Narada-related hyperactivity of the CBI — backed fiercely by the saffron ecosystem — thinking it was ending the day on a note of triumph, but the euphoria was shortlived. The lower court’s interim bail, granted in the evening to Trinamul heavyweights Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, and Madan Mitra, besides former Trinamul leader Sovan Chatterjee, who quit the BJP just before the elections, was stayed late at night by Calcutta High Court. The matter was fixed for hearing by the high court on Wednesday, till which time the four leaders are to stay in judicial custody. Trinamul’s lawyer-MP Kalyan Banerjee, who spearheaded the legal proceedings on behalf of the party, said at night that the high court developments were “unheard of” and he needed more time to understand what actually had happened there. Sources in his party, on the condition of anonymity, attributed to the Serampore MP’s “over-confidence” some of the blame for the setback. Earlier in the day, Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee had led from the front with a defiant six-hour stay at the CBI office in the Nizam Palace, resisting the browbeating attempts by the bellicose Union home ministry under Amit Shah that the central agency reports to. The CBI and its political masters, who seemingly had otherwise planned for the sequence of events of Monday morning rather meticulously, found themselves in a corner when the chief minister walked in around 10.50am and demanded that she, too, be arrested, along with her party colleagues whom they had picked up earlier in the morning. “That’s when she (Mamata) began forcing them on the backfoot. They had factored in a dharna elsewhere, like on the Rajeev Kumar occasion... protests here and there, besides challenges in court. They had not seen this coming,” said a Trinamul state vice-president. “There was already a groundswell against the actions, attributed directly to Shah.” Mamata left the CBI office after the likes of lawyer-MP Banerjee — who led the arguments for the defendants — assured her that bail for the leaders was just a matter of time. “Kalyan’s over-confidence cost us, in the end. Instead of going about chest-thumping after the bail from the lower court, he should have consulted major legal minds, who are always willing to help, such as (the Congress’s senior lawyer-leaders) Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Kapil Sibal,” said a Trinamul source. “The CBI had not allowed them (the leaders) to leave for hours, despite the bail. It should have struck us then that the agency and its boss (Shah) were preparing for something we hadn’t factored in,” he added. Through the day, Mamata and her party not only found support from most prominent non-BJP players, including her otherwise bitter Bengal rivals, the CPM and the Congress, but also from civil society — even its apolitical sections — as criticism of the CBI and its “political masters” was widespread in social media. The criticism was mainly on two counts: the likes of Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy (both former Trinamul heavyweights, now in the BJP, co-accused in the Narada case) apparently being spared; the timing of the arrests. With Mamata inside and hundreds of Trinamul workers outside, the historic Nizam Palace on AJC Bose Road had become a key flashpoint in the relentless skirmishes between the Bengal government and the Centre over the past few dasy. As protests grew across the state, with an increasing build-up outside the Nizam Palace resulting in a short-lived flare-up, the Trinamul leadership was quick to douse the flames. Orders went out to nodal persons, urging restraint. The crowds outside the Nizam Palace remained through the day. Since the evening, the Trinamul workers and supporters were preparing for celebrations to welcome the arrested leaders’ release on bail. At night, after the high court development, the dejected lot launched a sit-in demonstration against the CBI and the BJP. A large police contingent was deployed on AJC Bose Road by the state administration to ensure there was no further flare-up as the CBI already used the excuse of the afternoon incident to demand transfer of the case to another state. At night, while preparations were underway to move the quartet to the Presidency Correctional Home at Alipore, sources in Trinamul said steps were being taken to ensure that all the four got hospitalisation-like arrangements. “All the four have numerous comorbidities and this is the peak of the second wave of Covid-19. They are all middle-aged or aged. We have to ensure they don’t fall ill from all this,” said a Trinamul MP. While Chatterjee, the youngest of the four, is 56, Mukherjee, the oldest, is 76.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: CBI arrests two Bengal ministers, an MLA, and a former mayor||The CBI arrested two Bengal ministers, a Trinamul MLA and a former Calcutta mayor on Monday in the Narada case, the crackdown coming days after the BJP’s crushing Assembly poll defeat and just when the state government is battling a Covid emergency. Shortly after the morning arrests of cabinet ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, chief minister Mamata Banerjee arrived outside the CBI office, offered to be arrested and stayed put till the accused were granted interim bail by a CBI court in the evening. However, the CBI moved Calcutta High Court, following which a bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal stayed the bail order on Monday night. The high court will hear the plea to cancel the bail on Wednesday. The four accused “shall be treated to be in judicial custody till further orders”, the high court bench said. The petitioner informed the high court bench that “the chief minister came to the spot (the CBI office)… and sat on dharna there. The matter did not end there. The law minister of the state went to the (CBI) court, where the accused were to be presented, along with a crowd of 2,000 to 3,000 supporters and remained in court throughout the day.” In the order, the high court bench said: “We are not touching the merits of the controversy but the manner in which pressure was sought to be put will not inspire confidence of the people in the rule of law.” The CBI  requested  the court to transfer the case to another  state. The court did not immediately pronounce its decision. Before the high court bench of Justices Bindal and Arijit Banerjee, the CBI was represented by solicitor-general of India Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor-general of India Y.J. Dastoor. All four politicians had been picked up from their homes one by one between 8am and 9am by teams of three or four CBI officials and about two dozen central force personnel each, following sanction from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The accused cooperated and did not resist arrest, sources said. The quartet were brought to the CBI office at Nizam Palace around 10.30am. Mamata arrived about 15 minutes later and headed to the 14th floor to meet the DIG CBI, the senior-most agency officer in the building, and offered to be arrested. She spent the next six hours there, leaving only around 5pm after learning that the CBI court had granted bail to all four after a virtual hearing. Sources close to the chief minister said she had not entered the DIG’s room but waited outside. She then agreed to a request to use a vacant cabin, meant for an SP. She was offered tea, biscuits and sorbet but refused each time, sources said. “It was a very courteous exchange of words between Madam and the CBI officers. Her point was that it was illegal to arrest ministers and legislators without seeking the Assembly Speaker’s permission. The officers kept citing an amendment to the laws to justify their act,” a CBI officer told this newspaper. The biggest casualty of the arrests could be the planning and preparations for the battle against Covid since Hakim is the man in charge of the civic body. Mamata, who spent the day at the CBI office, had to deal with two fronts. The chief minister made several phone calls and received a few, including one from Dhankhar sometime after the governor had tweeted his concern for law and order in the state. Dhankhar’s tweet read: “Concerned at alarming situation. Call upon @Mamataofficial to follow constitutional norms & rule of law. Police @WBPolice @KolkataPolice @HomeBengal must take all steps to maintain law & order… Sad- situation is being allowed to drift with no tangible action by authorities.” Mamata is said to have expressed displeasure at Dhankhar’s comments on law and order and assured him that everything was under control. “It was not a very pleasant conversation. She was upset with him and told him she knew who was behind all this (the arrests). She asked him not to indulge in such things in future,” a source said. While Mamata was at Nizam Palace, the area outside on AJC Bose Road turned into a virtual battlefield. Groups of Trinamul supporters protesting the arrests closed in on the building, some trying to break through the police cordon. The central forces carried out a baton charge before the city police took control and pushed the crowd back. Trinamul supporters protested at many other places across the state. Party leaders questioned the legality of the arrests. While stepping out of his Chetla home with CBI officers by his side around 8.55am, Hakim had said: “The CBI is arresting me without seeking permission from the Speaker.” Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh later complained: “How come they arrived with so many men, who huddled in the neighbourhood without maintaining social distancing? Where was the need to bring (so many of) them? What did the CBI think, that Dada (one of the accused four) would try to run? The CBI should be ashamed of playing puppet to the BJP.” The non-BJP Opposition parties in the state condemned the CBI action and attributed political motives to the sudden arrests. The CBI has for the past four years been probing the five-year-old, purported Narada sting operation that showed people resembling eminent figures accepting wads of cash. The FIR names 13 people, mostly Trinamul politicians some of whom later defected to the BJP. Sovan recently left the BJP too. The agency submitted its first chargesheet in the case on Monday, charging the four arrested politicians and a former IPS officer, S.M.H. Mirza, under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code. Mirza had been arrested earlier and is out on bail. All the four accused were produced before the CBI court through webcam, and lawyers from both sides presented their arguments. Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee, who represented the three arrested party leaders, alleged “CBI vindictiveness”. “The Supreme Court had recently passed an order that police should not unnecessarily arrest anyone due to the pandemic situation. When my clients had cooperated all through, what was the need for all this?” he said. Kalyan argued that the governor cannot “give independent sanction (for such arrests) without the aid and advice of the council of ministers headed by the chief minister”. The CBI’s lawyers argued that the accused, being “influential”, could tamper with evidence and should therefore be remanded in judicial custody. Judge Anupam Mukherjee granted the four accused interim bail against a bond of Rs 50,000 each with two sureties of Rs 25,000 each on the condition that they would cooperate with the investigating officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Left, Congress criticise BJP and Centre for safeguarding Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari||The recent Assembly polls could not bring non-BJP parties in Bengal on the same page, but the CBI’s arrest of three Trinamul leaders — including two state ministers — and a former Calcutta mayor on Monday could do that. The arrests of these leaders in the Narada case found unequivocal condemnation from the CPM and the Congress, both arch-rivals of Bengal’s ruling party. Left Front chairman Biman Bose and state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, a known critic of Mamata Banerjee, issued separate statements condemning the arrests. They have criticised the BJP and central government for safeguarding Trinamul turncoats Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari who are also accused in the Narada case. Congress MP Chowdhury was the first to come out with a statement. He questioned the timing of the arrest and said the development shouldn’t have come at a time when the pandemic was taking lives and people were begging for treatment and oxygen. “In the wake of the coronavirus (pandemic), these arrests (were done). They could’ve been arrested two days earlier or two days later,” Chowdhury said. He added that the CBI shouldn’t behave in a partisan manner by arresting some and sparing other accused in the same case. CPM veteran Bose in his statement issued on behalf of the Left Front said: “When the people of the country are facing unprecedented crisis of life and livelihood amidst the coronavirus pandemic, the (union) government is trying to hide its incompetence by shifting people’s focus (to these arrests)…this is why this time has been selected.” He also criticised the contradictory stands taken by the Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the Bengal governor on the same issue to allow the arrests of public representatives, who are accused in the case. While the governor has allowed the arrest of the then state ministers, who are accused in the case, the Lok Sabha Speaker has been sitting on CBI’s plea to arrest those who were MPs at the time when the sting operation was carried out. “The Union government has a two-faced policy…CBI has to answer why people accused in the same case but are now BJP leaders have not been arrested,” the statement issued by Bose read. CPM state secretary Surya Kanta Mishra also issued a statement on behalf of the party condemning the arrests and questioning its timing. Acknowledging the fact that the people of Bengal had voted against the BJP in the recent polls, Bose, however, reminded the Trinamul leadership that it should not compromise with “corruption” any further. The statements from the Left and the Congress have taken Trinamul leaders by surprise as well. However, they have appreciated the gestures from their rivals. “We were taken by surprise after we received such statements from people who had badmouthed us during the polls. It is good that they’ve finally realised that a united stand against the BJP must be taken,” a Trinamul leader said on condition of anonymity. A section of the BJP has also questioned the arrests. “What end did all these arrests serve? Our workers who are already being tortured by the Trinamul goons at villages will now be susceptible to more violence. Doesn’t our central leadership understand this?” a state BJP leader asked. The leader also added the arrests might have been done to send a message to other Trinamul turncoats, who had joined the BJP before the polls and were now considering returning to their former party. Officially, the BJP maintained that the party had nothing to do with the arrests. “The investigation has happened under the court’s orders. We have nothing to do with it,” spokesperson for the state BJP Samik Bhattacharya said. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid restrictions on backseat as protest erupts after arrest of TMC leaders in Narada case||The first weekday after the state government imposed stricter restrictions to combat Covid-19 was lost on Monday as far as the fight against the disease was concerned as politics behind the arrests of two ministers in the Narada case took centrestage. Following the arrests, chief minister Mamata Banerjee rushed to CBI office at Nizam Palace and stayed there till the evening. Hence, she could not spend much time at Nabanna during the day and several activities related to the Covid fight were affected. Although there was a scheduled cabinet meeting, Mamata could not attend it physically. She spoke at the session for a while over the telephone that was put on speaker mode. The chief minister touched on a few issues but did not say anything on the pandemic, sources said. “Usually, the chief minister outlines the next course of action of the government at cabinet meetings. But she could not make her thoughts clear and could not attend the meeting. The directions of the chief minister were needed after the state had announced stricter restrictions for 15 days,” said a source. Mamata, however, reached Nabanna in the evening and held meetings with top government officials. But she could not attend the meeting that was called to take note of the ground realities in several districts. Based on the information gathered from districts, further decisions are taken. “Usually, the chief secretary holds the meeting and the chief minister often sends a message through telephone during the video conference. The meeting was held but the chief minister could not send any message,” said the source. The arrest of panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee by the CBI in the Narada case hurt severely the efforts to plan how the 100-day job scheme could be carried on during the period of the stricter restrictions. The panchayat department would hold a meeting on Tuesday with districts authorities to ensure that the job scheme is not affected and poor people don’t face a problem to earn livelihood. “The meeting is scheduled for tomorrow, but planning is required before that. The planning part was hurt severely as the minister could not hold any meeting today,” said a source. An official pointed out that the meetings were important to fix a plan through which the poor people could be given jobs during the lockdown-like situation by maintaining all Covid-19 protocols. “We had successfully done it soon after the nationwide lockdown had been lifted last year. This year also, we are planning to go for such activities to give respite to the poor people in rural areas,” said a source in the panchayat department. Sources in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said several activities, including swab collection of suspected Covid patients for RT-PCR tests, were affected because of the absence of Firhad Hakim, who is the chairman of the board of administrators at the civic body. Along with Mukherjee, minister Hakim was also arrested by the CBI. “It’s not that the work was stalled. The officers were doing their job but the guidance from a public representative was missing,” said a source. Hakim, who also monitors the satellite centres of various Covid hospitals, could not attend a meeting which was supposed to plan an increase in the number of beds at some safe homes. “The meetings could be held tomorrow. But a day was lost and 24 hours is very precious during a pandemic,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet clears proposal to set up Bidhan Parishad ||The Bengal cabinet on Monday cleared a proposal to set up a Bidhan Parishad in the state, upper House of the Assembly, which the chief minister had proposed ahead of the polls. “A proposal to set up the Bidhan Parishad was put forward by the parliamentary affairs department at the cabinet meeting that lasted for barely a few minutes. The chief minister addressed the cabinet through telephone as she was camping in Nizam Palace at that time. The proposal was cleared by the cabinet,” said a minister who attended the meeting. Sources said only eight ministers had attended the meeting and only a few other proposals like setting up of satellite centres in various stadiums for Covid patients were cleared. The minister said among them, the proposal to set up the Bidhan Parishad was the most significant one. “The chief minister had announced Bidhan Parishad after several MLAs, including finance minister Amit Mitra, could not be given tickets for various reasons, including Covid-19. The chief minister made her intentions clear that she was ready to fulfill her promises.” According to sources in the government, the parliamentary affairs department would now prepare a bill for setting up the Bidhan Parishad, which would be put up in the Assembly. “But the bill would have to be sent to the Presidential for assent. Once it secures the presidential assent, the work for setting up of the Bidhan Parishad could start,” said a senior official. In Bengal, Bidhan Parishad was dissolved in 1969 and since then, no proposal was forwarded to the Centre to set up the same, sources said. The Bidhan Parishad could have a maximum number of one third members of the Assembly seats. The Bengal Assembly has 294 seats and hence, there could be a maximum of 98 members in the Bidhan Parishad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada scam: A sting that smoulders even after five years||The Narada sting operation, inseparable from Bengal’s political discourse and popular imagination since the summer of 2016, has been one of the two major “scams” — the other being the Saradha Group’s deposit-mobilisation default case — that the Opposition in the state has repeatedly attacked Mamata Banerjee and her party over. The timeline of the Narada sting operation is as follows. March 14, 2016: First shown at the BJP state headquarters in Calcutta, with days remaining for the Assembly elections. The sting operator, Narada Media chief executive officer Mathew Samuel, claimed that the operation had been conducted before the Lok Sabha elections of 2014. The operation showed persons resembling some Trinamul leaders taking “bribes” from Samuel, who posed as a businessman. The leaders allegedly shown in the videos were Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, (then) Tamluk MP Suvendu Adhikari, Rajya Sabha member Mukul Roy, Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Howrah MP Prasun Banerjee, Uluberia MP Sultan Ahmed and Arambagh MP Aparupa Poddar, besides ministers Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Sovan Chatterjee, Madan Mitra, and then Calcutta deputy mayor and Khanakul MLA Iqbal Ahmed. Others, such as Trinamul leader Shanku Deb Panda and IPS officer S.M.H. Meerza, were also allegedly part of the videos. February 2017: A public interest litigation was moved before Calcutta High Court seeking a CBI probe. The case came up for hearing before then acting Chief Justice Nishita Mhatre and Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty. Senior counsel and CPM leader Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya moved the PIL and demanded the CBI probe to know the truth. March 14, 2017: The division bench directed a CBI probe. March 19, 2017: Both Trinamul and the state government moved the Supreme Court, demanding a stay on the CBI probe. March 20, 2017: The Supreme Court upheld the high court’s decision. March, 2019: Bhattacharyya again moved the high court and claimed that the CBI was unnecessarily delaying the filing of the chargesheet in the case. In reply, the CBI counsels told the court that the chargesheet was ready and they were awaiting approval by the Lok Sabha Speaker to file charges against MPs. January, 2021: The CBI sought approval from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for prosecution of those who were MLAs, also ministers, in 2016. May 7, 2021: Two days after Mamata Banerjee had taken oath as chief minister for the third consecutive term, Dhankhar gave his approval to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Former serviceman Abul Kalam Sheikh lynched by neighbours ||An ex-serviceman was lynched allegedly by his neighbours after he protested against their goats eating up his jute saplings at Swaruppur village in Murshidabad’s Hariharpara on Monday afternoon. Sources said Abul Kalam Sheikh, 49, had retired as a soldier few years ago and had been working as a security guard at a private firm in Jangipur town in Murshidabad. Sheikh returned his home at Swaruppur village on Saturday after the state government announced implementation of stricter restrictions to restrain the pandemic, the sources added. “My husband used to cultivate jute on our land. On Monday, he found three goats eating up the jute saplings and informed the owners of the cattle about the incident. It was not the first time that the goats ate jute saplings in our field. There was an argument between my husband and the cattle owners when he protested the happening and they lynched him with iron rods and bricks,” said Ayesha Parvin, wife of Sheikh. Sheikh and Ayesha have two sons. Later in the evening, police detained seven persons and started a murder case following a complaint lodged by Ayesha. “We have started a murder case and detained seven persons for interrogation. The probe is on to find out whether there were more people involved in the killing,” said Subimal Paul, the additional superintendent of police (headquarters) in Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Leopard sneaks into residential area, attacks two persons||A wild leopard mauled two persons after it sneaked into a residential area in Siliguri located in the northern end of Siliguri on Monday morning was rescued by foresters after a couple of hours. In recent times, this is the second incident when a leopard has been found straying into residential places. A few days back, the body of a female leopard was fished out of a well in Milan More, also located in the northern parts of the city, after it strayed into the area and fell into it. Around 10am, some residents of Samarnagar spotted the animal wandering in a local field. As they raised an alert, the big cat panicked and attacked them. Also, it mauled a couple of onlookers and then took refuge in a house. “The leopard ran into my house and took refuge on the stairs. Immediately, we locked the entrance of the building so that it couldn’t move out and informed police at Pradhannagar police station,” said Prabir Guha, a resident of Samarnagar that is in ward 46 of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation. The duo attacked by the animal suffered minor injuries and were provided with necessary treatment, sources said. According to sources, it was a full grown male leopard, aged around four years. As the news spread, locals started swarming in front of Guha’s house, trying to catch a glimpse of the animal. “It was a rare occasion to see a leopard live, that too, from a close distance. Many people were clicking photos and shooting videos in their cell phones as the restless animal continued to growl, standing on the staircase,” said an eyewitness. A police team rushed to the spot and but found it tough to clear the area. They were seen repeatedly requested the curious mob to maintain a safe distance to avoid any further attack by the leopard. The drama continued for some more time and finally, at Around 11am, a team from the wildlife squad stationed in Sukna under Kurseong forest division – located around 10km from Siliguri – reached the house of Guha and rescued the animal. Sources said the foresters first covered the entire building with nets so that the animal could not escape come out of itand then After some time, they could successfully darted the big cat. As the big cat turned unconscious, the foresters used another net to wrap it. The tranquillised leopard was then put in a vehicle and taken to the Bengal Safari Park in located on the northwest end of Siliguri. “We have rescued the animal. It will be kept under observation at the Bengal Safari Park for the next couple of days,” said S. Sherpa, the divisional forest officer of Kurseong forest division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi: CID team visits spot of CISF firing ||A four-member team of the Criminal Investigation Department reached Jorpatki village in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment of Cooch Behar district on Monday to probe into the firing that had claimed four lives on April 10. Accompanied by senior police officers, the CID team led by Kalyan Mukhopadhyay, the deputy inspector general (special), spoke to villagers to obtain information about the incident. The firing had taken place on the premises of Amtali MSK (booth number 5/126) at Jorpatki village. On Monday, the CID sleuths engaged officers of the land and land reforms department to measure the premises of the booth. The investigators asked four local people to reach Mathabhanga police station where their statements were recorded. Mukhopadhyay was brief in his reaction. “We have come here to collect information about the April 10 firing. The probe is in progress and unless we finish it, we cannot make any comment on the incident.” The visit of the CID’s special team kindled hope among the families of the deceased youths. Rahila Khatun, wife of Maniruzzaman Mian — one of the victims — expressed confidence in the chief minister. “Mamata Banerjee stood by us after the incident. She also announced jobs for one member of each victim’s families. We have full confidence that her government will find out the truth and justice will be delivered,” said Rahila. Anjupa Khatun, the elder sister of Samiul Haque who had also lost his life while he was standing in a queue at the booth, said the visit of the CID officers had bolstered their confidence. “We believe the investigation is going on in the right track and those who had fired at my brother and others will be punished,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
