19-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: CBI wants case moved out of Bengal, HC hearing on Thursday  ||The Calcutta High Court adjourned till Thursday the hearing in the Narada sting tape case in which two West Bengal ministers, an MLA and a former mayor were arrested by the CBI.
This means, ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee will continue to remain in judicial custody. The hearing on the bail application of the four Trinamul leaders was held on Wednesday along with the CBI’s petition to move the case from Bengal to elsewhere before a Calcutta High Court bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal. Both chief minister Mamata Banerjee and state law minister Moloy Ghatak have been made parties to the CBI case. The CBI counsel, India’s solicitor general Tushar Mehta, argued pressure was being created through political means to delay justice in the case, citing the presence of the chief minister at Nizam Palace, the CBI office, and a dharna by Trinamul workers outside after the arrest of the leaders on Monday. The counsel for the defence, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, raised questions on the very need to arrest the leaders on the day of filing chargesheet, and alleged that the CBI was citing Monday’s protest outside Nizam Palace as an excuse to keep the four arrested leaders in jail. The case will be heard again on Thursday. At the outset, the court asked Singhvi whether he was denying that the chief minister sat on a dharna in front of the CBI office and if it was a democratic means of protest. “You say the CM went to the CBI office to protest. Gandhian protest… peaceful protest. But is it the way to respond when the matter is considered by the court? By protesting in streets,” asked the acting chief justice Bindal. Citing the example of the ongoing farmers' protest in Delhi, Singhvi said democratic dissent could not be stopped if the matter was before a court of law. “There can be a response both legally and democratically. The case can be fought legally on merits and the issue of political vendetta can be protested democratically. It would be a negation of democracy to say that just because the matter is before court you cannot peacefully protest outside,” he said. In his deposition, Singhvi argued that the CBI was using Monday’s protest outside the CBI office as an excuse to keep the four arrested leaders in jail. “What is the duty of leaders? Should they stand to disperse the followers or to incite them?” asked the acting chief justice. To this Singhvi replied that no leader should impede the course of justice. “I am saying there was an outpouring of emotion but that is being used as a pretext, as a sidewind. Unless such protests impede justice dispensation, it cannot be used to deny bail,” argued Singhvi. “We pay democracy tax. We compare India and China. Democracy means there has to be some lack of order. That has to be permitted as long as it is not exhorting violence,” he said. Four of the most well-known leaders of the Trinamul Congress, who have enjoyed proximity to the chief minister at various degrees over the last three decades or so, were arrested in connection with the Narada sting operation, where these four, along with several others, were purportedly caught on camera accepting bribes. The sting carried out in 2014 by the news portal Narada News was made public in 2016. On Wednesday, Mukherjee, Chatterjee and Mitra were at the SSKM Hospital’s Woodburn Ward, while Hakim was at Presidency Jail. Referring to the events that unfolded on Monday when Mamata stormed the Nizam Palace compound and held fort for close to six hours while restive Trinamul supporters were pelting stones at police, the court asked the defence counsel whether these incidents did not add to the pressure on the CBI special court judge. “The judge heard the matter and passed an order where there is no mention at all of these. There is no mention of any obstruction to hearing. The order records matter was heard virtually on consent of both sides,” Singhvi replied. When the judges referred to state law minister Moloy Ghatak’s presence at Nizam Palace, the lawyers argued he was not present inside the courtroom. Singhvi also claimed that Mamata and Ghatak went to the CBI office not as ministers but MLAs, to which the court reminded him that the status of a minister was different from that of an MLA. “I will take it. But in what manner it is said that he impeded the administration of justice. What is the fact which shows that the law minister standing in the court complex influenced the judge? Did he (judge) even know if the minister was there? There were many people. It is natural,” Singhvi said. The acting chief justice, however, disagreed and observed that it was “not natural.” Referring to the cases involving Hindi film actors Sanjay Dutt and Salman Khan, Singhvi argued the events of Monday outside the CBI officer were “an outpouring of emotions.” He also argued that the chief minister was within her democratic right to exercise protest at the arrest of her colleagues. Singhvi questioned why the CBI did not make the arrests in these four years since the case was handed over to the agency. He also claimed the arrests were the BJP’s “reaction to bitter election results” in Bengal. “CBI sought sanction from the Governor to arrest Trinamul MLAs, which is illegal. As per Constitution Bench decisions, sanction has to be taken from the Speaker,” Singhvi said. “The MLAs felt that their colleagues were arrested on political vendetta because somebody could not digest defeat in the election.” When Singhvi suggested that Monday’s order did not reflect the claims being made by the CBI’s counsel, the court asked whether the CBI special court judge should have recorded that he was being pressured. “Recorded is the correct word. At least there should be a hint, a suggestion,” Singhvi said. Appearing on behalf of the CBI, solicitor general of India Tushar Mehta argued that the situation prevailing in Bengal was “unprecedented.” “There were unprecedented, extraordinary circumstances. I don’t think anywhere else in the country such shocking incidents have happened where a premier investigating agency, which has been entrusted with the investigation by this court, is stopped from doing its job,” Mehta said, adding that the events were an abuse of the process of law as the agency was prevented from arguing before the special court and filing charge sheet. Singhvi countered that it was an impression that was being created. “Your lordships were given an impression that entire Calcutta was in flames, whereas they were arguing virtually before the special court,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
19-05-2021||West Bengal||No respite for TMC leaders arrested in Narada case, HC adjourned till Thursday||The Calcutta High Court adjourned till Thursday the hearing in the Narada sting tape case, in which two Bengal ministers, an MLA and a former mayor of Calcuttawere arrested by the CBI.

In view of the adjournment on Wednesday, ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee will continue to remain in judicial custody.

The petition of the CBI seeking transfer of trial in the case and the recalling application filed by the four leaders on the high court's stay order on the bail granted by a CBI court on Monday will be further heard by the division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee on Thursday.

The high court on Monday night stayed the lower court's decision to grant bail to the four leaders, arrested and charge-sheeted by the CBI in the Narada sting case.

The division bench had said that it deemed it appropriate to stay the special court's order and direct that the "accused person shall be treated to be in judicial custody till further orders".

The four leaders were arrested on Monday morning from their residences in the city in connection with the Narada sting case that is being investigated by the CBI on an order by the high court.

The CBI prayed before the high court that it transfers all proceedings in the Narada sting tape case to itself.

It also prayed that the division bench declares that the proceedings before the special CBI court post production of the arrested accused virtually on May 17 are a nullity in the eyes of law and to conduct the proceedings afresh.

The CBI further prayed that pending the final hearing and disposal of its petition before it, the high court direct continuance of its order staying the bail granted to the accused by the lower court.

Seeking transfer of the case from the special court, the CBI claimed that all the four persons arrested are very influential persons and it apprehends that they will influence and threaten the witnesses and the system.

Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, submitted during the hearing through the virtual mode that the incidents following the arrests were unprecedented.

"Their influence could be ascertained by the conduct of the Hon'ble Chief Minister, Hon'ble Law Minister, other Hon'ble Ministers and other eminent elected representatives, and the conduct of the mob at CBI Office and court premises on 17.05.2021," the CBI said in its petition.

It claimed that while the matter was being heard by the special CBI court, the CBI office was held under gherao by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, MPs Kalyan Banerjee and Santanu Sen, and TMC MLA Humayun Kabir, while an unruly crowd indulged in stone-pelting at the CBI office premises.

The CBI said that the chief minister entered the CBI office premises at 10.50 am on Monday.

The investigating agency claimed that while entering the CBI Office, she started shouting "You also arrest me" and sat on a dharna for six hours.

It further said that state "Law Minister Malay Ghatak, MP Kalyan Banerjee and other important functionaries of the ruling party with a very large threatening mob of persons remained in the court premises till the arguments were completed."

The CBI has made the chief minister, the law minister and Kalyan Banerjee party in its petition seeking transfer of the case.

The agency claimed in its transfer petition before the high court that due to the gherao and violence resorted to by the mob, it was not possible for the CBI officers to move out of their office to enable them to physically produce the accused in the court and to produce the case diary before it as required by Constitution and the law.

It claimed that under the said circumstances, the CBI court passed the order granting bail to the four, "under the cloud of mobocracy, pressure, threat and violence and is a nullity in the eyes of law".

Appearing for the arrested leaders, senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi claimed that there were democratic protests and that these did not affect the process of law and hearing before the special CBI court.

He submitted that the chief minister and other ministers did not in any way instigate the protesters and had instead urged them to maintain peace.

Singhvi further submitted that there is no relation between the protests and the special CBI court's order granting bail.

He questioned why were the two ministers - Mukherjee and Hakim, and the other two former ministers - Mitra and Chatterjee, arrested even though they cooperated with the investigation all along.

It was further stated that there was no reason for their being in custody since a charge sheet against them was submitted by the investigating agency before the CBI court on Monday.

Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had on May 7 sanctioned the prosecution of Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee on a request by the CBI on the ground that all of them were holding positions of ministers in the state at the time of the alleged commission of the crime.

The Narada sting tapes, which were made public before the 2016 Assembly elections in Bengal, were claimed to have been shot in 2014, wherein people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were allegedly seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of promised favours.

The sting was conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada News portal.

The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the Narada sting operation in March 2017.

The CBI had registered cases against 12 TMC leaders, many of whom are now in the BJP, and an IPS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Dhankhar complains as TMC supporters demonstrate in front of Raj Bhavan||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday took "serious note" of the demonstrations in front of the Raj Bhavan on consecutive days, despite prohibitory orders in force in the area, and sought a report from the city police. The governor took to Twitter and shared video clips of both the events tagging the official handle of Calcutta Police, and asked them to send comprehensive reports regarding the incidents and the actions taken by 5 pm on Wednesday. The governor's ire followed the agitation near the four gates of Raj Bhavan by Trinamul Congress activists on Monday after the CBI arrested three heavyweight TMC leaders, two of them state ministers, in connection with Narada case, and a demonstration by a social organisation in which a person was seen with a posse of half a dozen sheep near the North Gate the day after. Dhankhar, who has been flagging the "worsening law and order issue" repeatedly in recent times, accused the demonstrators of showing threatening posture amounting to utter disregard for law and accused the police of not taking note of that. Tagging the Twitter handle of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Calcutta Police, Dhankhar tweeted on Wednesday, "State of law and order ?@MamataOfficial? even at the main entry gate of Raj Bhawan worrisome with stance police ? @KolkataPolice? leaving all to be desired. "And all this when the area is subject to 144 CrPC prohibitory orders. Constrained to seek an update on it." In another tweet, he shared a video of a man posing outside Raj Bhavan with a flock of sheep on Tuesday. Dhankhar tweeted "and on this stance @KolkataPolice (laughable one) is that the man was keen to have a photo with Raj Bhawan background. No action whatsoever taken." Suman Mitra, a spokesman of the organisation which carried out this unusual protest, had said the demonstration was organised to protest "lack of concern by the governor for the people who are facing the brunt due to worsening COVID-19 situation in the state, scarcity in supply of oxygen, rise in deaths. Instead, he is only preoccupied with other issues which can be dealt with later on." "Our protest is against the dirty politics at the time of pandemic when people of Bengal are suffering," Mitra said. Turning to the agitation by Trinamul Congress activists before all the gates of Raj Bhavan in protest against the arrests by CBI on Monday, Dhankhar tweeted "And such threatening posture at main gate of Raj Bhawan! Police @KolkataPolice virtually takes no note of it. "Look at the content of the threat! With no fear of law- understandably given inaction of police. Can all this @MamataOfficial be countenanced or overlooked!"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata, Bengal Law Minister made parties in CBI plea to transfer Narada case||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Law Minister Moloy Ghatak have been made parties in a petition by the CBI before the Calcutta High Court seeking transfer of the Narada sting tape case from the state. A division bench presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal fixed the matter for hearing at 2 pm on Wednesday. The bench will also hear petitions by ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee for recall of its order staying the bail granted by a CBI court in connection with their arrest in the case, on Monday. Besides Banerjee and Ghatak, the probe agency has also made Trinamool Congress MP and lawyer Kalyan Banerjee a party in its petition before the high court. Representing the CBI, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta had on Monday evening told the division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee that an extraordinary situation had evolved, with the chief minister of the state sitting on a dharna outside the office of the investigating agency here. The CBI also claimed that the law minister of West Bengal was present in court, where the accused were to be presented, along with a mob. The probe agency said that a number of followers of the arrested political leaders gheraoed the CBI office in Nizam Palace area, and did not allow its officers to move out to enable them to produce the accused in court. They were produced before the special CBI court through the virtual mode on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Surprise over Calcutta HC's decision to stay TMC leaders' bail ||A section of the legal fraternity in the city has expressed surprise over the manner in which Calcutta High Court on Monday night stayed the interim bail a CBI court had granted to three Trinamul leaders and a former mayor arrested in the Narada case. “In its written prayer before the high court, the CBI neither challenged the validity of the CBI court’s order nor did it seek any stay on the bail order. So, the stay order was a bit surprising,” said a senior lawyer of Calcutta High Court. Generally and unless there is a flight risk or the possibility of evidence tampering, courts grant bail to the accused after investigating agencies furnish chargesheets against them. While hearing the CBI’s argument on Monday, the judge of the subordinate court had questioned the need to take the accused — ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee who had recently distanced himself from the BJP — into custody when chargesheets against them had been filed. The CBI petition in the high court, after explaining the Narada case, gave a detailed account of what happened in and around its Nizam Palace office — with a specific mention of how Mamata Banerjee had reached there and sat on a dharna — and urged the court to issue necessary directives to the chief minister and the state administration to allow the agency to function legally and without any disruption. During the hearing of the case, the two lawyers representing the CBI urged the court to shift the case to Guwahati or Bhubaneswar in case the Bengal administration failed to provide them with adequate security. Although the written prayer didn’t contain any plea for a stay on the CBI court order, the central agency’s counsel urged the high court verbally to stay the order at least till Wednesday. “The CBI counsel had prayed for an interim stay on the CBI court’s order and the high court obliged. The high court, however, should have given the opportunity to the counsel representing the accused leaders before granting the stay order,” a senior high court lawyer said on Tuesday. Another lawyer said that as the chargesheets were filed after interrogation of the accused, it was obvious the CBI did not need to further question the accused. “Moreover, they had prayed for jail custody of the accused and did not press for police custody for further interrogation. So, what was the logic behind the stay on the CBI court order?” an eminent lawyer practising criminal law in Calcutta High Court said. Several lawyers also questioned the court’s decision to hear the case ex-parte. The counsel for the accused, Kalyan Banerjee, along with Supreme Court lawyers Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Siddharth Luthra, moved the bench of Calcutta High Court Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Tuesday for reconsideration of the order that his bench had passed on Monday. While making the plea, Kalyan Banerjee brought up the issue of the accused not being given a chance to defend themselves on Monday night. Kalyan Banerjee said that since they were not made parties by the CBI in the case before the high court on Monday, the CBI counsel should be asked by the court to issue copies of their petition to him. Acting Chief Justice Bindal accepted Kalyan Banerjee’s prayer and fixed the matter for hearing along with the main case on Wednesday and asked the CBI to hand over all relevant papers to the lawyer of the accused. Veteran lawyer Arunava Ghosh felt there was no urgency on the part of the high court to stay the lower court order, forcing the accused to spend days behind bars. “I might have political differences with leaders like Subrata Mukherjee, but I must say there was no urgency to issue a stay on the CBI court’s order. All the four accused are responsible citizens. Two of them are ministers. So, the court should have given them the opportunity to enjoy the bail. The case could be heard on May 19 as fixed by the court,” Ghosh said. Some of the lawyers, however, said there was no hard and fast rule that the judge would have to restrict himself to the prayer of the petitioners filed before him. Judges have the power to grant stay on the subordinate court’s order at their own discretion. “Judges have the discretion to issue such stay orders. It is reasonable that petitioners or appellants should mention whether they want the court to stay an order in the petition. But during the hearing of the CBI’s plea, the judge must have held that the subordinate court order needed to be stayed for a fair proceeding,” a senior lawyer, who did not want to be named, said. Although lawyers are divided on the high court’s Monday order, they all agreed that the ruling party committed a mistake in taking the issue to the people’s court instead of showing respect for the judicial process. According to the lawyers, the Trinamul Congress had committed two major mistakes in dealing with the arrests. The party should have restricted its supporters and stopped them from publicly showing their grievance at the CBI headquarters and at the Raj Bhavan. Second, chief minister Mamata should not have gone to the CBI headquarters and staged a day-long dharna. “When the matter is in the judicial arena, ruling party leaders should not have taken the issue to the streets. The court did take serious note of the matter. As a result, the high court felt it necessary to stay the CBI court’s order,” a senior lawyer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs rise in active cases after two days||Bengal on Tuesday logged a rise in total number of active Covid-19 cases by 233 as 19,428 infections, 19,050 recoveries and 145 deaths were recorded. The state reported the rise in the number of active patients — which was 1,31,793 on Tuesday— after two days of fall in the figure. Sources in the government said the two-day break in the otherwise relentless spell of rise, which had begun on March 12, was an aberration, which they attributed to relatively less number of tests over the weekend. A minister said the expected improvement in the situation, following an estimated mid-May peak in the second wave, was yet to take off. “The positive confirmation was steadily on the rise — it grew from 9.68 on Friday to 10.13 per cent on Tuesday — even when the number of new infections being detected was relatively low. So, we knew that the apparent improvement over the past couple of days was on account of the fewer tests,” said the minister. On Friday, Bengal had 70,051 tests, which had dropped to 60,016 on Monday. On Tuesday, there were 67,626 tests. “The positive confirmation rate has skyrocketed in a month (from 6.73 on April 18)…. Till that tide turns, this second wave mess will not begin to clear,” he added. Deemed a key indicator, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. An increasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of rising levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal is currently eighth on the list of states with the highest positive confirmation rate. The state has 4.09 per cent of the national total of active cases and is eighth on the list of states with most active cases. In what is being noted as a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 17th consecutive day, to 87.6 per cent. The national rate now is 86.2. Of the 145 deaths, 38 were reported from Calcutta and 36 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. While Calcutta logged 3,785 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,115. The state’s total Covid-19 death count now is 13,576, while the mortality rate is 1.15 per cent. The national rate is now 1.11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal government reintroduces pass system for emergency travel during curbs  ||The Bengal government has decided to reintroduce entry and exit passes to facilitate the travel of people in emergency cases after hundreds of migrant workers landed in distress because of harder restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19. Sources in the state transport department said on Tuesday that the entry or exit passes could be obtained from the government website by anyone to travel within or out of Bengal. “Passes would help them head for their destinations without any hassle. Whenever stopped by police, they can show the passes to confirm that they are travelling because of an emergency. This system was launched during the lockdown last year and we have reintroduced it,” said an official of the state transport department. The applicants will have to state the reason for the emergency travel and furnish the proof. Lockdown was announced in some states and additional restrictions imposed in Bengal in the past three-four weeks as there was a steep surge in Covid cases. As a result, hundreds of migrant workers, who hail from other states and live in Bengal or who are from this state but work elsewhere, faced problems in returning their homes. In north Bengal, the Siliguri police commissionerate and the Kalimpong district police also launched the online permission facility for vehicles which need to move for emergency purposes or with essentials. “Specific email IDs have been circulated through social media. A person will have to apply to the officer concerned at his/her police station for the permission. But the applicants should keep in mind that the permission is only for emergency purposes or for supply of essential commodities,” said a police officer. In the past couple of days, police sources said, when some people were intercepted with cars, they entered into altercations with policemen while trying to justify their travel. “Now that we have started issuing permissions, such problems can be resolved,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada scam: Sign of arrests stinging CBI’s political bosses||As the dust began to settle after the dizzying chain of events of Monday over the arrest of four senior politicians in the Narada sting case, its wider fallout appeared to be a bitterly critical majority view emerging over the role of the CBI and the saffron ecosystem allegedly behind it. It remained unclear whether the CBI’s alleged masters were looking for political gains from sending it into selective hyperactivity over the Narada “sting” operation immediately after the historic mandate in favour of Mamata Banerjee or whether the arrests were an act of vendetta. If they were angling for gains, the move seems to have dismally backfired as chief minister Mamata Banerjee found support from even some of her fiercest opponents, such as the Congress’s state chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra. Support was palpable, on social media and elsewhere, even from sections of the civil society that remained avowedly against her in the Assembly election, widely regarded as a battle for Bengal’s soul. “What I find immensely distasteful is the uncivil barbarity of the BJP, whose orders the CBI carries out, in trying to take it out on a handful of leaders — who may or may not be corrupt, it’s a different argument — of the principal political opponent, because it lost the election,” said a city-based filmmaker who remains unflinching in his support of the CPM and opposition to Trinamul Congress, but has been “sick” of the BJP’s bid, since May 2, to communalise and delegitimise the mega mandate. “I am not a fan of her, or her politics. But she won fair and square. There’s no denying her that. But that’s exactly what the BJP now seems bent on doing… while sidestepping the people’s resounding, irrefutable verdict against it,” he added. “This is what we call in Bengali du-kan kata (appallingly shameless)… a phrase epitomised by a certain occupant of the Raj Bhavan, who wears his real status as a stooge of the BJP leadership as a badge of honour.” The saffron camp — trounced 77:213, after two years of chest-thumping assertions of the “certainty” of a tally of 200-plus – has been going out of its way to play the victim card since the results here, while its government at the Centre has been relentless in trying to browbeat the newly-formed government of Mamata, in her third consecutive term as chief minister. There have been hints, from sections within the BJP, that the outlandish demands from far-Right echo chambers for the use of Article 356 — in “Bengalistan” or “West Bangladesh” — were not being ruled out by the powers that be in Delhi. There have been early indications of the decks being cleared since the results, even before the CBI’s arrest — sanctioned by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar — of senior Trinamul leaders Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, and Madan Mitra, besides former Trinamul leader Sovan Chatterjee, who quit the BJP just before the elections. Several political scientists attributed most of it to the BJP’s alleged inability to digest the defeat, after having gone all out with polarisation and “thousands of crores” to win this unvanquished final frontier. They pointed out that little was done to these same leaders for five years, and the co-accused who joined the BJP — such as Suvendu Adhikari, Mukul Roy and Shanku Deb Panda — remained untouched. “Most importantly, there is a certain ugliness to this (the CBI overdrive) happening during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, allowed to assume apocalyptic proportions by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his government, and his party,” said a city-based political scientist, requesting anonymity as he works for a central institution. The saffron camp has also been going to town with the “collapse” of law and order angle — in consonance with its newfound telos of President’s rule — over Mamata’s visit to the Nizam Palace and the gathering of supporters outside it, which the CBI is trying to milk in its plea before the higher judiciary. However, a Trinamul state vice-president said the events actually helped her further consolidate support, showing yet again how she stood by her own in the face of adversity. “There may be more denial of bail. There could well be a transfer of the matter to another state. There could even be longer stints in prison for our colleagues. But this is easily shaping up to be our victory, eventually… more so, given the general lack of credibility of the CBI and all other agencies in the BJP regime,” he said. Amid questions on what could have prompted the BJP to allegedly send the CBI on such an errand now, a senior Trinamul MP said desperation by the likes of Amit Shah to retain all 77 Assembly seats could be one. “Since May 2, dozens of their MLAs and several Bengal MPs have been reaching out, exploring opportunities of abandoning their sinking ship. Over the past few days, backchannel parleys had been firming up to facilitate the defection of five-seven BJP MLAs,” said a Trinamul source. “This could have been an attempt at scaring those trying to leave,” he added. Trinamul spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said most were veering around to the general view that the BJP is being a sore loser and trying to make governance difficult for Mamata, whom 47.94 per cent of the Bengal electorate picked to keep the Hindutva flagbearers out. Roy, a senior Rajya Sabha member, pointed out that in total, 61.87 per cent of Bengal’s votes were cast against the BJP this election. “This goes to further show why this marauding hordes of Hindi-Hindu Hindustan were so decisively shunned by Bengal as the unwanted bohiragawto (outsider),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Central Bureau of Investigation vets and whets plea for Narada case’s transfer out of Bengal||Senior officers of the CBI’s Anti Corruption Branch remained busy throughout Tuesday, readying their points and getting them vetted by bosses in Delhi to justify the demand of shifting the Narada probe out of Bengal on grounds of deteriorating law and order in Bengal, a narrative that senior BJP leaders of the state have been trying to build upon for sometime. On Monday, the CBI had moved Calcutta High Court with an appeal of shifting the probe out of its jurisdiction under Section 407 of the CrPC. The central investigating agency had suggested in the appeal that it intended to transfer the Narada case outside Bengal for fair interrogation. Early on Tuesday, senior officers drew up a report outlining how things had unfolded outside the Nizam Palace in Calcutta following the arrest of four accused persons in the Narada sting case on Monday morning. Sources in the central agency claimed that the report outlined how a mob had attacked paramilitary force personnel, who had been brought in to throw a ring of protection outside the CBI office, with stones, glass bottles and other flying objects. The report which was sent to the ministry of home affairs headed by Amit Shah purportedly described how the mob kept growing with passing hours outside Nizam Palace. CBI officers in the know said the report also mentioned that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had turned up at the office and spent over six hours on Monday following the arrests of the quartet. “The report was sent to the MHA to apprise the bosses of how things had played out throughout Monday following the arrest. This is a protocol that one has to follow,” said a senior CBI officer. What remained unsaid was the report was a part of a string of initiatives by the CBI to build its case of justifying how it was feeling intimidated by the state of affairs. “The CBI is being subject to mobocracy here. So, how will an investigating agency operate?” asked Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s vice president in Bengal. “The chief minister of a state is claiming that she will stand between the accused and the investigating agency. So, how will the agency function in the state?” While pleading its case on Wednesday, the CBI would underline how it had taken up the investigation of the Narada case following orders of the high court in April 2017, officers said, adding that the agency would also state how it was now struggling to abide by the directions of the court in completing the task. “If the law minister of a state is present in the lower court around the time when other leaders are making statements that would incite the mob in Calcutta and elsewhere, how is it possible to carry on with the investigation?” asked an officer. Between the exchange of mails and faxes with the legal counterparts in Delhi and drawing up reports for Wednesday, the CBI also informed Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee about the arrests of three MLAs outlining the details of the case and the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: In jail, Firhad worried about Covid-19 combat ||Firhad Hakim, who is at the helm of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and a Bengal minister, on Tuesday apparently missed his works like Covid-19 combat in the city because of his imprisonment in the Narada case. Hakim, who is the chairman of the board of administrators formed by the Bengal government to run the civic body, has been lodged at the Presidency jail after his arrest by the CBI. “He said ‘I cannot do anything from here (jail)…But please tell everyone outside to wear masks and stay safe’,” the minister’s daughter Shabba Hakim told this newspaper after meeting him at the prison on Tuesday. Hakim’s colleagues in the board of administrators said his absence could delay several projects that needed immediate attention during the pandemic. “He is not just the head of the board of the administrators of the CMC but also a cabinet minister. The way he used to coordinate between the CMC and Swasthya Bhavan is not possible in his absence. This is a very critical time where his presence in the office is much needed,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the board of administrators looking after the CMC’s health department as well as a Trinamul Congress MLA. Another CMC official said Hakim had been active in the past few weeks setting up oxygen parlours, arranging safe homes and coordinating with clubs for taking up their social responsibilities. “The CMC had drawn up guidelines for the clubs for Covid management. Everything is going to become static till his return,” the official said. With almost no sleep last night, prison officials said, Hakim took a walk inside the jail compound and had liquor tea on Tuesday morning. “He has been a little restless saying time and again that there was so much work waiting to be done outside,” said a jail department official. Hakim, 62, who had complained of stomach ailment since Friday, was lodged inside the hospital ward at the Presidency jail. A jail official said the minister had categorically said he would not like to be shifted to the hospital outside. During the day, he spent some time at the jail superintendent’s room. The other three who were arrested by the CBI on Monday — 76-year-old minister Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra, who had recently recovered from Covid, and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee — were shifted to SSKM Hospital on Tuesday after they had complained of health issues. Mitra’s son, who had come to see him at the prison, said: “He was in a critical condition even a few days ago and had barely recovered…A few days ago, we had lost all hope.. And today, he is subjected to so much harassment.” Hospital sources said Mitra was on oxygen support. Mukherjee, who has a history of multiple ailments, was on nebuliser support and complained of chest pain, sources said. All the three, including Chatterjee, have a history of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), a hospital official said. Hakim had almost broken down when he had been informed that the high court had overturned the interim bail granted by a special CBI court. “Amar ki dosh hoyeche? Ami CBI ke help korini? Kano amar bail batil holo? Jeno Janata bhugbe? Covid situation mokabilar jonno amake appoint kora hoyechilo…Kolkata’s manush ke banchate dilo na (What was my fault? Did I not help the CBI? Why was my bail cancelled? Why will people suffer? I was appointed to handle the Covid situation…(but) they did not allow me to save Calcutta’s people),” Hakim said while he was being taken from Nizam Palace to Presidency jail early on Tuesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Expulsion call for Trinamul Congress leaders for indulging in anti-party activities ||Block Trinamul leaders of Mothabari here have sought expulsion of five party leaders accusing them of indulging in anti-party activities ahead and during the Assembly elections. Mothabari block is the Assembly constituency of party MLA Sabina Yeasmin who has also earned a berth as a minister of state in the new cabinet of Mamata Banerjee. The block leaders have alleged that Tinku Rahaman Biswas, the sabhapati of Mothabari panchayat samiti, Champa Mandal, an elected member of the zilla parishad from the area, her spouse and former zilla parishad member Dwijen Mandal, Aminul Islam and Zarika Bibi, the pradhans of Gangaprasad and Hamidpur gram panchayats, had been working against the interest of Trinamul and also distributed money among people to vote against Yeasmin. The decision was taken at a meeting of the party's block committee on Monday. Among those whose expulsion has been recommended, include four elected representatives. The fifth is the husband of one of these representatives who are functionaries in different tiers of the panchayat system. “We have evidence against them and want the district leaders to remove them. On Monday at a committee meeting, 46 of 49 members assented to the recommendation in writing ,” said Sudhir Das, the Trinamul president of Mothabari block. The accused have, however, rubbished the charges. “We have fallen prey to a conspiracy. A section of leaders want to weaken the party in Mothabari,” he said. Yeasmin, the MLA, who is also in favour of their expulsion said she would discuss the issue with senior party leaders. Such recommendation of expulsion, which has again exposed the infighting within Trinamul in Malda, has left the district leaders in an awkward position. Mausam Noor, the district Trinamul president, was brief in her reactions. “The district committee will meet soon to discuss the recommendations,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt asks district magistrates to use schools as safe homes for Covid patients||The Bengal government on Tuesday asked all district magistrates to use school buildings as safe homes for Covid-19 patients after the second wave hit rural areas most. The “extremely urgent” order has asked district officials to take immediate measures to make the school buildings sanitised and ready to use. The order came at a time when around 20,000 Covid cases were recorded on an average every day. “This is to inform you that in view of the current Covid situation in the state and schools being closed, the state government is considering the use of schools for safe home for Covid affected people. I am directed to request you to take immediate measure to see that the school buildings vacated (if occupied) and sanitised,” the order issued by the school education department reads. Officials said, there were over 15,000 government-aided high schools and high madrasas across Bengal that have their own buildings. They said the move had been taken as the second wave of pandemic hit the state mostly in rural areas unlike its first wave when the infection was restricted in urban and semi-urban pockets. “According to the trend of infection, a lot of Covid-19 positive reports are coming in from rural belts of the state. In the rural areas, there is no adequate healthcare facility like those in urban areas and the schools are the buildings that can be used as safe homes for mild symptomatic patients,” said a senior health official. Several districts have already started the process primarily to select school buildings in the areas from where a large number of positive cases are being reported. “We received the order today (Tuesday) and started primary work to identify schools where safe homes can be set up,” said Bidhan Chandra Ray, the Birbhum district magistrate. The Purulia district administration has already called a meeting with the inspector of schools to implement the order. “We have intimated the district inspectors of schools, both primary and secondary, to know the status of school buildings,” said Rahul Majumdar, the DM of Purulia. However, a section of district officials said it was impossible to make all schools in the districts safe homes as there would be a crisis of health staff and it would be a problem to monitor them. “We should not forget that the number of health staff or ground-level healthcare providers is limited. So, we can’t open safe homes at all school buildings. It will become a challenge to monitor them,” said a senior health official. The Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses, however, claimed that not only schools but all colleges and university buildings should also be used to set up safe homes. The association also demanded involving school teachers to monitor the safe homes after giving them a short training. “Otherwise, the goal will not be successful,” said Chandan Kumar Maity, the general secretary of the association. Hundreds of school buildings were used as safe homes mainly for migrant workers who stayed there for 14 days to find whether they developed any Covid symptom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
