20-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata creating ‘drama’ over PM meeting, allege central govt officials||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Thursday that many CMs were not allowed to speak in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Covid-19 and dubbed it "insulting", drawing a sharp retort from some Central government officials, who accused her of creating "drama". With Mamata dubbing Modi's Thursday meeting as "super flop", some central government functionaries said Mamata has a history of not attending the meetings of chief ministers with the Prime Minister, be it on the pandemic or those held prior to the outbreak. Though Modi's interaction was primarily with district magistrates and other field officials on the Covid situation, several chief ministers, including those from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, where these officers are posted, also attended. The central government officials, who did not wish to be named, alleged that Mamata did not let the DM of 24 North Pargana district in Bengal speak at the meeting with Modi to create a "drama" later. These officials also noted that DMs from opposition-ruled states like Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Rajasthan and Maharashtra spoke in the interaction. Mamata had said she along with her counterparts of many states were not allowed to speak which was akin to "insulting" them. She also claimed that only chief ministers of BJP-ruled states were allowed to speak at the meeting, while others were "reduced to puppets". "This was a casual and super flop meeting. We feel insulted and humiliated. This is an attempt to bulldoze the federal structure of the country. PM Modi is so insecure that he did not listen to us," Mamata told reporters at the state secretariat 'Nabanna'. The chief minister also alleged that the Central government has "no proper plans" in dealing with the Covid situation in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||PM’s Covid meeting super flop, felt humiliated for not being allowed to speak, says Mamata||Mamata Banerjee described the Prime minister’ meeting with chief ministers on the Covid situation on Thursday as “a super flop” and said that they felt “humiliated” and “insulted” for not being allowed to speak. Addressing an impromptu news conference at the state administrative headquarters here, Mamata began her statement with “we the chief ministers”, appearing to be speaking on behalf of the leaders of the six non-BJP ruled states _ Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Jharkhand and Kerala _ who were present at the online interaction with the Prime minister. The other chief ministers were from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Puducherry. “We CMs are feeling humiliated and insulted. We are astonished to see that in a federal structure, chief ministers were made to sit like puppets despite being invited,” she said, describing the meeting as “casual” and “a super-flop.” Other chief ministers, like the outspoken Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh or Pinarayi Vijayan of Kerala, had not even issued a tweet after the meeting with the Prime Minister. “They are trying to bulldoze the federal structure. If he did not want chief ministers to speak, then why were they invited? Maharashtra, Kerala CMs were invited but not allowed to speak. Are we bonded labour? They are forgetting constitutional provisions,” she said. Mamata offered her own reasons why Modi was the only one who spoke at the meeting. “The PM is feeling so insecure that he did not want to listen to a chief minister. What is he so scared about?” she asked. The Centre had invited chief ministers of the 10 states, along with some district magistrates. Bengal did not allow district magistrates to participate, although the chief secretary and the health secretary attended the meeting. ‘Couldn’t understand a word of his speech’ “The Covid pandemic is on. We were ready with paperwork for demands from our respective states. We were not allowed to speak even for a second. He (PM) spoke with some DMs from BJP-ruled states. Ki je bhashan dilen setao bujhlam na (Couldn’t understand a word of his speech,” Mamata said. Among the issues that went undiscussed at Thursday’s meeting were the crucial question of a vaccine shortage and the rising number of mucormycosis, or black fungus, cases among Covid patients. The chief minister has confirmed four such cases in Bengal. “They never asked about vaccines. They never asked about medicines. They never asked about oxygen. They never asked about remdesivir, which is unavailable in the market. They never asked about black fungus, the new disease,” Mamata said. “Is there a study or research on the gap between two doses? There is a vaccine shortage therefore they are increasing the gap,” she added. Most of the questions that Mamata raised have been in the public domain for quite some time now and are being discussed on social media. ‘Why are so many deaths happening?’ The chief minister claimed that Modi, while addressing the meeting, had said that the number of cases of coronavirus was coming down in the country.  “He says corona has reduced? Why so many deaths happening? Cases went up because of this negligence,” Mamata said. “They sent a Central team to Bengal to assess post-poll violence. Why didn’t they send Central teams to UP? Dead bodies are being dumped in the Ganga. Kahaan kahaan bhaaske chala gaya (The bodies have floated who knows where),” Mamata said. Addressing the chief ministers and district magistrates at the meeting, Modi said the strategy to deal with Covid-19 should be dynamic, innovative and constantly upgraded as the virus is invisible and often mutates. Describing the virus as "dhoort" (sly) and "bahurupia" (shapeshifter) in Hindi, Modi also underlined concerns expressed in various quarters about the threats it poses to the youth and children. He asked them to keep a track on it and record the spread of infection and its seriousness among them in their districts. Modi also stressed on the need to prevent vaccine wastage, saying every dose wasted meant that someone was being denied the protection shield against the virus. While pandemic has been raging, international media has raised several questions about Modi’s role, especially in the second wave of infections, which has claimed the lives of 283,248 people in the country so far, as per official records. But on-ground evidence at crematoria, cemeteries and riverbanks indicate the toll could be way higher. Dubious record On May 19, India achieved the dubious record of registering the most number of deaths in 24 hours (4,529) surpassing the United States, which had recorded 4,475 deaths on a single day in January 12. While volunteers from political parties like the Congress’s youth wing and CPM in Bengal have been working on helping people find oxygen cylinders, hospital beds and medicines, BJP ministers, MPs and its supporters have been busy flaunting dubious reports to claim the Modi government’s effective management of the pandemic. Union health minister Harshvardhan attempted to counter a study in the prestigious Lancet journal with a blog. These efforts by members of the government and its agencies have been described as an attempt to preserve Modi’s image, which has taken a severe beating internationally. Modi leads in ‘who did worst?’ poll In a poll conducted on Twitter by the US based news website, The Conversation, on “Who did worst?” vis-à-vis the management of the pandemic, Modi outvoted other contenders, getting 90 per cent of the 75,450 votes, leaving far behind the likes of former US President Donald Trump, Brazilian President Jair Bolsanaro and Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Not allowed to speak at PM’s Covid meeting, Mamata calls it ‘super flop’||Alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with CMs on the Covid situation was "super flop", Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that she along with her counterparts of many states were not allowed to speak, which was akin to insulting them. She also claimed that only CMs of the BJP-ruled states were allowed to speak at the meeting, while others were "reduced to puppets". "This was a casual and super flop meeting. Only CMs of BJP-ruled states were allowed to speak and others were reduced to puppets. "We feel insulted and humiliated. This is an attempt to bulldoze the federal structure of the country. PM Modi is so insecure that he did not listen to us," Mamata told reporters at the state secretariat Nabanna. She said the prime minister neither asked how Bengal is handling the Covid situation and nor did he enquire about the stock of vaccines or oxygen. "There was not a single question from the PM about the 'black fungus'," she said, adding that four such cases have been detected in the state. Referring to the PM's claim that the Covid-19 caseload is reducing in the country, Mamata asked, "If the total number of cases is declining, why are so many deaths due to the coronavirus infection being reported." The chief minister also alleged that the central government has "no proper plans" in dealing with the Covid situation in the country. Plea to send more jabs Later in the day, Mamata wrote to Modi, urging him to provide at least 20 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine for inoculation of all state and central government employees. Mamata, in her letter, also said that the Centre's policies have "no room to accommodate the needs" of people who run greater risk of contracting the viral disease, including bankers, railway and airport employees, and those working in defence or coal sectors. "In Bengal, we have taken steps to vaccinate a large section of frontline and electorally engaged employees across several sectors. We still need minimum 20 lakh doses to cover all employees," the chief minister wrote. She requested Modi to make available adequate number of vaccines for personnel engaged in "priority sectors" without further delay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Calcutta HC defers hearing due to ‘unavoidable circumstances’||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday deferred hearing in the case filed by CBI against bail given to TMC leaders arrested by the agency in the Narada sting tape case due to unavoidable circumstances. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijeet Banerjee is hearing an application by the Central Bureau of Investigations, to transfer the bail applications from the Special CBI Court to the High Court citing unprecedented mob pressures by supporters of the jailed leaders. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Law Minister Moloy Ghatak have also been made parties in the case filed by CBI. "Due to unavoidable circumstances, the First Division Bench will not assemble today," a notice in the Calcutta High Court website said. Earlier the high court on Monday night stayed the CBI court's decision to grant bail to West Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor of Calcutta Sovan Chatterjee, arrested and charge-sheeted by the CBI in the Narada sting case. The division bench had said that it deemed it appropriate to stay the special court's order and direct that the "accused person shall be treated to be in judicial custody till further orders". The hearing on the bail application of the four Trinamul leaders was held on Wednesday along with the CBI’s petition to move the case from Bengal to elsewhere before the bench. On making Mamata and Moloy Ghatak parties, the CBI counsel, India’s solicitor general Tushar Mehta, had on Wednesday argued pressure was being created through political means to delay justice in the case, citing the presence of the chief minister at Nizam Palace, the CBI office, and a dharna by Trinamul workers outside after the arrest of the leaders on Monday. The counsel for the defence, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, raised questions on the very need to arrest the leaders on the day of filing chargesheet, and alleged that the CBI was citing Monday’s protest outside Nizam Palace as an excuse to keep the four arrested leaders in jail. The four leaders were arrested on Monday morning from their residences in the city in connection with the Narada sting case that is being investigated by the CBI on an order by the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Home mute witness to a year of govt neglect||A year after cyclone Amphan, Swadesh Paria, 70, has given up hope of having a proper roof above his head ever again. The septuagenarian daily labourer from East Midnapore’s Khejuri lives with his wife Anjali in a dilapidated structure he once called home, a major part of which was razed to the ground by the cyclone on May 20 last year. What is left of Swadesh’s house is a room but it can shelter the old couple as long as its walls don’t fall. However, even the walls don’t evoke much optimism. As Thursday marks the first anniversary of Amphan, Swadesh recalls the multiple attempts he made to get compensation offered by the Bengal government for victims of the cyclone. He has not received a single paisa yet. “I had spoken to the masons last year. They estimated the cost of repairing my house as Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000. Had I received the relief amount of Rs 20,000 (announced by the Mamata Banerjee government) I would have managed the rest,” Swadesh told The Telegraph. “The only thing I had received was a tarpaulin from the panchayat after the cyclone. Later, I made multiple applications to the panchayat and the BDO for compensation money, but all in vain,” he added. Swadesh and Anjali are residents of Kolagachhia village under the Khejuri assembly. His three sons, migrant labourers, live far away. His house, Swadesh recounts, had two rooms, a kitchen and a toilet. After the havoc wreaked by Amphan, one derelict room is all that is left. Anjali, 61, believes that they have been made victims of partisan politics. “We are CPM supporters. This is why we weren’t helped by the (Trinamul-run) panchayat or the administration,” she accused. “These walls are all that is left of our house. Now we hear another cyclone is coming. How are we to survive?” she asked. Himangshu Das, the defeated CPM candidate of Khejuri, said more than 1,000 homes in this Assembly constituency qualify for the compensation but have been deprived of it. He also alleged partisan politics. The chief of the local panchayat, Mithurani Mondal, denied such allegations. She, however, admitted that the compensation was yet to reach some families. “Politics is not the reason. Some applicants provided wrong account details. Some applied late. This is why they have not received the money. However, we will look into Swadesh Paria’s case as it has been brought to our knowledge,” Mondal said. Khejuri Block 1’s BDO, Partha Hazra has also promised to start a fresh inquiry into the matter. However, he added that since he joined duty during the polls, he did not receive any complaint about Amphan relief funds. Last year, allegations about irregularities in preparing the list of Amphan compensation beneficiaries had snowballed into a major controversy, big enough for chief minister Mamata Banerjee to step in. In the face of widespread protests over alleged irregularities in distribution of financial relief to the people affected by Amphan, Mamata had admitted “lapses” and said her government would rectify those. Sources in the district administration pointed out on Wednesday it was unacceptable that a family (the Paria couple) had not received the compensation in a whole year. “Whatever be the reason, this shouldn’t have happened. It must be rectified immediately,” a district officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada scam: Calcutta HC to resume hearing today||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday heard arguments on a CBI petition seeking the transfer of the Narada case outside Bengal and another by the three arrested Trinamul leaders and a former mayor, and will resume the proceedings on Thursday. Trinamul Congress leaders Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim and Madan Mitra, besides former Trinamul leader Sovan Chatterjee who quit the BJP just before the elections, remain in custody in the absence of a decision on Wednesday. As the proceedings took place online with the judges at their respective homes and the lawyers at the high court, the following information on Wednesday’s hearing is based on accounts by multiple sources. Before the division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee, CBI counsel and solicitor-general of India Tushar Mehta said Monday’s dharna by chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the CBI office in the Nizam Palace, the presence of state law minister Moloy Ghatak in the trial court during the hearing of the bail petitions, and the demonstration by Trinamul supporters outside Nizam Palace had influenced the trial court proceedings. The CBI special court had granted the four leaders bail, which was stayed on Monday night by the high court bench. Congress Rajya Sabha member (from Bengal) Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Siddharth Luthra and Trinamul’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee appeared for the accused and raised the following points. • What prompted the CBI to arrest the leaders five years after the case was lodged and at a time the state was under restrictions because of Covid-19? • Why were the accused not served with notices by the CBI before their arrests? • Why were the accused not served with copies of the application from the CBI before the agency moved the high court on Monday? • What was the necessity for the investigating agency to put the leaders behind bars after the submission of the chargesheet against them? The defence lawyers prayed for bail for their clients, underscoring that all four were aged and ill. Mehta, the solicitor-general, raised the following points. •  Why did the chief minister stage a dharna inside the CBI office and intervene in the investigation? • Why were the state law minister and four of his cabinet colleagues present in the trial court during the hearing of the bail petitions? • Why did the chief minister and her party’s leaders not dissuade their supporters from agitating outside the CBI office? • The agitating supporters restrained the CBI officers from performing their duties and producing the accused before the trial court physically. Countering the points raised by Mehta, Singhvi referred to instances involving Bollywood stars Sanjay Dutt and Salman Khan when people at large had demonstrated against police action. “In cases of heavyweights, holding of such demonstrations is not a new phenomenon. Courts are not influenced due to such demonstrations. Moreover, before the CBI court, too, the hearing took place virtually, where the judge was in another place. So the question of influencing him (with the presence of law minister Ghatak) does not arise,” said Singhvi. He said Mamata had gone to the CBI office as two of her cabinet colleagues (Mukherjee and Hakim) had been arrested, and she did not restrain the officers from doing their job. CBI counsel Mehta said the Delhi office of the CBI had sent an appeal to acting Chief Justice Bindal of Calcutta High Court while the chief minister was sitting in its Calcutta office and its officers were being prevented by the demonstrators from performing their duties. “As time was very short, that very letter was treated as an application before the high court during the evening. That is why copies of the appeal could not be served to the accused leaders,” said Mehta. The following questions were raised by the bench. • Justice Banerjee to Mehta: When the chargesheet has been furnished against the accused persons, what is the necessity to seek their custody? Mehta: Being influential persons who can influence the investigation. • Acting Chief Justice Bindal to Singhvi: How long did the chief minister stay inside the CBI office, and what was she doing there? Why was the law minister present in the court during the hearing? Was he inside the courtroom during the hearing of the bail petition? What action had the party leaders taken against their supporters agitating outside? Singhvi said Mamata sat inside the office but did not cause any obstruction. He said Hakim had himself asked his supporters not to agitate while he was being brought to the CBI office by the investigators, video footage of which was available.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Amphan anniversary survival story: State govt helped Ram Bag rebuild his life ||Fisherman and farmer Ram Bag, 43, a resident of Mohonpur village at Haroa in North 24-Parganas, was left devastated a year ago as Cyclone Amphan destroyed both his home and livelihood. A year later, Ram tells The Telegraph that memories of Amphan still haunt him but he is happy that some support from the state government has helped him limp back to normality. The fisherman-farmer recounts his survival story Memories of Amphan continue to haunt me even though a year has gone by. A resident of the Sunderbans, I have faced several cyclones but none of those was Amphan. A day ahead of the cyclone, panchayat officials shifted us to a school building for our safety as the storm was expected to wreak havoc in the Sunderbans. On May 20, the devastation that unfolded was unimaginable. On May 21, after the cyclonic wind stopped blowing and the rain came to a halt, I stepped out of the shelter. It was horrific outside. Like most of my neighbours, I could not find any sign of my thatched house. I had lost everything except for a few clothes that my family and I had taken to the shelter. Trees, electric poles, homes and household items were strewn everywhere. Torrential rainfall and cyclonic storm had triggered strong tidal waves in the Bidyhadhari river. These waves had led to breach in earthen dams and water flowed into our fields and bheries (fish farms) damaging the source of our food and livelihood. Our sole source of income was gone. I realised that there was no point in crying over the loss as my wife and two children looked up to me to survive. Life had to start from scratch. I had to stay back at the panchayat-run shelter for at least a week. Then, I started to raise my new home. By that time the state government through panchayat authorities offered us tarpaulin, food. The process to roll out the government's compensation of Rs 20,000 had begun. I used the compensation to build my house but also had to borrow money.Panchayat authorities took an initiative to clean the bheris. They offered me limestone to clean the water body I fished from. . I had no income for months. We had to  tried to manage the situation with my small savings and dry food, rice and atta provided by the panchayat. But after four months, I returned to fishing with the panchayat authorities helping me with fertilised spawn of fish and fingerlings. A year later, we are poorer than we were before Amphan, but are standing on our feet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: First jab within 45 days for priority groups in Bengal||The Bengal government plans to administer at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine to priority groups, who come in daily contact with many people, within the next 45 days as the state has started receiving vaccines from producers directly, said a source. The state had sought to buy 3 crore vaccines in phases directly from the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. With vaccines starting to arrive, a source said the government has decided to focus on the priority group of hawkers, retailers, transport workers, among others, who are at risk of catching Covid-19 and potential superspreaders too. A database of such people is to be prepared in the next three days. Then, based on the database, the first dose of vaccine will be given to them  within 45 days, said a source. “Vaccination for these people will be done under the guidance of different departments,” said an official. Officials said that the state prepared the plan after it started receiving vaccines against its proposal to buy 3 crore vaccines from the two manufacturers. “We had deposited a sum of Rs 60 crore to buy 18 lakh doses of vaccines in May. We have received 11 lakh vaccines and we have been assured that the remaining 7 lakh doses would reach the state by the end of this month. We will buy 12 lakh vaccine doses in June,” said a senior health department official. Sources also said that the vaccines the state is buying would be administered to the potential superspreaders right at this moment. Districts have been asked to prepare the database of potential superspreaders within the next three days, a source said. “As soon as the database is ready, we will start vaccination of the priority group. It is expected that within the next 15 days, we can start vaccinating the priority group and complete giving at least one dose to them within the next 45 days,” said an official. Jabs for common people aged over 45 years will continue with vaccine doses from the Centre. “When enough vaccines are made available to the state by manufacturers, the state will start vaccination for the age group of 18 to 44 years,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and family stable, drop in Bengal cases||The condition of former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, wife Meera and daughter Suchetana, who had all tested positive for Covid-19, remained clinically stable through Wednesday. The communist veteran insisted on staying in home-isolation, but physicians monitoring his health parameters continued to urge hospitalisation. While Bhattacharjee, 77, — a patient of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease for long — and his daughter stayed separately in home isolation, 71-year-old Meera was admitted to a private hospital. “Buddhababu is stable, yes. But given his many health complications over the years, the importance of his hospitalisation cannot be overemphasised. But, as is common with him, he has been firmly refusing to get admitted, choosing instead to rely on the elaborate set-up in place at home,” said a physician. The Bhattacharjees, who had tested positive on Tuesday, were among the 19,006 new Covid patients reported in 24 hours till 9am on Wednesday. In a bit of a breather, Bengal on Wednesday logged a drop — by 302 to 1,31,491 – in total active Covid cases as 19,151 recoveries were reported. The state also reported a total of 157 deaths from Covid, the highest in a 24-hour period. Of the 157 deaths, 31 were from the city and 48 from North 24-Parganas. Although a drop in the total active cases had been reported on Sunday and Monday as well, a minister pointed out that Wednesday’s fall came without relatively fewer tests. He said the state was yet to get to the expected improvement in the situation, following an estimated mid-May peak in the second wave, but was not far from it. Bengal has 4.2 per cent of the national total of active cases and is seventh on the list of states with most active cases. In what is being noted as a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 18th consecutive day to 87.81 per cent. The national rate now is 86.7. While Calcutta logged 3,618 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,177. The state’s total Covid-19 death count now is 13,733, with the mortality rate at 1.15 per cent. The national rate is now 1.11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: CBI awaits LS Speaker sanction to prosecute Suvendu, three TMC MPs||The CBI is gearing up to send a fresh reminder to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla for sanction to prosecute BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari and Trinamul MPs Prasun Banerjee, Saugata Roy and Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar in the Narada case. On Wednesday, officers of the CBI’s Anti Corruption Branch said a prosecution sanction was needed for drawing up a chargesheet against each of the accused in the Narada case. “It would not be possible for us to draw up chargesheets without the approval of the Lok Sabha speaker,” said a senior officer. “The allegations in this case were made when the four accused were MPs,” said the officer, explaining the need for the Speaker’s sanction. The CBI said it was yet to find strong evidence of the involvement of BJP leader Mukul Roy and Trinamul MP Aparupa Poddar in the illegal gratification case. Several senior sleuths said the reminder to the Lok Sabha speaker this time would also mention the arrest of four accused, including two Bengal ministers, in the case after chargesheets had been drawn up against them. The CBI had taken up the investigation of the case following orders of Calcutta High Court in 2017 and almost four years later charge sheeted four Bengal leaders including two ministers in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, apart from two others including Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee, a former mayor who had a brief stint in the saffron camp before he snapped his ties. The four were arrested on May 17 and remanded in judicial custody. While the CBI claimed that it had sent several reminders to the Lok Sabha speaker in the past, the last one being in April 2019, the decision to send a fresh one has raised questions. Several senior bureaucrats and police officers wondered why the CBI had not sent the reminder ahead of the May 17-arrests of the four leaders and what made the agency wait through 2020. “It appears the team has wrapped up its investigation and therefore, wants to draw up chargesheets. Why wasn’t a reminder sent last year?,” asked a senior IPS officer in the Bengal police directorate. “The CBI is accountable to Calcutta High Court for all its moves.” The CBI said it had informed the high court about the delay in getting the Speaker’s sanction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Arrest a bid to browbeat Mamata, says Ashwani Kumar||The arrest of two Bengal ministers and two other senior politicians in the Narada case was an attempt to “browbeat” Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, said former Union minister for law and justice Ashwani Kumar. The CBI had arrested Trinamul Congress ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, party MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee from their homes on Monday morning. Raking up the five-year-old case, that too, at a time when the state is struggling to combat Covid-19, serves the BJP’s malicious intention after its resounding defeat in the Assembly elections, said Kumar. “The imprint of partisan politics is writ large in the blatant abuse of prosecutorial processes by the CBI against political adversaries of the ruling BJP,” he added. The veteran Congress leader went on: “Resort to arbitrary criminal prosecution and custody of the accused by enforcement agencies to deprive citizens of their fundamental liberties is clearly against the first principles of our libertarian Constitution. Detention of the accused militates against the recent Supreme Court judgments that scoff at routine incarceration of political activists.” The former Union law minister said the arrest of the accused, who were “public men of high standing and not expected to tamper with the course of justice”, was clearly an abuse of authority. “The arrest for alleged corruption is a brazen attempt to browbeat chief minister Mamata Banerjee after her triumphant win in the Assembly elections,” he said. Many were of the view that such a move, that too amid the raging second wave of Covid-19, was a precursor to the imposition of the President’s rule in Bengal citing “lawlessness”. “The situation in Bengal certainly does not warrant such an extreme step. Its people have recently elected a popular government and reposed faith in the leadership of Mamata Banerjee. Even a contemplation of such a move would be an assault on democracy and destructive of the federal and basic structure of the Constitution,” said Kumar. “Bail and not jail is the fundamental tenet of our criminal and libertarian jurisprudence. The CBI’s insistence on custody of the accused is, therefore, wholly unsustainable in law. The manner of exercise of power of law enforcement in a democracy is accountable to constitutional imperatives. And it is important that justice is not only done but is also seen to be done,” he said. Although a special CBI court in Calcutta had granted interim bail to the arrested quartet on Monday evening, the high court later at night overturned the order. The high court remanded the four in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal readies for cyclone next week||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to keep all arrangements — like deploying teams to clear fallen trees, restore electricity and relocate people from vulnerable areas — ready to deal with a cyclone likely to make a landfall in the coastal area between Bengal and Odisha early next week. The cyclone is yet to be formed in the Bay of Bengal. A high level meeting was held at Nabanna on Wednesday to discuss the preparedness to face the cyclone which could make landfall sometime between May 25 and 26 and it was decided that the state would leave no stone unturned to restore normality soon after the cyclone. “The chief minister addressed the officials present at the meeting through telephone where she laid stress on keeping arrangements ready to restore normality at the earliest. The plan was drafted keeping in mind the bitter experience after Cyclone Amphan,” said a source. According to the plan, districts that have seashores and districts which are near the coastal districts would identify vulnerable people living in low lying areas who need to be located if the cyclone forms and hits Bengal. “The flood shelters in districts like South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore and West Midnapore would have to be ready. Sanitizers and masks have to be kept ready at the shelters as the cyclone might hit at a time when the state is battling the second wave of Covid-19,” said a senior official. Besides, district magistrates have been asked to keep relief materials, baby food and medicines ready before the cyclone hits. Mamata also asked the officials to keep teams ready to clear fallen trees and restore electricity at the earliest if Calcutta and its adjoining areas were hit by the cyclone. For this, the Bengal government has already held meetings with the Coast Guard, army, navy and the NDRF and made it clear that their help would be sought in case the cyclone leaves a heavy impact in the state. “The experience of Amphan has forced us to plan in advance. We don’t want a repeat of a situation where Calcutta would face power cuts for seven days and go through a severe water crisis like it had suffered after Amphan last year,” said a senior official. The state government has decided to cancel leave for employees of departments concerned that deal with emergency services like municipal affairs, water supply, irrigation, sewerage, disaster management, PWD and health. “If the cyclone forms, it could cause havoc in the state. The government is now getting ready to restore normalcy at the earliest. Amphan has taught us so many things and our preparedness is much better this year,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: East Midnapore TMC leader alleges scanty infrastructure, manpower at hospital||A Trinamul leader from East Midnapore, on Tuesday, alleged scanty infrastructure and manpower at a district Covid-19 hospital where he was admitted for treatment. Partha Pratim Das, the health executive of the East Midnapore Zilla Parishad and defeated Trinamul candidate for Khejuri, took to Facebook to share his “nightmare”. Das was admitted at the Chandipur Multispeciality Hospital for 15 days after he tested positive for Covid. The hospital is a private facility, but is managed by the state. “The hospital has an infrastructure of 100 beds. The government has sanctioned 150 beds. But because of pressure around 200 patients are being admitted. There were only 14 doctors. How do you expect to run the facility like this?” Das, who recovered on Monday, told this paper. Das, a doctor by profession, in his Facebook post, narrates about a night when he was told that the doctor will be absent. According to Das, at that moment there were 16 to 17 critical patients in the ICCU. “I left everything and went out for a round thinking of the patients,” Das wrote. He recognised many faces among the patients in the ICCU. According to Das’s Facebook post four persons succumbed that night. “This recovery period was a nightmare for me,” Das wrote. He told this paper that given the current situation the government must focus on safe homes, given the pressure on hospitals. Referring to the Kerala government’s initiative to cap the fees for the safe homes at Rs 2,000, Das said that the Bengal government must follow suit. East Midnapore’s assistant district magistrate (treasury) Ashis Saha, in charge of Covid-19 management, said: “We can’t comment on someone’s Facebook post. We have increased Covid beds in the district.” “The infrastructure is much better now. Yet if we get a specific complaint we shall look into the matter,” he said. East Midnapore registers 800 to 1,000 Covid daily. As of Tuesday, there are 5,361 active Covid-19 cases in the district, with 312 deaths in the second wave. The total number of affected patients in the district since the first wave is 41,269.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Facility scale-up for Covid battle in the hills||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) has appointed five officials to liaison with hospitals and safe homes across the hills to look into infrastructure and related issues following a relative surge in Covid-19 cases in the Darjeeling hills. The two district hospitals in Darjeeling and Kalimpong, and the Covid-19 hospital in Triveni near Teesta lack oxygen  plants. Even facilities like CT-scan are lacking in Darjeeling. Samden Dukpa, the GTA executive director, will coordinate with Sonam Bhutia, also an executive director and joint executive directors Bhaskar Moktan, Manabendra Modak and Arijit Mitra along with “executive engineers of the concerned civil and electrical divisions for addressing to any infrastructural issues that may be raised by the hospital authorities”. Each GTA official has been entrusted to look after specified hospitals and other centres. A GTA official said that plans were afoot to get four ventilators for Darjeeling district hospital. This hospital has no ventilator for Covid-19 patients. Social organisations and even political parties are focussing on getting oxygen concentrators in the hills to tide over the present situation. As part of Project CARE (Critical Aid Response) an initiative of Edwards Foundation and Darjeeling Initiative, 13 oxygen concentrators have been donated to the Planters’ Hospital in Darjeeling. Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista and the five MLAs of the district have also donated more than 12 oxygen concentrators to various hospitals in the region. Many medical professionals, however, have cautioned that while oxygen concentrators have come as relief,  the administration should focus on long term infrastructure in the hills. Doctors maintain that though concentrators can work continuously over long periods and are hassle-free as no cylinders are needed, these cannot supply enough oxygen to severe patients.“Concentrators can supply between 5 to 10 litres of oxygen per minute. But patients needing high flow of oxygen require anything between 16 litres to 45 litres of oxygen per minute,” a senior doctor explained. “The concentrator is useful for mild cases but the administration must focus on setting up oxygen plants and stocking enough oxygen cylinders,” he added. Oxygen cylinders can supply high flow oxygen. The Darjeeling district health department has decided to engage 500 health workers (swasthya bandhu) for treatment of Covid-19 infected patients across the district. They have already been provided with necessary training by the health officials through orientation camps organised in different blocks. “We will engage around 500 health workers to help in Covid treatment. They have already been trained through orientation camps by the district health officials and will start their services from Thursday,” Pralay Acharya, the chief medical officer of health (CMOH) of Darjeeling district, said on Wednesday. Sources in the department said altogether, around 2.75 lakh health workers would be providing their services across the state, particularly in rural and semi-urban areas. “Though they don’t have a medical degree, they can render their services in preliminary and basic treatments in interior parts of the state. The decision to engage them was taken by the chief minister Mamata Banerjee on May 5,” said a source. On Wednesday, 20 more beds were added and a new ward was opened for Covid patients at Siliguri district hospital. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the BoA of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, formally opened the ward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
