21-05-2021||West Bengal||Oxygen leakage at Siliguri hospital triggers panic||Oxygen leakage at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri triggered panic among COVID patients and their families on Friday morning, officials said. The incident happened around 9.15 am when the leakage was detected in a pipe supplying oxygen to the Critical Care Unit (CCU) at the COVID block, hospital superintendent Dr Sanjay Mallick said. The oxygen clouded the room where the leak was detected, triggering panic among the patients who thought that fire may have broken out. The COVID patients started running out in panic amid the chaos, while large number of people, including their family members, gathered outside the block. Soon, the fire brigade was informed and two fire tenders were rushed from the Matigara fire station, officials said. The situation was brought under control after stopping the oxygen supply for some time, they said. There were seven patients in the CCU at that time. They were safely evacuated to another block, Mallick said. No one was injured and no other sorts of damage were reported due to the incident, officials said. The leakage was repaired and normalcy returned, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata likely to contest from Bhowanipore constituency||Bengal agriculture minister and veteran TMC leader Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the Bhabanipur assembly seat on Friday, paving way for Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to contest bypoll from her old bastion, party sources said. Mamata, who lost the recently concluded polls from Nandigram, needs to get elected to the Assembly within six months to hold on to the chief minister's chair. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, however, refused to divulge anything on Mamata's re-election and said the party will come up with a statement at an appropriate time. Chattopadhyay tendered his resignation to Assembly speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay in the presence of senior party leader and his ministerial colleague Partha Chatterjee. Before leaving for the state legislature, he told PTI that he would happily abide by the party's decision. "I am going to resign as the MLA of Bhawanipur seat. This is my decision as well as that of the party. I am happily abiding by it," the agriculture minister said. The speaker, on his part, said, "Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay has resigned from the Bhawanipur seat voluntarily. I have accepted his resignation letter after confirming that he has taken the decision on his own without any pressure or threat." A section of party members speculated that the septuagenarian politician might be fielded from the Khardah seat, where bypoll has been necessitated following the death of party leader Kajal Sinha due to COVID-19. There are others who claimed that Chattopadhyay might be nominated to Rajya Sabha. The veteran TMC leader said, "We must work to ensure the victory of our leader Mamata Banerjee from a seat, as Bengal can prosper and move forward when she is at the helm. As there were talks within the party about her election to the Assembly, and I was tapped in this regard, I readily agreed." He, however, clarified that he isn't too keen on the Upper House nomination. Asked if he would quit as a minister, Chattopadhyay said, "I will follow the party's instructions. However, I am not aware of any such rule, which entails my resignation from the ministerial post." Chattopadhyay, who had earlier represented the Rashbehari assembly seat, contested from Bhawanipur this year and defeated BJP's Rudranil Ghosh by a convincing margin. Mamata had won the seat in 2011 and 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Ministers Firhad & Subrata, MLA Madan and ex-mayor Sovan on house arrest ||The Calcutta High Court on Friday ordered the house arrest of four political leaders of Bengal, including two ministers and a Trinamul Congress MLA who were held in the Narada sting tapes case earlier in the week, while leaving it to a  larger bench to rule on their plea for interim bail. A five-judge bench was consituted in the evening to hear the bail matter of arrested four former ministers in Narada case after Calcutta HC’s acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee’s bench were divided over granting the interim bail. While Justice Arijeet Banerjee supported interim bail, the acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal opposed it. The bench made it clear the house arrest was given considering the Covid pandemic. While pronouncing the order, the bench turned down CBI’s plea for a stay of the order and added the arrestees can access files and meet officials, only through video conferencing. The acting chief justice informed the prosecution and the defence counsels, since he and his colleagues differed on the bail plea, the four arrested Trinamul leaders must be kept in house arrest. Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim (also the mayor of Calcutta), legislator Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by CBI on Monday in connection with the Narada sting operation. The issue has since snowballed into a major political controversy given the acrimonious state of politics in Bengal. Defence counsels Kalyan Bandyopadhyay and Abhishek Manu Singhvi while appealing for interim bail, had stressed on the need to keep the leaders outside the jail for their work in Covid management, especially Hakim and Mukherjee. “Firhad Hakim is working 24x7 for Covid vaccination-related matters. His presence is necessary for Covid work in Calcutta. So necessary to give him access to files and permit him to meet officials,” Bandyopadhyay told the bench. Singhvi too made the same plea reminding that two were ministers and one MLA. In his plea for bail for the quartet, Singhvi raised three points. “Difference of opinion should lead to liberty. The bench must be constituted today itself. We are pressing for interim bail.” Singhvi added: “If the choice is between full arrest and house arrest, it will be house arrest. But if the choice is between freedom and house arrest, it will be freedom.” Singhvi said the arrestees being ministers and MLAs there was no possibility of a flight risk and the CBI too has not made the slightest allegation of them not cooperating with the agency. Defence counsel Sidharth Luthra questioned why the four were being kept in judicial custody. “Investigation is over. There is no requirement of custody. Under what provision the custody will be given? Section 167?”, Luthra asked. Luthra said the CBI case was a “house of cards” and will fall down in no time. At this the solicitor general Tushar Mehta interjected. “If it is a “house of cards” it should fall in a judicial order. Not with ministers protesting. That is pure hooliganism.” Bandyopadhyay also demanded that the larger bench be formed on Friday itself and hearing commence in the matter. “This court accepted CBI’s request to hear the matter at 5.30 pm on May 17. Am I not entitled to make a similar request? I request it (a sitting) today at 2 pm,” Bandyopadhyay said. As the solicitor general interrupted the two were involved in a minor verbal spat. “Justice must be rooted in public confidence. An example needs to be set (by constituting a larger bench today). The whole country is watching the case. Signals must go everywhere,” Bandyopadhyay said. The acting chief justice Bindal informed the lawyers the constitution of the bench was an administrative matter and will be done in due course.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
21-05-2021||West Bengal||CID strikes back, summons BJP's Barrackpore MP in 2020 fraud case ||The state CID served a notice to BJP MP Arjun Singh in connection with a fraud case late on Thursday night, the summons coming days after the national probe agency, CBI, arrested two Trinamul ministers, an MLA and a former party leader, who was the mayor of Calcutta. The summons to Singh, the first of its kind since Mamata Banerjee was sworn-in for a third time as chief minister, is being seen as the beginning of a series of retaliatory moves Bengal might resort to as a counter to similar actions by the Centre. Singh, the MP from Barrackpore, is a Trinamul turncoat who had joined the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Now, he has been asked to appear at Bhabani Bhawan, the state CID headquarters on Tuesday, May 25. The CID notice states that investigations have indicated that Singh had sufficient knowledge of "the crime" and would have to answer to the sleuths. The FIR was filed in February 2020 by a local Trinamul leader in Bhatpara, North 24-Parganas, about alleged financial irregularities while Singh was chairman of the local Bhatpara Municipality as a Trinamul leader. Incidentally, the man Singh defeated in 2019 to win the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat, Dinesh Trivedi, moved to the saffron camp days before the 2021 Assembly polls. Many BJP leaders of today are from the Trinamul Congress and there is no love lost between them and their former party. Since 2019, BJP leaders at the top, as well as those in the rural interiors, have been booked in cases of attempt to murder, assault or use of criminal force to deter public servants from discharge of duty, causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons, narcotics and psychotropic substances Act and the Arms Act. Hence, soon after the BJP’s attempt to unleash the CBI on to Trinamul leaders, comes this counter-attack. According to sources, there are 67 cases pending against state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, 64 against Singh and 45 against Mukul Roy. Roy is also an accused in the Narada sting operation.  The BJP has alleged more than 8,000 FIRs have been filed against its leaders and functionaries all over Bengal since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Last year, six BJP leaders—Mukul Roy, Kailash Vijaywargiya, Arjun Singh, Pawan Singh, Saurav Singh and Kabir Shankar Bose _ had moved Supreme Court alleging a witch-hunt by the state law enforcing agencies under the orders of the ruling Trinamul Congress and were granted interim protection by the apex court. Intimidation by law enforcing agencies works in its own ways in Bengal. For example, state water resources investigation and development minister Manas Bhunia had murder and molestation cases slapped against him during the 2016 Assembly polls. Then with the Congress, Bhunia had arrest warrants issued against him in July the same year. Two months later in September, Bhunia joined the Trinamul. When the charge sheet was filed in December the same year, Bhunia’s name was missing. He was nominated to the Rajya Sabha but quit to contest the polls this year and is back as a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata accuses Modi of not letting anyone speak at CM meet||Mamata Banerjee has accused an “insecure” Narendra Modi of not letting her or other chief ministers speak at an online meeting on the Covid crisis he held with several heads of state governments and district magistrates on Thursday morning. With the Bengal chief minister getting a chance to interact with the Prime Minister for the first time since winning an acrimonious election against his party and amid a Covid emergency, she had come prepared to speak her mind on the Centre’s management of the epidemic. “(But) no two-way communication or consultation (took place); only one-way insultation,” Mamata told a news conference after the meeting, which she had attended along with some of her top bureaucrats. “One nation, all humiliation…. More than a dictatorship, feels like martial law is in place in this nation,” she added. “It felt really bad to see the Prime Minister feeling so insecure that he didn’t even want to listen to the chief ministers. Why such great fear? Why such neglect? Who is to answer? The Prime Minister hid his face, ran away.” Mamata said what she felt “most bad” about was her inability to raise the state’s demands and concerns after having made considerable preparations ahead of the meeting, where she was a formal invitee. She said she would have liked to speak about the supply of vaccines, medicines and oxygen, and about the concerns over the deadly “black fungus” that is infecting ailing or recovered Covid patients. “The country is passing through a critical juncture but the Prime Minister is very casual…. He wanted to get some publicity through the media, which is why he expressed his opinion without allowing others, the chief ministers, to speak,” Mamata said. “Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala — are we bonded labour or are we puppets? Only ‘his master’s voice’ matters, and the Opposition does not matter?” She added: “He (Modi) picked a handful of district magistrates, mostly from BJP-ruled states. He then gave his own lecture and ended it (the meeting). Even that lecture we didn’t understand. A Prime Minister meeting chief ministers on Covid-19, (and yet) so casual? It was just a casual, super-flop meeting.” Mamata went on: “We, the chief ministers, are feeling insulted and humiliated. We are astonished to see that the Prime Minister called a meeting, invited the chief ministers, and all the chief ministers were made to sit like puppets. Nobody was allowed to speak.” The Trinamul chief minister lambasted Modi for suggesting the second wave of Covid was subsiding. “He gave a lecture saying Covid-19 is reducing. If that were true, then how are so many deaths taking place across the country? It’s because of this same negligence that the second wave became this devastating. Nothing was done for six months; eight-phase elections were forced on Bengal,” she said. Mamata iterated her demand for free, universal immunisation against Covid for every Indian citizen, underscoring the Modi government’s apparent reluctance about such a measure. “We kept saying Rs 30,000 crore would have been enough to ensure free, universal immunisation for all Indians. But no, they are instead making huge buildings (the controversial Central Vista), statues for themselves.... But young boys and girls continue to die,” she said. “We were never allowed to ask about the countless bodies floating in the rivers. Namami Gange (a flagship programme of the Modi government to reduce pollution and rejuvenate the Ganga)? It’s now mrityupuri (house of death) Ganga, thanks to them…. (They) polluted the whole nation, poisoned its environment,” she added. “The king, the emperor, the shahenshah (king of kings) in Delhi, he will not even look at the people and declare everything is fine…. People are dying and they (the Centre) are still carrying on with their total negligence, arising out of audacious pride. I don’t know how long this can go on.” Mamata took a dig at Modi’s appeal to all Indians last year to clap their hands and bang on plates to drive the coronavirus away. “They are now claiming that the outbreak is reducing. Any day now, he will say ‘Ring bells, Covid-19 will reduce further’,” she said. “Not one permanent solution or a quest for it. No action.” Mamata has been complaining to her aides for the past few days that the Modi government is not being forthcoming in extending support to the states in their battle against Covid. She has been accusing the Centre of trying to deflect attention from the Covid emergency, referring to recent developments such as governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s comments on the post-poll violence, visits by central teams, and the CBI’s arrest of two of her ministers in the Narada case. On Thursday, she raised the subject of the Centre’s relentless efforts to browbeat her newly formed government. “You all can see what is going on even after the polls. In the name of post-poll violence, central teams are being sent. Are these teams sent to Uttar Pradesh, when countless bodies are thrown into the rivers? Are central teams being sent to see the stock of vaccines, of oxygen?” she said. Mamata has been alleging that these actions stem from the BJP’s inability to digest the crushing poll defeat in Bengal after its high-voltage, polarising campaign and the spending of “thousands of crores” to win the state. Asked if she was looking to lead a pan-India platform of non-BJP forces in the run-up to the Lok Sabha polls of 2024, Mamata said her priority now was fighting Covid. “I hope there will be a pan-India team: a team that will raise its voice against the BJP’s autocracy; a team that will take on dictatorship with democracy,” she said. “Whoever takes a stand can and will do so. When they want to speak, they are free to speak to me.” The BJP central leadership fielded Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to answer Mamata. “This behaviour is shameful, is condemnable and least expected from a chief minister of a big state in a meeting called by the Prime Minister,” Prasad said. He said Modi had been interacting with district magistrates to learn how they were combating the epidemic so that the best practices could be replicated elsewhere. “What is the problem if the Prime Minister wants to interact with district magistrates?” Prasad said. He said it was “very, very unfair” of Mamata to attend the meeting and then “seek to derail” it. Prasad did not explain how Mamata could have sought to “derail” the meeting without a chance to speak. “Nothing better can be expected from Mamataji,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government gears up to face possible cyclone||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday held a meeting with top government officials and took stock of the state’s preparedness for the cyclone that is likely to form on the Bay of Bengal on May 22 and then make a landfall somewhere between Bengal and Odisha coastlines on May 26 morning. Sources said the chief minister had passed on a series of instructions to the government officials to ensure that loss of life was prevented and normality restored at the earliest after the cyclone passed away. “The chief minister has asked us to set up control rooms at the state as well as district levels at the earliest so that the required preparatory work is taken up properly,” said an official. The state government has also decided to keep teams ready to rescue people, clear roads and restore electricity with an utmost urgency. The state is also in touch with agencies like NDRF, navy and army for restoration and evacuation works in a coordinated manner. “The state government has started keeping flood shelters ready in coastal districts, including South 24Parganas, North 24Parganas, East Midnapore and West Midnapore. Arrangements for ferrying people living in the vulnerable areas have also been kept ready. As soon as an alert is received from the Met office, our work would start,” said a source. “The state government has also asked the irrigation department to identify vulnerable river embankments and carry out urgent repairs within 48 hours to avert villages’ inundation,” said an official. Leaves of employees of all departments that deal with emergency works like water supply, power supply, health, public works department, irrigation, transport and civil defence have been cancelled. The state government has also asked district administrations to arrange for masks, sanitisers and generators for the flood shelters where affected people would be put up. “We have to ensure that the Covid19 pandemic does not get deteriorated as many people would stay together at flood shelters. When Amphan had hit on this day last year, the rural areas were free from Covid. But the situation is different this year as the novel coronavirus has reached even remote areas,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid curb pangs: Youth pedals 150km for mom’s report ||A 35-year-old youth, who runs a fast-food stall at Chachanda village in Murshidabad’s Samserganj, cycled to Malda Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday to collect a medical report of his mother who has severe spinal pain. To reach the Malda hospital and back, Mizanur Rahaman pedalled over 150km. Mizanur had no choice. Public transport is off roads because of stricter restrictions imposed in the state to rein in the pandemic. The other option was to hire a car, beyond his reach. Mizanur’s mother Fatema Biwi, 65, had undergone the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) test at the Malda hospital on May 11 and the report had to be collected on Sunday. The restrictions had come into effect then. Mizanur decided to cycle to Malda seeing Fatema in pain. Her doctor had already said her treatment could not start without the report. “I took my mother to Malda hospital for a free MRI scan on May 11. I was told to come after five days to collect the report. The stricter restrictions derailed my plans of collecting the report on Sunday. But seeing my mother in pain I decided to cycle to Malda on Wednesday,” said Mizanur. Malda is around 75 km from Chachanda village and many residents of Samserganj block depend on Malda as Murshidabad district headquarters Behrampore is around 82km away. “I could not wait as my mother was in pain,” the youth said when asked if it was wise to cycle 150km in the peak of summer. Mizanur earns around Rs 3,500 a month from his fast food stall which goes towards taking care of his family of his mother, two children and wife. On Wednesday, he left home at 6am and reached Malda at 10.30am. After collecting the report, he left Malda around 11.30am and pedalled for over four hours to reach the residence of Dr Shakil Ahmed at Tarapur village in Samserganj. “I returned home with medicines he had prescribed,” he said. Dr Ahmed said that the report indicated a fracture in Fatema’s spine. The doctor, who is posted at the district’s Suti block hospital and treats patients for free, said: “It is praiseworthy that someone could pedal all the way to Malda to collect the report.” Fatema was overcome with emotion: “My son did not tell me about his plan. I cried when he came back with the report and told me how he got it.” Moved by the son’s devotion, Samserganj BDO Krishna Chandra Munda said: “We will help him in future if he needs further treatment for his mother.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Calcutta police probe ‘riot’ outside CBI office, arrests four ||Calcutta police on Wednesday picked up four persons as it started a probe to identify some of those who had been involved in alleged acts of rioting outside the CBI office here following the arrests of two Bengal ministers in the Narada case on Monday. The investigation came close on the heels of a letter from the CBI to the police bosses in Lalbazar, seeking details of the force’s deployment that had been made after the central agency had apparently informed the police about the ministers’ arrests and voiced their apprehensions of trouble outside its office. Apart from Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, the CBI had on Monday arrested Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada case. The quartet arrested from the city on Wednesday were allegedly present in the mob and had reportedly hurled stones and bottles at the central forces deployed to secure Nizam Palace on Monday. Three of them were arrested from parts of Kidderpore and one from Karaya an the basis of an FIR that the CBI had lodged with the Shakespeare Sarani police station. The FIR blamed “unknown persons” for “rioting and unlawful assembly” on May 17 outside Nizam Palace, which houses the office of the Anti Corruption Branch of the CBI’s eastern zone. “We are in the process of collecting more details based on our source network of those who had turned up outside Nizam Palace on Monday,” said a senior police officer of the Calcutta police. “More arrests are likely in this case.” Sources said the central investigating agency had sought details like the strength of the force that had been deployed outside the CBI office, names of officers in charge of the police personnel and efforts to contain lawlessness that had played out for several hours, forcing the CBI to abandon the idea of presenting the four accused physically in a court. The CBI’s contention is that it had informed Lalbazar about the arrests to be made and sought police support for rounding up the four leaders from their residences in south Calcutta. The CBI also informed senior police officers about their apprehensions of a possible lawlessness as a fallout of the arrests. “We mentioned the situation outside the Nizam Palace within hours of the arrests in our petition to Calcutta High Court,” said a senior officer of the agency. In Lalbazar, police bosses said all arrangements had been made and adequate police personnel deployed to control the mob. Use of any force to restrain the mob would have been counter-productive, said one of them. “Several senior officers had turned up and barricades were put up everywhere to ensure that none of central force personnel was injured,” said a senior IPS officer. “There is no question of any slackness in arrangements since the chief minister of the state was present inside the building.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu reason for big losses, says BJP’s Saumitra Khan||Bengal BJP youth wing’s president Saumitra Khan has offered to resign from his post, citing discontent over the election of Trinamul turncoat and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari as the leader of Opposition. Multiple sources in the party said that Saumitra believed that the induction of Suvendu was one of the reasons behind the drubbing BJP received in the Bengal polls and it would be a disaster to project him as the party’s face in the Bengal Assembly. “Saumitrada is upset with Suvenduda’s election as the leader of Opposition. He has informed senior leaders of the party about it and sought relief from his post at a party meeting on May 11,” a source close to Saumitra told this paper. Suvendu was elected leader of Opposition on May 10. According to multiple party leaders, Saumitra — also a Trinamul turncoat — believes Suvendu has hurt the BJP’s chances in the Jungle Mahal areas. While the saffron camp made major inroads into West Midnapore, Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura in the 2019 polls, it couldn’t hold on to the votes in 2021. Saumitra believes the CPM votes in these areas, which shifted to the BJP during the Lok Sabha polls, moved to Trinamul after Suvendu joined the BJP. “CPM voters have been victims of Suvenduda’s wrath in the last 10 years. They voted for us in 2019 to defeat Suvendu and not Trinamul. In 2021, they voted against Suvendu,” another source in the BJP’ youth wing said. “Electing Suvenduda as the leader of Opposition will alienate these voters forever,” Saumitra reportedly told his party seniors. Since last week’s meeting, Saumitra has reportedly been asked to focus more on his Lok Sabha seat Bishnupur and has been less involved in the matter of the youth wing. On Monday, Saumitra held a virtual meeting with leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), which was attended by Bengal BJP’s general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty.  Here, sources said Saumitra vented his displeasure over the party’s not utilising the youth wing during poll campaigns. “The youth of Bengal have voted for Mamata Banerjee. If our youth wing was allowed to exploit possibilities, things would’ve been different,” another BJYM source said. This leader, however, added that Saumitra did end on a conciliatory note, saying Yuva Morcha members would continue to work as dedicated soldiers of the party. Saumitra has been at loggerheads with the BJP state unit leaders, including president Dilip Ghosh, something the Assembly poll debacle again brought to the forefront. Asked by this paper, Saumitra declined to comment on the issue, calling it an internal matter of the party. Another BJP youth leader Raju Sarkar, in a message sent to the official WhatsApp group of the Yuva Morcha on Tuesday, said “thieves and thugs” got central security while grassroots workers were attacked. Sarkar also resigned from his post as BJYM vice-president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee visits Firhad Hakim’s home||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee met one of Firhad Hakim’s daughters on Thursday evening and urged her to stay strong and not lose hope, the act of empathy coming around a time when four arrested leaders in the Narada case have been struggling to keep their chin up in judicial custody. While Subrata Mukherjee, Sovan Chatterjee and Madan Mitra are admitted to the SSKM Medical College and Hospital, Hakim is in Presidency Jail, a stone’s throw from Mamata’s residence. On Thursday evening when Mamata stopped by Hakim’s Chetla residence on her way home from Nabanna, his wife had gone to the Presidency jail to visit her husband. Mamata told one of his daughters: “Don’t feel bad. We will win this battle.” She then went on to inquire about others in the family during her 15-minute stay. At the Woodburn ward of the SSKM Hospital, doctors monitored the health of Mukherjee, Chatterjee and Mitra before drawing up a report on their exact status. Hospital sources said Mukherjee was put on nebuliser after doctors realised he suffered from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Chatterjee, former Calcutta's mayor, complained of chest pain on Thursday. Doctors immediately performed an ECG and recommended a nebuliser for him as well. He has chronic diabetes. Mitra was on oxygen support on Wednesday. On Thursday doctors suggested BiPAP therapy for the leader who won from Kamarahati Assembly constituency this time. “All of them are clearly under stress and some of the ailments have been triggered by this mental state,” said a senior doctor. Late on Thursday, reports of all the three were compiled and sent to Manimoy Bandyopadhyay, director of the Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research at the SSKM Hospital. Hospital insiders said reports have been drawn up with utmost care to ensure there were no doubts if the CBI wanted to refer them to independent medical experts. The team has recommended continued medical support for the three while remaining admitted to the hospital, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal sees rise in Covid-19 cases, gears up to tame second wave||The nationwide second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has led to a spike in cases across north Bengal, particularly in Darjeeling and Malda. In north Bengal, the number of deaths and cases is around thrice of last year. “Last year, the average number of daily cases (Covid infections) in the eight north Bengal districts in all was around 800. This time, it is around 2,300. Last year, the average death toll was five. Now, 15 to 20 deaths are being reported daily from the region,” said a health department source. According to data, 2,351 cases and 21 deaths were reported in the region on May 18. On Wednesday (May 19), there were 2,259 new cases and 15 deaths. The surge made the administration of each district and the health department come up with new plans, including oxygen plants and safe homes. “In north Bengal, we have around 4,800 beds available in government hospitals, another 4,000 beds in safe homes and private clinics. More are being arranged. Also, work is on to set up oxygen plants in each district,” said Sushanta Roy, officer on special duty of state health and family welfare department in north Bengal. In Siliguri, the local civic body plans to set up an oxygen “parlour” for people who need oxygen support. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the BoA of SMC, said they would start the service with 30-odd cylinders. In Darjeeling, St Joseph’s School (North Point) on Thursday started a 50-bed safe home for Covid-19 patients in Darjeeling, the Sursum Corda Covid Care Centre.“Sursum Corda, the motto of St Joseph’s School and College in Darjeeling, means ‘Lift up your hearts’ in Latin,” said Fr Stanley Varghese, rector. “Planter’s Hospital and Yuma Nursing Home will give the safe home five doctors and eight nurses,” said Fr Varghese. Political rivals Anit Thapa of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang camp) and Ajoy Edwards of the GNLF have joined hands to support the safe home. In Sikkim, the number of fresh cases and deaths in the past month is equal to the number of cases and deaths reported in the preceding 15 months, said sources in the health department. Between February 28, 2020, and April 21, 2021, the state recorded 6,846 infections. But adding the figures of the past one month, the total number of infections so far is 11,994. The death toll has risen from 126 till April this year to an overall total of 217 now. After reaching the all-time peak of 340 single-day infections on May 16, the positive cases in Sikkim have come down to 200s in the last four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee writes to Modi seeking doses to jab govt staff||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to make 20 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses available to Bengal to complete inoculation of all state government employees. “In Bengal, while we have taken steps to complete vaccination of a large section of frontline and electorally engaged employees across several sectors, we still need minimally 20 lakh doses to cover all the employees... We would request you to kindly make available an adequate number of vaccines to all the State Governments so that they are able to cover all their employees without any further delay,” the chief minister wrote. Sources said the state government had started vaccination of all employees and staff of aided institutions like school teachers and local bodies considering them as frontline workers in January. But the process was hit because of shortage of vaccine doses. Many government employees, staff of aided institutions like teachers, accredited social health activists (ASHA) and anganwadi workers are yet to receive jabs. “It is realised that the vaccination of these employees has become a necessity after the novel coronavirus reached rural areas. During the first wave last year, ASHAs and anganwadi workers had worked hard to keep the rural areas safe by detecting the infected early. They should be vaccinated against Covid with priority as they have to play an important role this time too,” said a senior government official. “The state is trying to arrange for vaccine doses by procuring vials from the manufacturers directly. But the Centre has to provide vaccines for state government employees and frontline workers,” said another official. Mamata also pointed out in her letter that the Union government should ensure that employees of central utilities like railways, airports, ports, defence and banks were given vaccines on a priority basis as “they have been forced to face people, to mingle with the public for discharge of their duties”. The chief minister, however, expressed concern that the Centre had no plans to make the programme successful. “Unfortunately, the Central Government policies keep no room to accommodate their needs,” read the letter. Sources said Mamata had raised the issue as thousands of central government employees worked in Bengal and the containment of the contagion would be easier said than done until the most vulnerable section of the people was vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: State logs rise in active cases and 162 deaths ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday highlighted some significant positive aspects of Bengal’s fight against the second wave of Covid-19, on a day the state reported a rise by only 19 in total number of active cases and 18,910 recoveries against 19,091 infections. At a news conference in the state secretariat in the afternoon, Mamata said Bengal’s weekly positive confirmation rate had been improving. “It has come down to 28.7, from the high of 32.8 per cent earlier in the second wave,” she said. The positive confirmation rate on Thursday was 27.02, having improved by over 2.5 percentage from 29.57 exactly a week ago and by over 3.6 from two weeks ago. The overall positive confirmation rate is now 10.33, which is the eighth highest in India. On Thursday, the state reported 162 deaths — the highest ever in a 24-hour period this pandemic. Bengal is currently 18th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. “The mortality rate is significantly lower, 0.69 per cent in this phase of Covid-19,” said the chief minister. Mamata said the state had firmly focused on renewed capacity augmentation in the wake of the second wave. “We have 234 Covid-19 hospitals, including 41 requisitioned private hospitals. We have 40,000 beds with oxygen support. Occupancy rate is barely 40 (38.49) per cent,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court to hold Narada hearing on Friday ||Calcutta High Court didn’t conduct the Narada hearing on Thursday “due to unavoidable circumstances” and the case would be taken up by the division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Friday. The final hearing of the case was scheduled for Thursday, but around 11.30am, the high court administration issued a notification saying “due to unavoidable circumstances, the First Division Bench will not assemble today”. The first division bench is considered to be that of Chief Justice or acting Chief Justice. The CBI is seeking the transfer of the trial outside Bengal, while four arrested leaders want the reversal of the high court’s order staying the interim bail granted to them by a subordinate court on Monday. Later in the day, an application was moved on behalf of Madan Mitra, one of the four arrested leaders in the case, requesting the registrar general of the court for hearing by another division bench. But the high court administration turned down the prayer, informing that the division bench of acting Chief Justice Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee would continue to hear the case on Friday. Since the case was not heard on Thursday, ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee will continue to remain in judicial custody. The high court remains closed on Saturdays and Sundays but the acting Chief Justice has the discretion to hear applications on holidays also.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders get charge of civic bodies||The state municipal affairs and urban development department has announced names of two more Trinamul leaders of Cooch Behar — a former MLA and a minister of state — as administrators of two civic bodies of the district. While Udayan Guha, the immediate past MLA of Dinhata who lost to BJP candidate and MP Nisith Pramanik, in the Assembly polls has been made the administrator of the municipality in Dinhata, Paresh Chandra Adhikary — who won in the polls and was appointed as the MoS in the school education department — will be the new administrator of Mekhliganj municipality. In Cooch Behar, Trinamul won in two of the nine seats. Along with Guha and Adhikary, Kanaialal Agarwal, the district Trinamul president of North Dinajpur who lost in Raiganj, has also been put in the post of administrator of Islampur municipality. So far as putting party leaders specially those who lost to BJP in the civic bodies is concerned, there has been an “aberration” in Malda. In Englishbazar municipality — the civic body at the district headquarter — the state has nominated Shekhar Kumar Choudhury, the SDO, as its administrator. The decision has left a section of Trinamul leaders surprised as unlike other districts, Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury, a former state minister and a senior Trinamul leader who lost in Englishbazar seat, has not been named for the post. “Choudhury has worked as a ward councillor and was also the civic chairman. It is surprising that he has not been nominated,” said a Trinamul leader. Party insiders, however, mentioned that there is dissent within the party against Choudhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Youths set clinic on wheels rolling in Birbhum||A group of youths in Birbhum’s Suri and two doctors of a government hospital have started a Fever Clinic on Wheels to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients on the doorstep. The team hired an e-rickshaw known as toto to ferry the doctors, an oxygen cylinder and other required equipment to treat patients at home. The move comes at a time when people, mostly Covid patients, across the state are depending on telemedicine to get treated. “Primarily, we are reaching out to 10 patients a day in Suri town. Our goal is to reach out to patients at a time when many of them are facing trouble with their treatment. The doctors are visiting the houses of patients and checking them,” said Priyanil Pal, one of the organisers. Pal and his friends run a self-funded NGO Upohar to help the needy. Helping the youths in their effort are two doctors — Jishnu Bhattacharyya, a consultant neuropsychiatrist of Suri district hospital and Priyanta Sarkhel, a paediatrician of Rampurhat Medical College and Hospital. “It was a welcome initiative at a time when most doctors have stopped treating patients in private chambers. Patients always prefer to have get checked by doctors physically and treated. I immediately agreed to join the effort of the youths when they approached me,” said Bhattacharyya who attended to 10 patients on Thursday. “People are afraid to visit hospitals for consultation because of the pandemic. Patients are really happy when they are getting us on the doorstep,” said Bhattacharyya. Apart from treating the patients, the youths and the doctors are also providing free medicines to the needy patients and arranging for their hospitalisations. Bhattacharya has donated Rs 30,000 to buy oxygen cylinders that they carry in the e-rickshaw to help patients who might require it. “We admitted two Covid patients to a hospital early today as they reported breathing trouble,” said Priyanil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
