22-05-2021||West Bengal||Didi, please take me back, pleads former MLA ||Sonali Guha, the former deputy Speaker of the Bengal Assembly and once one of the closest aides of chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her days as the main Opposition leader in state politics, made an impassioned appeal on Saturday to her former party chief to re-induct her into the Trinamul fold. In a letter purportedly written by Guha and shared on her social media account, she confessed that quitting the Trinamul and joining another party was her “biggest mistake”. “In an emotional moment, I took a decision as I was hurt and joined a party where I could not adjust myself. A fish cannot live without water, likewise I cannot live without you. Didi, I am seeking your forgiveness, please forgive me…,” the letter reads. One of the rabble-rousers in the Trinamul ranks who can outshout most of her political opponents, Guha was the sitting MLA from Satgachhia Assembly constituency which was once represented by late chief minister Jyoti Basu. On March 5, after Mamata announced the list of candidates for the 2021 Assembly polls, the four-time MLA’s name was missing from the list. Guha was largely unseen during the run-up to the Assembly polls. “I was told to spread canards against Didi. I couldn’t do that. So I was silent,” she  claimed. Soon after joining BJP, Guha had told a private news channel she would expose Mamata. Guha has a string of controversies surrounding her. In 2008, she had abused a police officer of Nodakhali police station in South 24-Parganas. She had threatened a doctor and his son in December 2014 over a dispute among residents of a housing complex. Her husband, Partha Basu, had led an attack on the Presidency University campus in April 2013. Trinamul sources said one of the reasons behind Guha’s name being dropped was her testy ties with Diamond Harbour MP and Mamata’s nephew Abhishek. While some from the Trinamul old guard are extremely protective of Abhishek, his relationship with others like Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikaryi have always been frosty. Incidentally, both Roy and Adhiakri are now in BJP. Guha’s resignation from the BJP comes days after former footballer and MLA Dipendu Biswas quit the BJP. Like Guha, Biswas too was dropped from the list of candidates this time. He joined the BJP but was not given either a ticket nor asked to campaign for the party. Most of the leaders from Trinamul who had joined the BJP and lost the elections are contemplating their political future since the BJP juggernaut has been  stopped at 77 seats leaving  the party nowhere close to forming a government. The renewed vigour with which the Narada sting operation case has been taken up is being seen as an attempt to destabilise the Trinamul itself and not just the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Home Ministry accords Y+ security cover to Suvendu Adhikari’s father, brother||Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's father and brother, both members of Parliament, have been accorded 'Y+' central security cover by the Union home ministry, official sources said on Saturday. Suvendu Adhikari's father Sisir Kumar Adhikari and brother Dibyendu Adhikari have been provided cover by the ministry on the basis of a threat perception report prepared by central security agencies, they said. While Sisir Kumar Adhikari is a member of Parliament (MP) from the Kanthi Lok Sabha seat, Dibyendu Adhikari is a Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP from Tamluk in the state. The report, the sources said, recommended cover to the two leaders in view of physical security threats they face. They are being provided 'Y+' central security cover in the state of Bengal and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has been entrusted with the task, the sources said. About four to five armed commandos each will be provided to them every time they move in the state, they said. The CRPF also provides a 'Z' category cover to Suvendu Adhikari, who is the Leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly. Suvendu Adhikari had severed ties with the TMC and joined the BJP. He contested the 2021 Assembly elections against Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee from the Nandigram seat and won the contest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Calcutta HC acting Chief Justice, and judge split on bail||Calcutta High Court acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal said on Friday: “My brother judge is in favour of granting bail to the accused persons. But I disagreed with my brother judge.” Differences of opinion among brother judges are not uncommon but the disagreement on something as common as a bail decision set in motion a chain of events that culminated in the possibility of at least two ministers in Bengal discharging their responsibilities “under house arrest in their own homes”. The judicial disagreement meant that the two ministers, an MLA and a former mayor arrested in the Narada case were released from judicial custody by Calcutta High Court but will remain in “house arrest”. Because of the difference of opinion between the two judges on the division bench, the subject of permanent bail for the accused will now come up before a five-judge bench. After the release order, outgoing city mayor and senior minister Firhad Hakim was allowed to leave Presidency Jail for his Chetla home. The three others — senior minister Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee who recently quit the BJP— are unwell and under treatment at the SSKM Hospital. Doctors at the hospital are expected to decide on their discharge at the weekend. Justice Arijit Banerjee had favoured bail, concluding there was little flight risk. Besides, the FIR had been lodged in 2017, and “if the applicants indeed had to tamper with evidence, they would have done it by now”. Justice Banerjee said in his order: “Admittedly, investigation against the present applicants is complete and chargesheet has been submitted against them…. It is also stated that further investigation against the accused persons is continuing. If that be so, I have not understood as to how custodial detention of the applicants is necessary any more, or how further investigation against the other accused persons will be hampered if the applicants are not detained in custody.” The judge underlined that the Supreme Court too had said that during the pandemic, bail should be granted liberally unless custodial detention was absolutely essential. However, Justice Bindal, the acting Chief Justice, said: “Whether mobocracy, where any law-enforcing agency was allegedly obstructed in discharge of its official duty, can have impact on decision or the decision-making process, is yet to be gone into…. Arguments of the CBI that entire proceedings for grant of bail before the trial court were vitiated on account of unprecedented protests led by the Chief Minister in the office of CBI and by the Law Minister in the court complex are yet to be examined…. “Prayer by CBI for transfer of the cases is also pending consideration.” Justice Bindal added: “But still I find that considering the age and health issues of the accused, instead of custody in jail, they can be put under house arrest in their own homes.” During the house arrest, “while being in home comfort, they shall be entitled to all medical facilities and shall be bound by all applicable restrictions. However, it shall be the duty of the jail authorities in the State to enforce the conditions. Any violation thereof can result in recall of this order”, the acting Chief Justice said. Later in the day, Justice Bindal constituted a five-judge bench of himself and Justices Banerjee, I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon and Soumen Sen. The special bench will hear the case from Monday. The CBI, which opposed the release of the accused from judicial custody, and the defence, which demanded “total bail”, have decided to challenge the order in the Supreme Court. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the CBI, contended that the accused should not be freed from judicial custody. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior advocate and Congress Rajya Sabha member from Bengal who was representing the accused, said: “In this Covid-19 situation, how will the ministers perform their duties from home? They should be granted total bail.” The bench turned down both sides’ prayers. It said the accused would be allowed to perform only their government jobs (which does not apply to Chatterjee). Records must be kept of all visitors. The court said the accused should be provided any assistance they need to discharge their official duties. The larger bench will also rule on the CBI’s plea for transfer of the case outside Bengal. Several eminent lawyers said the high court lacked the jurisdiction to transfer the trial to another state. “For the trial to be shifted to another state, the CBI will have to move the Supreme Court,” said senior advocate and CPM Rajya Sabha member Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Newly-wed couple from Nadia distribute food packets to over 100 needy persons  ||Amit Ghosh and Moumita Ghosh, a newly-wed couple from Nadia’s Santipur, opted out of having a reception for their marriage ceremony on Friday and instead distributed catered food in packets to over 100 needy persons in the area. Amit, 37, a contractual worker of the Santipur municipality, tied the knot with Moumita, who hails from Nakashipara, on Thursday night in the presence of a few friends and family members. After arriving at Santipur town on a boat ride from Nakashipara’s Sibpur ghat, the couple went to the groom’s home in Sutragarh for a brief ceremony. Accompanied by friends and still dressed in wedding garb, the pair soon began distributing food packets among destitute and impoverished persons at the locality. “We decided to call off the celebration which we had planned in compliance with the government’s order to maintain stricter restriction because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and instead, decided to distribute the food already ordered from the local caterer,” said Amit, belying a crucial and prudent change of heart. “I know that a day’s meal offered by us will not solve their troubles, but we have done it sincerely from the depth of our hearts,” said bride Moumita, who works as a teacher at a kindergarten in Nakashipara. The food packets contained rice, lentils, potato curry, fish fry and seven kinds of sweets. “We have done it for this special day only. But we will try to help people in this situation in a sustainable way even if it is only a handful of needy people,” said Moumita, nodding in approval at her husband.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||CID calls BJP MP Arjun Singh in fraud case||The CID has summoned Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh as part of its ongoing probe into alleged misappropriation of funds when he was the chairman of Bhatpara municipality. A team of CID officers turned up at Singh’s Bhatpara residence late on Thursday night to serve a notice asking the BJP leader to appear for a round of questioning before the sleuths at Bhabani Bhavan on May 25. Sources in the investigating agency said the case had been drawn up last year based on a complaint of a resident of Bhatpara in North 24-Parganas about alleged financial irregularities. The alleged defalcation happened when Singh was the chairman of the Bhatpara municipality as a Trinamul Congress leader. “It is evident during the investigation that you have sufficient knowledge in this case,” read the notice that was put up outside the main entrance to his house. Singh has been asked to appear at 11am. The notice to Singh comes around the time when the CBI has chargesheeted two Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada case. Many believe the notice to Singh is the first retaliatory move by the Mamata Banerjee government, a charge that the CID vehemently denied. Singh said he was yet to decide on whether he would turn up or not. “I will be consulting my lawyers. Then, there is a possibility of a heavy rain lashing down on Bengal around that time. Let’s see.” Singh was the chairman of Bhatpara municipality between 2010 and 2019 before he quit Trinamul. CID officers said they had been pouring over several records and files about the financial transaction carried out by the civic body at the behest of Singh to understand if there were irregularities. “We need to speak to him for a clearer understanding of the financial dealings. If he doesn’t turn up, we will have to decide on the next course of action,” said the CID officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Leader leaves BJP to protest Trinamul ministers’ arrests||A former chairman of Cooch Behar municipality, who had joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls, tendered his resignation on Friday to protest the arrest of Bengal ministers by the CBI during the pandemic. A Trinamul Congress turncoat, Bhushan Singh, said: “I am leaving the BJP to protest the arrest of Trinamul ministers. At the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is irrational to arrest the mayor of a city. It was my mistake to join the saffron camp.” The CBI has arrested two Bengal ministers, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, in a bribery case. Turncoats from Trinamul to the BJP, also charged in the case, have not yet been arrested. Sovan had quit the BJP in March this year. Hakim is in charge of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation as its administrator. A BJP worker, Rupam Sarkar, was arrested with a cache of bows, arrows, swords and other sharp weapons in the district on Thursday night. Police held Sarkar following a complaint lodged by Subal Mandal, a Trinamul supporter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid lockdown: Indian workers flee Bhutan, walk to border through forest||A group of 38 Indian labourers fled Bhutan under the cover of darkness early on Thursday morning as wages truncated because of Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown in the Himalayan kingdom were making their stay. Their escape, however, was not without adventure. The team had to negotiate through dense forest and cross the Torsa river before being apprehended by Bhutan police. Beating all odds, the labourers finally reached the Indian border town of Jaigaon. Most of the labourers hail from neighbouring Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts in Bengal. Dhiraj Karjee, one of the labourers, said they had left the village of Chukha in Bhutan around 2am on Thursday as the private agency that had hired them was reluctant to let them leave for India. “We had gone to Bhutan to work for a private company five months back on a daily wage of Rs 500,” said Karjee. The construction labourers said things had taken for the worse after the “sudden lockdown from April 17”. “The company had assured us that it would continue to pay full daily wages even after the sudden lockdown on April 17. However, they started paying us only half the amount,” said Karjee. The labourers said they had requested company officials to allow them to return home. “They refused to make any arrangement for us to return which is why we decided to flee,” said Karjee. A 76-year-old US citizen was the first person to be detected with Covid in Bhutan. He had tested positive in March 2020. Since then, Bhutan has repeatedly enforced strict lockdown and has managed to control the pandemic to a large extent. So far, only 1,338 people have tested positive in the past one-a-and-half years with 151 active cases as on Thursday. Bhutan has so far only reported one Covid-19 death since the pandemic started in 2020. Also, the country has undertaken one of the fastest vaccinations drives in the world. The vaccines were provided by India. However, the 38 Indian workers were of the opinion that in the present situation, it was better to be at home in India than stay in Bhutan with reduced wages. Accordingly, the labourers started their journey at 2am. “We negotiated forests, walked along the riverbank and crossed the Torsa. The moment we took the main road, we were arrested by Bhutan police,” said another member. The arrests were made two hours into the journey. The workers said the Bhutan police had handed them over to company officials. “This time, we were categorical that we had to be allowed to return home. Around 5.30am, we were finally allowed to leave,” said Karjee. Once the group reached Jaigaon after an hour’s walk, Alipurduar district officials conducted Covid tests on the workers, provided them with food and arranged for their onward journey. Kalchini block development officer Prasanta Barman said he had received information regarding the workers’ arrival around 7 am. “According to the guidelines, we arranged for Covid tests and later, sent them home,” Barman added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal races to face Cyclone Yaas||Administrations in three coastal districts of South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore have started search for more buildings to house people to be evacuated from vulnerable areas in the event of Cyclone Yaas hitting Bengal next week. Sources said the district administrations needed at least five times the number of houses they had arranged before Cyclone Amphan last year as more people couldn’t be accommodated in a room or building amid the second wave of Covid-19 raging across the country currently. The sources said at least 3,000 buildings had been identified primarily in the three districts to shelter the evacuees. “Last year, we had the option to house 1,000 people at any two-storey high school building as the number of infections was low. This time, we can’t house so many people in such a building. So, we are in search of more buildings in the Sunderbans,” said Bankim Hazra, the Sunderbans affairs minister and MLA of Sagar in the South 24-Parganas. During Amphan, the state government had evacuated around 1.5 lakh people before the cyclone hit the coastal areas. This time, the government planned to shift at least 3.5 lakh people based on the latest report on the route of Cyclone Yaas. “We have 115 multipurpose cyclone centres (MPCS) in our district and we have already mapped 250 additional buildings where people would be housed. We are searching for more buildings in coastal pockets,” said P. Ulaganathan, the district magistrate of South 24-Parganas. A senior official said the plan was to take over school buildings, at least five times more than what we had done for Amphan. “We have a plan to evacuate around two lakh people and because of the pandemic, we have to maintain the norms of physical distancing. So, we even asked the authorities of high schools, primary schools and even ICDS centres to hand over the keys to local panchayat immediately,” an official in North 24-Parganas said. Apart from hundreds of schools, there are 63 MPCS and 93 flood centres that have been ready in North 24-Parganas. Sources in the meteorological department said the movement of the cyclone would be clear by Saturday afternoon. According to the present route, Cyclone Yaas could hit coastal areas of East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas badly. In East Midnapore, over a thousand school buildings have been identified to relocate the people in the vulnerable areas and all the panchayats have been asked to collect the keys. “We have already started work to sanitise the buildings after cleaning it. It is a Herculean job as the buildings are lying closed since last year. We are keeping the arrangement of sanitisers, hand-wash and masks in those buildings,” said a senior official in East Midnapore. Scurry to repair dams The Bengal government has asked district administrative officials in North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore as well as the irrigation department to identify vulnerable stretches of earthen dams and repair them by May 23 before Cyclone Yaas makes landfall. Irrigation minister Saumen Kumar Mahapatra held meetings with senior officials on Wednesday and Thursday and directed them to prepare for “any kind of situation” while finishing pending maintenance works by May 23. “Owing to high tidal waves in the rivers and the sea during storms, the earthen dams are swept away and saline water infiltrates human habitats, agricultural land and fishing bheries (farms), causing serious damage,” said a district official. Speaking to The Telegraph, minister Mahapatra, said: “There are around 400km of gross stretches of earthen dams in the three districts. The maximum stretch of such dams falls in the Sunderbans, spanning North and South 24-Parganas. The entire stretch in these two districts is vulnerable.” Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 19,847 fresh cases and 159 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged 19,847 Covid-19 cases, 159 deaths from the disease and 19,017 recoveries as the total count of active patients rose to over 1.32 lakh. Bengal has 4.52 per cent of active cases at the national level and is now sixth on the list of states with patients currently under treatment. However, sources in the state government said two key parameters offered scope for cautious optimism. With a positive confirmation rate of 25.56 per cent, out of 77,627 tests reported on Friday, the state showed some early signs of overall improvement, although Calcutta and its neighbourhood, especially North 24-Parganas, remained heavily affected. The positive confirmation rate a week ago was 29.75, and 29.76 a fortnight ago. Deemed a key indicator, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid’s spread. “We expect the positive confirmation rate to fall by about 10 percentage points over the next couple of weeks,” said a minister. Bengal is currently eighth on the list of states with the highest positive confirmation rate. In another significantly positive development, the recovery rate rose for the 20th consecutive day to reach 88.11 per cent, riding the consistently large number of recoveries. The national recovery rate now is 87.72. “The recovery rate, which was nearly 98 per cent in March and over 97 even last month, had fallen to almost 84 as the second wave peaked. Over the past three weeks, however, we managed to see a rise again and we expect to get back into the 90s before the end of this month,” said the minister. Of the 159 deaths logged on Friday, 33 were reported from Calcutta and 47 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. While Calcutta logged 3,560 infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,240. Bengal is now 13th on the list of states with the highest recovery rates. The total number of deaths from Covid in the state is 14,054 now, while the mortality rate is 1.14 per cent. The national rate is now 1.12. Bengal is currently 18th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay resigns, door ajar for Mamata||Bengal agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay on Friday stepped down as MLA, apparently to facilitate Mamata Banerjee to contest from Bhowanipore in a bypoll and get elected to the Assembly. The chief minister had been defeated by her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari, who had contested on a BJP ticket, in the Nandigram constituency in the recent Assembly polls. Chattopadhyay’s resignation came 19 days after being declared a winner from the Bhowanipore Assembly seat in Calcutta. Sources said Chattopadhyay — Trinamul Congress’s first-ever elected MLA in 1998 — was likely to contest from Khardah, where a bypoll was necessitated by the death of his party’s victorious candidate Kajal Sinha from Covid-19. “Bengal needs Mamata Banerjee to continue as its chief minister. I resigned so that she is able to contest from Bhowanipore. It’s the least I could have done,” Chattopadhyay said after tendering his resignation to Speaker Biman Banerjee in the latter’s chamber at the Assembly. The Speaker accepted the resignation. Sources said Mamata, who had lost the contentious election in Nandigram by a margin of 1,956 votes (0.85 per cent of the vote share), was now likely to return to her home turf of Bhowanipore in the bypoll. Asked if he would contest from Khardah, Chattopadhyay said such discussions had taken place and several options were on the table. “But the announcements should ideally be made by the party, the likes of Partha (Chatterjee, Trinamul secretary-general)…. I try and steer clear of impropriety in public as well as personal life,” said the 77-year-old veteran trade union leader with degrees in science and law. With an indubitably clean image for an Indian politician, Chattopadhyay spent 22 years in the Congress before leaving with Mamata when she founded Trinamul 23 years ago. He is one of the most-trusted lieutenants of the chief minister. Despite the Bhowanipore seat having intensified into a challenge given the BJP’s rise there in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, Chattopadhyay scripted victory by a handsome margin of 28,719 votes (22.55 per cent of the vote share) in the south Calcutta seat with some of the city’s most prominent neighbourhoods. This was Chattopadhyay’s first appearance in Bhowanipore. He had represented Baruipur West two times as a Congress MLA and Rashbehari as the Trinamul legislator for five terms. Having taken oath as cabinet ministers earlier this month, both Mamata and Chattopadhyay will have to get elected to the Assembly within six months. Amit Mitra, who became finance minister for the third consecutive term, also needs to get elected to the 294-member House within six months. He hadn’t contested the Assembly polls because of ill-health. However, hours after the results had been declared in the first week of May, the Election Commission of India suspended all bypolls indefinitely in view of Covid-19. Dates for Jangipur and Samserganj Assembly bypolls had already been announced. Earlier this week, the Bengal cabinet approved Mamata’s idea of reviving the upper House, the Vidhan Parishad, abolished in 1969. But its revival with the necessity of central approval might not be possible within six months. Besides Khardah, Samserganj, Jangipur and Bhowanipore, bypolls will have to be held in Dinhata and Santipur also as BJP MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar had quit the two seats, respectively. Trinamul hopes it will certainly win all the six seats given the landslide in favour of Mamata and the certainty of her third consecutive term in power. If Trinamul wins the six seats, its tally in the Assembly will rise to 217 and the number of BJP MLAs will come down to 75 from 77. Sources in Trinamul said Chattopadhyay had been offered a Rajya Sabha berth, but he wanted to continue in state politics. Two Bengal Rajya Sabha vacancies — created by the resignation of Dinesh Trivedi who had left Trinamul for the BJP and Manas Bhuniya who won the Assembly polls and became a minister — are to be filled by bypolls soon. Both the berths will certainly go to Trinamul. The party’s national vice-president Yashwant Sinha is likely to get one seat. The other remains up for grabs as poll consultant Prashant Kishor has purportedly declined the offer for a Rajya Sabha berth from Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Fire at Covid care unit at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri||A fire broke out at the Critical Care Unit of Covid Block at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital here on Friday morning, but patients or any staff member didn’t suffer injuries. The fire was detected in the high flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) machine. Covid patients didn’t face uneasiness as adequate measures were taken immediately. Sources said on duty staff immediately doused the fame and broke the window glasses of the unit to avoid suffocation. There were seven patients admitted to the CCU at that time. “An on duty nurse sounded out an alarm after an HFNO machine caught fire. Our staff immediately doused the flame. All patients have been shifted to another unit and none was injured in the incident,” said Sanjay Mallik, the superintendent of the medical college.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Scurry to repair earthen dams before Cyclone Yaas landfall in Bengal||The Bengal government has asked district administrative officials in North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore as well as the irrigation department to identify vulnerable stretches of earthen dams and repair them by May 23 before Cyclone Yaas makes landfall. The government also directed district officials to arrange for relief equipment and material in advance so that repair and restoration works can be commenced without delay. Irrigation minister Saumen Kumar Mahapatra held meetings with senior officials on Wednesday and Thursday and reportedly directed them to prepare for “any kind of situation” while finishing pending maintenance works by May 23. Large swathes of North and South 24Parganas are riverine in nature, being part of the Sunderbans, and coastal areas in East Midnapore district are prone to frequent flooding from tidal waves caused by cyclonic winds. “Owing to high tidal waves in the rivers and the sea during such storms, the earthen dams are swept away and saline water infiltrates human habitats, agricultural land and fishing bheries (farms), causing serious damage,” said a district official. After cyclone Aila had hit Bengal in May 2009, the Left Front government had announced that all earthen dams in the Sunderbans would be converted into concrete dams. However, except for a few in Sandeshkhali block, most remained untouched by repairs. Speaking to The Telegraph, state irrigation and waterways minister Saumen Kumar Mahapatra, said: “There are around 400km of gross stretches of earthen dams in the three districts. The maximum stretch of such dams falls in the Sunderbans, spanning North and South 24Parganas. The entire stretch in these two districts is vulnerable.” “Last year, cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc in the Sunderbans, damaging several earthen dams. We began the repairs of the river embankment and breached stretches of the earthen dams even though the Covid situation hampered the work. We have been trying our best to complete work before the fresh threat of the cyclone,” Mahapatra said. “However, in case maintenance work remains unfinished, our objective will be to ensure minimum damage by undertaking fast repairs and restoration work. With this target, we have begun the stocking of materials and equipment which will be required for repairs,” the minister added. Sources in the irrigation department claimed that officials in Canning, Namkhana, Patharpratima, Gosaba, and Sagar blocks of south 24Parganas district had been asked to work on a war footing attending to the earthen dams. At the same time, similar instructions have been conveyed to irrigation officials in Sandeshkhali I and II, Hingalganj, Hansnabad, Haroa, Minakhan, and Basirhat I blocks in North 24Parganas. “We are working in coordination with irrigation officials and hope to minimise damage in the region in case of the predicted landfall of the cyclone,” said Sandeshkhali MLA Sukumar Mahato. District officials in North and South 24Parganas held interdepartmental preparedness meetings on Thursday. In North 24Parganas, district magistrate Sumit Gupta held a video conference with officials of the WBSEDCL, relief department, PHE and others. Basirhat SDO Mausam Mukherjee said: “Considering the Covid situation, we have laid stress on certain important services like power, water supply and communications. To ensure uninterrupted services at hospitals, we have arranged for generators as backup.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
