23-05-2021||West Bengal||Stunned at TMC’s claims against me on Narada arrests, says Jagdeep Dhankhar||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said he was left flabbergasted on Sunday as TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee launched a tirade against him, claiming that it was at his behest the three TMC leaders and a former city mayor were arrested in the Narada sting operation case. Dhankhar, on his part, said he was stunned to have heard such an allegation, but stressed that he would leave the matter to the discretion of the people of Bengal. "The governor is hounding the Trinamul Congress from morning to evening. He played an instrumental role in the arrest of the four leaders," Banerjee told reporters in Hooghly district. He urged people to lodge complaints against the governor at police stations. "I know about the constitutional provision that says no criminal proceeding can be initiated against the governor, but I will request each and everyone to lodge police complaints in areas where the governor is found provoking crimes, violence and religious divide," Banerjee said. The TMC MP further said that the cases filed against him "can be taken up" for legal action, as and when Dhankhar ceases to be the governor. Dhankhar had on May 7 sanctioned the prosecution of ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee on a request by the CBI, which is probing the sting operation that had purportedly caught on camera politicians accepting bribes. All four of them, arrested by the central agency amid high drama on May 17, were state ministers at the time of the alleged commission crime. Addressing Banerjee as a senior functionary of the TMC, a parliamentarian and an advocate, Dhankhar tweeted, "Just stunned but leave the matter to sound discretion of cultured people of West Bengal and media." Banerjee, in a veiled dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also said during his interaction with mediapersons that "tears won't help an incompetent person retain power as he has failed to handle the Covid-19 situation". "Majority of Indians are waiting for the dawn of the country's second Independence Day in 2024," he added. Visuals of Modi appearing to choke on tears while talking about Covid deaths during a video conference with health workers went viral on Friday. The next general election in the country is scheduled to be held in 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Be ‘over-prepared’, NDRF chief tells officias as Bengal and Odisha brace for Yaas||As Bengal and Odisha brace for another severe cyclone after the Amphan havoc last year, NDRF chief S N Pradhan has urged authorities in the two states to adopt an "over-preparing" approach for the impending natural disaster, and carry out evacuation even in the least vulnerable places. He said those engaged in evacuation work must realise as well as make people understand that the choice is between temporary discomfort and death. "What we have learned so far from our experiences over the years is that if the disaster prediction is X, then you must prepare for 2X because a natural phenomenon can turn worse in a matter of hours. So, if the forecast is for a very severe cyclone of 150 kmph, you should gear up for an extremely severe cyclone. "My advice to all the district magistrates would be to go for extra evacuation even in places identified as mildly vulnerable. Please remember, timely evacuation is a life saver. I believe the culture of over-preparing has to come to India now," Pradhan, the NDRF Director General, told PTI in an interview. He said 12 teams have so far been stationed in Bengal and more are on standby. Each National Disaster Response Force team has 47 personnel who are equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and basic medical aid. Several of its personnel have just returned from Gujarat, which was battered by cyclone Tauktae a few days ago, and are being tested for COVID-19, he said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), in an update, said that cyclone Yaas is expected to cross West Bengal and north Odisha coasts by May 26 evening with wind speeds of 155-165 kmph and gusting to 185 kmph. It is likely to cause very heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of Bengal and north Odisha. Pradhan said the specialised force is more technologically equipped now to handle restoration work with improved equipment. "There is a lot of automation these days. For example, we have battery-powered projectile cutters for tall trees that can be remotely cut. Plasma pole cutters are something new as well. We now also have the full component of our authorised boats," the top NDRF official said. Pradhan, however, expressed disappointment over the training and availability of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel for emergency situations. "Either they (SDRFs) are on paper or are miniscule in number and not trained enough. I think the Odisha model is praiseworthy in this context because they have a committed ODRAF and fire service teams, who also double up as disaster management personnel," he said. Asked about how the force is dealing with the pandemic situation, the director general said several measures have been taken to instill confidence and improve morale among the personnel, including by vaccinating nearly 98 per cent of them. "All jawans wear a specialised gear that covers the entire face and extends till the chest. We now earmark a component as a Covid unit, comprising three or four personnel who carry medicines, are good at preliminary treatment and can contact doctors. There is also a central Covid facility at our headquarters with a chief medical officer. "We have also set up temporary hospitals with at least 10 beds, equipped with facilities like oxygen concentrators and basic medicines in every battalion, apart from our own COVID-19 testing arrangements," Pradhan added. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Committed a mistake, another turncoat says on leaving TMC||With the TMC having emerged victorious with a thumping majority in the recently concluded assembly elections, turncoats who had quit the party to join the BJP seem to be making a beeline for re-entry into the Mamata Banerjee camp, the latest being Sarala Murmu. Murmu, who had switched camp as she was reportedly unhappy with the ticket that was given to her by the ruling party, has expressed her desire to return to the TMC, a day after Mamata’s former aide, Sonali Guha, made a similar appeal. Claiming that it was a mistake on her part to have joined the BJP, Murmu said that she wants party supremo Mamata Banerjee to pardon her. "If she accepts me, I will stay with her and work for the party diligently," Murmu told reporters at her Malda home. Murmu was nominated from Habibpur seat in Malda, but party sources had then claimed that she was keen on contesting the election from Maldaha constituency. "I committed a mistake and want Didi to pardon me for that," she said. Former TMC MLA Sonali Guha had on Saturday written to the chief minister, apologising to her for leaving the party. The four-time MLA from Satgachhia in South 24 Parganas district, in a letter which she also shared on social media, said, “In an emotional moment I took a decision as I was hurt and joined a party where I could not adjust myself. A fish cannot live without water, likewise I cannot live without you. Didi, I am seeking your forgiveness, please forgive me…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Modi to hold review meeting, Mamata stays at control room||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting, which will be attended by key ministers and officials, on Sunday to review preparations to deal with the approaching cyclone Yaas. Representatives from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), secretaries from Telecom, Power, Civil aviation and Earth Sciences ministries will attend the meeting besides the home minister among others. The state government has taken all precautionary measures to deal with Cyclone Yaas, likely to hit the state on May 26, and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will stay at a control room set up for the purpose to monitor the situation, officials said on Saturday, Mamata, who held a high-level meeting at the state secretariat during the day, said that relief materials were dispatched to vulnerable areas, while officials were directed for early evacuation of people from coastal and riverine areas. "I have extensively reviewed the Disaster Management preparedness with regards to the impending Yaas cyclone today afternoon with all senior officers of relevant Central & State agencies along with DMs & SPs," Mamata tweeted. "All officials have been advised of integrated command, advance planning & early evacuation from coastal & riverine areas to rescue shelters including cyclone & flood shelters, and to conduct relief and rehabilitation operations at the earliest," she added. The state government has set a control room to monitor the situation at the state secretariat Nabanna', which will work round the clock. The phone numbers of the control room are 1070 and 033-22143526, Banerjee said. "All agencies have been asked to spring into action. Relief materials have been dispatched & Quick Response Teams are mobilised. I request all to stay alert," she said in the Twitter post. Besides the centralised control room, the state government has opened several smaller control rooms in coastal areas of the state, an official said. "The CM will remain present at the control room in Nabanna on the days when the cyclone is about to hit the coastal areas of the state. She will be accompanied by other senior officers of the government," he said. All precautionary measures have been taken by the administration, the officer added. Cyclone Yaas is likely to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and cross the Bengal and the Odisha coasts on May 26, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri girl Richa Ghosh bags BCCI contract ||Siliguri girl Richa Ghosh, who has been selected in the senior Indian women cricket team for the upcoming series against England, has bagged an annual contract of Board of Control for Cricket  in India (BCCI). Ghosh, who made her India debut in 2020, is among the 19 women cricketers from the country to come under the annual central retainership contracts for the year 2020-21. The annual contracts for India women have been classified into three categories. Grade A players have a contract amount of Rs 50 lakh, followed by B, Rs 30 lakh, and C, Rs 10 lakh. Ghosh is among the five cricketers under “C” category. “This is a major achievement for any cricketer,” said Jayanta Bhowmik, former coach of Wriddhiman Shah, wicketkeeper Indian men cricket team. Ghosh, a batsman and parttime wicketkeeper, was on May 15 named in the Indian squad to play a test, three ODIs and three T20 matches in England. The test match will be played at Bristol from June 16 and the team is scheduled to leave on June 2. Ghosh is in Mumbai attending the mandatory twoweek quarantine before flying to England.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Anger over decrepit shelters in East Midnapore||At least a dozen cyclone shelters out of 43 in East Midnapore, constructed by the district administration in 2009, are decrepit and unfit to be used in the lead-up to Cyclone Yaas that is set to make landfall in South Bengal by Wednesday. Panchayat officials and residents of the area have expressed their disappointment at the development, some even citing their disbelief that a “repeat” of May 20, 2020, when Cyclone Amphan hit the area, could be possible. Back then too, many cyclone shelters were dilapidated. District officials, however, have insisted that the pandemic was responsible for the ill-preparedness. Trinamul leader and panchayat pradhan of Sarda gram panchayat in East Midnapore’s Deshpran block, Rakesh Maity, said the shelter in his jurisdiction was in a mess and no effort had been made to renovate it. A three-storey cyclone shelter in Maisha Munda village sits in a 7km straight line from the coast. Barely used since inception, it has peeling paint and crumbling plaster. In one of three halls on the ground floor, the floor is coated with cow feed and excrement, signalling ad hoc usage by local farmers to shelter cattle. The structure, built to house 2,000, now has most of its doors and windows stolen or missing, its generator out of commission, and pieces of the tiled upper floors chipped away. Electricity lines lie disconnected or torn down by weather. Asked about the stark lack of preparedness shortly after the Trinamul government returned to power, minister Akhil Giri blamed the pandemic. “The pandemic has not allowed us to ready these structures for use during the oncoming Yaas. We came to know about damages after Amphan, and will submit new proposals for repair when possible,” said fisheries minister Giri, also Ramnagar MLA. Disaster management officials in the area even claimed lack of knowledge on the discrepit structures. “Block officials have not conveyed this information to us. I will take reports  and will instruct public works to repair as needed this week,” said disaster management official Mrityunjay Haldar. Sources confirmed no major changes could be made in two or three days, and the best they could do was likely to restore power and reinstall missing windows and doors. “The lack of maintenance is unfortunate, but it is not a new thing. These structures have been crumbling for years,” added Giri. On Friday, the district administration approved minor repairs of a handful of cycloneshelters but Sarda was not among them. On Saturday, Trinamul’s district coordinator Mahmud Hossain emailed Akhil Giri and irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra for their immediate attention on the plight of this centre as well as others in the area.As an alternative, rural officials have enlisted six schoolhouses. Residents expressed ire on Saturday that Amphan had not left officials better prepared. “Disappointment for us, as we will suffer, and shame on them (officials),” said Deshpran block resident Maidul Hossain, 32.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Wiser after Amphan, focus on phones||The administration in South 24-Parganas has distributed two dozen satellite phones in the district’s remote islands and areas ahead of Cyclone Yaas, to ensure early transfer of information, the lack of which was a liability during Amphan last year. Officials said that during Amphan, which had hit and ravaged the coastal district on May 20 last year, there were only three satellite phones in the district. This led to a lot of trouble communicating with the affected areas, delaying the process of restoring electricity and other emergency services. “Communication is the most important tool to take rapid action after any disaster. So, this time we have secured 25 satellite phones instead of the existing three that we had last year. The satellite phones would be available with the police and block officials in the  remote areas of Sagar island, G-plot and Mousuni island. It will help us communicate with remote areas even if general telecommunication is hit by the cyclone,”said P. Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24-Parganas. “We have also asked the service providers of each mobile company to keep a team on the ground instead of in Calcutta,” added Ulaganathan, who held back-to-back meetings with officials in Sagar Island on Saturday as part of the extensive preparations for the upcoming Cyclone Yaas. A satellite phone or satphone connects with other phones through radio orbiting satellites. Satellite phones can’t be used without prior permission from the telecom ministry and their use is restricted within government officials and people engaged in emergency services. Officials said that according to norms, the administration applied for 22 additional satphones from the telecom ministry that then gave the necessary permission. Officials said that after any cyclone, mobile or general telephone services get disrupted in the affected areas because of damage to electric and mobile towers. During Amphan, the government was in the dark about the intensity of damage caused by the cyclone as the local administration and police in remote areas could not be reached in the  lack of telecom services. “This was a lesson from Amphan. If we come to know about the actual situation in remote areas, we can deploy the NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) fast to rescue people or restore emergency services. We think this time the number of satellite phones will help us a lot even if Yaas damages normal telephone services,” said a senior official in Sagar. Like South 24-Parganas, the East Midnapore administration will have three satellite phones. The district had only one during Amphan. “We will get the two (sanctioned) satellite phones from Calcutta tomorrow (Sunday) morning. We have asked mobile service providers to keep teams on the ground at least three days before the cyclone is likely to make its landfall,” said Mrityunjay Haldar, the officer in charge of disaster management in East Midnapore. The coastal districts seem better placed this time in another vital aspect as well. Officials said that unlike last year during Amphan, the NDRF teams have already been deployed at pockets like Sagar, Gosaba, Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas and Ramnagar and Digha in East Midnapore to map the areas where the cyclone is likely to hit with its full intensity. “Three NDRF teams have taken their position in our district and four more teams are on the way,” said a senior official in South 24 Parganas. In East Midnapore, two NDRF teams have taken their position and are involved in sensitising people about the cyclone and precautions to be taken beforehand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 18,863 new infections, but more recoveries in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday logged 19,202 Covid-19 recoveries and 18,863 new infections, besides 154 deaths, as the total of active cases dropped by 493 to less than 1.32 lakh again. The state has 4.68 per cent of the national total of active cases now. It is sixth on the list of states with the most active cases. In a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 21st consecutive day, to 88.32 per cent, riding the consistently large number of recoveries. The national rate now is 88.24. Bengal is 15th on the list of states with the highest recovery rates, but the state government expects it to enter the top five in the next few weeks. “There have been early indications, for about a week now, of Bengal having passed the peak of the second wave. If these apparent trends are here to stay, a major turnaround is expected over the next six-eight weeks,” said a minister. Of the 154 deaths, 41 were reported from the city and 43 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. While Calcutta logged 3,280 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,876. The state’s total Covid-19 toll now is 14,208, while the mortality rate is 1.13 per cent. The national rate is now 1.12. Bengal is currently 19th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. “We expect the mortality rate to fall to below 1 per cent soon. Despite the high infection numbers in the second wave, mortality rate has been low,” said the minister. The mortality rate of infected females is 0.85 now, while that of infected males is 1.34. “There have been a lot more deaths, daily, than anytime in the pandemic before this. But that is only because of the huge number of infections… the mortality rate was never alarming or beyond reasonable estimates,” the minister said, adding that he expected the daily toll to fall drastically over the next few weeks. Comorbidities accounted for 10,545 (74.2 per cent) of the deaths. Hypertension remains the most lethal comorbidity in Bengal, accounting for over a third of comorbid deaths, followed by diabetes, which caused a fourth of such deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Evacuation set to start, CM to be at control cell||The Mamata Banerjee government has nearly completed the planning to evacuate people in vulnerable areas, particularly coastal belts of East Midnapore, as the Met office has warned the state that cyclone Yaas is likely to make landfall in Bengal’s coast on May 26 afternoon. The evacuation in East Midnapore, sources said, would start from Sunday, while the process for the two other coastal districts, North and South 24 Parganas, would be finalised by Saturday night. A control room would start functioning in Nabanna round the clock from Sunday to keep a track of the cyclone. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee would personally monitor the situation from the control room on May 25 and May 26 (Tuesday and Wednesday). She did the same during Amphan last year in May, said a source. “The Met office has issued a warning saying the cyclone, in all likelihood, is set to make landfall in Bengal. As the warning said Yaas could land in the coastal areas of Bengal and Odisha, the priority is to evacuate people from  the vulnerable areas of East Midnapore first as it is the district where the cyclone is likely to make landfall,” said a senior official. The district authorities of East Midnapore have started campaigning in the district’s coastal areas to make people aware of the upcoming Yaas. Already two companies of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been pressed into service in the district. More disaster management experts would be sent to East Midnapore, said sources.“We have also completed the plan to evacuate people from low-lying areas of the district. Flood shelters and cyclone shelters have been kept ready. Some other buildings have also been identified for people to shift to, if the need arises” said a source. Coastal districts North and South 24-Parganas have also been asked to be prepared to evacuate people. Though Yaas is unlikely to make a landfall in these districts, “weather is always unpredictable” said an official. Top government officials on Saturday held a series of meetings with the district officials as well as central government officials over the state government’s preparedness ahead of the cyclone. “The cabinet secretary held a meeting with top officials on the state’s preparedness. The arrangements have apparently satisfied Delhi,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Informal health providers in Bengal to fight rural Covid||The state government will enlist the help of rural health providers, who are officially recognised as grameen swasthya parisevaks and enlisted as informal healthcare providers (IHCP), in order to contain the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas. Sources said the state government took the step to ramp up their capacity to guide and counsel the increasing number of patients in home isolation. Districts like North 24-Parganas, Nadia, Birbhum, and Murshidabad, where around 80 per cent of people live in rural areas, have recorded an exponential rise in positive cases this month like the rest of the country. “We felt it necessary to reinforce the preventive and basic measures at rural grassroots level to combat Covid. Accredited social health activist (ASHA), anganwadi workers (AWW) and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) are doing their best. Nevertheless, the service of the grameen swasthya parisevaks has also become important to contain the disease since they are the first point of contact for most patients, especially at odd hours," said director of health services Ajay Chakraborty. These informal “physicians” are culturally connected with rural people and support them in times of need, said a health official, adding that it was expected that villagers would trust them during the pandemic. To sensitise the grameen swasthya parisevaks, the state health directorate’s public health wing held a state-wide two-day audio-visual training and orientation programme at the block level earlier this week. Swasthya Bhawan had directed the chief medical officers of all districts to organise the training of these grameen swasthya parisevaks. Manoj Chakraborty, state president of the Progressive Rural Physician Welfare Association, West Bengal, an organisation of grameen swasthya parisevaks, welcomed the government’s initiative.“It is a big recognition for about 2 lakh grameen swasthya parisevaks, who have been trying their best to support Covid patients in rural areas in the absence of qualified doctors. They are risking their lives to save people,” Chakraborty said. The initiative to train rural healthcare providers was initiated in 2009 by the Liver Foundation, which is headed by renowned gastroenterologist Abhijit Chowdhury. Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, who won the 2019 Nobel Prize in Economics, had played a key role with Chowdhury in gauging the social impact of training rural healthcare providers, who cover 75 per cent of the rural health care sector informally. After the survey, conducted by the Nobel laureate and members of the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab—co-founded by Banerjee, his fellow economists and wife Esther Duflo, and Sendhil Mullainathan — it had encouraged chief minister Mamata Banerjee to train around 1.20 lakh of those informal rural healthcare providers across the state to reach health services in remote pockets. Sources said the state government was now using the strength of grameen swasthya parisevaks to combat the second wave of Covid-19. Abhijit Chowdhury, the convener of the global advisory committee and a member of the expert committee on Covid-19 in Bengal, said rural healthcare providers could assume a major role in combating the deadly virus. “They are not doctors, but rural people go to them first if they feel sick. So, those rural health care providers can track symptoms and send them for a test or help positive patients get to the hospital with a link-up to the state health department,” said Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Folk singer Dhaneswar Roy no more||Dhaneswar Roy an eminent exponent of Bhawaiya, popular folk music among the Kamtapuri speaking people in the region, breathed his last on Saturday. He was 89. Roy — a recipient of various awards, including Bango Ratna, Abbasuddin Award, Panchana Barma Memorial Award and Lalon Award among others — sang and penned songs on a range of issues from tourism in the region to  Gorkhaland movement. Family sources said Roy, a resident of Jateswar under Falakata block in Alipurduar had been unwell for the past couple of months. “He was admitted to Falakata Super Speciality Hospital on Friday morning after his condition deteriorated. Today (Saturday), he was referred to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri. He suffered a cardiac arrest and breathed his last on his way to the hospital around 10.30am,” said a family source. The funeral of the singer was held on Saturday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Stay and food for Bengal health staff ||The health and family welfare department on Saturday directed district magistrates and chief medical officers across the state to hire accommodation and arrange food on an urgent basis for healthcare personnel and health administrators engaged in Covid care duties. The decision has been taken in the wake of the extended containment measures announced recently by the state government that suspended public transport services and restricted traffic movement. In an order issued by the director of national health mission, the district magistrates and the chief medical officers of health have been directed to rent accommodation only where no government facilities like guest houses, hostels or bungalows are available. “We were approached to approve hiring private accommodation by district administrations and organisations because many healthcare personnel are finding it tough to attend duties over suspension of public transport in the current scenario. So considering the importance of their service, it has been decided to arrange accommodation on hire as well as food for them,” an official of the NHM wing said. A senior official also claimed that the ensuing threat of cyclone Yaas and the apprehended damage which may turn the entire situation more critical amid the pandemic, basically prompted them to ensure the accommodation of the health care personnel on an urgent basis. The authorities, however, have put a cap on expenses on hiring of such accommodation and food as well. While the residential healthcare personnel like doctors have been made eligible to incur a maximum of Rs 500 for accommodation and Rs 200 for food per day, the non-residential personnel are allowed to incur Rs 100 for every eight hours shifts. State president of All Bengal Paramedic and Medical Technologists Association Manoj Chakraborty has welcomed the decision, but raised questions terming the money meagre and unrealistic amid the pandemic. “The granted amounts are unrealistic considering the poor availability of many essential items and infrastructure amid the pandemic restrictions and the apprehended natural calamity (Yaas),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Arijit Singh gifts lifeline in mom’s memory||Famed singer Arijit Singh, who lost his mother to Covid-related complications, has decided to help other patients in his home district Murshidabad. An NGO,  Dhriti, founded by the Bollywood playback singer, on Saturday morning donated five high-flow nasal oxygen machines to the Behrampore Covid Hospital. The donation came three days after the famed singer lost his mother Aditi at a Calcutta hospital on May 19. She was 52. Shipped from Mumbai at a cost of nearly Rs 2 lakh each, the machines were handed over to the chief medical officer (health) Prasanta Biswas by NGO officials. “Arijit has had a close brush with this crisis and he had realised early on that these machines were needed. They were ordered a while ago. We have placed orders for five more and will hand them over to the CMOH as soon we receive them,” said Suman Das, president of the NGO Dhriti. “We have requested the CMOH that one machine be sent to the Jiaganj Covid Hospital,” Das added, referring to the hospital located in Arijit’s birthplace near Behrampore. Arijit’s mother had been admitted to the Behrampore Covid Hospital before being shifted to Calcutta after suffering a cerebral stroke. “We have 15 such machines in our hospital already and are grateful for the addition of another four (as one of the five machines would be sent to Arijit’s birthplace Jiaganj),” said CMOH Biswas. “These machines are extremely advanced and can supply up to 60 litres of oxygen per minute to patients,” said Aurangzeb, a doctor at the Behrampore hospital. Covid care for kids North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH), Siliguri, the largest referral centre in north Bengal, has set up a paediatric Covid care facility. The facility was made operational from Friday. NBMCH sources said in the first wave, adults were the most infected but in the second wave, young adults and some children were also getting infected. Recently, three infants succumbed to Covid. Sandip Sen Gupta, the dean of students affairs at the NBMCH, said that 12 beds have been arranged for children who test positive for Covid-19. Another set of 12 beds have also been kept for children suffering from suspected Covid-19 symptoms. “There will be four ventilators in the paediatric Covid care ward, two dedicated for Covid positive children and the rest for children suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI),” said Sandip. The health official said that depending on the situation beds in the paediatric Covid care ward could be increased. This is the second such facility in north Bengal after Cooch Behar. Officials said that the decision to set up a centre for children is also a preparedness for the third wave. Many experts are apprehensive that the infection may rise among children if the third wave strikes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Y-plus security for Suvendu Adhikari’s father and younger brother ||Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari’s father and younger brother — Sisir and Dibyendu — will be joining a long list of BJP leaders in Bengal to receive security cover from the central paramilitary forces following a recent decision by the Union home ministry. Sisir, the Kanthi MP, and Dibyendu, Lok Sabha member from Tamluk, would receive Y-plus category security cover, said a source. Under protocol, under the Y-plus security cover, five personnel, including a commander, are deployed at the protectee’s residence. Six personal security officers are deployed with the protectee on a rotational basis in three shifts. This means that two PSOs are with the protectee at all times. Among the Bengal BJP leaders, Suvendu and Mukul Roy, the party’s national vice-president, have Z-category security cover. Senior BJP leaders said an appeal was made to the central leadership to arrange adequate security in the backdrop of” spiralling attacks” on party workers and a section of leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
