24-05-2021||West Bengal||Centre depriving Bengal of cylcone funds, says Mamata ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has accused the Centre of depriving Bengal of cyclone relief funds in the run-up to Yaas making landfall midweek, by putting Andhra Pradesh and Odisha ahead in terms of allocation. Mamata’s accusation came soon after a meeting with the Union home minister Amit Shah along with the chief ministers of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh on Monday. “The home minister announced Rs 600 crore each for Andhra and Odisha, while only Rs 400 crore will be provided for Bengal. Our state is bigger than Andhra and Odisha, our density of population is more. We also have more districts, yet we always face discrimination,” Mamata said. “I am happy with what the Centre is providing for these two states. My only objection is to the treatment being meted out to Bengal.” The chief minister went oo to add that the Centre has always taken a discriminatory attitude towards Bengal. “Be it Amphan or Bulbul, Centre has not given us one penny from its pocket. From the funds reserved for Bengal they released Rs 1,000 crore,” she said. For Wednesday’s cyclone, the government has set up control rooms in the state secretariat and the annexe building. Thirty-five NDRF teams have been deployed in Howrah, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, East and West Midnapore districts. Mamata said the government was prepared to evacuate 10lakh people from low-lying coastal areas and plans to use 4,000 shelters set up during last year’s cyclone. “Those staying in temporary houses should move into the cyclone shelters for their safety. Twenty districts of Bengal from the coastal ones to the Hills are likely to be affected,” the chief minister said. For the hospitals already under pressure with the Covid patients, the chief minister said that a steady supply of medical oxygen and medicines will be ensured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Calcutta HC refuses CBI plea to adjourn matter||The Calcutta High Court on Monday took up hearing in the Narada sting tapes case -- in which two Bengal ministers, a TMC MLA and a former mayor of Calcutta have been arrested -- refusing a prayer by the CBI to adjourn the matter. Earlier today, The CBI moved the Supreme Court challenging the High Court order allowing house arrest of four leaders in the case. Representing the Bureau, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, during the virtual session, prayed before the five-judge bench that it adjourn hearing in the case, as the investigating agency has filed a special leave petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court, in connection with the high court's May 19 and May 21 orders. The five-judge bench of the high court, however, decided to commence hearing in the matter since the SLP is yet to be listed for hearing before the apex court. It heard the CBI plea for transfer of the case from lower court to high court, and applications filed by the accused for recall of the stay order the high court had given on a lower court ruling. The CBI has sought before the high court transfer of the case alleging extraordinary circumstances. The agency claimed that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee sat on a dharna at the CBI office after the arrests were made, and that it could not produce the four accused in court physically owing to unruly protests by a large number of people outside its office complex. The four leaders - ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee -- were arrested on May 17 morning by the CBI, which is investigating the Narada sting tapes case on the order of the high court. A special CBI court had on that very day granted interim bail to the four accused, but a division bench of the high court -- comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee -- later stayed its decision, following which the leaders were sent to judicial custody. Differing on the application filed by the accused for recall of the stay order, Justice Arijit Banerjee had on May 19 passed an order allowing bail, while acting chief justice Bindal wanted that they be placed under house arrest. The division bench then passed an order on May 21, sending the four accused to house arrest, modifying its earlier order that stayed their bail granted by a CBI court.
The ministers and the other two are undergoing house confinement since May 21. In view of the difference of opinion, the matter was then referred to a larger bench. A five-judge bench comprising the acting Chief Justice, justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee was subsequently constituted and the case was listed for hearing at 11 am on Monday. Lawyer Manishankar Chatterjee, who is representing Subrata Mukherjee, said that the issues that would be heard in the high court were noted by the five-judge bench on Monday. Among the main issues that were brought to the fore include the possibility of hearing the CBI's transfer application together with the bail pleas filed by the accused, Chatterjee said. He further said that the five-judge bench has fixed the matter for further hearing on Wednesday. The sting operation, conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada TV news channel in 2014, had purportedly caught on camera politicians accepting bribes in lieu of favours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Dilip Ghosh instructs party to stand by potential victims||Much time and effort have been spent to try and spot the predecessors of the BJP in any role in the freedom struggle. Less ambitious attempts have been made during the Amphan storm aftermath and the pandemic crisis to catch the BJP’s present-day flag-bearers among the volunteers helping common citizens, but not with much success. The winds of change, so to speak, are now flirting with the BJP because of Yaas, a cyclone named by Oman and set to hit the eastern coast this week. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Sunday instructed the party to stand by the potential victims of Yaas. “We have asked our workers to stay alert at all places. Camps have already been set up in the districts for workers who have been victims of the post-election-result violence. Our leaders have been directed to stand by the common people along with the workers if the cyclone strikes,” said Ghosh. The instruction intrigued several party leaders because it is the first time in recent memory that the state unit president has issued such a directive. “We have never been in the field handling such situations.… About a year ago, Amphan had hit Bengal. We organised protests against irregularities in distribution of relief, but we don’t have the experience of helping people in distress,” said a BJP insider. Few BJP leaders will concede it on record but the party had been in full electoral battle mode long before Amphan struck and its single-minded goal was to the conquer the last frontier of Bengal. The primary objective of keeping Bengal on the boil and poaching on rivals had overshadowed the pressing needs of the people. Even after the election debacle, the BJP has largely remained in campaign mode — a trait the Bengal leadership may have borrowed from the playbook of Narendra Modi. A BJP leader in Bengal added that even during the pandemic, the party had hardly done anything substantial to help the poor. Which stood out because the BJP has enormous resources at its command and its ideological parent is credited with running a well-oiled social service machine. In contrast, the Opposition parties, with far less money at their disposal, stood by and helped the needy, not just in Bengal but elsewhere in the country too. Among the Opposition parties, the CPM deployed the Red Volunteers — members of the party’s youth and student wings — to help people in distress. Unlike the BJP, which bagged 77 seats in the Assembly polls, the Left could not win a single seat but the Red Volunteers have not ceased their work. The Congress, in spite of its poor electoral fortunes, has been at the forefront of the relief effort in northern India, so much so that the Modi government has been accused of sending police to intimidate the party’s youth wing in Delhi. Numerous civil society groups have also stepped up to help desperate citizens searching for hospital beds and oxygen. Finding itself on the back foot during the Covid second wave, the BJP national leadership is keen that its ranks are visible in humanitarian efforts. It is not known if Ghosh’s directive on the cyclone is linked to this line of thought. “If someone asks what we have done during the pandemic for people, we don’t have any answer other than claiming that we were victims of post-poll violence,” a BJP youth wing leader in Bengal said. According to the youth wing leader, only recently did party MPs Debasree Chowdhury and Sukanta Majumdar launch two mobile oxygen vans for their Lok Sabha constituencies. Similarly, a food-for-all centre was started under Ghosh’s instruction in Midnapore last week. “The fact remains that we were so busy trying to come to power that we forgot the people.... Now, some efforts may have begun,” a party insider said. But another leader said he would like to wait and watch as state party chief Ghosh’s instruction on the approaching cyclone has not yet been followed up with any actionable plan. According to sources, although the saffron leadership had nationally launched the Seva hi Sangathan or Service is Organisation drive in 2020 to reach out to people affected by the lockdown, the party’s Bengal unit had little to contribute. Some tarpaulins were distributed in the areas affected by Amphan, but the number was nothing compared to what the situation demanded. Parliamentarians who were tasked to help people during the pandemic would complain that the state police came in the way of their efforts by asking them to abide by the lockdown protocols. The police, however, said their objection was to the BJP MPs travelling with large entourages and thus violating the Covid-19 protocols. “Why were the MPs travelling with so many people? If they actually wanted to help, they could’ve travelled with small numbers of people and reached out to the needy,” the BJP youth wing leader said, adding that the MPs had used the police orders as an excuse not to work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Three-year-old elephant calf rescued at Buxa Tiger Reserve||A three-year-old elephant calf, which fell into an empty water reservoir, was rescued by foresters in Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) of Alipurduar on Sunday. Sources said that residents of Adma, a forest village in the BTR area, could hear shrieks of wild elephants since early morning. Around 7am, as they came out to look, they found the calf trapped in the empty reservoir, shrieking continuously and trying to climb the walls of the water tank. Foresters were informed. Teams from the forest range and the wildlife squad broke a part of the concrete wall and pulled out the calf with a rope, the entire process taking almost an hour. An adult female elephant, who seemed to be the mother, stood at a distance. “This worried us as there are instances that once elephant calves come in contact with humans, mothers or herdsdo not accept it. Thankfully, in this case, after the elephant calf was rescued, the mother accepted it,” said Buddharaj Sewa, the field director of BTR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Bengal’s race for hub with link to weather base ||State government engineers are working on war footing to set up a temporary control room from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee and senior administrative officials will monitor Cyclone Yaas which is likely to hit the Bengal coast by Wednesday. The new facility is being constructed, said a source, as the existing disaster management control room — located on the second floor of Nabanna — is found to be lacking in several facilities, including a direct link with the IMD (India Meteorological Department) and necessary tech infrastructure to access real-time images. The new control room would be set up at Upanna, a three-storey building just beside Nabanna. “The chief minister monitored Cyclone Amphan from the disaster management control room last year. It was noticed that the control room lacked several facilities during Amphan last year. That’s why a new control room is being set up,” said a source. According to sources, Upanna used to house the chief minister’s grievance redressal cell and it would be shifted temporarily to make space for the control room. A senior government official said facilities like high-end video wall, IMD connection, video conferencing system and also data logger required for high speed Internet connection had been lying non-functional in the existing control room. The IMD gives a user ID and a password to each state to monitor cyclones and for other weather updates, but it requires a high-speed Internet connection to get real-time satellite images, said officials. “But during Amphan last year, the chief minister and the senior officials could not see real-time satellite images from the IMD, which resulted in delayed action from the administration. It was a pity to see that the chief minister was being briefed after some officials watched a private website which was projecting the path of the cyclone two hours after it had passed an area,” said a source. While the decision to set up a new control room has been welcomed by officials, some bureaucrats raised questions about the lack of planning last time as the control room at Nabanna had been spent at a cost of Rs 10 crore and Rs 30 lakh was spent for its annual maintenance. “The state spends nearly Rs 30 lakh to maintain the control room but only a few telephones work properly in the room. This is really disgusting,” said an official adding that the entire process needed to be reviewed. The state government has decided to evacuate people at least 12 hours before the cyclone makes the landfall. “The cyclone is expected to hit the coast by Wednesday and we want to complete the evacuation by Tuesday night. A total of 4 lakh people might have to be evacuated this time from three coastal districts of East Midnapore, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas,” said a source. The state government has relaxed agriculture-related activities, including use of vehicles for this purpose, from the ongoing restrictions imposed to rein in the spread of the novel coronavirus keeping in mind many of the farmers were yet to harvest their boro crop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Santiniketan women who wheel in oxygen to doorsteps ||A group of women from here have started the ‘Oxygen on Wheels’ initiative to reach out to Covid-19 patients at home with oxygen concentrators. All 10 members, including drivers, procurers and operators, are women. Churki Hansda, a 30-year-old tribal woman, is the group's driver. On Sunday, she drove a vehicle loaded with oxygen concentrators several times, also in the dead of the night at a moment's notice. Others, like school teachers Manisha Banerjee and Barnali Basu, and homemakers like Kalyani Dutta, provide instructions over the phone to patients. They were trained in using these concentrators only weeks ago. The Liver Foundation in Calcutta and Covid Care Network, who have been extending relief initiatives beyond Calcutta to 16 districts, sent four oxygen concentrators to the team in Santiniketan. “When I heard that a group of women wanted to run the Oxygen on Wheels drive, it made me so happy that I did not delay in sending them the equipment. All the women and especially the driver will send a message to our society on how they are taking part in the battle against the pandemic,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, chief adviser to Liver Foundation and convener of the global advisory committee and a member of the expert committee on Covid-19 in Bengal. The 10 women, who hail from all walks of life, have also tied up with the Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, a social outfit that works in Santiniketan and adjoining areas, to run a community kitchen. Banerjee, the headmistress of a local high school, leads the team. She said that their efforts, aside from being life-saving in crisis, sent strong message of women's empowerment. “All of us are women. Churki, who works for another NGO in Santiniketan, agreed to drive the car for us. After we came to know about the help of the Liver Foundation, we became more motivated. After a short training to operate the oxygen concentrators, our team has now hit the ground,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Drive to supply power to hospitals during Cyclone Yaas||South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, the two Bengal districts likely to be hit the hardest by Cyclone Yaas on May 26, have rented over 100 high-power generator sets to keep power supply seamless in hospitals and crematoria so that the disaster does not weaken the state’s war effort against the pandemic. Officials in the two districts said that during Cyclone Amphan last year in May,  the Covid-19 outbreak was far from being this severe. This time, one of the main challenges of the state government during Cyclone Yaas is uninterrupted healthcare services, even when electricity is disconnected by the state-run distribution utility in the districts to avoid accidents an hour before Yaas makes landfall. On Sunday, South 24-Parganas reported 1,248 new Covid-19 infections, while East Midnapore reported 780. The total active cases are 8,379 and 5,713, in South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, respectively. “Power supply is a major challenge during any natural disaster. This time, our goal is to run uninterrupted healthcare services, while making sure bodies don’t pile up in crematoria,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. With eight deaths on Sunday, South 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,015 Covid-19 deaths this pandemic, while East Midnapore, with zero deaths on Sunday, reported 314. “We have hired over 50 high-power generators to keep hospitals and crematoria running in the vulnerable areas,” added Ulganathan. There are 10 Covid-19 hospitals and 25 safe homes in South 24-Parganas, many of which are located in cyclone-prone pockets like the Sagar Island and Kakdwip. Health officials said uninterrupted power supply is a must for treatment of Covid-19 patients, at hospitals or safe homes. Electricity is required to run equipment used to ensure enhanced supply of oxygen to those who ,need it, besides for the running of ICU beds and ventilators. “A power cut, even for a minute, could be life threatening for a critical Covid-19 patient. Electricity is a minimum requirement for treating such a patient,” said a senior health official. In East Midnapore, the district administration has hired 48 high-power generators for installation in hospitals and five crematoria. There are hundreds of hotels in the district, with tourism hubs such as Digha and Mandarmani, and the administration also kept generators of big hotels as back-up during a crisis. Officials said besides the hospitals, they have been installing generators in crematoria, as one can’t wait for cremation of the dead, especially those who succumb to Covid-19. Sources said besides generators,, the districts have already directed health officials to shift the vaccines from the cold-chain points in the vulnerable areas, such as Ramnagar and Digha in East Midnapore, or Sagar and Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas. “We can’t preserve vaccines in cold-chain points in vulnerable areas. So, we are shifting vaccines to safe zones. We are giving priority to saving lives,” said Purnendu Maji, the East Midnapore DM. Sources said they are also storing oxygen cylinders to meet the demand of at least four days from the day Cyclone Yaas is likely to hit. South 24-Parganas has purchased around 30 automated woodcutters and trained a group of people to clear the roads connecting the hospitals in the district. “We have set up separate teams for clearing of roads fast after the storm. We have also stored medicines and oxygen cylinders for the hospitals,” said a senior official. North 24-Parganas district administration has planned to depute a healthcare worker in all school buildings used as cyclone shelters. These healthcare workers will conduct primary health check-ups of those sheltered there following evacuation from the impact zones. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Day’s sharpest drop in active cases in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday reported the sharpest drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases in a day in the ongoing second wave. The state recorded 19,429 recoveries over 18,422 new infections, besides 156 deaths in a day. With this, active cases dropped by 1,163 to less than 1.31 lakh again. For the first time since the second wave peaked, the  state logged more recoveries in a week, 1,33,860 (19,123 a day, on an average), than new infections, 1,33,660 (19,094 a day). “There are some heartening signs.… There are now indications of a post-peak turnaround. It can’t be conclusively said yet, but things are certainly starting to point to that direction,” said a minister. The state has 4.7 per cent of the national total of active cases now, and is sixth among states with most active cases. In a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 22md consecutive day, to 88.57 per cent. The national rate now is 88.61. The state’s total Covid-19 casualty count now is 14,364. In another important positive, Bengal’s mortality rate now is 1.13 per cent, on a par for the first time this pandemic with the national rate. Of the 156 deaths reported on Sunday, 46 each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. While Calcutta logged 3,056 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,771. “These two districts still have over 51,000 active cases between them, still around 40 per cent of total active cases. Till the situation in these two districts starts improving substantially, the state’s overall picture can’t begin to look better,” said the minister. “Over the next few weeks, there will be more incisive focus on these two districts, even if statewide curbs are somewhat relaxed by the end of the month.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress turncoat trio in Bengal do a U-turn||Several Trinamul leaders who had defected to the BJP before the Assembly polls now intend to rejoin Mamata Banerjee’s party. Among them are Sonali Guha, a four-time legislator from Satgachia (in South 24-Paraganas), Sarala Murmu, a Zilla Parishad member of Malda, and Amal Acharya, a former Trinamul MLA of Itahar in neighbouring North Dinajpur. Guha, who had been with Mamata since the early days of Trinamul, and had left the party when she was denied a ticket to Satgachia this time, on Saturday wrote a fervent appeal to Mamata. The veteran leader, who has also shared her letter on  social media, lamented her decision to leave Trinamul. “Like a fish cannot stay out of water, I would not be able to live without you, Didi. I urge you to forgive me and if you don’t, I won’t be able to live. Please let me come back and I will spend the rest of my life with your affection,” says Guha's letter. Sarala Murmu, a Zilla Parishad member of Malda, who had set an unprecedented example ahead of the polls by being the only one who left Trinamul even after the party announced her name as the candidate of Habibpur seat in Malda, now wants to leave the BJP and return to Trinamul. Murmu, sources said, had demanded that she be allowed to contest from another seat, which was her reason to leave Trinamul. On Sunday, Murmu, while speaking to newspersons in Malda, apologised to Mamata. “It (leaving Trinamul for the BJP) was a mistake on my part and I request Didi to pardon me. If she accepts me back, I will continue to function as a dedicated worker of Trinamul in the coming days. I want to pass this message to her through the media,” she said. Amal Acharya, a former Trinamul MLA of Itahar in the neighbouring North Dinajpur district who joined the BJP one-an-half months back, has also sent a written application to the Trinamul leadership, requesting his induction. “BJP is acting in a vindictive manner, as was evident from the recent arrests of two state ministers, a senior MLA and a former MLA. I do not want to continue in this party. Trinamul is my place to work,” said Acharya, who is also a former Trinamul president of the district. A photograph of the chief minister was also found placed prominently at his office in Itahar. Such impassioned overtures by the turncoats have led to plenty of witty discussions among Trinamul insiders, sources said. “These (turncoats) are the same people who till very recently fumed at our party leaders. These days, their political reliability is low. It is a pity that they realised their mistakes now. We doubt if the party will make any immediate decision about them,” said a Trinamul insider. A political observer said that many turncoats wanted to come back to Trinamul, but such moves put a question mark on their  credibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
