25-05-2021||West Bengal|| Yaas: Time for Mamata to show lessons of Amphan haven't been forgotten ||The immediate aftermath of the Amphan cyclone in the summer of 2020 had left large swathes of Calcutta in darkness for days, rekindling memories of a Bengal between the '60s and the '80s. In an election year, people pouring out on the streets of Calcutta demanding power supply be restored would have set any leader thinking on their feet. Mamata Banerjee did the same and painted the Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation as the public enemy. She had repeatedly called out the power utility for the delay in restoring services, threatened to disrupt its monopoly and reminded people the seeds of the utility's monopoly were planted during the erstwhile Left Front rule. For whatever reasons, in the 10 months or so before the state elections Mamata did little to break that monopoly. Power supply restored, Amphan and its aftermath of destruction were now behind the lives of the Calcuttan. The election of 2021 came and went, facilitating Mamata’s return to Bengal’s corridors of power with a slightly higher number of MLAs than five years ago. Now, less than a month after assuming charge as chief minister for the third consecutive time, Mamata Banerjee faces her biggest administrative challenge in the form of Yaas. The intensity of this cyclone,  weathermen have been saying, is likely to be a notch lower than the last year’s super-cyclone. But, there is no guessing the political storm that it might lead to in the coming days. Mamata has to minimise not just the damage from the natural disaster but also plug the possibilities of political damage it might cause. "The BJP has been stopped this time around, but they are very much there. They will keep pushing themselves as the alternate force. Any misstep from Mamata and the voters might think otherwise," said a political observer. Politically, Mamata can ill afford to bungle preparations and the relief operations in the aftermath of Yaas. Her government is firmly in the saddle but the battle-weary chief minister is well aware that mismanagement of two successive cyclones could cost her dearly, especially when the civic bodies go to polls. Had it not been for the pandemic, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation would have gone to polls last year itself. With the Covid outbreak still raging, there is no certainty when elections will be held for the CMC and at least 122 other municipal corporations and municipalities in the state. “With the victory in the Assembly polls with such a huge mandate, we have to start preparing for the next round of elections. Next is the turn of the civic bodies and those elections are fought on local issues,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Local issues hold key On those local issues, there is a lot that is left unanswered by the Trinamul leadership. Unlike the Assembly polls, where the grassroots-level corruption did not generate any response from the electorate, the civic polls will be a different ball game. At the local level, supply of electricity, water, ration, maintenance of sewer pipelines etc take precedence over debates on secularism. The biggest complaints post-Amphan came from the affected villages ravaged by the storm where people had to go without food and shelter for days. Block development officers, councillors were seen scribbling “due” on paper chits and handing it to residents when they went asking for rice and tarpaulin sheets that were promised to them. Mamata could not shift the blame to an outside agency or even the Opposition parties, since it is the Trinamul Congress which controls more than 80 per cent of the panchayats in the state. Over 2,000 complaints The government had received over 2,000 complaints of local Trinamul functionaries replacing list of beneficiaries with their kin. In Hooghly’s Garalgachha, for example, the panchayat pradhan had listed his number against  names of about 100 beneficiaries in a list of 166. Later, in a bid to control damage, Mamata had set up a committee with Opposition leaders included to supervise the relief distribution process. This time,  Mamata has removed Jyotipriya Mullick from the food department, which he headed since 2011. According to a section of the Trinamul Congress, Mamata, in her third innings, has been showing a temperament for learning. "She is attending meetings called by the Centre, and she has changed ministers. Now she can go to the people and tell them 'I personally sought more funds but the Centre denied'. Her presence increases her credibility," said a senior Trinamul leader. 'Step-motherly Centre' On Monday, Mamata attended a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah in a  break from the past when the chief minister avoided attending meetings called by the Centre. Her decision to stay away from such meetings became the talking point in the just-concluded elections. At the meeting, the Centre committed to an advance of Rs 400crore to the state government, but Mamata dubbed it as inadequate and a "step-motherly" gesture towards Bengal since "sister states' of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha were porimised Rs 600cr each. “Amphan had come in the midst of national lockdown. Workers had left for their homes in adjacent Bihar and Jharkhand and could not return. The restoration was delayed because of the lack of manpower,” said a government official. This time the administration as well as the power utility have the advantage of the lockdown being localised with the state government holding the authority on its extension. Better prepared The civic bodies in Calcutta and Salt Lake have set up small teams with members from police as well and the power utility for each of the wards, something which wasn’t done last time. The power utility itself is better prepared for Yaas with over 1,000 teams comprising 2,500 personnel. Joint teams from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the CESC have been moving around the city removing hoardings, cutting and trimming branches, securing cable. The aim of the government this time is to minimise damage. In 2021, Mamata managed to come out unscathed from Amphan and its aftermath. How the process of relief measures unroll will have to wait till Yaas is behind us. At this moment, the government must be seen to be working, the optics is important. Mamata is doing just that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
25-05-2021||West Bengal||SC asks Centre, Bengal to respond to plea on post-poll violence in state||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre and Bengal government to respond to a plea seeking directions to prevent the alleged exodus due to "state-sponsored" violence after the Assembly polls, constituting an SIT to probe the issue and take action against culprits. A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai directed that the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and the National Commission of Women (NCW) be made parties in the matter after the petitioners said that they have taken note of the situation of people in Bengal. The top court said the replies of the Centre and West Bengal be filed in the matter and listed the plea for further hearing in the week starting June 7. During the brief hearing conducted through video conferencing, Senior advocate Pinky Anand, appearing for petitioners who are social workers, lawyers and a victim of alleged post-poll violence, said more than one lakh people have been displaced due to the post-poll violence in the state. She said many commissions like NHRC and NCW have taken note of the situation in the state and they too be made party in the case. The bench asked Anand to file an application on this during the course of the day and allowed to make the two commissions parties in the case. Anand also said that an interim relief be granted as people staying in camps need rehabilitation. The bench however said, “Nothing happens ex-parte. We have to hear other parties. Let them file their replies.” On May 21, the top court had agreed to hear the plea after Anand mentioned it for urgent listing. The PIL filed by social worker Arun Mukherjee and others said that they are aggrieved with the post electoral violence in Bengal from May 2 onwards. The plea alleged that the police and the state-sponsored goons are in cahoots because of which the police proves to be a mere spectator in the entire episode, discouraging and threatening victims from filing FIRs. It further alleged there was no investigation of cases, inaction in incidents where cognizable offences have been committed in presence of police authorities and no provision of security to those facing threats to life. It said various media platforms including social media, print and electronic have covered the entire trail of incidents and various government organizations and autonomous institutions like NHRC and NCW have either suo motu or on receiving complaints from helpless victims have taken cognizance of the matter and sent out teams to investigate the matter. “No support/assistance was offered from the State Government and even their security was compromised at many instances. They have reported the inaction of the police in providing protection to the women, who were attacked and threatened by hooligans and no action was taken by the police officials in this regard,” the plea stated. The plea further said that due to the circumstances, people are internally displaced and are forced to stay in shelter homes/camps in and outside Bengal. “The exodus of the people in West Bengal due to state- sponsored violence has posed serious humanitarian issues related to their survival, where they are forced to live in deplorable conditions, in violation of their fundamental rights enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” it said.The plea also sought formation of Commission for rehabilitation of displaced persons, compensation for loss of family members, property, and livelihood, mental and emotional agony. The petitioners sought direction to the Centre to discharge its duty vested under Article 355 of the Constitution to protect the state from internal disturbance and to ensure that the government in the state is carried on, in accordance with provisions of this Constitution. It sought direction to the Centre and Bengal chief secretary to provide immediate relief to the internally displaced persons affected due to post-poll violence by setting up camps, make provision for food, medicines, pandemic resources, and make appropriate medical facilities accessible to them in light of Covid pandemic. It said that Centre should also constitute an Inquiry Commission to assess the scale and causes of the exodus as well as direct Bengal to provide long-term relief to the internally displaced persons affected due to post-poll violence, by making provision for their rehabilitation, compensation for loss of family members, property, livelihood, mental and emotional agony. It further wanted orders to the Centre and Bengal to set up an alternative helpline number, monitored by central forces to respond to SOS calls and also record complaints and FIRs of internally displaced persons within and outside the state of Bengal. The petitioners said that direction should also be issued to the Centre for deploying central protection forces, including armed forces, for the restoration of law and order in Bengal and setting up a fast-track court to adjudicate matters pertaining to the prosecution of any individual or organization involved in the commission of heinous offences. Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress had won 213 seats out of 292 seats in the Bengal Assembly elections while BJP won 77 seats. Several violent incidents were reported after supporters of Trinamul Congress and BJP allegedly clashed in various parts of the state since May 2, killing at least 16 people and triggering alleged exodus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee admitted to hospital after health condition deteriorates||Former Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, who tested positive for COVID-19 last week, was admitted to a hospital here on Tuesday after his health condition deteriorated, officials said. His oxygen level slipped below 90 per cent this morning, following which doctors advised him to get admitted to a medical facility, they said. "Bhattacharjee has been in home isolation and put on BiPAP support. Even though his oxygen level dropped below 90. We did not take any chance," a doctor at the private hospital, where he was admitted, told PTI. The 77-year-old politician also suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and needs to go to hospital for other clinical examinations, the health department officials said. Bhattacharjee was not willing to go to hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19 on May 18. His wife Mira Bhattacharjee had also contracted the disease last week and was admitted to a medical facility in the city. She was discharged from the hospital on Monday after she tested negative for the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yass: Mamata questions Shah over Centre's fund allocation discrepancy||200-plus seats, 200-plus, 200-plus…. Amit Shah had only one refrain on his lips till the last vote was done and dusted in Bengal. A little over three weeks later, the vanquished soothsayer and the 200-plus-seat victor came face to face on screen on Monday. This time, it was Mamata Banerjee’s turn to discuss numbers. And Shah opted to switch focus from the inexact art of prophecy to the virtues of what he referred to as “science”. The Bengal chief minister asked the Union home minister why the Centre was allotting just over Rs 400 crore as an advance to Bengal to battle Cyclone Yaas while Odisha and Andhra Pradesh were being given over Rs 600 crore each. Mamata underscored that she was not opposed to the “sister states” getting the assistance, but was only objecting to the Narendra Modi government’s alleged step-motherly treatment of Bengal. At a virtual meeting convened by Shah with the chief ministers of Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha and the lieutenant governor of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands on their preparedness to tackle the cyclone’s impact, Mamata asked him to explain the disparity in the central grants. “They said they would give us ‘full cooperation’, but when they announced the money — as advance of what is already the states’ right, it is not that they are giving anything separately, additionally — they said Odisha was being given Rs 600-odd crore, Andhra Pradesh also will get around Rs 600 crore, and Bengal, they said Rs 400… something… crore,” Mamata said after the meeting. “Then, I asked Amit Shahji, ‘Why this discrimination? Bengal is a big state… I do not compare. Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are my sister states… I don’t have any problem, you give money to them. But can you compare Uttar Pradesh to Puducherry? There are so many big states, so many small states, so many medium states. It all depends on the population, its density, geography, history, the boundaries’,” she added. The Bengal chief minister, who had a packed schedule on Monday, initially had no plan to attend the meeting with Shah, and chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay was slated to lead the team representing the state. But Mamata made time, presumably to pre-empt attempts by the BJP and its government to accuse her of non-cooperation. “So, I raised my point. Mr Home Minister said: ‘Mamataji, hum baad mein baat karengey. Yeh scientific view sey hota hai, science sey hota hai (Mamata, we will talk later. This happens from a scientific viewpoint, this happens from science)’,” Mamata told journalists at Nabanna. The chief minister said: “I didn’t say anything more about that then. I have some knowledge of political science. But I have limited knowledge of this ‘science’.” Asked if the other states with governments deemed friendly towards the BJP were being preferred for political reasons, Mamata said: “See, I have said what I had to. For now, I’m not going to say more.” Mamata announced that chief secretary Bandyopadhyay, who was granted a three-month extension beyond his scheduled retirement this month, would head a special, high-powered task force for implementation of three key promises in Trinamul’s election manifesto, which were endorsed by the state cabinet on Monday. The task force, she said, would oversee the seamless implementation of the universal basic income scheme for a woman per family, the credit card scheme for soft loans of up to Rs 10 lakh to students after Class XII and the Duare Ration project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas:  What is expected of the impending natural calamity||Cyclone Yaas intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm on Tuesday evening, India Meteorological Department Director General M Mohapatra said. The IMD has also issued a red-coded warning alert to the Odisha and West Bengal coasts. "The severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas' (pronounced as 'Yass') over northwest and Bay of Bengal intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm," Mohapatra said. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Odisha coast close to Dhamra, over 350km from Calcutta, port by the early morning of Wednesday. "It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Islands close to north of Dhamra and south of Balasore, during noon of Wednesday, the 26th May as a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. As per an IMD update around 5.30pm, the severe cyclonic storm moved northwestwards with a speed of about 15kmph and lay centred at northwest Bay of Bengal, about 200km southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 290 southeast of Balasore (Odisha), 290 km southeast of Digha (West Bengal) and 280km south of Sagar Islands (West Bengal). Calcutta witnessed intermittent rain through the day on Tuesday. The intensity of the rain could go up as the system nears land, but the storm is unlikely to cause the kind of devastation in Calcutta that Amphan did, Met officials said. At least two people were electrocuted to death and around 80 houses partly damaged after a storm, which West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee described as a "tornado", hit Hooghly and North 24 Parganas districts on Tuesday. "This was unexpected... The tornado wreaked havoc in Chinsurah, partly damaging 40 houses. Two persons were also electrocuted to death," she told reporters. In North 24 Parganas district's Halisahar, the "tornado" lasted a little over a minute, impacting 40 houses and injuring five people, the CM said. The injured were taken to hospital by local panchayat members, Banerjee added. The system that was a depression over the east-central Bay on Sunday intensified into a cyclone by Monday morning. Around 8.30pm on Monday, the storm was 510km from Balasore and 500km from Digha. It was travelling at 12kmph. It would become a very severe cyclonic storm by Tuesday morning and stay that way while hitting land around noon on Wednesday, a Met official said. In its prime, Yaas will have a diameter of around 700km, similar to that of Amphan. But there is a difference between the two. Amphan had turned into a super cyclone — the second on the Bay of Bengal since the 1999 Odisha super cyclone — over the sea. It may be hard to believe because of the devastation it caused but Amphan had actually lost some steam while over the sea and turned into a very severe cyclonic storm when it made landfall. Amphan had been over the sea for a week and had lost some of its strength because of the long journey, Met officials said. When the system was a depression, it was over 1,000km from the Bengal coast. The system that became Yaas was a depression around 650km from the Bengal coast on Sunday. “A storm’s ferocity is decided by its intensity. The intensity of Amphan was a couple of notches higher than that of Yaas,” said Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra, cyclone forecasting specialist at the India Meteorological Department, New Delhi.  Yaas is moving in a north-northwest direction and is tipped to stick to that path. Amphan too had initially travelled in a north-northwest direction but 48 hours before landfall, it made a recurve and started moving north-northeast towards the Bengal and Bangladesh coasts. Asked if Yaas was still capable of springing such a surprise, a Met official in Calcutta said that was “highly unlikely”. “Winds steer a system on the sea. The winds are steering Yaas in a north-northwest direction. There is little chance of the winds forcing a recurve,” a Met official in Calcutta said. The storm will be near northwest Bay of Bengal, off the Bengal-Odisha coast, by early morning on Wednesday. It is expected to cross land around May 26 noon as a very severe cyclonic storm close to Balasore in Odisha, said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director-general of IMD Calcutta. During landfall, the system will generate wind speeds of around 155-165kmph, Bandyopadhyay said. After landfall, the storm will head towards Jharkhand as a weakened depression, a Met official said. As per IMD forecasts on Tuesday, the storm would approach Jharkhand from the south eastern part (East Singhbhum) as a severe cyclonic storm around 11.30 pm of Wednesday (May 26 ) and gradually reach Khunti district with decreased intensity as a deep depression by the night of Thursday (May 27). It would further move north-west, gradually decreasing in intensity, and reach Gumla district as a depression the same night (May 27). Later, the system would move further northwards and gradually become weak. At Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore in Odisha and East Midnapore in Bengal, the storm is expected to generate wind speeds of 155-165kmph, with gusts up to 185kmph, during landfall. “The impact will be more in Odisha than in Bengal,” said Bandyopadhyay. The intensity of the rain is likely to go up on Wednesday as the storm nears land. The city is also likely to see winds blowing at 70-80kmph, with gusts of 90kmph, around the time of landfall, a Met official said on Monday. Amphan had unleashed winds at 100kmph and above in the city. The maximum wind speed was 133kmph, recorded at Dum Dum around late evening. Howrah and Hooghly too are likely to see wind speeds similar to that in Calcutta on Wednesday. The coastal districts of North and South 24-Parganas will be lashed by winds at 90-100kmph, gusting 120kmph, the Met forecast said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports sharpest drop in Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Monday reported the sharpest drop yet in 24 hours in its total of active Covid-19 cases in the ongoing second wave. With 19,670 recoveries over 17,883 new infections detected in the last 24 hours ending at 9am, besides 153 deaths, active cases in Bengal dropped by 1,940 to less than 1.29 lakh again. Since last Friday’s all-time high of 1,32,181 lakh active cases, Bengal’s total of active Covid-19 infections has come down to 1,28,585 on Monday. The state has 4.96 per cent of the national total of active coronavirus infections now, and is currently sixth on the list of states with the most active cases. “Now that we are increasingly logging drops in the total of active cases, we not far from falling out of the top 10 in that list,” said a minister on Monday. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases, since the first infection was detected on March 17 last year, is nearly 12.85 lakh now, including close to 11.42 lakh recoveries and 14,517 deaths. Also, in a significantly positive indicator, the state’s recovery rate rose for the 23rd consecutive day, to 88.86 per cent. The national rate now is 89.2. “We are back on track to getting back into the 90s (recovery rate percentage), in a matter of days, and past 95 again in some weeks. Alongside the alarmingly high number of daily infections in the second wave, we have however stayed consistent with our remarkably high number of daily recoveries as well,” said the minister. Bengal is currently 15th on the list of states with the highest recovery rates. In another important positive, Bengal’s mortality rate now is 1.12 per cent,  showing steady improvement. In fact, the state’s figure is better for the first time since the onset of the pandemic than the national average, which is 1.13 per cent now. Of the 153 deaths reported on Monday, 35 were from  Calcutta and 47 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts of Bengal. Calcutta also logged 3,121 new infections, North 24-Parganas 3,793.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Irrigation department stacks up construction material for post-Yaas repairs||The irrigation department has stacked up construction material required for repairing embankments at 112 places spread across 10 districts to ensure that restoration of damaged riverbank barriers can be initiated in case of any breach during Cyclone Yaas. “We have kept ready different types of construction material in 112 vulnerable areas of 75 blocks in 10 districts where Cyclone Yaas could leave an impact. This is being done to ensure that repairing of embankments can be started at the earliest. We have also engaged agencies that will carry out repairs in case any embankment is damaged or breached,” said an irrigation department official. The initiative, sources said, has been taken after the department learnt a lesson after Cyclone Amphan last year. “More than 150km of river embankments, mainly in South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas, were breached during Amphan but their restoration was delayed as we could not take construction material to the affected areas because of inundation following the breach in the levees,” said another official. As the repairs were delayed at many places like Namkhana, Kakdwip, Sagar, Patharpratima in South 24 Parganas and Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas, hundreds of villages were submerged for several weeks. Villagers had repaired some of the breached embankments on their own but that was not good enough to prevent inundation caused by high tides even after the cyclone. “People in these areas were angry with the government and they had reasons to be frustrated with the administration. This time, the government wants to avoid such a situation and that’s why steps have been initiated much before the damage is done,” said a source. The irrigation department has already repaired 107km of river embankments in districts like South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Hooghly, Howrah, East Burdwan and West Burdwan where the cyclone is likely to leave an impact. “We have tried to repair all damaged embankments in these districts to prevent river water gushing in... But we admit that if the cyclone creates disaster, many of the earthen embankments would not be able to guard the villages for a long time,” said an engineer. The irrigation department has also deployed 36 heavy duty pumps at seven places in Calcutta, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas to ensure that the areas don’t get waterlogged. “This time, heavy rainfall is predicted and we have to make it sure that large stretches don’t get waterlogged for a long period,” said an official. Officials in the irrigation department apprehended that East Midnapore could face the maximum brunt of the cyclone this time. “As the IMD images show that the cyclone is moving in the north-west direction, in all likelihood, the cyclone could make a landfall between Paradwip in Odisha and Digha in East Midnapore. If that happens, it could create a disaster as river embankments in East Midnapore were overlooked after Amphan as it had no impact in the district. In brief, South 24-Parganas is a much prepared district now compared to East Midnapore,” said another official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked all ministers to be in their respective districts to monitor preparatory and restoration works ahead of and after the cyclone during a cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Monday. Mamata made it clear that her government would keep monitoring the situation 24x7 from Nabanna and the administration was working to evacuate 15 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: CBI moves SC, seeks adjournment of hearing on bail pleas of arrested politicians||The CBI on Monday informed a five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court that the agency had moved the Supreme Court and sought an adjournment of a hearing on the bail pleas of four politicians arrested in connection with the Narada probe. But the high court decided to hear the case and later postponed the hearing till Wednesday to settle some legal issues that cropped up during the two-hour proceedings. The matter before the five-judge bench were the bail pleas of ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, legislator Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee. With the court deferring the hearing till Wednesday, the four politicians will have to remain under house arrest till a decision is announced. Following a difference of opinion between acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee, the high court had on Friday ordered the house arrest of the four politicians and formed a five-judge special bench to hear their bail pleas. Even after the CBI on Monday informed the special bench that it had moved the Supreme Court against Friday’s order, the special bench decided to hear the case as the apex court was yet to hear the CBI’s plea. “After hearing the case for over two hours, questions arose on whether the high court could hear the bail pleas of the accused at a time there is also a case because the CBI has sought a shift in the trial venue of the Narada case from the lower court to the high court and hence the hearing was adjourned till Wednesday,” said a high court source. On May 17, after the four politicians had been granted bail by a CBI court, the central agency had moved the high court seeking the transfer of the matter from the trial court to the high court by citing Section 407 of the CrPC, which deals with the power of the high court to transfer cases and appeals. In the said petition, the investigating agency, however, did not seek any stay on the orders of bail to the accused granted by the CBI court. During the hearing of the case before the special bench on Monday, Tushar Mehta, the CBI counsel and solicitor-general of India, said Section 407 of the CrPC had enough scope to allow the high court to settle even bail disputes connected to the case. “Since the state administration had interfered in the activities of the judiciary by using muscle power, the high court had the right to scan the bail order of the accused leaders, which was awarded by the trial court in haste,” the solicitor-general said. To settle the legal question raised by the CBI counsel, the special bench decided to adjourn the hearing for elaborate discussions on the issue on May 26. During the hearing of the case before the special bench, advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, the counsel appearing for the accused, said the CBI’s attempt at moving from one court to another was “unfortunate”. “An investigating agency was never seen playing such a role in history,” Singhvi said. In reply, the CBI counsel said: “The state government was also never seen showing its muscle power vis a vis a case previously.” While talking about the CBI’s decision of moving from one court to another in this particular case, legal experts said the central agency was using the strategy of “forum shopping” to fulfil its objective of shifting the venue of the Narada case to any other state of their choice. “It’s a clear case of forum shopping.… High Courts do not have the jurisdiction to transfer the venue of trial to any other court. For transferring the venue, the investigating agency would have to move the Supreme Court. That’s why it moved Calcutta High Court so that any order passed by it can be challenged before the Supreme Court,” said advocate Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee, who practises criminal law in Calcutta High Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Yaas: No measures to stop breach if cyclone landfall coincides with high tide, says govt official  ||Government officials in the three coastal districts of Bengal — South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore — are hoping the timing of Cyclone Yaas doesn’t coincide with high tide, when water level in the sea and rivers rise. Officials said tides in the sea and rivers are expected to be at its highest for at least two hours from 9.30am and again for the same duration from 9pm on May 26, which is a full moon day. “We have already taken measures to repair embankments wherever needed. But if the cyclone landfall coincides with the high tide, no measures to stop the breach of embankments will work,” said a senior irrigation official and added that they did not get much time to repair the damaged earthen dams. A source said the coastal districts like North and South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore would suffer more if the cyclone hits before noon. This will lead to saline water flooding the area, the source added. Sources in the irrigation department said the three districts had earthen embankments the length of which adds up to 400km. Several areas in these districts are vulnerable during a cyclone as many embankments fall in the coastal areas. In South 24-Parganas, most of the 35km stretch of the embankments are in Sagar Island, Kakdwip and Namkhana. This makes the region extremely vulnerable to Yaas. “During Amphan, embankments were breached at seven points and we tried our best to repair the entire stretch. However, work has not been finished amid the pandemic. We have already kept teams ready to monitor the embankments but the real challenge will come when the cyclone will make landfall,” said Kalyan Dey, an executive engineer of the irrigation department in Kakdwip. Similarly, around 30km stretch of the embankment in North 24-Parganas and around 50km of the embankment in East Midnapore make the districts vulnerable. Irrigation department officials are covering earthen embankments with jute cloth to prevent soil erosion while letting the water pass. “We have covered around 8km of earthen embankment with cloth made of jute,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. “The main challenge for us this time is to prevent the ingress of saline water into farmland,” said an official in the agriculture department. During Amphan, over 20 lakh farmers in the three districts had lost their crops. Officials said if saline water enters agriculture fields, it destroys fertility for a few years. “During Amphan, around 96,000 hectares of agricultural land were damaged and at least five lakh farmers were affected. This time we have arranged hundreds of pumps to remove saline water immediately after the cyclone,” said an agriculture department official in South 24-Parganas. All the three districts have started evacuation of people from the vulnerable zones. Officials said the target is to shift 10 lakh people from three districts to safe shelters. Around 1.8 lakh people from South 24-Parganas have been evacuated already. The evacuation process has also started in two other coastal districts. As the cyclone is about to pass several other districts in South Bengal like Howrah, Hooghly, Bankura and Birbhum—all the districts have made a control room ready to help during the disaster. A company of NDRF has been deployed in Bankura to combat the situation. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Residents of Sunderbans feel unprotected owing to damage caused by Amphan   ||Barely 48 hours ahead of the expected landfall of Cyclone Yaas on Wednesday, people living in the Sunderbans region feel unprotected owing to the damage that Cyclone Amphan had caused to their first guard wall or the mangrove forest last year in May. After the ravages caused by Amphan, the state forest department and many non-governmental organisations had joined hands to undertake a plantation programme and around five crore mangrove trees were planted over months. But before these trees could grow big enough to protect the region, the threat of a fresh cyclone, Yaas, has come to haunt a large section of people who live in the region. People living in Amphan-battered Hingalganj and Sandeshkhali of North 24-Parganas and Namkhana, Patharpratima, Kultali, and Gosaba of South 24-Parganas fear that the impact of Yaas on their lives would be worse this time because of the breach in the mangrove forest. A post-Amphan damage assessment done by the state forest department had claimed that around three lakh dominant mangrove trees like kalo bain, peyara bain, hargoja, kewra, geoan, garan, and sundari were uprooted as the super cyclone wreaked havoc during its landfall in the region. Mangrove is a group of plants that grows in saline or brackish water and play an important role in maintaining water quality. With their dense network of roots and surrounding vegetation, they filter and trap sediments, heavy metals, and other pollutants and at the same time help prevent erosion of river banks. “The damage to the Sunderbans mangrove caused by Cyclone Amphan last year left us literally unguarded. It always becomes the first guard wall to protect us from cyclones. A huge number of trees was uprooted in the region last year when Amphan struck, but nevertheless, the presence of the trees had minimised the devastation. This guard wall is missing this time. New mangrove trees planted by the government and other agencies are too young to protect us,” said Pradip Naskar, a resident of Namkhana. The BDO of Namkhana, Santanu Sinha Thakur, admitted that the fear of the villagers was not unfounded. “The decrease in the number of mangrove trees will definitely deepen the impact of the cyclone. The big trees work as guard walls, but this protection has been weakened by Amphan,” he said. According to the assessment of the state government, as much as 4,263sqkm of the 9,630sqkm mangrove forest had been damaged during last year’s Amphan. Pradipta Sarkar, a member of Paschimbanga Vigyan Mancha, said: “Repeated incidents of cyclone have damaged mangroves in the Sunderbans in a large way. A large number of trees have also been lost because of illegal felling. Restorative plantation would be of no use if we have repeated instances of cyclones in such short intervals (like Amphan and Yaas). Trees need time to grow.” State forest minister Jyotipriya Mullick on Monday held a meeting with his officials and advised them to undertake proper assessment of the possible loss to the mangrove forests. “We had undertaken a massive plantation drive after Amphan. But many of these trees would be damaged this time. We have to take up fresh plantation drive once the cyclone ends,” a senior forest department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||State govt officials in North Bengal gear up for Yaas safety||Officials of various state government departments across north Bengal have started making preparations for Cyclone Yaas. “Though there are indications that its impact will be comparatively less in north Bengal, there are chances of heavy to very heavy rainfall which can lead to rise in water levels of rivers and water-logging in low-lying areas. That is why all necessary arrangements are being made,” said Sabina Yeasmin, the minister of state for irrigation. On Monday, Yeasmin held a meeting in Malda with senior officials of her department on averting a flood-like situation, with initiatives such as rain cuts on riverbanks. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, also held a meeting with officials of different departments. “A 24/7 control room has been opened and it will remain operational for the next few days. The administration is in constant touch with officials of different departments. We will hold another meeting tomorrow to take stock of the situation and preparedness,” said Deb. Sources said the state agriculture and fisheries departments have also passed directives to farmers and fishermen to avoid losses. The farmers have been asked to harvest the semi-ripe paddy and other crops, which otherwise might get damaged in the storm and heavy rainfall. “Those who are into pisciculture have been advised to put nets in ponds and similar enclosed water bodies to prevent fish and fries from getting swept away,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
