26-05-2021||West Bengal||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in stable condition, say doctors||The health condition of former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee is stable and he is responding to commands, the private hospital where he is undergoing treatment said in a statement on Wednesday. The condition of Bhattacharjee's wife Meera, who was also taken to the same hospital, is also stable, authorities at the medical establishment said. "Bhattacharjee is still in the CCU and on BiPAP and is maintaining oxygen level at 92 per cent. He is a bit drowsy but is responding to commands. His blood pressure is stable," the statement said. The 77-year-old veteran politician, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18, has a heart rate of 56 beats per minutes and his urine output is satisfactory, it said. Bhattacharjee was given a loading dose of Remdesivir injection on Tuesday night and doctors are planning to give Tocilizumab injection if needed, it said. Bhattacharjee, 77, was admitted to a private hospital in Alipore for critical care under a panel of six physicians. Meera, 71, was readmitted to the same hospital. They, and their daughter Suchetana, had tested positive on May 18. CPM sources said he was hospitalised, despite his unwillingness, in view of Cyclone Yaas and power cut fears.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Yaas effect: Sea water touches coconut tree-tops, large parts of coastal Bengal inundated||Yaas weakened into a severe cyclonic storm on Wednesday afternoon after pounding the beach towns in north Odisha and Bengal with a wind speed of 130-145 kmph, inundating the low-lying areas amid a storm surge even as the two eastern states battled the Covid crisis, officials said. Yaas, which was earlier classified as a very severe cyclonic storm, hit the coast north of Dhamra in Odisha's Bhadrak district and 50 km south of Balasore, close to Bahanaga block, around 9 am, they said. The landfall process was over around 1.30 pm, they added. Rising river water levels after the landfall of the cyclone inundated large parts of Bengal's coastal districts of East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas as sea waves touched coconut tree-tops and cars floated in floodwaters. The seaside towns of Digha and Mandarmoni in East Midnapore and Fraserganj and Gosaba in South 24-Parganas were among the areas affected by a storm surge of more than 2 metres above the astronomical tide level. The surging waters have breached embankments at several places in the two coastal districts, inundating many villages and small towns, officials said. Water levels of several rivers including Bidyadhari, Hooghly and Rupnarayan have risen owing to Yaas and the accompanying storm surge. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that at least one crore people in the state have been affected by rough weather conditions and high tides arising due to the cyclone, while over 15 lakh people have been evacuated to safe places. “Around three lakh houses have suffered damage due to Yaas. I will visit the affected areas in East Midnapore, South and North 24 Parganas on Friday,” the chief minister said, addressing a press conference after the landfall process was completed. The government has sent relief worth Rs 1 crore to areas affected by cyclone and high tide, she informed. Army, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and state police and civil defence volunteers were working round-the-clock to move people to safety. The Army has deployed 17 columns to assist the state administration, of which one rescued 32 stranded civilians at Digha, a Defence official said. The MeT Department has forecast extremely heavy rainfall on Wednesday in East and West Midnapore districts and heavy to very heavy rainfall in Jhargram, Bankura, South 24 Parganas districts. Heavy rain will occur at isolated places in Purulia, Nadia, Murshidabad, Purba Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Calcutta, North 24 Parganas, Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts owing to the effect of 'Yaas', the weatherman said. In 24 hours till 8.30 am, Digha received 5.5 cm rainfall, Diamond Harbour got 3.3 cm rainfall, Haldia 3.2 cm rainfall. Calcutta got 2.24 cm rainfall, Salt Lake received 3.05 cm rain, Contai got 5.42 cm rain and Kalaikunda received 2.2 cm rainfall. The Bengal government has evacuated over 15 lakh people from vulnerable areas to safety so far. The landfall process of Yaas began at 9 am on Wednesday near the Dhamra port in Odisha's Bhadrak district, an official said. The location of the landfall is north of Dhamra and south of Bahanaga, close to Bahanaga block, on the coast, around 50 km of Balasore, he said. The wind speed during landfall was at 130-140 kmph, gusting to 155 kmph, as per Doppler radar data. Landfall process delayed The India Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier predicted that the wind speed during the landfall would be around 155-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph. The landfall process was delayed for some hours with the system's velocity decreasing to 12 kmph from 15-16 kmph, Jena said. The cyclone did not intensify any further after 2 am, he said. "Since there has been a fall in intensification, the wind speed was around 130-140 kmph at the time of landfall instead of 165 kmph," he said. High-tide warning The Met department also warned of tidal waves of two- four metres height above astronomical tide to inundate low- lying coastal areas of East Midnapore, and of two metres above astronomical tide in low-lying areas of South 24 Parganas. Most parts of Odisha also received rains, said Umashankar Dash, a scientist at the Regional Meteorological Centre in Bhubaneswar. Chandbali in Bhadrak district received 273 mm rainfall, the highest amount of rainfall in the last 24 hours in the state, followed by Paradip (197 mm), Balasore (51 mm) Bhubaneswar (49 mm).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury asks PM for Behrampore Covid facility||Leader of the Opposition in Lok Sabha and Congress MP from Murshidabad's Behrampore, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, on Monday evening reportedly made an appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a temporary 500-bed Covid hospital in Behrampore by the Defence Research and Development Organisation and was assured prompt action. Chowdhury was at a mandatory meeting with Modi and Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana in order to deliberate on the selection of the next CBI chief. The meeting took place at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, in Delhi. "Murshidabad is a poor district that needs a lot more government health infrastructure. Our population is exceeding 80 lakh," he told this newspaper on Tuesday. "I told him (the Prime Minister) that Covid is still not over and that phase three will be more brutal. He said he will try his best and utilise funds from the PMCares resources," the fivetime MP added. Chowdhury also explained that his suggestion was in tandem with the DRDO's recent completion of a 500-bed temporary Covid facility in Delhi. He had also written to Modi dated May 21 demanding the Covid facility, he added. Murshidabad has prior connections to the defence dispensation by way of being the birthplace of former defence minister and former President of India, late Pranab Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader found dead in Cooch Behar||A BJP leader who went missing from his agricultural field on Monday afternoon was found dead near his home in Sitalkuchi here on Monday night. District BJP leaders have alleged murder by local Trinamul supporters while the latter have brushed aside the charges. Sources said on Monday afternoon Dhirendranath Burman, 45, a resident of Changhat village under Sitalkuchi police station, went to his agricultural field where he had planted jute but did not return. “As my father did not return till the evening, we started searching for him. His body was found at a bamboo plantation in the village around 10.30pm. There were injury marks on his body and we suspect that he has been murdered with sharp weapons,” said Pallabi, the victim’s daughter. The sources said Changhat village comes under booth number 124 of Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency where a several violent incidents, including firing by the CISF personnel, were reported ahead and during the Assembly polls. “Dhirendranath was an active and popular party worker. After the election results, it seems Trinamul leaders could not accept their defeat in the seat and thus are attacking and killing our party workers,” said Kanak Burman, a block level BJP leader. “ On Tuesday, a delegation of district leaders from the saffron camp went to the district magistrate’s office in Cooch Behar to submit a memorandum. They were alleging attacks by Trinamul and sought administrative intervention. Malati Rava, the district BJP president, was critical at the Pawan Kadyan, the district magistrate and said that he did not meet the delegation and left the office. Though Kadyan couldn’t be contacted, sources in the administration said he had spoken with the delegation and had asked them to submit the memorandum to an additional district magistrate. “They might have submitted the memorandum to an ADM but the district magistrate had spoken with them. It would be wrong to raise questions at him,” said source. “A probe is onofficials of Mathabhanga subdivision – Sitalkuchi is under this subdivision – said they haveinitiated. . We are waiting for the autopsy report to know the cause of the deathOur officers are probing the case and trying to gather information,” said Surajit Mondal, the SDPO of Mathabhanga. Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul president, demanded proper investigation of the incident. “It is unfortunate that the BJP is trying to foment tension at a time when people are distressed with the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Elephant found dead in Dooars||The carcass of an adult wild tusker was recovered from the Alinagar area of Dalgaon forest under Dalgaon forest range of in Alipurduar forest division on Tuesday morning. Foresters suspect that the elephant had died a few days back as the corpse had started decomposing but ruled out the chance of poaching as both its tusks were unharmed. Later after the autopsy, the vets confirmed that the 55-year-old jumbo had died of old age. Sources said the foresters from Dalgaon beat and Dalgaon range and also a team from Jateswar police camp reached Alinagar after some villagers dwelling in the area informed them about rotten smell emanating from the adjoining Dalgaon forest. They suspected that some animal might have died and informed foresters. “On reaching the spot, our men could spot some wild elephants roaming nearby. They had to wait for some time to walk up to the carcass and initiate the process for post mortem,” said a forester. Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests (wildlife, north), said a probe had been initiated. “The elephant has died because of old age. It is a natural death. The animal seems to have died a few days ago. We are trying to find out why the carcass was not spotted earlier,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Mamata urges people to stay indoors till midday||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urged people of Bengal to stay indoors between the early hours and midday on Wednesday when Cyclone Yaas is likely to make landfall in Odisha. “Even if it is an emergency, please try to get the work done over the phone so that you don’t have to physically venture out. At least wait till noon, since the impact of the landfall is supposed to take place by then,” she said in the latter of her two news conferences at the state secretariat. “The effect is likely to stay for two to three hours after landfall. Thus, the effect might be felt till evening tomorrow. Rain and storm might intensify from midnight on Tuesday,” she said. Mamata said that she, along with senior officials, would monitor the situation from Nabanna through the night and take necessary action. “We cannot fight Mother Nature.… But we can at least minimise the damage and we are trying our best,” she said. The Bengal government has gone to great lengths to prepare ahead of the landfall to ensure loss of life is minimised. “We learnt a lesson from Amphan. The devastation we had seen during Amphan is still raw in our memory…. It happened last year on May 20,” Mamata said. Ahead of Yaas, the state government had evacuated over 11 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: ‘Tornado-like’ system strikes Bengal||Two persons died of suspected electrocution and scores of houses were damaged as a giant rotating mass of wind swept the Naihati-Bijpur-Halisahar belt in North 24-Parganas and parts of Hooghly district on Tuesday afternoon. To many, the marauding mass of winds looked like a tornado, a rotating column of air that resembles a funnel and is infamous for lifting houses, cars, humans and animals alike in the US. The Met office in Alipore was not so sure. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee confirmed the two deaths at a news conference. “There has been a minute-and-a-half long tornado in Halisahar and another incident has happened in Chinsurah. In Halisahar, 40 houses have been partly damaged… Four to five people have suffered minor injuries. In Chinsurah, a small tornado took place, 40 houses have been damaged. Some shops have been partly damaged and some trees uprooted. Two persons have died because of electrocution in Pandua,” she said. The two have been identified as Kamal Majhi and Swapan Baul Das. But a local resident said: “They were hit by lightning.” Met officials in Alipore said the IMD did not have conclusive pictures or videos of the storm to label it as a tornado. “From the pictures and videos that we have seen, the system looks cylindrical. The width of the base and the head is similar. But a proper tornado looks like a funnel, with a broad top and narrowing base,” said G.K. Das, the director of IMD, Calcutta. Das told The Telegraph that the system could also have been a mesocyclone, a rotating region in a supercell — among the most potent thunderclouds — that often leads to a tornado. Tornadoes, also called twisters, are vertical funnels of rapidly spinning air connecting a thunderstorm and the ground. Born in thunderstorms, tornadoes occur around the world but most frequently in the US. A moderate tornado can trigger a windspeed of 100kmph but the potent ones are capable of triggering winds that clock speeds of up to 400kmph. A powerful tornado can tear up almost anything that comes in its path. Dushyant Nariala, the principal secretary of the disaster management department, said that 47 houses had suffered the impact of the “tornado” in Hooghly. Bandel and Pandua in Hooghly were hit by the storm, which struck after 3pm. In North 24-Parganas, Jethia gram panchayat in Naihati, Bijpur and four wards (16, 17, 22 and 23) of Halisahar municipality bore the brunt of the storm. The account of several local residents suggested the extent of damage was more than the official estimate. “In (Jethia, North 24-Parganas) Balibhara village, around 150 houses, including pucca ones, were damaged as either roofs of these buildings were flown away within seconds or walls collapsed because of the gusts of wind,” said a resident of the village. A giant banyan tree, uprooted along with the concrete base, came crashing down on a home with a tiled roof. The kitchen of another house had its roof completely blown away. “It was around 3.15 pm and I was watching television after lunch. I felt a jolt and within seconds, the roof of the room flew away,” said Tumpa Bera, a homemaker in Jethia. The nearest IMD observatory is in Kalyani. “We will have to analyse the videos before coming to any conclusion,” said the IMD’s Das. Three persons in Mihir De’s family were injured and taken to JNM Hospital in Kalyani when a wall collapsed and the roof was blown away. “We have shifted the victims to local school buildings and arranged food for them. We are at the same time preparing the list of the persons who lost their houses. We have also taken photographs of the damaged houses. The list and the photographs will be submitted to the district administration so that they can get compensation,” said a member of the outgoing panchayat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Farmers forced to fend for themselves||Sirajul Islam Goldar was busy tying the banana plants on his farm to a bamboo structure in a last-ditch attempt to save the trees from the wrath of Cyclone Yaas. “This is just an attempt to save the plants from being blown away. But I don’t know whether it will work,” said the middle-aged Goldar who owns the farmland that’s half the size of a standard football field in South 24 Parganas’s Bhangar, barely a few hours before the cyclone was to make the landfall. Goldar is one of hundreds of farmers in Bhangar who suffered huge financial losses last year when Cyclone Amphan ripped through the state ravaging standing crops in several districts, especially South 24-Parganas. “I had grown 350 banana trees. For the price of Rs 220 a pound, I would have earned around Rs 1.5 lakh. Amphan razed all the trees to the ground,” Goldar told The Telegraph on Monday. According to government estimates, Amphan destroyed around 3,500 hectares of crops in just one of the two blocks in Bhangar, a sprawling agrarian belt, on the outskirts of Calcutta. The total loss in the entire South 24-Parganas district was almost 96,900 hectares and Rs 824 crore in monetary terms, affecting over 5 lakh farmers. A huge quantity of vegetables sold in Calcutta’s markets come from these areas. While last year’s destruction had resulted in massive losses for the farmers on one hand, the price of vegetables in the city had also shot up because of demand-supply mismatch. Since then, Goldar and his likes have been instructed by the local administration to plant as many crops as possible to minimise losses. However, many of the crops, especially banana, papaya and cauliflower, are yet to be ready for harvest. “I had lost crops worth more than Rs 1 lakh last year. When I heard about this new cyclone, I hoped that BDO or the panchayat would send some preliminary help or at least tell us about how to brace for it. But nothing has happened. So, I’m doing it myself,” said Aynal Haque Mollah while digging a one-foot-deep trench along the boundary of his farm to ensure that rainwater was drained out. Although the government had announced compensation and relief schemes for the people affected by Amphan, most of these farmers complained that no benefits had reached them. Mollah himself said Amphan had destroyed a large portion of his house. Officers from the local panchayat had come to note down his details and told him that he was eligible for the compensation. But Mollah hasn’t received a penny even after a year. Alleged misappropriation of Amphan relief funds became a major issue in the recent Bengal Assembly polls and the anger among the farmers was one of the reasons for the Trinamul Congress’s defeat in Bhangar by ISF candidate Nawsad Siddiqui. Ahead of Yaas, farmers with bigger land size and leaders of the local Farmer Producer Organisations have come forward to help people with small plots to prepare themselves so that the damage is minimal. “When we heard that there would be another cyclone, we immediately started speaking to farmers. We told them to set up bamboo structures and dig trenches,” said Jabbar Khan, the chairman of a FPO. Khan said the likes of him took the initiative because the damage otherwise affected the market adversely. Last year, according to Khan, immediately after Amphan, cultivators from Bhangar had to get vegetables from Malda, Murshidabad, North 24-Parganas and sometimes even from Ranchi and Bangalore meet the demand. “We mainly sell vegetables in Calcutta. For about a month after Amphan, we had to depend on crops from other parts of the state and the country. Naturally, the lady’s finger we sold at Rs 15 a kilo became as costly as Rs 30 a kilo,” Khan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||CM Mamata Banerjee camps at Nabanna for Cyclone Yaas combat||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said she’d stay overnight at state secretariat Nabanna with the top-tier bureaucracy to keep tabs on Cyclone Yaas from a war-room of the disaster management department. Mamata reached Nabanna around 11.45am. Around 3pm, she convened her first news meet, by when she had spoken to district magistrates of areas most likely to be affected. “There will be rain and storm in 21 districts here…. Yaas will mainly affect East Midnapore, West Midnapore, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Bankura, parts of Purulia, East and West Burdwan, and Birbhum,” she said. Mamata was concerned about the high tide. “You can see a high tide, and thus the water level of the Hooghly and other rivers has also risen…. The seawater at Digha has come up to the public places….” she said. Around 11 lakh people have been evacuated to the 4,000-odd relief shelters, she said. For Amphan, 10 lakh had been evacuated. This time, over 74,000 officials and workers have been deployed to tackle the situation, besides another 3 lakh personnel from the police, the army, and the national and state disaster response forces. Mamata said one senior IAS officer has been given the responsibility of each district. Sources said three senior IPS officers and one senior IAS officer have been deployed for East Midnapore — likely to be the worst-hit district — alone. Of the total 11 lakh evacuees, four lakh are from this coastal district. Two ministers, Akhil Giri and Somen Mahapatra, are stationed at Digha. Mamata asked chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, home secretary H.K. Dwivedi and others in the administration to ensure that central utility DVC doesn’t release water without consent from the state government now. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited Nabanna. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, a known Mamata-baiter, even issued a statement in appreciation of the state’s efforts.“The state government was unprepared last time. This time, however, it appears to be equipped and ready. Now, it is up to them to deal with the cyclone,” he said. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar and Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Before Cyclone Yaas, winds and tides break dykes||Much before Cyclone Yaas’s expected landfall, several areas in three coastal districts of Bengal were swept away on Tuesday morning because of high tidal waves coupled with strong winds. Over two dozen earthen embankments in East Midnapore, South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas were breached, inundating adjacent villages with saline water. Local sources claimed that stretches of embankments that succumbed to the continued blow of wind from the early hours of Tuesday were mostly those where cyclone Amphan had hit last year and wreaked havoc. The stretches damaged last year could not be repaired owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. At most places, local people, who joined hands with the administration to repair vulnerable stretches of the embankments on emergency basis barely 72 hours ahead of the expected landfall of Yaas, were seen blaming the irrigation department for negligence in taking up the work in time. But irrigation officials claimed that back-to-back cyclones that had hit the sea and river embankments left little time for them to try for a permanent solution. Former minister and CPM leader Kanti Ganguly, who positioned himself at Raidighi in South 24-Parganas to assist villagers in the face of Yaas, said temporary repairs of the embankments were useless. “I would request Mamata Banerjee to construct permanent guard walls to save the Sunderbans and other vulnerable areas.” Irrigation minister Saument Mahapatra said: “We have stacked all materials for repairs that will be taken up once the cyclone passes.” Officials of the North 24-Parganas district administration had to face the wrath of villagers at many places during their inspection. In East Midnapore, saline water began entering several areas in Ramnagar I block because of high tides. Similar inundation was also reported from Jamra, Tajpur, Shyampur, Shankarpur and few pockets in Tamluk and Haldia. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas path sets up first test for Jungle Mahal||The change in the path of Cyclone Yaas, which is expected to travel towards Jharkhand after making the landfall on Wednesday, has forced four Jungle Mahal districts to evacuate thousands of people to safe shelters and deploy army and National Disaster Response Force personnel for rescue and relief operations. Officials said the four Jungle Mahal districts of Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura and West Midnapore had experienced a storm like Nor’wester or rainfall because of low pressure in the past but a cyclone was expected for the first time. As cyclones are rare occurrences in these districts, infrastructure like cyclone centres is not available and the administration is depending on school buildings to accommodate evacuees. The government issued a flood alert in rivers like Subarnarekha, Kangsabati, Damodar, Mayurakshi and Ajay because of heavy rainfall. All these seasonal rivers crisscross the Jungle Mahal as well as other districts like Birbhum, East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Howrah and Hooghly. Apart from the Jungle Mahal, all these districts were asked to evacuate people with the help of the NDRF and army. “Purulia is a district that has never faced such a situation before. It is the first time that we are evacuating over 50,000 people to safe shelters to save them. NDRF and army personnel have been deployed in Jungle Mahal areas like Bandwan and Baghmundi. We are trying our best to save the people,” Purulia district magistrate Rahul Mazumdar said. Similar operations are going on in Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapore also where teams of the army and the NDRF have taken positions. In Bankura, the administration has a target to evacuate 40,000 people and in Jhargram, officials have kept 1,200 buildings ready to house people living in mud houses. According to the Met office, after landfall somewhere in the coastal areas of Bengal and Odisha, Yaas is expected to travel towards Jharkhand after passing through a large part of Jhargram, Bankura and Purulia. The Met alert said eight blocks in Bankura, mainly three in Khatra subdivision, would be hit by the cyclone most and the main challenge was to manage destruction likely to be caused to forest areas. “We are concentrating mainly on the Khatra area of our district. We have provided automated tree-cutters to all blocks for removing logs as soon as possible after the disaster. We have already posted NDRF and army personnel in vulnerable pockets,” said K Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate. Sources said three blocks of Jhargram, including Nayagram and Gopiballabhpur, were very vulnerable this time as they were only within 90km from Balasore in Odisha, the region where the cyclone might make a landfall. “Our main fear is that the three blocks are likely to face the worst impact of the cyclone. The evacuation process is on and we have shifted over 20,000 people to several high school buildings,” Jhargram district magistrate Joyoshi Das Gupta said. Police officers said central forces were usually deployed in the Jungle Mahal to combat Maoist activities but the cyclone had brought them to the region this time. “This is the first time we are posting forces to combat a disaster in Jhargram or Purulia. Earlier, they used to be posted to combat Maoists,” said a senior police officer who once served in Purulia. Apart from the Jungle Mahal, evacuation has also started in districts like Birbhum and West Burdwan. “We have already evacuated 56,000 people from the areas bordering Jharkhand. We are keeping a close watch on two barrages in the district and monitoring the water level in the river,” said Bidhan Chandra Roy, the Birbhum district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases drop in Bengal, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in hospital ||Bengal on Tuesday reported a drop by 2,209 in its total of active Covid-19 cases, which fell to 1.26 lakh, on a day former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and his wife Meera, who tested positive for the coronavirus last week, were hospitalised. The state reported 19,057 recoveries, 17,005 new infections and 157 deaths. The state now has 5.05 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains sixth on the list of states with most active cases. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases since March last year is nearly 13.02 lakh now, including close to 11.61 lakh recoveries and 14,674 deaths. The recovery rate rose for the 24th consecutive day, to 89.17 per cent. The national rate now is 89.61. “The recovery rate was almost 98 per cent in March and over 97 even last month. But it slumped to almost 84 as the second wave peaked. Over the past three weeks, we managed to see a rise,” said a minister. Bengal is now 16th on the list of states with the highest recovery rates. Bengal’s mortality rate now is 1.12 per cent, better than the national rate of 1.14. Of the 157 deaths reported on Tuesday, 33 were reported from the city and 46 from North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 2,979 new infections, North 24-Parganas 3,452. “In the second wave, comorbid deaths have been fewer, compared to deaths between March 2020 and March 2021,” said the minister. Bhattacharjee, 77, was admitted to a private hospital in Alipore for critical care under a panel of six physicians. Meera, 71, was readmitted to the same hospital. They, and their daughter Suchetana, had tested positive on May 18. CPM sources said he was hospitalised, despite his unwillingness, in view of Cyclone Yaas and power cut fears. Physicians said the CPM stalwart, a patient for years of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, was brought in with drowsiness and shortness of breath. He has been on BiPAP support with three litres of oxygen and oxygen saturation at 92 per cent, but is conscious and alert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
