27-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata announces 'Duare Traan' to ensure cyclone relief reaches the affected at their door||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee extended the statewide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus to June 15 and announced a slew of measures to help the people of Bengal who have been battered by Cyclone Yaas amid a raging pandemic. Among the more important announcements made by her on Thursday was the state government’s decision to end the uncertainty over board exams, an issue that has kept students, their parents and teachers, on tenterhooks. She said that it has been decided to hold the examinations for classes XII and X in the last week of July and the second week of August, respectively. The following are Thursday's key announcements: Covid curbs to stay Restrictions to prevent large scale mingling of people in a public space will remain in effect till June 15. The Bengal government had on April 30 imposed severe restrictions on the movement of people, vehicles and goods to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “Restrictions will continue like before. We are not calling this a lockdown. Lockdown hampers the economy and we are determined to protect the people from further economic hardships,” said Mamata. “The restrictions imposed earlier have helped the situation ease in the last few days. All other restrictions will remain as they were. Only in the case of the jute industry have we relaxed the norms to allow 40 per cent of the workforce from the existing 30 per cent.” Shopping malls, restaurants, bars, gyms, swimming pools will remain shut and people’s movement is not allowed from 9 pm onwards. Markets and grocery shops will remain open till 10 am. Bengal had logged 16,225 new cases till Wednesday, indicating a fall in the number of fresh cases. Board exams Mamata announced that the state government had decided to hold board examinations for classes XII and X in the last week of July and the second week of August respectively. Around 20.5 lakh students are qualified to appear in this year’s Madhyamik and higher secondary exams. “Students are in anguish over when the exams will be held. We want to end that. Keeping all restrictions around Covid in mind, we have decided on holding the exams,” she said. “The higher secondary exams will be held earlier since it will help the students enroll in colleges and participate in international and national competitions (entrance exams). The class X exam is internal. We are holding it later.” The government has decided that the students of class X will only have to appear for the seven compulsory subjects, while marks of the 38-58 additional subjects will be based on grades/marks provided by the schools. For the higher secondary exams, the number of compulsory subjects is 15. A detailed schedule for the exams will be announced later. “The exams will be held in the home centre, at their (students') own school to minimise travel amid Covid,” Mamata said. The education department has also decided to reduce the duration of the papers from 180 minutes to 90 minutes. “This will be of big advantage to the students, as they will get more options to answer the question paper. Earlier if they had to answer eight out of 10 questions, now they will have five questions to attempt,” Mamata said. Cyclone Yaas Central aid for the damage suffered in the aftermath of Yass will be at the top of the agenda when Mamata meets Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday at Kalaikunda in West Midnapore. The chief minister said on Thursday the state had suffered damages worth Rs 15,000 crore, according to a preliminary assessment made by government officials. “He will visit cyclone-affected areas of Odisha and then reach Kalaikunda. I expect a short meeting with him,” Mamata said. After holding talks with departmental secretaries at the state administrative headquarters, Mamata said the government will launch a scheme, titled "Duare Traan (Relief at Doorstep) from June 3 to reach relief materials to the devastated areas. “Our priority is to start relief and rehabilitation. Tarpaulin sheets, dry ration and drinking water should be arranged immediately. I have also asked the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to send teams to the affected villages,” Mamata said. To facilitate the launch of Duare Traan, the state government will seek applications from those affected by the storm between June 3 and June 15. The applications will be verified from June 18 to June 30. The state government has announced a Rs.1,000- crore relief package, while the Centre has promised Rs 400 crore as assistance. Probe into bridge repairs Mamata has also asked the irrigation department to start immediate work on rebuilding embankments that have been washed away. “How could the entire embankment be washed away in Digha? Why is it taking so long to build embankments? We cannot afford to let so much money be washed away. This will be investigated,” she said. The chief minister also asked irrigation department secretary Naveen Prakash to explain why bridges were washed away in some parts of South 24-Parganas, which were repaired after last year’s Amphan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Lockdown-like restrictions extended till June 15 in Bengal||Ongoing Covid-19 restrictions in Bengal will be extended till June 15, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Thursday. Mamata said that the Covid-related restrictions on services and movement will be observed for 15 extra days as Bengal has been recording fewer cases since the ongoing curbs were imposed. “The Covid-19 restrictions in the state will continue till June 15. This is not a lockdown or a curfew. We will strictly follow the restrictions. “It’s a relief to see that the ongoing restrictions have helped in easing the situation a little,” Mamata told reporters at the state secretariat ‘Nabanna’. She allowed the jute industry to work with 40 per cent workforce in place of the existing 30 per cent. "We will see that the state's economy is not disturbed," Mamata said. Under the current norms, shops and markets selling vegetables, fruits, groceries, milk, bread, meat and eggs remain open from 7am to 10am, while medicine shops and optical stores have regular working hours. Sweet shops, saree stores are open between a certain time window while banks remain operational from 10 am to 2pm. Vehicular movement including private and government buses have been completely stopped along with Metro while taxis, app-based cabs and auto-rickshaws would be severely restricted. Private vehicles would be allowed only in case of medical emergencies. Trucks, except for those carrying food items, are not being allowed to ply for the time being Schools, colleges and educational institutions will remain closed. Shopping complexes, malls, spas, cinemas and other places of public gathering will remain shut. The government had also announced a curb on all outdoor movements between 9 pm to 5 am. Boards in July-August Bengal will hold the Class 12 board examinations in the last week of July, while the tests for Class 10 will take place in mid-August, Mamata Banerjee said on the day. The dates will be announced later by the respective boards, she said. "We have decided to hold the secondary (Madhyamik) and higher secondary (Uccho Madhyamik) examinations... adhering to all Covid-19 safety protocols," Banerjee told reporters at the state secretariat. Both the board examinations will be held at home centres and only for compulsory subjects, she added. Yaas survey on Friday Mamata will conduct an aerial survey of cyclone-affected areas in East Midnapore, North 24-Paragans and South 24-Parganas on Friday, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Wednesday. “Honourable chief minister has decided (that), after waiting for the water to drain out and for the weather to get better, on May 28, she will conduct an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas where embankments have been destroyed, flooded by water and will hold local administrative reviews on the aftermath at several points…” Bandyopadhyay said. The chief secretary said Mamata would first survey the affected areas of Sandeshkhali and Dhamakhali in North 24-Parganas. She will then hold a local review meeting at Hingalganj. After that, the chief minister will fly to Sagar in South 24-Parganas and on her way, will aerially take stock of the flood situation in the Sunderbans. At Sagar, she will hold her second meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee's health condition stable now||The health condition of former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee is stable though he continued to have shortness of breath and be in a state of drowsiness, an official said on Thursday. Bhattacharjee (77), who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital after being diagnosed with COVID-19, is presently conscious, alert and talking, he said. "Mr Bhattacharjee is stable but continues to be on BiPAP, requiring four litres of oxygen. His oxygen saturation is at 92 per cent and his blood pressure is also stable and his heart rate is 54 per minute," the hospital official said in a statement. "Doctors are continuing to inject Remdesvir and other supportive measures. He is taking food orally. His urine output is also satisfactory," he added. The veteran CPI(M) leader's wife Mira Bhattacherjee, discharged from the hospital on Monday after recovery from COVID-19, was fine and stable, a senior official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Eve-teasing protester shot by two miscreants at Harischandrapur in Malda||A youth was shot by two miscreants at Harischandrapur in Malda late on Tuesday evening after he protested eve-teasing of girls by the duo and threatened to take steps against them. Sources said the accused Kartik Rabidas and Jagannath Das shot Chand Singh, 22, in the chest at a local market in the Kariali Bazar area. Locals rushed him to the rural hospital where doctors declared him dead. After the incident, a section of residents vandalized the houses of the accused and police had to reach the spot to bring situation under control. Later at night, both have been arrested from a hideout, police officials said. Chand Singh, the victim, who hails from Kariali Bazar area that is under Harischandrapur police station of the district, was moving through a local marketplace when the duo, identified as Kartik Rabidas and Jagannath Das, reached the place.  They opened fire at him. The bullet hit Chand in his chest and he collapsed at the spot. Some locals ran for help and rushed him to the rural hospital in Harishchandrapur where doctors pronounced him dead.According to the residents, both Kartik and Jagannath were known criminals of the area and would often eve-tease girls in the locality. They have past records of crime and would often tease girls. Recently, Chand had alerted them that if they do not refrain from such acts, he would take steps against them. “My son’s protest irked the duo and thus they killed him. We want justice,” said Shibani, Chand’s mother. As the news spread, a section of local people got agitated and ransacked the houses of both the accused. Also, they raised a blockade on the state highway demanding the arrest of the duo who had fled the village after the incident. Police rushed to the spot and after some time, could persuade the demonstrators to return their homes. Also, senior police officials, including Sanjay Kumar Das, the inspector – in – charge of Harischandrapur police station, started conducting raids to nab the duo.Later at night, police conducted raids and arrested the accused from a hideout in Samsi under Ratua police station. “Although, it has been primarily learnt that Chand was killed for protesting against the accused. We are interrogating the duo to know if there was any other motive behind the murder,” said Sanjay Kumar Das, the officer-in-charge of Harischandrapur police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas lashes Bengal coast, floods 4 districts||Many places in East Midnapore, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas got marooned on Wednesday after river and sea water gushed into villages following damage to river embankments by the “unprecedented” high storm surge soon after Cyclone Yaas made a landfall near Dhamra port in Odisha on Wednesday. The toll has been, however, limited to one. A fisheries worker reportedly drowned in East Midnapore. Sources in the irrigation department said though the exact extent of damage was yet to be ascertained as reports from the ground did not reach the Jala Sampad Bhavan at Salt Lake till Wednesday evening, preliminary estimates suggest nearly 156km of river embankments in these four districts were either breached or damaged. “It appears that 156 km of river embankments in at least 150 spots were either damaged or breached. As a result, a number of villages and settlements in the riverine areas of these districts were inundated. The cyclone created a flood-like situation in these districts,” said a senior irrigation department official. Though Yaas did not leave an impact like Cyclone Amphan did last year, the long-term damage to embankments has been severe this time, officials said. “As thousands of villages in the four districts witnessed severe inundation, the roads and mud houses will bear a severe impact. Pisciculture and agriculture will take a hit, which will definitely deal a blow to rural economy amid the pandemic,” said a source. According to an official in the irrigation department, river embankments bore the brunt of the cyclone this time because of an unprecedented high storm surge. According to sources, storm surge is the abnormal rise in seawater or river water level during a storm, which is caused primarily by winds pushing water onshore. “Earlier, we saw a surge of a maximum of 1 metre in river water level in these areas. Even during Amphan, the surge was within 1 metre. But this time it was between 1.5 and 2 metres in several places, which damaged embankments,” said an official. According to sources, breaches in river embankments left thousands of villages and settlements in areas like Kakdwip, Samar, Namkhana, Patharpratima, Bakkhali, Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj in South and North 24 Parganas inundated. In East Midnapore, at least 12 blocks were marooned in the surge in sea water and river water levels. Embankments along rivers Haldi, Hooghly and Rupnarayan were breached in several places, causing the disaster. Rising seawater and dyke breaches displaced nine lakh people. Twelve blocks in East Midnapore’s coastal area were flooded. Parts of Howrah’s Udayanarayanpur were also submerged with the surge in river water level. Irrigation department officials said repair of damaged embankments would start soon as the department had stacked construction materials in 112 places and repair agencies have been appointed. Sources in Nabanna said inundation created havoc in parts of four districts but the loss of life could be prevented because of precautionary measures like evacuation of residents from low-lying areas. “We have received reports of one death in East Midnapore. More loss of lives could be averted as nearly 15 lakh people were evacuated.” The deceased was identified as Kanai Giri, 56. The fisheries worker was drowned in a flooded road in the district’s Ramnagar on his way to work. The morning high tide apart, another was also scheduled on Wednesday evening, causing further alarm, East Midnapore additional district magistrate Sudipta Porel said. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Three rivers swell and run amok in East Midnapore||Breaches in the banks and embankments of three major rivers in East Midnapore led to severe flooding across Chandipur, Nandigram, Haldia, Mahisadal, Tamluk and Kolaghat on Wednesday. While a fisheries worker drowned in the district, local administrators said the toll on the fishing industry had been massive. The rivers Hooghly, Haldi and Rupnarayan overflowed from Wednesday morning, following a surge in the seawater level under the combined impact of high tide and Cyclone Yaas. In Nandigram block, flanked on two sides by the Hooghly and Haldi, thousands of fisheries were submerged. The convergence of floodwater from the two rivers inundated parts of Nandigram. “Amphan had felled trees, electric poles and homes, but this time flooding ruined our fishing industry,” said panchayat samity deputy chief Abu Taher. Sheikh Khashed, 53, from Nandigram, who owns and operates many fishing bheris, agreed. “My losses are in crores,” he said. In Sutahata, the Hooghly overflowed, flooding a dozen villages in Eriakhali. NDRF teams evacuated over 10,000 villagers, according to panchayat officials. In Mahisadal and Geokhali, where the Hooghly and Rupnarayan meet, a breached embankment flooded several homes and a rice godown.Further down in Amritberia and Narayanpur, Rupnarayan’s floodwater left 5,000 people stranded. In the Tamluk municipality area, five wards were flooded by Rupnarayan. In Kolaghat and Shahid Matangini blocks, 25 villages and several hundred hectares of farmland were damaged by floodwater. “Saline water has destroyed any chance of planting this month," said panchayat official Joydeb Burman. Nandigram apart, the Haldi overflowed into more than 50 villages, including Chandipur and across the river at Itamogra in Mahisadal and adjacent Norghat in Nandakumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Storm, high tide flood Digha, Sankarpur, Tajpur & Haldia||Shelter initiatives to protect people from the impact of Cyclone Yaas in coastal East Midnapore proved below par on Wednesday morning, as the storm coupled with the high tide rapidly flooded Digha, Sankarpur, Tajpur and Haldia. Residents termed the flooding “unprecedented” with many cyclone shelters and schoolhouses proving no match for the task at hand. In Chandpuri, 39-year-old Ankur Jana, his wife, two children had taken refuge in the cyclone shelter. “We are used to this. But this time, the shelter got flooded in the morning (Wednesday),” he said. "We have never seen this kind of rain in Tajpur,” said Shyamal Das, secretary of the Tajpur Hoteliers’ Association. In Sankarpur, closer to the sea, Marine Drive lay flooded. In Digha, spurred by the cyclonic storm, the tide triggered high waves that crossed guard walls around 9am. In 30 minutes Digha was flooded. The NH116B, which is the main roadway to access the tourist town, lay flooded for several hours. In Haldia, the breach of an embankment on the Hooghly river flooded several large and small factories on the banks. At the Haldia port, the lock gate was also flooded by rising water levels but remained intact. Affected companies included BPCL and Tata Power. Two oil jetties outside Haldia port were also flooded because of an overflowing Hooghly. Municipal chairman Sudhanshu Mondal promised every help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Civil defence boat takes pregnant woman to hospital in the Sunderbans||A 26-year-old pregnant woman, who went into premature labour, was brought from a waterlogged village on an island in the Sunderbans and hospitalised by civil defence volunteers after a journey of one-and-a-half hours on a speedboat. Doctors said the life of Majida Sardar, 26, and the unborn child could have been at risk had she not been administered medicine at the hospital in good time. Officials in South 24-Parganas said although they had evacuated over 3.46 lakh people before Cyclone Yaas, thousands were shifted on Wednesday as large parts in the coastal areas became waterlogged. Rise in water levels and breached embankments caused inundation in hundreds of villages in Namkhana, Gosaba, Patharpratima and Kultali. Officials said such measures were possible only because the government had readied teams of civil defence volunteers, disaster response forces and the army at various strategic points. “We had rescued many children and the elderly from various locations after the areas got waterlogged. We rescued thousands of people after several areas were reported inundated,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. “Our officials sent a team immediately after we heard about the pregnant woman,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. Majida, the wife of a mig­rant worker, was due to del­i­ver her second child next mo­n­th. But she suddenly repor­t­­ed severe pain and other sy­m­ptoms of going into labour. Villagers and family members of Majida said it was a very critical situation during the natural disaster as there was no boat to ferry her to the block hospital in Gosaba, around 20km from their remote village of Pathankali. “Her pain started when the river embankment was breached and water started entering our village. As time passed, both my wife’s pain and the water level started increasing. I rus­hed to the local health |worker and requested her |to do something,” said Azad Raha­man Sardar, Majida’s husba­nd, who returned| from Secu­nderabad in Telangana foll­o­wing a lockdown there. He works in |a private firm at Secunderabad. The villagers said the fa­m­ily members tried their best to find a boat but none was ready to go as the water level was high. District officials said they had received information through a local accredited social health activist (Asha) and asked civil defence volunteers to reach the place with a speedboat and rescue the woman. The volunteers arrived within an hour. “It was really hard to reach the place and rescue the woman. We carried her across the slippery embankment and got her to the boat. Later, we reached Gosaba and admitted her to the hospital,” said Debabrata Debnath, a civil defence volunteer who led the team. Indranil Bargi, the block medical officer of health in Gosaba, said: “We have kept her under observation and hope she will deliver the baby tonight. If the conditi­on of the patient deteriorat­es, we would shift her to a better hospital. It would have been very risky had she not been brought in on time,” said |Bargi. Azad, the husband, said he had no words to thank the rescuers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Four Bengal districts hit; planning makes a difference||Cyclone Yaas flooded large parts of East Midnapore, Howrah and North and South 24-Parganas although it largely spared Calcutta. A clear picture of the damage in the four districts is yet to emerge. The impact in Calcutta was confined to a few uprooted trees while a high tide caused limited flooding. Preliminary reports indicated that more than 1 crore people had been affected in the state, at least 3 lakh houses were damaged and large swathes of the four districts had got inundated following breaches in embankments. Initial assessments suggest thorough planning and timely execution under chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s direct supervision helped save hundreds of lives and minimise the damage, state government sources said. A senior official said that as soon as the Bengal administration was alerted about the cyclone last week, it had made “unprecedented” arrangements to ensure Yaas didn’t repeat the devastation Amphan had caused a year ago. The official said that whenever the Met office predicts natural calamities, the administration follows a standard operating procedure, evacuating people from vulnerable areas and alerting departments like power, irrigation and disaster management. “But what happened this time was unprecedented, with the chief minister herself at the helm of all the preparations being made,” the Nabanna source said. He said that with Mamata announcing in advance her intention of monitoring the situation from the control room through the night, a message had gone down to the lowest rungs and the entire system was galvanised. On Wednesday, after sharing with journalists the preliminary assessments of the impact of the cyclone, Mamata said: “Officers are busy saving lives and that’s the priority.... They will send a detailed analysis of the damage later and we shall get a clear picture of what happened.” While Yaas did not strike Bengal with the fury of Amphan, multiple sources in the state government said the chief minister’s insistence on micro-managing the preparedness did play an important role in containing the damage. “We strengthened 107km of embankments, evacuated nearly 15 lakh people and asked farmers to harvest their boro paddy at the earliest,” a senior official said. “We began preparing from May 18 when the first alert on the cyclone reached Nabanna. This not only saved hundreds of lives but ensured a much lower impact on livelihood.” The irrigation department was the first off the blocks. It held a meeting on May 18 itself and decided to start repairing 107km of river embankments immediately, with a May 24 deadline. “The work was completed on time. Had the repairs not been done, more areas would have gone under water today,” a source said. Agriculture was the second department to get cracking, advising farmers on May 19 to harvest their boro paddy before May 25 as the cyclone had the potential to damage standing crops. The department carried out a massive campaign in the rural belts of East Burdwan, Hooghly, Birbhum, Nadia and Hooghly, where most of the boro cultivation is done. A similar exercise was conducted in north Bengal. “I was waiting to hire a few more labourers before I began harvesting my crop. But after the announcements by the local agriculture department, I didn’t wait,” said Kamal Roy, a farmer in Nadanghat, East Burdwan. An official said: “District officials began readying flood shelters and cyclone shelters. When they realised more buildings would be needed to ensure physical distancing amid the Covid crisis, more than 500 school buildings were taken over and converted into shelters.” To ensure smooth evacuation, the authorities started an awareness campaign from May 22 and continued with it till Tuesday evening. “We wanted to let people know that the cyclone could be deadly and they should not hesitate to move to a safer place,” a district magistrate said. “In order to make the people comfortable, we arranged for generators at the flood shelters and opened community kitchens to give them a feel of home.” The state government also got in touch with the army to have troops deployed in several places ahead of the cyclone so that rescue missions, if necessary, could be launched at the earliest. “Last year, the army was called in only after Cyclone Amphan had struck Bengal. This year, the army was contacted in advance. This proved wise, for the army and the NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) rescued thousands of people in places like Haldia that got inundated unexpectedly,” a government source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases drop but day’s toll reaches 153||Bengal on Wednesday reported a drop by 2,999 in its total of active Covid-19 cases, which fell to 1.23 lakh with the day’s 19,071 recoveries, 16,225 new infections and 153 deaths. The state now has 5.09 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth among states with the most active cases. “Since May 15-16, there have been indications of a turnaround (in the second wave of the pandemic). There has been a fall by around 9,000 in the total of active cases (during this time). Between May 16 and today (Wednesday), over 11 days, there have been nearly 1.92 lakh recoveries, compared to around 1.85 lakh new infections detected,” said a Bengal minister. Bengal’s Covid-19 cases, since the first one was detected on March 17 last year, is over 13.18 lakh now, including close to 11.8 lakh recoveries and 14,827 deaths. The state’s recovery rate rose for the 25th consecutive day, to 89.52 per cent, and Bengal is now 15th among the states with the highest recovery rates. The national rate now is 89.95. In another key positive, Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.12 per cent, while the national rate is 1.15 now. Of the 153 deaths reported on Wednesday, 30 were reported from Calcutta and 37 from North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 2,378 new infections, North 24-Parganas 3,427. These two are the worst-hit Covid-19 districts in Bengal. “Lowering the daily death toll, at least halving it in a couple of weeks, is a foremost priority now for the state,” the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas:  Authorities to accommodate people affected by high tides in govt offices||The devastation caused by high tides in the rivers of North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas districts was beyond estimates, prompting authorities to open state government offices to accommodate people who managed to escape the inundation across swathes. Witnessing the unexpected inundation, which preliminarily appears more than what had been caused by Cyclone Amphan, the two district administrations began on a war-footing acquisition of new shelters, launching yet another evacuation drive apprehending more devastation because of the late evening high tide. Normal height of tides is two-three feet and the authorities had expected that it would reach four feet during the cyclone. But tides went up as high as five fee at many places on Wednesday. Both the districts administrations, on the basis of past experiences, had evacuated people from vulnerable locations and kept them at school buildings, doubling as cyclone shelters, complying with the Covid-19 safety protocols. But large-scale unexpected inundation at some locations prompted further evacuation, which overcrowded the cyclone shelters. The administration, therefore, opened the government offices as shelters. Officials said a large number of schools were taken up to accommodate evacuees, but the unforeseen overcrowding caused Covid-19 fears. Several areas in the Basirhat subdivision close to the Sundarbans were submerged. The worst-hit areas are Sandeshkhali blocks 1 and 2, Hingalganj, Hansnabad and Minakhan, where high tidal waves from several rivers such as the Roymangal, Vidyadhari, Goureshwar, Dasa and the Ichhamati overflowed the earthen embankments. An official of North 24-Parganas administration said: “The devastation was beyond our estimates.” “Based on the weather alerts and our experiences, we identified the vulnerable spots and shifted people to nearby school buildings. This time, we acquired more schools to avoid crowding as a Covid-19 safety measure. But as the day advanced, reports of inundation caused by breaches in embankments began pouring in. Many people are seeking shelters now,” he added. He said there were other schools that could have been acquired, but those were not deemed ready for the situation. “We opened the Sandeshkhali 1 block development office, the food and supply office, and the relief department office to accommodate people. We also arranged for food for them,” said another North 24-Parganas official. “Our foremost priority is to save lives. So, we had to make immediate arrangements, considering the approaching night. We have enough food and other essential needs. We will arrange for other centres tomorrow as well,” said North 24-Parganas district magistrate Sumit Gupta. In South 24-Parganas, residents of Kakdwip, Sagar, Mousuni, Namkhana, Narayanpur, Ghoramara, Jharkhali and Fraserganj suffered the most. At Namkhana, Kakdwip, Raidighi, Mandirbazar, Patharpratima, Sagar and Bakkhali, the administration converted offices of gram panchayats, block development offices and anganwadis into shelters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Mamata to conduct aerial survey on Friday||Mamata Banerjee will conduct an aerial survey of cyclone-affected areas in East Midnapore, North 24-Paragans and South 24-Paragans on Friday, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Wednesday. “Honourable chief minister has decided (that) day after tomorrow, after waiting for the water to drain out and for the weather to get better, on May 28, she will conduct an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas where embankments have been destroyed, flooded by water and will hold local administrative reviews on the aftermath at several points…” Bandyopadhyay said. The chief secretary said Mamata would first survey the affected areas of Sandeshkhali and Dhamakhali in North 24-Parganas. She will then hold a local review meeting at Hingalganj. After that, the chief minister will fly to Sagar in South 24-Parganas and on her way, will aerially take stock of the flood situation in the Sunderbans. At Sagar, she will hold her second meeting. Finally, Mamata will fly to Digha in East Midnapore and en route, conduct the aerial survey of Contai, Ramnagar, Nandigram and Deshpran. Her last review meeting will be at Digha. She is supposed to return to Calcutta on May 29. Mamata, who had remained stationed at Nabanna since Tuesday, along with top officials, including Bandyopadhyay, left the secretariat little after 4pm on Wednesday. Before leaving, Mamata urged people, who had been evacuated to relief centres, not to return home as long as the risk of high tides prevailed. “There will be a high tide today…it (the water level) will go above 5 meters…it will happen around 8.45pm…I’ll tell everyone that during the high tide tomorrow (Thursday)…don’t try to get back to your homes unless the water level goes down…because the water from the river has destroyed several embankments…it (the surged water level) will stay for two days…” Mamata said at the latter of the two news conferences she convened on Wednesday. The high tides are likely to affect Kalighat, Rashbehari, some parts of Bhowanipore and Chetla in Calcutta, Digha, Mandarmani, Nandigram and Haldia in East Midnapore, parts of West Midnapore, Sagar, Patharpratima, Namkhana, Gosaba and Kulpi in South 24-Parganas, Sandeshkhali, Minakhan and Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas, said officials. Earlier in the day, Mamata held a news conference after it became clear that the devastation would be more in Odisha as the cyclone had made a landfall in Balashore and rolled out details of how the government minimised potential damage.According to Mamata, 15,04,506 people were evacuated in the past two-three days, but despite that, about one crore lives were affected by the cyclone and 3 lakh houses damaged. “The numbers will go up once we get all reports,” said the chief minister. Government sources said 10 lakh tarpaulins and relief material worth of Rs 10 crore had been distributed so far. One person, a resident of Ramnagar 1 block of East Midnapore, has died in the storm. Mamata and the officials said the death was accidental since that person had gone out to catch fish after being evacuated to a relief centre. Mamata also set up a task force and a committee headed by Bandyopadhyay for relief, rehabilitation and restoration. The committee will take stock of the losses and decide on the course of reconstruction and rehabilitation. The government will take 72 hours to completely assess losses. Mamata also said the government would stand by the people who had lost their lives. Mamata congratulated all agencies — both central and state — which worked together to help the state brace itself for Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Indian Army deploys 17 integrated columns in Bengal to carry out rescue, relief operations ||The Indian Army has deployed 17 integrated relief columns comprising specialised personnel with inflatable boats and other necessary equipment in Bengal to carry out rescue and relief operations on Wednesday. “The deployment of the army columns is based on a requisition and they are working in close coordination with the Bengal government,” the army said in a statement. The army columns are equipped to evacuate the stranded or marooned persons, offer medical treatment, clear roads, cut trees and distribute relief material as required by the local district administration. “Columns have been pre-positioned at Purulia, Jhargram, Birbhum, Bardhaman, West Midnapur, Howrah, Hoogly, Nadia, North and South 24 Parganas,” the army said. Nine relief columns have also been kept on standby in Calcutta to undertake necessary rescue and relief operations. Besides, Eastern Air Command has mobilised its assets for quick response due to the damage caused by the cyclone. “All rescue and relief operations are being co-ordinated with the state government and a task force has been set up to monitor and synergise the efforts, in addition to co-ordinating with all agencies,” the army statement said. The navy has also positioned humanitarian assistance and disaster relief material at its depot in Calcutta for subsequent distribution in the aftermath of the cyclone. Four naval ships, loaded with HADR material, medical teams and additional diving teams are closely following the situation and would be available for further assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: 'CM's insistence on micromanaging preparedness played an important role in containing damage'||A senior official said that whenever the Met office predicts natural calamities, the administration follows a standard operating procedure, evacuating people from vulnerable areas and alerting departments like power, irrigation and disaster management. “But what happened this time was unprecedented, with the chief minister herself at the helm of all the preparations being made,” the Nabanna source said. He said that with Mamata announcing in advance her intention of monitoring the situation from the control room through the night, a message had gone down to the lowest rungs and the entire system was galvanised. On Wednesday, after sharing with journalists the preliminary assessments of the impact of the cyclone, Mamata said: “Officers are busy saving lives and that’s the priority.... They will send a detailed analysis of the damage later and we shall get a clear picture of what happened.” While Yaas did not strike Bengal with the fury of Amphan, multiple sources in the state government said the chief minister’s insistence on micromanaging the preparedness did play an important role in containing the damage. “We strengthened 107km of embankments, evacuated nearly 15 lakh people and asked farmers to harvest their boro paddy at the earliest,” a senior official said. “We began preparing from May 18 when the first alert on the cyclone reached Nabanna. This not only saved hundreds of lives but ensured a much lower impact on livelihood.” The irrigation department was the first off the blocks. It held a meeting on May 18 itself and decided to start repairing 107km of river embankments immediately, with a May 24 deadline. “The work was completed on time. Had the repairs not been done, more areas would have gone under water today,” a source said. Agriculture was the second department to get cracking, advising farmers on May 19 to harvest their boro paddy before May 25 as the cyclone had the potential to damage standing crops. The department carried out a massive campaign in the rural belts of East Burdwan, Hooghly, Birbhum, Nadia and Hooghly, where most of the boro cultivation is done. A similar exercise was conducted in north Bengal. “I was waiting to hire a few more labourers before I began harvesting my crop. But after the announcements by the local agriculture department, I didn’t wait,” said Kamal Roy, a farmer in Nadanghat, East Burdwan. An official said: “District officials began readying flood shelters and cyclone shelters. When they realised more buildings would be needed to ensu¬re physical distancing amid the Covid crisis, more than 500 school buildings were taken over and converted into shelters.” To ensure smooth evacuation, the authorities started an awareness campaign from May 22 and continued with it till Tuesday evening. “We wanted to let people know that the cyclone could be deadly and they should not hesitate to move to a safer place,” a district magistrate said. “In order to make the people comfortable, we arranged for generators at the flood shelters and opened community kitchens to give them a feel of home.” The state government also got in touch with the army to have troops deployed in several places ahead of the cyclone so that rescue missions, if necessary, could be launched at the earliest. "Last year, the army was called in only after Cyclone Amphan had struck Bengal. This year, the army was contacted in advance. This proved wise, for the army and the NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) rescued thousands of people in places like Haldia that got inundated unexpectedly," a government source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
