28-05-2021||West Bengal||PM promises Rs 1,000cr as Yaas relief; Rs 500cr for Odisha, rest for Bengal & Jharkhand||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met Prime Minister Narendra Modi briefly at Kalaikunda Air Base in West Midnapore on Thursday to hand over a preliminary report of the damages caused by Cyclone Yaas and sought a package of Rs 20,000 crore for the redevelopment of worst-affected areas. She, however, chose to skip a review meeting convened by the Prime Minister and scheduled after his aerial survey of the coastal districts of the state. Later, according to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office, Modi announced financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for immediate relief activities."Rupees 500 crore would be immediately given to Odisha. Another Rs 500 crore has been announced for West Bengal and Jharkhand, which will be released on the basis of the damage. The Union Government will deploy an inter-ministerial team to visit the states to assess the extent of damage, based on which further assistance will be given," it said. The PM has also declared an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for those seriously injured in the cyclone, the press release said. The Modi-Mamata meeting at Kalaikunda lasted 15 minutes. It was their first meeting since the April-May Assembly election that Mamata's Trinamul swept despite the Opposition mounting a crass campaign fueled, in part, by the resignation of a large number of MPs, MLAs and ministers from the ruling party, several of whom joined the BJP. “After having review meetings in Hingalganj (North 24-Parganas) and Sagar (South 24-Parganas), I met PM in Kalaikunda and apprised him regarding the post-cyclone situation in West Bengal. The disaster report has been handed over for his perusal. I’ve proceeded now to review the relief and restoration work at Digha,” tweeted Mamata. Later, Mamata clarified that she had also conveyed to the Prime Minister why she could not stay on for the review meeting at Kalaikunda. Modi had held a similar meeting with the Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik earlier in the day. Sources in the state administration said Mamata had raised objections to the presence of BJP leader of the Oppositon Suvendu Adhikary at the review meeting with Modi. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and junior minister Debasree Chowdhury also attended the meet. Once Mamata’s trusted lieutenant in making a Congress-mukt Bengal, the two have fallen out since Adhikary switched to the saffron camp and later defeated her in the Assembley elections from the Nandigram seat. Senior lawyer and former MLA Arunabha Ghosh did not find it amiss that Adhikary was at the meeting, but questoned whether the Speaker had recognised him as the leader of the Opposition. “Since this was a meeting to discuss relief and aid,  the leader of the Opposition can be invited. But the question is, has he been officially recognised as the leader of the Opposition by the Speaker?” asked Ghosh. Governor Dhankhar criticised the chief minister for skipping the review meeting. “It would have served interests of state and its people for CM and officials to attend review meet by PM. Confrontational stance ill serves interests of state or democracy. Non-participation by CM and officials not in sync with constitutionalism of rule of law,” Dhankhar tweeted. After reaching Digha, Mamata explained the reasons behind her demanded for Rs 20,000 crore. "We have sought a package of Rs 10,000 crore each for the redevelopment of Digha and the Sunderbans... It could well be that we might not get anything," she said following an administrative meeting held at the tourist town. Earlier in the day, she conducted an aerial survey of the cyclone-affected areas. “I saw most that most areas are still inundated. Houses and agriculture land are under water,” she said. Cyclone Yaas rampaged through parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. Heavy rainfall was reported at several places under the impact of the cyclone in all the three states on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata meets Modi at Kalaikunda Air Base, submits report on damages||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Bengal's Kalaikunda Air Base in West Midnapore. The two held a 15-minute meeting to assess damages caused by Cyclone Yaas, which tore through the state and neighbouring Odisha earlier this week. This was their first meeting since the April-May Assembly election that Mamata's Trinamul swept - despite the opposition mounting a crass campaign fueled, in part, by the resignation of a large number of MPs, MLAs and ministers from the ruling party, several of whom joined the BJP. "We will hand over a paper. Just for 15 minutes I will go. I will not be there for the review meeting. I will handover a paper with details of damages as far as we have gathered as of now," Mamata had said. The Bengal CM submitted a preliminary report on damages caused by cyclone Yaas. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, who was Mamata's trusted aide before jumping ship to the BJP, also attended the meeting. The Prime Minister and Chief Minister are expected to take individual aerial surveys of regions affected by Cyclone Yaas, which caused havoc across South and North 24 Paraganas, Digha, East Midnapore and Nandigram districts of the state. Mamata has pegged the damage to Bengal at Rs 15,000 crore - including the destruction of three lakh houses and 134 embankments. She has already announced a rescue package of Rs 1,000 crore, and ordered officials to go door-to-door in their relief efforts. Modi advised all agencies to ensure the restoration of normal life in the affected areas as soon as possible and asked that relief material is disbursed to all persons affected by the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC grants interim bail to TMC leaders arrested in Narada case||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court on Friday granted interim bail to the quartet of Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee under judicial custody since May 17 in connection with the Narada bribery sting operation case. The five-judge bench comprising acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, Justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Mukherjee while granting interim bail has expressly barred the four--- two ministers, a legislator and a politician without a political party--- not to give interviews on the case or hold any discussions on it in the media. The four will have to submit personal bonds worth Rs.2 lakh each and join the investigation by video conference. The Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing on behalf of the CBI opposed the interim bail, arguing that the four were influential people and the possibility of them whipping public support for themselves existed. The bench questioned the Solicitor General what purpose was being served by arresting them now when the agency did not take any such action while the investigation was on for the last four years. “We want to make one observation. The investigation started in 2017. They were not arrested during the investigation. Normally, an arrest is to facilitate investigation. They continue to be as powerful as earlier. Why arrest now?” asked Justice IP Mukerji, the second senior judge of the bench. To this, the Solicitor General pleaded that if they were granted bail they should not be allowed to talk to the media and if they have to attend court or investigation, they cannot gather a crowd. “If interim bail is to be granted, I have two prayers- interim bail must be subject to a final order of the case. That is, if I succeed, the interim bail must be cancelled,” said Mehta. “Second condition. That the accused may not give press interviews, media statements, etc on the subject matter of the case and that if they are required to attend court or investigation, they may not gather a crowd or a mob.” Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra suggested that the accused can join the investigation by video conferences, but asked the central probe agency if it had completed the investigation why would it need the accused to be present. Earlier in the day, a sitting judge of the Calcutta high court Justice Arindam Sinha in a letter to the acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and other judges objected to the manner in which the transfer plea filed by the CBI was listed as a writ petition. The letter states, the Appellate Side Rules of the High Court—under which comes the procedure of listings—say that a motion seeking transfer either on the civil or criminal side has to be heard by a Single Judge. “The first division bench took up the matter treating it to be a writ petition. Even a writ petition under Article 228 of the Constitution should have gone to the single judge having determination,” the letter reads. Justice Sinha also questioned the manner in which the division bench stayed the bail granted by the CBI special court on May 17. “Whether the High Court exercising power in the matter of transfer of a criminal case at this stage on its own initiative could have passed the order of stay is the second question,” the judge stated in the letter. Justice Sinha called upon the high court to get its act together. “Our conduct is unbecoming of the majesty the High Court commands. We have been reduced to a mockery,” the letter read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata conducts aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas in Bengal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas in North 24 Parganas district, officials said. Accompanied by Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Banerjee took stock of the post-cyclone situation in Hingalganj, Hasnabad, Sandeshkhali, Pinakha and other areas of the district, they said. "I have seen that most of the areas have been inundated. Houses and large tracts of agricultural fields are under water. A field survey will also be conducted," Banerjee said. She also held an administrative meeting with the district magistrate, superintendent of police and block development officers. Several areas in Purba Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas districts bore the brunt of Cyclone 'Yaas', which made its landfall in neighbouring Odisha on Wednesday morning. Many places in these districts were whiplashed by heavy rain, which accompanied the cyclonic storm. Later in the day, Banerjee is also scheduled to undertake an aerial survey in cyclone-hit areas of South 24 Parganas and Digha, a coastal town, in Purba Medinipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Dhankhar to attend Modi-Mamata meeting to review Yaas devastation||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will attend a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to review the devastation caused by cyclone Yaas, officials said. The meeting is scheduled to be held at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district on Friday afternoon after Modi undertakes an aerial survey of the affected areas, they said. Dhankhar will receive the prime minister at the Kalaikunda Air Force Station, the officials said. "WB Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will receive PM Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda Air Force Station on May 28. PM will visit areas affected #CycloneYass in WB to assess damage to life & material. Governor Dhankhar will attend PM Review Meet with the State Government," the governor tweeted. Banerjee is also scheduled to conduct an aerial survey of the affected areas during the day. The chief minister has put West Bengal's losses due to cyclone Yaas at Rs 15,000 crore. Announcing a relief package of Rs 1,000 crore, she said her government will run a 'Duare Tran' (relief at doorsteps) programme for the affected people. She has also ordered an inquiry by the Finance Department into the collapse of several embankments, bridges and roads that were constructed after super cyclone Amphan hit the state in May last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Stricter curbs to remain in Bengal till June 15 ||The Bengal government on Thursday extended the current pandemic restrictions till June 15, chief minister Mamata Banerjee flagging the fall in infections since the curbs to “contain and combat” Covid were clamped from May 16. “I would like to thank you for the Covid cases having declined to some extent. These restrictions that we have imposed... people are cooperating and people are also saving themselves,” Mamata said at Nabanna on Thursday. “Thus, there has been some fall (in cases), which is a relief. Since there’s been a decline (in Covid infections), we are taking some more time — we are extending it (restrictions) till June 15.” From 131,805 on May 16, the number of active Covid cases in Bengal had fallen to 117,154 by Thursday, the daily release issued by the health department showed. Mamata said the current restrictions shouldn’t be confused with a lockdown since all essential services and industries are operational, though with “certain limitations”. “Essential services will be on so that the economy isn’t destroyed. Online activities are on, industry is on, everything is on… but with certain limitations,” the chief minister said. On May 15, the state government had announced a set of curbs on movement and various activities and services to contain the spurt in Covid infections. The restrictions were to be in place till 6pm on May 30; now they have been extended till June 15. While most of the May 15 restrictions will remain in place, Mamata announced two relaxations for the second phase. First, jute mills will be allowed to function at 40 per cent strength per shift instead of 30 per cent. Second, construction workers will be allowed to work if their employers can make sure they have been vaccinated and if they abide by physical distancing norms. “Punjab has requested jute, but it becomes problematic for us if we increase (the number of workers). Yet Punjab is going on requesting jute, so let’s increase the number of workers per shift by 10 per cent but only for the jute industry,” Mamata said. Punjab is one of the largest buyers of jute bags from Bengal. Some jute mill owners expressed dissatisfaction at what they saw as a paltry relaxation. They said the way the jute mills are designed, they allow physical distancing between a large number of workers. Since the restrictions were imposed on May 15, jute mill owners have been requesting the state government to allow them to work with more labourers. “Even with the limit increased from 30 per cent to 40 per cent, there will be little improvement in the efficiency of the mills. The full workforce should be allowed so that all the labourers get paid and the mills run at full capacity,” a jute mill owner said. Raghavendra Gupta, chairperson of the Indian Jute Mills Association, was unavailable for comment. Shops and bazaars will continue to be open between 7am and 10am, sweets shops from 10am to 5pm, and jewellery and sari stores from noon to 3pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: 14 villages flooded as guard wall falls||A 2.6km stretch of an under construction concrete guard wall along the Marine Drive or the coastal highway off East Midnapore’s Tajpur collapsed on Wednesday morning under the brunt of tidal waves during Cyclone Yaas and left 3,000 homes in 14 coastal villages prone to long-term flooding. By Thursday morning, hundreds of families had left their mud homes after gushing water had damaged several structures. Sources said that 400m of the proposed 3km guard wall had remained incomplete. Explaining the reason for the collapse, an irrigation department official said additional support structures for the guard wall, work for which began in November last year, had not been installed yet. “We ran out of our homes on Tuesday in terror, after we saw water levels rising in the dead of night,” said barber Dipen Barik, 45, who lives in a two-storey mud home in Jalda village in Talgachhari II panchayat. Dilip left for a relative’s home on Wednesday along with his wife, two school-going daughters, elderly mother-in-law and a differently-abled brother. “Since Tuesday night we had camped on the roof of a neighbour’s home as water began to flow into our village,” he added. “We cannot make repairs until the guard wall is fixed. We are effectively homeless,” said his wife Durgamani, 42. On Thursday, local officials explained that the demolished guard wall had robbed residents of the area of security from even regular tides. Additionally, 1km of road cover of the Marine Drive highway was also lost during the onrush of water on Wednesday. Inaugurated in 2019, it was among the chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s dream projects slated to modernise Digha, and road cover had been completed except for two bridges connecting Mandarmani, Tajpur and Digha that would have slashed travel time for tourists by half. Local panchayat pradhan Biswajit Jana, responding to claims that local residents had not received relief material even on Wednesday, said those who had chosen to remain in their homes had effectively stranded themselves. “We could not reach them owing to the intense flooding. Those who evacuated and came to the relief camps however, were given supplies. The current levels of flooding are too high,” he said. Local officials wondered if the guard wall could be repaired during upcoming monsoon amid a pandemic. Around 13,000 people stand to be affected longterm by the crisis. In November, the sanctioned Rs 70 crore project was initiated and 2.6km completed earlier this year. Local residents were then heartened, and this week stands dismayed at the apparent waste of resources. “It is not clear who benefited from this, as both we and the government will suffer in the future,” said an employee of Ramnagar College. Digha irrigation’s assistant engineer Swapan Mondal conceded that the missing support structures had caused the guard wall to collapse. “Monsoon is always difficult for such work but we have intimated the district officials for new tenders immediately,” he said. District officials added that several livestock had gone missing late on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Leopard carcass found in abandoned car on Asian Highway 48||The carcass of an adult female leopard was recovered from the boot space of an abandoned car at a toll plaza along the Asian Highway 48 in Alipurduar on Wednesday night. Foresters who visited the spot — near Rangalibazna under Madarihat police station of Alipurduar — suspect that the animal died after being hit by a vehicle on the highway. Police suspect that it is the same vehicle that had rammed into the leopard while heading towards Alipurduar. “It seems that the leopard died on the spot after being hit by the car. To conceal the incident, the offenders loaded the carcass in the boot space of the car and fled the area (near Jaldapara National Park),” said a forester. Sources said the foresters and the police had started looking for the vehicle after local people informed them about the incident. “The offenders left the car at a toll plaza on the highway with broken number plates. However, we have seized certain documents from the vehicle and hope to trace them soon,” said a police officer. Deepak M, the divisional forest officer of Jaldapara wildlife division, said the leopard had sustained grievous injuries. “We are waiting for the postmortem report. Searches are on to nab the offenders,” the DFO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Rotating winds pummel several places damaging almost 200 houses||As many as 200 houses were damaged on Thursday morning when rotating columns of wind swept through pockets of Ashoknagar in North 24Parganas and Chakdah and Santipur in Nadia in two separate incidents. The rotating column of wind was similar to the tornado-like system that rampaged through scores of houses in Chinsurah and Bandel on Tuesday before landing on the Naihati-Halisahar belt. The fast-moving mass of wind swept through Chakdah and Santipur around 4.30am when most residents were asleep. Sources said they were awoken to a whistle-like sound with roof shades of several houses being blown away in seconds. Local officials said a lookalike mass of rotating wind was seen moving above ward 22 of Ashoknagar around the same time and soon after, brought down at least 40 houses and several more roofs and shades. The Met office could not confirm the reason behind the repeat storm that, according to eyewitnesses, closely resembled a tornado. Known also as twisters, tornadoes look like vertical funnels or rapidly-spinning air connecting a thunderstorm to the ground. A moderate tornado can trigger a wind speed of about 100 kmph but more potent ones are capable of higher speed. An official of the Nadia district administration said nearly 150 houses suffered serious damage in Thursday’s calamity. The district administration has since shifted most victims to safer places and is supplying them with essentials. Hasibul Seikh, a resident of an affected zone in Santipur, said: “It was around 4.25am when I woke up to the blowing sound of a whistle. It was approaching fast. But, before I could realise anything, the room where I was sleeping felt a jolt and within a few seconds, the tin shade of the room flew away. Some pieces of tiles fell inside, but we escaped unhurt because of the mosquito net.” A resident of Ashoknagar recounted a similar experience. “It was around 9.15 in the morning when I returned from the market. I heard a blowing sound. Some neighbours alerted me to a fastapproaching column of wind with a smoky colour, which within a few seconds brought down my house”. An official of the North 24Parganas administration said: “We are preparing a list of persons who lost their homes. We have also taken photographs of the same. The list and the photographs will be submitted to the state government so that the affected can receive compensation.” A senior professor attached to the Earth Science department of the Indian Institute of Science Education and ResearchKolkata said: “The reason behind such a sudden tornadolike column of wind is not clear to us. We have done no study on such localised tornadoes. This needs a more detailed study.” In Birbhum, around 50 houses were damaged and many trees were uprooted in Muraroi’s Bishore area on Thursday afternoon after a tornadolike storm hit the area suddenly. Sources said it was around 1pm on Thursday when a tornadolike storm caused havoc at the remote village in Murshidabad border. Several electric posts and trees were uprooted in the storm and officials of the electricity department immediately cut the power supply of the area to avoid any untoward incident. “It was a locally generated tornado like storm in Muraroi. Around 50 houses were damaged. We have sent relief materials immediately. No loss of life or injury reported,” said Bidhan Chadran Ray, the Birbhum district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata announces Duare Tran scheme for distribution of relief, ex-gratia to Yaas-affected people ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced Duare Tran (relief on doorstep), a government programme with initial funds of Rs 1,000 crore to distribute compensation and relief to people affected by Cyclone Yaas and to make sure that the benefits didn’t reach ineligible applicants. The broad contours of the scheme announced by the chief minister indicated that the government would not allow any irregularities in the distribution of relief. There had been widespread anomalies in compensation delivery in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan last year. Mamata said the programme to give relief would start on June 3 by which time the needy would be able to submit their claims to the camps that the government would set up at all affected places. The applications could be submitted till June 18. “The government would verify all the applications between June 19 and 30 so that no genuine victim is denied his or her legitimate claims. The compensations would be sent to the bank accounts of the actual beneficiaries from July 1,” said the chief minister. Sources said the manner in which the government planned to distribute relief bore hints that Nabanna had learnt a lesson from large-scale irregularities that had plagued the compensation distribution after Amphan. “Two major changes in the approach of the government deserve a mention. First, the government is taking some time to verify the claims. Second, the government is keeping local bodies away from the process,” said a senior official. In the post-Amphan period, the state government had faced complaints about severe irregularities in identifying the victims. “The government would set up camps in the affected areas and the victims would be able to submit their claims to officials directly. Then, teams of officials would verify each of the applications. So, the chance of publishing faulty lists of beneficiaries is far less,” said an official. The official said the plan to set up camps to receive applications from the affected was taken up following the success of Duare Sarkar camps where people had directly applied for government benefits after being denied the same. A section of the officials said that the complaints had come up last year only because the government had wanted to distribute relief to the affected at the earliest. “Amphan had hit the state on May 20 and the state released Rs 6,250 crore to assist the afflicted on May 29. As the window of identifying the affected was so small, the state had to depend on local bodies to draw up the lists of eligible beneficiaries. In fact, there was no such time to verify the lists and that caused the damage,” said a source. Villages flooded A 2.6km stretch of an under-construction concrete guard wall along the Marine Drive or the coastal highway off East Midnapore’s Tajpur collapsed on Wednesday morning under the brunt of tidal waves during Cyclone Yaas and left 3,000 homes at 14 coastal villages prone to long-term flooding. By Thursday morning, hundreds of families had left their mud homes after gushing water had damaged several structures. Explaining the reason for the collapse, an irrigation department official said additional support structures for the guard wall, work for which began in November, had not been installed yet. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Active cases drop by over 6,000 in one day in Bengal ||Bengal on Thursday reported a drop by 6,223 in total active Covid-19 cases, which fell to 1.17 lakh, as it reported 19,121 recoveries, 13,046 new infections and 148 deaths. The state now has 5.01 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains sixth among states with most active cases. “Over the past 12 days, since the restrictions were enforced, there have been nearly 2.11 lakh recoveries, on an average of around 17,600 a day, compared to around 1.98 lakh new infections detected in the period at a daily average of 16,500 or so,” said a minister. In the 12-day period prior to the imposition of the restrictions, between May 5 and 16, the state had nearly 2.17 lakh new infections detected, at a daily average of over 18,000, compared to the 2.05 lakh recoveries or around 17,000 daily. In a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 26th consecutive day to 90.07 per cent, riding the consistently large number of recoveries. The national rate now is 90.33. “We are looking, over the next couple of weeks, to halve the number of new infections daily,” added the minister. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected on March 17 last year, is over 13.31 lakh now, including close to 12 lakh recoveries and 14,975 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.12 per cent, while the national rate is 1.15 now. Of the 148 deaths reported on Thursday, 32 were from Calcutta and 42 from North 24-Parganas, two worst-affected districts. Calcutta logged 1,489 new infections, North 24-Parganas 2,975. “These two districts, at the peak of the second wave, consistently had over 50,000 active cases between them. That total has fallen to around 43,000, which is a heartening sign,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to meet PM Modi on Friday to discuss on Yaas impact ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda in West Midnapore on Friday to discuss the devastation caused by Cyclone Yaas. The Prime Minister is to inspect cyclone-affected areas in Odisha and is scheduled to meet Mamata at Kalaikunda, which has an air force base, on his way back to Delhi, the chief minister said. “I will conduct an aerial survey of Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas and Sagar in South 24-Parganas.… From there, I will go to Kalaikunda for the Prime Minister’s meeting. After that, I will go to Digha and hold a meeting. Next day, I will do an aerial survey of Digha, Khejuri (in East Midnapore) and adjoining areas,” Mamata said during a review meeting with department secretaries to assess the extent of the harm by Yaas. “Our primary assessment is that the damage caused by the cyclone is about Rs 15,000 crore. The extent of damage could be even more as ground-level reports are yet to come from several places.… We have set up a Rs 1,000-crore fund to give relief to those affected,” the chief minister said during a news conference at Nabanna on Thursday. A source said a calculated decision appeared to have been taken to announce ballpark figures of damage and institute a separate relief fund even before definitive assessments were made. “This must be a plan to keep the Centre under pressure so that funds flow from Delhi,” said the official, alluding to Mamata’s impending meeting with Modi. Ahead of that meeting, the chief minister recalled that the Centre had not provided adequate assistance to Bengal when Cyclone Amphan had pummelled the state last year. “We had demanded Rs 37,000 crore from the Centre after Amphan.… As they were not releasing the funds, the demand was later reduced to Rs 7,000 crore, but they didn’t give even that,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee asks for inquiry into breaches on embankments repaired after Cyclone Amphan||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asked the finance department to conduct an inquiry into breaches on the stretches of embankments repaired after Cyclone Amphan last year. “There were breaches on the embankments of Bidyadhari. The same happened in Digha. These were repaired last year... The finance department should conduct an inquiry (on how stretches were breached when they were repaired after Amphan),” said the chief minister during a review meeting with officials at Nabanna on Thursday. Mamata asked for a detailed list of embankments repaired after Amphan and how many of those stretches were breached or damaged during Yaas. “Does the money go to the water itself? I have to look into this,” she said. Sources in the government said that last year during Amphan 150-odd km of river embankments were either breached or damaged. This year, more than 150km of embankments were breached. “It is yet to be seen how many stretches were breached this time after last year's repairs... It appears that some newly repaired embankments were also damaged in the unprecedented storm surge,” said an irrigation official. The chief minister also asked the finance department to set up a task force to look after every tendering process for repairing damaged embankments. “Don’t release any funds before the task force clears the tenders,” she said. She expressed her displeasure with environment and forest departments, which apparently claimed they had planted 5 crore mangrove trees in the Sunderbans. Sources in the government said the chief minister raised some valid questions as it was found in the past that some of the river embankments needed repairs almost every year. “This raises questions on whether contractors work properly and officials check the quality of work before clearing bills. The chief minister made it clear that she would take it up seriously,” said an official. Trinamul insiders pointed out Mamata wanted to know if work was properly carried out in the irrigation department in the past 10 years as the department was headed in the years by Rajib Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP ahead of the polls. "The duo had run the department for almost 10 years. Now, we have to see whether work was carried out properly in the past 10 years. River embankments are something that has a direct link with people's lives," said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Five bolt and jolt deaths a day after Cyclone Yaas||Three boys were fatally struck by lightning in Murshidabad and Malda, while two more in East Midnapore’s Nandigram were electrocuted by a torn wire on Thursday, as rain and winds swept Bengal a day after Cyclone Yaas. According to sources, lightning struck a group of sevenof Ramna in Murshidabad. Ahadul Sheikh, 16, and Sahidul Islam, 15, died, and the rest suffered serious burns.In Malda, Shyam Mandal, 11, died when lightning fell on a mango orchard in Bangitola.In Nandigram, Akash Padua, 16, and Pratim Pradhan, 17, were cycling when Akash touched a live wire torn by the storm. As he fell, Pratim tried to help him, but both were fatally electrocuted. Panchayat samity president Abu Taher called the incident unfortunate and said the torn wire should have been noticed by residents. Across north Bengal, there were bouts of rainfall, right from the Darjeeling hills to the foothills in Siliguri and Dooars. “The cyclone has faded and as a consequence, a low-pressure area has developed in Jharkhand and adjoining areas, leading to rain. There are chances of similar rainfall during the next 24 hours. Also, in a number of places, including Siliguri, a steady gush of wind was witnessed in the morning till the afternoon hours,” said a weather expert. Among the districts, it rained heavily in Malda since morning. All major roads of the town and important areas, including the premises of the district administrative building, the old circuit house and the court compound got waterlogged. Rainwater also engulfed vast areas of Malda Medical College & Hospital, including the emergency ward. “We have asked the PWD department to dismantle a small construction on the west side of the flyover in Englishbazar so that water can flow out. The situation is being monitored. Pump sets have been sent to different places so that water can be flushed out,” said Shekhar Kumar Choudhary, the newly appointed administrator of Englishbazar municipality. According to weather experts, it rained around 45mm in Malda in 24 hours till 8.30am. “But as rainfall continued even in the afternoon, it seems a higher amount of rainfall would be recorded in the district on Friday morning,” said a weather expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Four feared killed in fire at vest manufacturing factory in New Barrackpore||At least four employees were feared dead in a fire at a vest manufacturing unit that was reportedly full of combustible items like petroleum gas cylinders in New Barrackpore early on Thursday morning. The unit is located on the first floor of a three-storied building in the Bilkanda-Sajirhat area in North 24-Parganas. The blaze, which also engulfed the godown of a prominent medicine retail chain housed on the ground floor, could not be brought under control till late on Thursday evening and the four employees reported trapped in the factory were yet to be traced. Police have begun a case against the factory owner who couldn’t be traced. The fire department engaged 14 fire tenders and two robot firefighters to douse the blaze at the factory which was reportedly full of inflammable items. Fire officials could not immediately ascertain the reason behind the blaze, but claimed that the bulk stock of inflammable items like petroleum gas cylinders, petroleum-based products and ethanol-based sanitisers as well as raw materials for vests made the task difficult. Local residents and businessmen have said the Bilkandi area has around 100 small industrial enterprises and factories, whose fire safety systems do not match prescribed protocols. Sources said the fire on Thursday had first broken out inside the factory at 3am when production was going on in violation of government restrictions. They said at least four workers of the factory were working inside then. However, none, including assistant manager Subrata Ghosh, could be traced as of Thursday evening. Local residents called the fire brigade which pressed six engines onto the job and later had to reinforce the operation with eight more tenders. Fire officials and the local panchayat pradhan alleged that the operation was delayed as security personnel of the company did not allow them to enter. “The fire fighters arrived in time. But, it was two hours before they could begin work by which time the fire had spread beyond control”, alleged Chittaranjan Mandal, pradhan of the Bilkanda panchayat An official of the state fire service department said “The fire spread so fast and went out of control beyond our imagination. There were heaps of inflammable materials and gas cylinders which exploded one by one, making the situation dangerous”. Sources said fire service minister, Sujit Bose, and Barrackpore commissioner of police, Manoj Verma, rushed to the spot and monitored the operation till afternoon. “The fire spread across an area of around 50,000 square feet. The size of the fire was larger than we apprehended. I heard that work was going on inside late at night, which is being examined, and an effort is being made to trace persons who were inside the factory, said Bose. Hearing about the news of the fire, family members of the four workers gathered in front of the blazing factory breaking down in tears. A relative of Tanmoy Ghosh, one of the untraced workers, said, “I talked to him last night when he said he was busy on duty. Early in the morning today we came to know about the fire and called his number. But his mobile phone could not be reached. I tried the number of other colleagues who were with him. But their phones also did not ring”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Calcutta HC to resume virtual hearing on Friday ||The CBI on Thursday told Calcutta High Court that the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the office of the central agency and agitation by Trinamul Congress supporters outside following the arrests of four leaders in the Narada case on May 17 and arrival of five of her cabinet colleagues at the special court might have influenced the trial judge to grant interim bail to the quartet. Justice I.P. Mukerji, Justice Harish Tandon and Justice Soumen Sen — three of five judges of a larger high court bench — repeatedly asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the CBI, to place some proof that the trial court had been influenced by the actions of the Trinamul leaders on May 17. But he couldn’t. The high court was hearing bail petitions moved by the four arrested leaders — ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee. The virtual hearing will resume at 12 noon on Friday. At the start of the hearing on Thursday, state advocate general Kishore Datta informed the court about the proceedings that had taken place at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. The CBI had moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s order to put the quartet under house arrest till the larger bench issued the verdict on the case. “The apex court judges had held that agitation and act by the chief minister and her cabinet colleagues on the day of the arrests of the leaders and the bail granted by the CBI court later during the day were separate issues. ‘Why would the accused persons be deprived of their legitimate rights’, the Supreme Court judges had asked the investigating agency,” Datta told the court. The advocate general said the CBI had been forced to withdraw its special leave petition and the Supreme Court had sent the matter back to the larger high court bench for disposal. In his submission, Mehta claimed that what had happened inside and outside the CBI office in Calcutta on May 17 was an “unprecedented event” and if the court did not take a stern measure against the offenders, similar incidents would recur. Justice Mukerji, Justice Tandon and Justice Sen repeatedly asked how the high court had on May 17 stayed the interim bail for the four leaders without hearing them. Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arjit Banerjee are also part of the five-member larger bench constituted to hear the appeals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
28-05-2021||West Bengal||WhatsApp leaks featuring Suvendu Adhikari cause embarrassment for saffron party||An injudiciously cut video featuring Suvendu Adhikari, BJP’s Nandigram MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly,  in an official BJP WhatsApp group for the media, on Thursday afternoon, and leak of a screenshot of a purported WhatsApp chat among party leaders in Purulia have caused embarrassment for the otherwise social media-savvy party. At 2.59pm on Thursday, came the 17-second video of an interaction between Adhikari and a Nandigram resident where the latter, possibly a complainant, was heard telling the MLA he had been expecting a call, which he never got. The video was quickly withdrawn from the WhatsApp group and replaced at 3.01pm with a nine-second version of the video, with the villager’s comment omitted. Since Wednesday night, a widely circulated screenshot, of the alleged WhatsApp chat between Purulia leaders of the BJP, purportedly discussing ways to malign the Mamata Banerjee government’s war effort against Cyclone Yaas by apparently exposing the victims of inundation to greater Covid-19 risk in crowded relief shelters, and to have it covered widely by pliant sections of the media. The BJP has officially denied this chat. Although this paper was unable to independently verify the authenticity of the video or the screenshot of the chat, numerous state and district level leaders of the BJP vouched for the veracity of both. A state unit functionary said the two leaks “exposed” the BJP’s increasing disconnect with the masses even in the places where it won, given the leadership’s virtual absence from the ground since the results, and the desperation that drives it to the abuse of social and mainstream media for political mileage. “I, for one, know for a fact that neither the video nor the screenshot was doctored. I cannot, for obvious reasons, state this on record. But it is utterly shameful, that we are yet to learn our lessons from the Bengal mandate,” he said. In the video, the villager was seen and heard telling Suvendu that he is happy that the MLA has come to the village. Suvendu said: “Tumi nimotron korley ami ashboni, bipawdey porley ashbo (I’ll not come if you invite me, I’ll come when you’re in trouble). The villager said: “Baba Trilokeshwar mondirey ami ekta chithi likheychhilam, apni ektu phone-tao korleyn na (I had written a letter to the Baba Trilokeswar temple, you didn’t even call).” Suvendu’s car sped away, as he said: “Jai Shri Ram”. Though what the villager was trying to say was unclear, several sources in the BJP said he was, in all likelihood, complaining about something, which is why the video was replaced promptly. “Many people who voted for Suvendu are unhappy with his absence from Nandigram, even as our people there came under attack in the post-result violence…. The man in the video is clearly upset,” said a senior office-bearer of the BJP state unit. In the screenshot of the purported group chat on WhatsApp, the names of six senior BJP leaders in Purulia appeared: district unit president Bidyasagar Chakrabarti, Purulia MP Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, Congress turncoat BJP MLA from Purulia Kaltuda (Sudip Mukherjee), district unit general-secretary Vivek Ranga, district unit general-secretary Alim Ansari, and Forward Bloc turncoat BJP MLA from Joypur Narahari Mahato.In the purported chat, Chakrabarti allegedly suggested that people who need shelter should be encouraged to go crowd schools (doubling as relief shelters) now, as it would ensure more Covid-19 infections, creating problems for the state government. MP Singh Mahato allegedly asked Chakrabarti to issue the instructions and he would take care of media coverage by informing the “central”. Singh Mahato also allegedly said the BJP’s workers should be told to take more and more videos and photos. At this point, Mukherjee allegedly said he does not think it is the right thing to do, and warned of Trinamul finding out about this. Responding to Mukherjee’s purported remarks, Ranga, Ansari and MLA Mahato allegedly objected. While Ranga and Ansari said the party’s decisions ought to be complied with. MLA Mahato allegedly said it was a “good decision”, attributing it to Chakrabarti and Ranga, after asserting that “ora (they)” do politics, so “aamrao (we too)” will. On Thursday afternoon, the BJP lodged a complaint with the police, alleging the screenshot was fake. Trinamul too lodged a police complaint, claiming it was genuine and demanding police action. “We have received complaints from both the BJP and Trinamul. We have started a probe to find out whether the screenshot is real or fake. We will take action after the probe,” said Purulia police chief S. Selvamurugan. Senior officials in Purulia said it was “very surprising” as large numbers of people started coming to the relief camps on their own. “We had planned to evacuate around 50,000 people in our district. Over 72,000 showed up. Usually, we have to visit villages extensively and beg with people to leave their homes and come to the relief centres. This supposedly spontaneous visit is almost unprecedented,” said a senior official. The BJP’s district unit chief Chakrabarti, however, insisted the screenshot was fake. “If it is found that we were involved with it, we will go on our own to the police and surrender,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
