29-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s 20k crore demand for Yaas relief ‘unrealistic’, says BJP||Asserting that Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's demand of Rs 20,000-crore for cyclone relief was "unrealistic", state BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said she skipped the review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to avoid giving a detailed account of the claims that she has made. Ghosh also pointed out that the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), which called the review meeting on Friday, is entitled to decide on the list of invitees. "Odisha faced the brunt of the cyclone while Bengal was largely spared, but she is asking for Rs 20,000 crore. She did not attend the review meeting with the Prime Minister at Kalaikunda as she did not want to elaborate on this unrealistic demand," Ghosh said. The CM had on Friday said that she, in separate proposals submitted to Prime Minister Modi, sought Rs 10,000 crore each for rebuilding the seaside tourist town of Digha and the ravaged parts of the Sunderbans region. Mamata, however, skipped a review meeting on cyclone devastation with Modi, seeking to know why opposition BJP leaders were present at the session. Ghosh further contended that the presence of Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of opposition in the Assembly, was another reason that prompted Banerjee to skip the meeting. "Adhikari will be attending assembly sessions, too. Will she stop going to the House? Instead of politicising the calamity, she should work with everyone for the welfare of people," Ghosh said, in a dig at the TMC supremo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata, chief secy insulted PM by not attending review meet, alleges Suvendu||Leader of the opposition in Bengal Suvendu Adhikari on Saturday alleged that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the chief secretary have insulted Prime Minister Narendra Modi by not attending a meeting chaired by him to discuss the ravages caused by Cyclone Yaas. Banerjee did not attend the meeting but entered the room from where Modi was holding the meeting and submitted a report to him on the damages caused by the cyclone in the state, and sought a Rs 20,000 crore package for redevelopment of the worst-hit areas. She was accompanied by Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. A few hours after the meeting, the Centre ordered his transfer to Delhi. "I have no word to criticise the way the West Bengal chief minister and the chief secretary insulted the prime minister," Adhikari, a BJP MLA, told reporters in a virtual press conference. Claiming that Banerjee questioned his presence in the meeting held at Kalaikunda air base in Paschim Medinipur district on Friday, Adhikari said that he was invited to it as the leader of opposition in the state assembly and MLA of cyclone-affected Nandigram. "She is trying to show her arrogance and petty politics by her stance," he said. Banerjee has claimed that opposition leaders were not invited to similar review meetings held in Gujarat and Odisha, the two states that also faced cyclone fury over the past few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Ready to touch PM’s feet for the welfare of people, says Mamata in scathing attack against Centre||Mamata Banerjee appealed to the Centre to withdraw its order attaching state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to the Union government, while preparing the groundwork for what could be a long-drawn political battle in her third term. “For the sake of Bengal, I am ready to touch the feet of the Prime Minister, if that makes him happy. But this is political vendetta. Don’t defame me, don’t humiliate me,” Mamata said at a news conference at the state administrative headquarters, adding the “unconstitutional and illegal step” had shocked her and the IAS lobby. The order, sent on Friday night _ hours after Mamata and Bandyopadhyay had skipped a review meeting called by Narendra Modi, informed the state government about the Union cabinet’s appointments committee’s nod to “placement of services” of Bandyopadhyay, a 1987 batch IAS officer, to the government of India. Chief secretary Bandyopadhyay has been asked to appear at North Block in New Delhi on Monday, May 31, the day he was due to retire, though he was granted a three-month extension following a request from the state government. Modi visited cyclone-affected Odisha and Bengal on Friday and had scheduled meetings with the respective chief ministers. Mamata met Modi to hand over a report on the damage caused by the cyclone Yaas and left soon after for Digha without attending the review meeting. Bandyopadhyay accompanied her. Her decision to skip the meet has led to a political storm and the state chief secretary finds himself caught in it, that too at the fag end of his bureaucratic career. “We got a landslide victory and that is your only worry. You want to bulldoze the federal structure. There are two sets of law for Bengal and the other states… Why are you behaving like this? You can’t digest the defeat. Every time you are going for confrontation…in my state whenever you come you create confusion and confrontation,” Mamata said. “Within hours of my oath-taking the governor made a statement on law and order, within 48 hours central ministers were sent here. There were some small sporadic incidents, that too not in my time. After May 5 (the day she took oath) we have not allowed any incidents. But, BJP is trying to provoke communalism,” she added. Recalling the timeline from Friday afternoon, Mamata said she and Bandyopadhyay waited for Modi for 10-15 minutes at Kalaikunda. When they tried to meet him, they were told by the SPG to wait for an hour. “Later on we heard, they were going to the conference room. We went there. There were no chairs to sit in, we stood at some distance from him and explained the situation. “They showed some empty chairs later. Maybe those were kept later. Why didn’t they release footage of us standing in front of the Prime minister? The PMO is feeding fake news to the media,” Mamata alleged. The chief minister said she had taken permission from Modi to leave along with her team of officers thrice. “Yesterday’s was not a PM-CM meeting as it was decided earlier. In the revised list they had invited the governor, central ministers. I have no objection to central ministers but local MLAs... what locus standi do they have?” she asked. “Thrice I told him with your kind permission sir, we would like to leave since we have come from far and we have to go to Digha for an administrative meeting. The weather is not good and we took a risk coming to meet you here,” she said. The former Gujarat Congress chief, Bharat Solanki, had sent a reminder on Friday soon after Modi’s meeting in Kalaikunda about his recent visit to his home state Gujarat after the cyclone Tauktae. “It is good to know that PMO India has invited leader of the Opposition in Bengal as well to the meeting convened to discuss Yaas cyclone aftermath! I am surprised he forgot to invite the Opposition leader of Gujarat during his recent visit Tauktae cyclone affected areas,” Solanki had tweeted. On Saturday, Mamata chose to remind Modi how as Prime Minister he had undermined the country’s Opposition in the last seven years. “In Delhi, why haven’t you recognised the main Opposition party? In Gujarat, why wasn’t the Opposition leader called?” she asked. The Bengal government is understood to be waiting for the Centre to make its next move. Mamata said the Centre had filed a caveat before the central administrative tribunal and Supreme Court. “I hope good sense will prevail and the letter will be withdrawn,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Four charred bodies recovered from New Barrackpore building caught in fire||Firefighters on Saturday morning recovered charred bodies of four unidentified persons from a building in North 24 Parganas, where a devastating fire broke out a day ago, reducing to ashes a vest manufacturing unit and other combustible item-filled godowns. At least 30 fire fighters have been pressed into service since Friday to douse the blaze that raged on for almost 38 hours in the three-storey building in New Barrackpore's Bilkanada area. A senior official of the fire department said the deceased are believed to be workers of the vest manufacturing unit, and the process to identify them was underway. He also pointed out that fire tenders are currently putting out flames in pockets of the building. "Drones were used to spot the four bodies, which would be sent for post-mortem after family members identify them," the official added. Fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose said a forensic team would be visiting the building to study and find out what led to the massive blaze. "It's an unfortunate incident. We are sending the bodies for post-mortem to Sagore Dutta Hospital. A forensic team will visit the site and conduct tests to find out the possible cause of the fire," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee's health condition 'stable'||The health condition of former Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, who is undergoing treatment at a hospital here after being diagnosed with COVID-19, is stable, a statement issued by the medical facility said on Saturday. Bhattacharjee, however, continued to have shortness of breath and is in a state of drowsiness, it said. The 77-year-old politician is presently conscious, alert and talking, the hospital authorities said. "Mr Bhattacharjee is stable. He is, however, having drowsiness and shortness of breath and is on intermittent BiPAP with 3 litres of oxygen, and his oxygen saturation is maintaining at 92 per cent," the statement said. Bhattacharjee tested positive for COVID-19 on May 18. "He has mild dry cough and a heart rate of 60 per minute. His blood pressure is stable and urine output is satisfactory. His capillary blood glucose levels are normal now," the statement of the hospital said. Doctors are continuing to inject Remdesivir and taking other supportive measures, it added. The health condition of Bhattacharjee's wife Mira is also stable, an official of the hospital said. Bhattacharjee's wife had recovered from the coronavirus infection and was discharged from the medical facility earlier this week, but she was readmitted, following a panic attack, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Three ‘smugglers' held with pangolin, scales in Jalpaiguri ||Three suspected smugglers were arrested after a pangolin and its scales weighing around a kilo were recovered from their possession at Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday evening. According to the foresters of Baikunthapur forest division, they had information that a group of miscreants had planned to smuggle a pangolin and some scale to Nepal through Siliguri from Gajoldoba. “Accordingly, we reached Gajoldoba and spotted the trio in the locality on a motorbike with a black bag. Our team intercepted them and searched the bag and recovered a pangolin and its scales weighing around one kilo,” said Sanjay Dutta, range officer of the Sarugara range of Baikunthapur. “They were arrested after they failed to produce a valid document for possessing the animal and the scales,” added Dutta. Those arrested have been identified as Sunil Oraon, a resident of Gurjungjhora, Mijanur Rahman of Chowk-Moulani and Amzad Hussain of Lataguri, all located in Jalpaiguri district. Dutta mentioned that charges under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 have been brought against the arrested trio. Sources in the state forest department said that pangolin is mostly found in India, China and in some other south-east Asian countries and parts of Africa. “The animal’s scale is used to make traditional medicines. Also, its meat is consumed in China. We suspect those arrested have link with smuggling rackets and had plans to smuggle the animal and the scale to China via Nepal,” said a forest officer. Jumbo rampage A wild tusker entered Khasbusty, a village in Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri, on Thursday night and damaged nine hutments, boundary walls of some houses and a betel nut plantation. Sources said the jumbo had entered the village from the adjoining Jaldhaka forest and it returned back to the forest around 2am. Later, a forest team visited the spot. “The affected families will get compensation from the department,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay attached to the Centre||Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay has been attached to the Centre, according to information that emerged after he and chief minister Mamata Banerjee skipped a cyclone review meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi held at the Kalaikunda airbase on Friday. Some officials viewed the “unprecedented” order that became public on Friday evening as an “act of revenge”. Bandyopadhyay, who had never before been posted outside Bengal, must report to the department of personnel and training (DoPT) in Delhi by May 31, according to a communication from Anshuman Mishra, undersecretary to the central government. The order said the cabinet appointments committee had approved placing Bandyopadhyay’s services with the Union government “as per provisions of Rule 6(1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954”. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer, was scheduled to retire on May 31 but received a three-month extension from the DoPT, the cadre-controlling authority for IAS officers, on a request from the state government. The Bengal government had sought the extension for Bandyopadhyay to ensure continuity in the battle against Covid that the chief secretary has helmed for about a year. “This is strange. The same central government that gave him an extension in view of the Covid situation now wants him to leave the state and report to Delhi, which means someone else would have to be appointed chief secretary. This is unprecedented,” a senior IAS officer said. Several IAS officers said the order was prima facie “arbitrary” as it defied both logic and the normal procedures for such transfers. The rule cited by the order requires the concurrence of the state government for a cadre officer to be deputed to the Centre. “In this case, the state was not consulted and the order was issued unilaterally,” a senior official said. He said the state government could well consider challenging the order in a court citing procedural shortcomings. “Besides, we are in the middle of a pandemic — how can the Centre issue such an arbitrary order?” the official said. But some other officials said a provision in the rule gave the Centre sweeping powers over such transfers. “A provision in the rule, which was inserted later, states that in case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state government must comply,” a bureaucrat said. Several officials in Bengal said the Centre’s order appeared “an act of revenge” on Bandyopadhyay for failing to attend the Prime Minister’s meeting. Modi, who visited cyclone-hit Odisha on Friday, had stopped over at Kalaikunda, West Midnapore, to review the devastation caused by Cyclone Yaas. Sources said Mamata had handed over reports of the cyclone’s ravages to Modi but did not stay for the meeting as she felt it had turned into a political exercise with the inclusion of the BJP’s Nandigram MLA, Suvendu Adhikari. “The chief secretary could not attend the meeting as he was travelling with the chief minister throughout the day. Besides, the chief minister is the chief secretary’s boss, and it’s impossible for any official to defy his immediate boss,” an official said. “So, holding the chief secretary responsible is not fair,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||50-year-old woman hacked to death by son in North Dinajpur ||A 50-year-old woman was hacked to death allegedly by her son at a village in North Dinajpur district on Thursday night. Sources said some local people rushed to help Moulami Sarkar, who hailed from Bilatibari village in Chopra, after she raised an alert. “Moulami was bleeding profusely as her son hacked had her with a sharp weapon in several places. We took her to a hospital where doctors pronounced her dead,” said a villager. Soon the agitated villagers intercepted Narayan, the accused, and gave him a thrashing. Shortly, police rushed to the spot and arrested the accused. The cops took him to Islampur sub-divisional hospital for treatment. “During preliminary investigation, we came to know that Narayan was having some problems with his mother and he attacked her with a  sharp weapon on Thursday night. We need to interrogate him to obtain more information about the motive of the attack,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Calcutta HC grants interim bail to four accused politicians||A five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday granted interim bail to all the four politicians arrested last week by the CBI in the Narada case, closing for now an unusual chapter in the history of the oldest high court in the country. The bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justices I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee granted interim bail to the four accused against personal bonds of Rs 2 lakh each and asked them to meet the investigating officer virtually whenever they were required for interrogation. The five-judge bench directed the accused — panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, transport minister Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee who recently left the BJP — not to make any comments before the media relating to the Narada case. The court added that they were only being granted interim bail and should abide by the final order. Legal experts said this meant that after a detailed hearing of the case the court could, if necessary, issue orders to re-arrest them. The court decision followed a petition from the accused on Thursday seeking recall of the May 19 high court order that had put them under house arrest when two judges of the division bench could not reach a consensus. Justice Bindal had felt that bail then would have been premature while Justice Banerjee was in favour of releasing the accused with conditions. The uncommon events at the high court, including a late sitting that stayed the bail order of the trial court and delivered a split ruling on bail, had drawn attention across the country, and the Supreme Court had commented on them. Around noon on Friday, the virtual hearing of the bail petition resumed. The acting Chief Justice informed the CBI counsel and solicitor-general of India, Tushar Mehta, that the bench was in favour of granting interim bail to the accused. Opposing the bench’s proposal, the CBI counsel contended that being very influential, the accused might tamper with evidence. Justice Mukerji asked Mehta: “You initiated the case in 2017 when these persons were as influential as they are now. Then why did you not arrest them then? What was the urgency to arrest now?” After granting bail to the four accused, the acting Chief Justice assured the CBI counsel that the case would not be sent to the cold storage. “The court will hear the case in detail. In the meantime, we are granting interim bail to them. The court can issue arrest orders if needed in the future,” Justice Bindal said. Mehta said: “The court should then impose certain conditions and the leaders should not be allowed to meet mediapersons.” The judges sought five minutes, after which the acting Chief Justice pronounced the order. “After the day’s order, the accused will have liberty to move wherever they want and perform their regular activities,” said advocate Manishankar Chatterjee, counsel for minister Subrata Mukherjee. The four accused were arrested by the CBI on May 17. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had rushed to the CBI office at Nizam Palace and five of her cabinet colleagues, including law minister Malay Ghatak, had gone to the CBI court. Outside the CBI office, Trinamul supporters laid siege to the road, all of which prompted the CBI to claim interference by the state administration in the legal process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Rain racks Malda, Darjeeling and Sikkim||Prolonged downpour in Malda since Thursday morning led to the death of three persons and inundation in several areas of the district. The rain caused minor landslides and damaged a number of houses in the Darjeeling hills. Other parts of north Bengal and the neighbouring state of Sikkim also received showers on Friday. Malda recorded 309.3mm of rain in 24 hours till 8.30am on Friday. According to sources, rain water entered houses and flooded Loliabari village near Chanchal. Many other parts of the district were water-logged on Friday. Tanu Soren, 50, and her grandsons Rohit Tudu, 7, and Rahul Tudu, 9, died when a bamboo structure collapsed. “There was a bamboo structure in their room which had racks where sacks full of paddy were kept. They were sleeping on a cot. Rainwater flooded the room and weakened the bamboo pedestals which were fixed to the ground. The structure collapsed and heaps of paddy sacks fell on the trio,” said a source. Neighbours rushed in and took the trio out of the heaps of sacks. Soren, Rohit and Rahul were taken to a local hospital where doctors pronounced them dead. The rainfall damaged agricultural fields and litchi and mango orchards. “Altogether, 11 of 15 blocks in the Malda district have been affected by heavy rain. A number of huts collapsed. The assessment of damage is in progress,” said an official of the district administration. Darjeeling received around 100mm rain in a 24-hour period. At least 45 houses were in precarious conditions at different locations in the hills because of landslides. Roads connecting Rimbick with Sepi and Seeyok tea estate with Sukhiapokhri in the Darjeeling subdivision were closed following the landslides. There was a landslide on Darjeeling-Pashupati Fatak road also. But debris was cleared later and traffic resumed on all these routes. “More than 45 houses have been damaged either partially or fully….The affected families have been provided with relief. The civil and police administration, along with different departments, are working for restoration and relief,” said an official. The downpour also led to minor landslides at a few places in Sikkim, which led to road blockades and partial damage to properties. Landslides swept away portions of roads near Ezam Khola and near Denchung in Poklok-Kamrang, both in South Sikkim district. A road near the public works department office in Singtam and the Pakyong-Ranipul road in East Sikkim were blocked for some time because of uprooted trees. The rain damaged stretches of roads and some bridges at Lachen in North Sikkim. “The landslides have also left some houses in precarious positions,” said Kunthup Lachenpa, a pipon (headman) of Lachen Dzomsa. Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, held a meeting with officials to take a stock of the situation after the rainfall. “Specific instructions were given to monitor the sewerage system so that waterlogging could be averted in the city. A control room will be opened at the civic body and will be operational during the monsoon,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Yaas: Mamata Banerjee asks officials to explain reasons for devastation in Digha||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday pulled up several government agencies and asked officials to explain the reasons for the devastation that Cyclone Yaas caused to the coastal sea resort of Digha. Starting Wednesday morning, Cyclone Yaas’s landfall caused widespread flooding in Old Digha and New Digha, damaging several guard walls along the seaside and also demolished a large part of Dheu Sagar, a park located in New Digha that Mamata had inaugurated in 2019 along with a convention centre and hotel across the road. Mamata had launched a slew of projects for Digha and had aimed to put Digha on the fast track to turn it into an international tourist and business destination. “The chief minister had grand plans for Digha ever since 2011, when she conceptualised the Marine Drive,” said an aide, referring to the coastal highway linking Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur. Around 1km stretch of the Marine Drive was washed away in Sankarpur on Wednesday after 2.6km of an under-construction guard wall collapsed because of flooding. Mamata helmed an online meeting with district officials, including district magistrate Purnendu Kumar Maji who attended virtually. The meeting, which took place at the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority’s office shortly after the chief minister handed over a situation report requesting Rs 10,000 crore in aid for Digha and the same amount for the Sunderbans from Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda, saw Mamata placing chief secretary Alapan Bandhopadhyay in charge of the DSDA in place of incumbent Jyotirmoy Kar. Speaking in a tone that did not hide her dismay at the situation in Digha, the chief minister urged acceptance from local officials, saying, “You must understand. Unless there is someone important at the helm, nothing will get done here... They’ve left projects lying around for ages, irrigation, bridges... For 7-8 years I've only kept hearing that the bridges are being completed”. She then proceeded to publicly instruct the chief secretary to “direct an expert team to take care of Digha”. Mamata was referring to the remaining links in the Marine Drive project: three bridges connecting the roads so as to form a continuous thoroughfare between the tourist towns of Digha, Mandarmani, Tajpur and Sankarpur. Responding to her deputation, chief secretary Bandhopadhyay said: “Madam, what you have just said... Digha needs to be restored to its former glory that was put into action by you.” Notably, the chief minister made her announcement in the middle of a briefing by the district magistrate regarding the ground situation. “Digha is a tourist spot... All the beaches are ruined... Who will pay for this? Where is the money,” she said, before making her announcement which sparked some protest from local officials. “Because there have been major damages, I am handing over the DSDA to Alapan. A new setup is required. Unless there is an important person it will not happen, please understand,” she explained. The DSDA until recently was helmed by former chairman Sisir Adhikari, Trinamul MP, who was removed from his post shortly after his son Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP in December last year. "Maybe we will get nothing, but this is what we have told him," Mamata added, referring to her folder handed over to Modi around 3pm before she proceeded to the DSDA. Mamata also stressed on the need for the environment department to plant more trees to form a natural buffer against storms. Later in the evening, she took a tour of beaches in Old Digha along with the chief secretary to assess damages. She will return to Calcutta on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata stresses flawless relief to cyclone-affected people||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday repeatedly told government officials during her three review meetings in Yaas-hit East Midnapore, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas to ensure that affected people were not deprived of relief and compensation offered by the government. The stress on flawless distribution made it clear that she didn’t want a repeat of anomalies witnessed after Nabanna launched a similar initiative last year after Cyclone Amphan. “You have to do the verification of the applications for monetary relief very carefully. Last year, we gave money to a lot of people but were given bad names due to one or two cases. You have to look after the poor people so that they get the relief properly. Government does not have a lot of money but we have to take care that the real affected people are not deprived,” said Mamata from her review meeting in Sagar of South 24 Parganas. Not only in Sagar, she stressed on the same point in her three review meetings in Hingalganj in North 24 Parganas and Digha in East Midnapore. “The field survey of the applications will be done from June 19 to June 30 and the officials have to review them carefully as no one can misuse government money and poor people should not be deprived,” said Mamata at Digha. “Prepare the list of victims in a manner that nobody can raise any allegations… Any complaint should be dealt with strongly,” she said in Hingalganj of North 24 Parganas. In an attempt to stand by those affected by cyclone Yaas, Mamata has planned the Duare Tran (Relief at doorstep) programme with a fund of Rs 1,000 crore, which is going to be the first major pro-people initiative of her third term in office. Following the Duare Sarkar model — a pre-election initiative to dole out government benefits  — the relief and compensation would be carried out in a decentralised manner in which camps will be set up at gram panchayat and block levels through which applications would be accepted and later money would be transferred directly to the beneficiaries after running necessary checks. Unlike the post Amphan model wherein panchayat functionaries oversaw the process, this time the entire exercise would be carried out by government officials. “The chief minister has directed not to involve any panchayat functionaries in the camps and the verifications of application should be done by the government staff on the ground level without any references. It would be just what we did to organise Duare Sarkar camps before the assembly polls,” said a senior official in South 24 Parganas. Last year, allegations about irregularities in preparing the list of Amphan compensation beneficiaries had snowballed into a major controversy, big enough for chief minister Mamata Banerjee to step in. In the face of widespread protests over alleged irregularities in distribution of financial relief to the people affected by Amphan, Mamata had admitted “lapses” and said her government would rectify those. Sources in Trinamul said the issue of Amphan became an issue in last Assembly polls and both the BJP and the CPM built their campaigns accusing the Trinamul of looting money meant for poor people. “You must ensure priority in ‘Rescue, Restoration and Rehabilitation’ of the people but without any prejudice. The genuine victims should not be deprived of benefits and financial assistance,” said Mamata at Hingalganj. Kanti Ganguly the former CPM minister in Sundarbans said that the allegation of misuse of the relief fund was not one or two but it was in hundreds. “I personally sent a letter to our Chief Minister where at least 200 examples were given to prove how government money was misused and poor people were deprived. Let’s see what happens this time.... I am sending an open letter to her with proposals how the Sundarbans would be saved and the repair of embankments is essential before the next high tide,” said Ganguly on Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Mamata Banerjee skips Narendra Modi’s review meeting at Kalaikunda air base||Mamata Banerjee skipped a meeting by Narendra Modi at the Kalaikunda air base on Friday to assess the devastation caused by Cyclone Yaas as she was apparently displeased with the review session being turned into a “political exercise” with the attendance of Nandigram BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari. But the Bengal chief minister met the Prime Minister and handed over to him the state government’s reports on the assessment of the damages. Interpreted as a snub of the Prime Minister, Mamata’s absence from the review meeting prompted scores of BJP leaders at state and national levels to launch scathing attacks on her. However, even as the BJP came out all guns blazing over Mamata’s gesture, a growing disquiet was palpable within the party’s Bengal unit itself over Adhikari’s attendance. Sources in the state government said when Mamata had found out late on Thursday evening that Modi’s review meeting was supposed to include her former political protégé Adhikari, her objection was conveyed formally to the Prime Minister’s Office. The sources said Mamata had no objection to the likes of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri attending the meeting, which the chief minister was to attend, along with state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. “She was opposed to the attendance of Adhikari, in a clear indication of the meeting being turned into a political exercise by the BJP government at the Centre, which displeased her. Adhikari managed to win the Nandigram seat against her, though by the skin of his teeth, and is set to become the leader of the Opposition. But that does not qualify him to be an attendee at such a meeting,” said a source. Early on Friday morning, the BJP state unit released to the media — without explanation or comment— a letter from Speaker Biman Banerjee of the Bengal Assembly, dated May 19, recognising Adhikari as the leader of the Opposition from May 13. However, it did not seem to change Mamata’s mind. Also, in her multiple public interactions on Friday, not once did she mention the alleged Adhikari issue as the reason for her absence from Modi’s meeting. On Friday morning, according to sources, chief secretary Bandyopadhyay coordinated with the PMO for a brief, separate meeting between Modi and Mamata. Once clearance was received from the PMO, it was decided that Mamata and the chief secretary would go to Kalaikunda after the Sagar Island survey, meet Modi and then leave for Digha for a review meeting. “However, when they reached Kalaikunda, the chief minister was asked to wait. She said she would like to meet the Prime Minister and had been asked to get there. She was told he was at a meeting and would not be able to see her before it ended. The chief minister said she only needed a minute. After that, she went in, along with the chief secretary,” said a Bengal minister. According to him, she handed Modi a bunch of reports and other documents, saying they contained all necessary details of damages and losses and urged him to take a look before leaving the venue. Dhankhar, Chaudhuri and Adhikari were present at the time, said the state minister. At her review meeting in Digha, Mamata said: “After an extensive survey of affected areas in South 24-Parganas, we went to Kalaikunda because the Prime Minister had convened a meeting. We did not know, we had a programme in Digha… despite that, we went to Kalaikunda and handed to him the detailed reports of our damages and losses, asking him to make sure he does what is best.” Mamata added that damage of Rs 20,000 crore had already been ascertained. Additionally, she said the state government had asked for two packages of Rs 10,000 crore each, for the development of Digha and the Sundarbans, two areas that were devastated extensively by the cyclone and allied inundation. “We will probably not get anything at all. But we gave it to the Prime Minister and told him that because he had wanted to meet me, I went from so far away, and after meeting him we are going to Digha, leaving with his permission,” said the chief minister. Later in the afternoon, Modi issued a statement announcing a “financial assistance” of Rs 1,000 crore for immediate relief activities. However, Rs 500 crore would be immediately given to Odisha, while the remaining Rs 500 crore would be released “on the basis of the damage” — presumably by an inter-ministerial team that would be deployed by the Centre to visit the states to assess the extent of the damage — to Bengal and Jharkhand. There was a barrage of attacks from the saffron echo chambers on social media, accusing Mamata of having insulted Modi, the Constitution, its federal structure, and even the rule of law of itself. But several state BJP leaders this newspaper spoke to said on the condition of anonymity that including Adhikari in Modi’s meeting was “avoidable” and “unnecessary”. Some of them even went to the extent of saying that such a conflict with Mamata should have been averted by dropping Adhikari from the meeting. “There have been countless occasions when she (Mamata) has gone about inviting conflict with the Centre, out of sheer arrogance or conceit. But this time, it was different. She was not wrong,” said a senior Bengal office-bearer of the BJP. This leader pointed out that Congress veteran Abdul Mannan, then leader of the Opposition, had not been asked to join a similar exercise after Cyclone Amphan last year. Multiple sources in the state BJP said the discontent was sensed by the saffron camp’s top tier, which quickly issued a notice to all its empanelled spokespersons, prohibiting them from speaking to journalists regarding the meeting. While the gag on spokespersons in the state unit was on, national BJP leaders, including president J.P. Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh, started issuing statements of condemnation on Twitter. Soon after, similar tweets from state leaders — many of them the party’s candidates who got disastrously defeated in the election and practically not heard from since the results — started popping up on the microblogging site. “Mamata Didi’s conduct today is an unfortunate low. Cyclone Yaas has affected several common citizens and the need of the hour is to assist those affected. Sadly, Didi has put arrogance above public welfare and today’s petty behaviour reflects that,” Shah tweeted. Nadda said in a tweet: “When Hon PM Shri @narendramodi stands strong with the citizens of West Bengal in the wake of cyclone Yaas, Mamata ji should set aside her ego for the welfare of people.” “Her absence from the PM’s meeting is murder of constitutional ethos & the culture of cooperative federalism,” the tweet added. The BJP’s stand against Mamata on Friday was in continuation of the party’s apparent strategy of relying largely on criticism on social and mainstream media, while doing little on the ground, for the masses, in a déjà vu of last May, in the wake of Cyclone Amphan amid the first wave of Covid-19. Despite the thumping majority handed to Mamata by the people of Bengal for the third consecutive term, the BJP has apparently been relying on its relentless attack on her, hoping it would resonate with the majority at some point and yield political mileage. “Most of our leaders are nowhere to be seen on the ground, which has been infuriating even the most dedicated party workers. Some people, like Dilip Ghosh, have now started venturing out. Others continue to confine themselves to the media, which the masses do not care about,” said a BJP state youth wing leader. He pointed out that at a recent meeting of the youth wing, it was said that the BJP, being the largest Opposition party in Bengal, should set up a network of volunteers like the CPM’s youth and student wings — earning lavish praise, far and wide — to help the needy. The proposal remains ignored. “The CPM has not won a single seat in the Assembly or in the Lok Sabha from Bengal. Despite that, even in the face of unimaginable odds such as a major paucity of funds and other resources, they have been doing amazing work for the masses…. Our party, with 70-plus MLAs, 18 MPs, and thousands of crores at its disposal, has only just started handing out some tarpaulins,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Yaas: Bengal govt fixes amounts of compensation for damage||The Bengal government on Friday fixed amounts of compensation for various kinds of damage caused to properties by Cyclone Yaas and made it clear that separate task forces at state, district, subdivisional and block levels would work under direct superintendence of the chief secretary to identify the eligible beneficiaries. According to a notification, persons whose dwelling houses have been fully damaged will get Rs 20,000 each, while owners of partially damaged homes will be provided with Rs 5,000 each. For loss of crops, one can get a maximum assistance of Rs 2,500 and minimum of Rs 1,000. But the department concerned has the discretion to change the amount depending on the extent of the damage. A betel vine farmer will be eligible for a compensation of Rs 5,000 for his/her loss. For loss of milch animals like buffalo or cow, one can get Rs 30,000 each whereas for pig or goat, the owner is entitled to a compensation of Rs 3,000. The government will pay a compensation of Rs 25,000 for loss of draft animals like bullock or those used as aid to work. To ensure that proper compensation is fixed for each loss, the state government engaged six departments — agriculture, disaster management, animal resources development, horticulture, fisheries and micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME) — as nodal departments to identify the victims of the cyclone and fix the compensation. For instance, applications for compensation for crop loss will be examined and arranged by the agriculture department, whereas claims for dwelling houses will be verified and finalised by the disaster management department, a senior official at Nabanna said. “A detailed clarification of schemes and eligibility criteria with separate SOPs will be shared soon by all the nodal departments with the task forces at four different levels,” he added. The notification issued by the state disaster management and civil defence department on Friday stated that the entire government machinery in the Yaas-affected districts would work on “mission mode” to ensure the successful distribution of compensation. The task force authorities at each level have been directed to ensure submission of comprehensive and integrated applications by the victims so that they can receive the relief according to the categorised eligibility detailed in the notification. The fisheries department will pay Rs 10,000 each to owners of fully damaged boats and Rs 5,000 to those whose boats have been partially damaged. Weavers engaged in the handloom sector as well as artisans involved with handicraft works whose tools were either lost or damaged in the cyclone will get Rs 4,100 each after proper verification of their applications by the MSME department. Same amounts will be paid to artisans and weavers for the loss of their raw materials. However, for damage to work shed or godown, they will be entitled to a maximum ex-gratia of Rs 10,000. The government has asked all stakeholders to complete the verification of the applications between June 19 and 31 so that disbursement of the compensation could be directly credited to the bank accounts of the victims between July 1 and 7 without fail. Chief mentor of Paschimbanga Rajya Sarkari Karmachari Federation Manoj Chakraborty has welcomed the initiative by the state government. “It is a great initiative and I am hopeful that all victims of the cyclone would get a little respite through such initiative”. Learning the hard way, the state government has launched a series of initiatives this time to avert any kind of controversy like it faced after Amphan last year. “The government did not involve gram panchayats this time in the selection process of the beneficiaries. The government officers are now involved in drawing up flawless lists of beneficiaries,” said a source. Moreover, the state government has strengthened the verification process compared to last year only to ensure that actual victims get the compensation. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Thursday announced Duare Tran (relief on doorstep), a government programme with initial funds of Rs 1,000 crore to distribute compensation and relief and to make sure that the benefits didn’t reach ineligible applicants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 12,193 fresh cases and 145 deaths||Bengal on Friday reported a drop by 7,348 in total active Covid-19 cases, which fell to 1.09 lakh, as it reported 19,396 recoveries and 12,193 infections, besides 145 deaths. Bengal now has 4.95 per cent of total active cases at national level and remains sixth on the list of states with highest number of patients currently under treatment. In the past two weeks, the state for the first time in the peak of the second wave logged 2.48 lakh infections, compared to 2.68 lakh recoveries. Over these two weeks, the total active cases fell from nearly 1.32 lakh to around 1.09 lakh. “This period has, more or less, coincided with the restrictions imposed to ensure the curb of the outbreak. So, there are indications that the restrictions were effective. In another couple of weeks, if these trends remain, we will be in a much better place,” said a minister. “Two weeks ago, we were reporting nearly 21,000 new cases a day. Today (Friday), it fell to barely 12,000. The daily positive confirmation rate was nearly 30 per cent two weeks ago. Today, it was around 20 per cent,” he added. In a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 27th consecutive day, to 90.7 per cent. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected on March 17 last year, is over 13.43 lakh now, including 12.18 lakh recoveries and 15,120 deaths. The state’s mortality rate is 1.12 per cent. Of the 145 deaths reported on Friday, 30 were in Calcutta and 43 in North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 1,857 infections and North 24-Parganas 2,525 on Friday. “The only area where we have not been able to see much improvement in the past two weeks is the daily death toll. There have been 2,127 deaths with 140-150 fatalities daily,” said the minister. “Barely 45 per cent of these deceased people had comorbidities, compared to the 80-90 per cent in the first wave…. There’s also been a rise in the past two weeks in the number people in the 61-75 age bracket succumbing to the disease,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
