30-05-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans tiger dies while being taken for treatment||A male Royal Bengal tiger, which had strayed from the core forest area, died on Sunday while being taken to the Sajnekhali camp of Sunderbans for treatment, a senior Forest department official said. The Forest Department said the cause of death of the tiger did not appear to be cyclone Yaas and its aftermath but old age while adding that a post-mortem of the carcass would confirm the real reason. The big cat, aged about 11-12 years, was found wobbling around Harikhali camp the day before and the forest staff kept a close watch on it, Chief Wildlife Warden V K Yadav told PTI. As the tiger was later found lying on the banks of a pond, the staff tried to feed it chicken on Sunday morning but it refused the food. The tiger appeared to be very weak even to have water as forest personnel struggled to pour water into its throat and was later being taken to the Sajnekhali forest camp for treatment when it died on way, Yadav said. "The death is unfortunate but it appears the tiger died due to old age and weakness. It was dehydrated but the cyclone or the consequent flooding of the forest is not the cause," Yadav said, adding the post-mortem would reveal the exact reason. The last tiger census of Sunderbans (2019-20) put the number of Royal Bengal Tiger population in Sunderbans at 96.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Madan Mitra, granted bail in Narada case, discharged from SSKM||Maverick TMC MLA Madan Mitra, who was granted bail earlier in the week, hummed songs and expressed gratitude to the judiciary on Sunday as he left the state-run SSKM hospital, where he was lodged since the night of his arrest by the CBI in the Narada sting tapes case. Family sources, however, said that the MLA complained of uneasiness upon reaching home and had to use an inhaler. Mitra was arrested along with Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee on May 17. A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court on May 28 granted interim bail to all four accused. The high court, as one of the conditions for granting bail, directed them not to appear for any press interview or make public remarks in connection with the case. "I am happy on being granted bail," the MLA told supporters assembled to greet him on his release from the hospital, where he was undergoing treatment for post-Covid complications and other ailments, adding that he won't be saying anything on the Narada case. The TMC leader further said that he sought forgiveness from God for any "unknowingly done mistake" and insisted that he was ready for penance. Mitra hummed a song or two before leaving for his Bhowanipore home in an open jeep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Himalayan Mountaineering Institute honours Radhanath Sikdar||The Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI) on Saturday dedicated a library after Radhanath Sikdar, the first person to reckon the height of Mount Everest whose contribution has often been overlooked in mountaineering annals. “The HMI, under our Bharat Gaurav initiative, has taken a step to recognise our long-lost heroes and give them due respect. The HMI today renamed its newly renovated library building as Sikdar Bhawan,” said Group Captain Jai Kishan, principal of the HMI. In 1831, George Everest, surveyor-general of India, appointed Sikdar, at 19, as a “computor” and welcomed him to join the Great Trigonometric Survey. He was given a monthly salary of Rs 30. Sikdar, a mathematician who specialised in spherical trigonometry, used data from six observations and calculated the height of Peak XV. In 1856, it was stated that Peak XV was taller than Kanchenjungha. In 1865, The Royal Geographical Society pronounced the official name “Mount Everest” for Peak XV following Everest’s successor Andrew Scott Waugh’s suggestion to name the peak after his predecessor. May 29 is celebrated as International Everest Day to mark the first ever successful ascent of Mount Everest by Darjeeling mountaineer Tenzing Norgay Sherpa and Sir Edmund Hillary from New Zealand in 1953. Tenzing’s birthday is also celebrated on the same day. The HMI also unveiled a bust of Sikdar and made public a newly constructed multi-utility hall named Bull Bhawan in the memory of Late Col Narendra “Bull” Kumar, an ace mountaineer who helped secure Siachen Glacier in the late 1970s and a former principal of the institution. Sikdar breathed his last in 1870 at Chandernagore in Hooghly district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||African Swine Fever alert near Bhutan||Deaths of a number of pigs in Bhutan from African Swine Fever (ASF), a viral infection, has made the administration of Alipurduar, which shares borders with Bhutan, start giving immunity boosters and medicines to pigs in areas close to the Indo-Bhutan border. Though humans do not get infected by the virus, pigs are susceptible to the ASF that can rapidly spread among the swine population even if one animal is infected. Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, said on Saturday that Bhutanese authorities had reported about ASF cases in their country very recently. “It put us on alert. We have instructed medicines and immunity boosters be given to all pigs in and around Jaigaon town, on the opposite of Bhutan’s Phuentsholing. On Saturday, three camps were held in Jaigaon-II panchayat area and the process will continue,” Meena said. On Saturday, the animal husbandry department sanitised piggery farms. The administration, sources said, has also imposed curbs on movement of pigs. Also, officials of the state forest department have been asked to keep tabs on the wild boar population in Buxa Tiger Reserve and Jaldapara National Park of the district. “Even if one boar gets infected, all boars will be at risk. That is why forest guards on patrol have been asked to keep watch,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Plea and caveats on chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay ||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday appealed to the Centre to withdraw the letter issued on Friday asking chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to report to the department of personnel and training (DoPT) by May 31. “I would request (the Centre) to withdraw the letter. Let him work for Bengal,” said the chief minister with folded hands during a news conference at Nabanna on Saturday She requested the Prime Minister to ensure that IAS officers should not be victims of political vendetta while terming the order “unconstitutional, illegal and unilateral”. Mamata then stood by the chief secretary saying he was an officer of integrity and there was not a single complaint against him throughout his career. Although no reason for the transfer was cited in the central order, it is believed that Bandyopadhyay became a target after he and the chief minister skipped a review meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had convened at Kalaikunda on Friday. “What was the fault of the chief secretary? He was working with me.... The chief secretary is a state government officer.… Now, you issued an order unilaterally transferring him to the Centre without any consultation. Is it fair?” asked the chief minister. Mamata said that it was unprecedented that the chief secretary was asked to join Delhi after his tenure was extended for three months. “He was given a three-month extension to carry on the battle against Covid-19.… Now you are saying come back? Under which rule? You tell me, have you ever seen this type of incident in the last 74 years? You are not only disturbing me, you are disturbing my secretariat, you are disturbing my chief secretary,” said the chief minister. She said she wanted to resolve the issue through dialogue between the state and the Centre but the situation turned critical after the Centre filed caveats — pleas to allow a hearing from the side of the Centre — in the central administrative tribunal and Calcutta High Court. “See, we thought that we would sort out the issue through dialogues. But I heard today (Saturday) that they have filed caveats in the CAT and the high court. That means they are determined to go to court,” Mamata said. “If one (meaning the Centre) goes to court, then we might have to go to court as well. But still I would say, let good sense prevail,” the chief minister added. Sources in the state secretariat said that the chief minister would write a letter to the Prime Minister, as the DoPT reports to him, requesting him to withdraw the letter. “The tenor of the letter would be conciliatory. This is a smart move by the chief minister as dialogues can solve issues. Issues like this can often get complicated if the state confronts the decision,” said a senior official. Mamata also said that the order issued by the Centre has left the entire IAS fraternity shocked. “Don’t you think that there are so many chief secretaries in so many states...All the chief secretaries are being humiliated. Don't you think the IAS officers have their lobby? They are very shocked as the unconstitutional, illegal and one-sided order was issued to humiliate the chief secretary, the chief minister and the state,” said the chief minister. A senior bureaucrat said that the IAS community was indeed shocked with the order as the Centre did not follow norms before recalling the chief secretary. “The Centre can depute any IAS officer to central deputation but that has to be done from a panel of officers who have applied for central deputation. Even joining the posting by the officer depends on whether the state releases the officer. In this case, neither had Bandyopadhyay applied for central deputation nor had  the state recommended his name,” said a retired IAS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||PM undermining electoral system and federalism: CM||Digest your defeat. Allow me to work. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday flagged a concern that undermines the foundations of the electoral system and federalism, placing it on record that she is being prevented from governing Bengal even after her party won a thumping majority at the hustings. The grave charge against the Narendra Modi-helmed Centre and the saffron ecosystem brings into sharp focus a change in post-election tactics by the BJP that had so far succeeded in snatching or sharing power in several states in spite of losing the polls. The landslide victory by Trinamul in Bengal has rendered useless the BJP’s usual playbook of poaching and alleged intimidation. The chief minister’s disclosure comes at a time Centre-state relations have hit a new low with New Delhi unilaterally transferring Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to the capital. Addressing a news conference on Saturday, Mamata listed the odds she had had to face in the past 24 days during which her primary focus was to battle the pandemic and Cyclone Yaas, which ravaged at least four districts in the state. “Within minutes of my taking oath on May 5, the governor went after me, issuing statements on some incidents that took place when the state was under the Election Commission,” Mamata said. “Within 24 hours, a central team was sent; in less than 48 hours a human rights commission team visited Bengal and a women’s commission team came in less than 72 hours. Then came several central ministers, who went around the state,” the chief minister added. “You cannot digest defeat, so from day one you started all this action.” Now that Mamata has begun the process of delivering on her poll-winning promises like Duare Ration (free ration at doorsteps) and education credit cards for the youth — whose successful implementation would depend heavily on the bureaucracy — the assault has come on chief secretary Bandyopadhyay, the head of the state administration. “Never in the history of independent India has a democratically elected government been harassed like this…. It is worse than the Emergency,” Mamata told The Telegraph later, regretting the way the Centre was trying to derail her attempts at delivering governance to the people of Bengal. “They can exert pressure on me, but I will not buckle under pressure and they cannot prevent me from governing,” she added. At the media conference, she urged the Centre to respect the mandate of the people of Bengal and allow her to function for the people of Bengal. “The people of Bengal voted for us and ousted you. Please accept the mandate…. I plead with you, Prime Minister, I can even touch your feet for the people of Bengal. The public is my priority, please stop playing this dirty game,” she said in an impassioned appeal. Although Modi and Amit Shah, who had led the BJP’s assault on Mamata during the election, had slipped into silence after Trinamul’s victory, the entire saffron ecosystem — with governor Jagdeep Dhankhar playing the lead by issuing statements and visiting certain areas in the state — tried creating a narrative that Muslims were attacking BJP supporters across Bengal with the tacit support of the ruling party. It was clear that the high-decibel campaign, amplified by the BJP’s IT cell, was aimed at establishing that Bengal was ungovernable and at manufacturing a consensus in favour of President’s rule. “After May 5, we didn’t allow any incident to occur,” Mamata stressed, recounting the first challenge she had to face after storming back to power. Managing law and order was not the lone challenge. The priority in the immediate aftermath of the elections was to prevent communal clashes that the Right-wing propaganda machine was striving to ignite. “You know how the BJP behaves and how they promote hatred…. They spread fake videos and planted fake stories,” Mamata said, explaining how a plan had been hatched to plunge some parts of the state into communal conflict. Sources in the state police directorate confirmed they had lodged 72 cases linked to fake videos and hate speeches immediately after the election results and forwarded 1,028 requests to social media outlets for deletion of contentious content. Over 400 such posts – such as a video on communal strife in Chittagong in Bangladesh that was passed off as an incident in Bengal -- were deleted in less than three weeks. While it is true that the state witnessed some incidents of post-poll violence, there is little doubt that the saffron narrative about their communal nature was largely exaggerated. Although Mamata was pilloried by the entire saffron ecosystem – with senior Union ministers and the governor regularly tweeting about some of the incidents – no word of appreciation came her way after she ensured relative peace, fast-tracked vaccination in the state and made elaborate plans to minimise the impact of Cyclone Yaas that affected parts of Bengal. Instead, the BJP leaders in the state and the Centre were busy attacking Mamata after the CBI sprang into action and effected the selective arrests of four politicians – ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee – in the five-year-old Narada case. Mamata didn’t mention the CBI arrests at her news conference on Saturday. But the arrests do fit into a larger plan to engage her in debates on communal conflict, a law-and-order breakdown and corruption-related cases against Trinamul leaders. At the 50-odd meetings that Modi and Shah had addressed in poll-bound Bengal, the theme of their speeches had revolved around these three issues. The election results, however, proved that Bengal’s voters had refused to be swayed by these issues and wanted Mamata – who had made a slew of promises to the poorest of the poor, the youth, women and the disadvantaged minorities -- to govern Bengal for another five years. In Mamata’s own assessment, the Centre’s mischief may cause temporary problems for her government but it will further erode the BJP’s support base in Bengal as people can see how the party is trying to inconvenience and insult the people of Bengal. During the news conference, Mamata detailed the chronology of events leading to her decision to skip the review meeting that Modi had convened in Kalaikunda on Friday. “Instead of listening to my side of the story, several media outlets, under the influence of the Prime Minister’s office, attacked and insulted me through the day…. Why so much anger at Bengal?” she asked. Although Mamata has often been mercurial in the past, she has shown remarkable restraint in the past 24 days in the face of one crisis after another -- the transfer of Bandyopadhyay being the latest on this list. While she was categorical in calling the transfer “unconstitutional”, she urged the Centre to review the decision and resolve it through dialogue so that Bandyopadhyay can work for the people affected by Covid and the cyclone. To sum up, the message from Mamata was clear: allow me to work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Mamata lying, could not face me, says Suvendu ||Mamata Banerjee’s former protégé and leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, on Saturday, said the chief minister had lied about what happened at a cyclone review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kalaikunda on Friday. “I take responsibility when I say that the chief minister had rescheduled her pre-scheduled meeting on Thursday night to meet the Prime Minister on Friday. When she came to know that I would be there, she thought she would be absent (in the meeting),”Adhikari told journalists at an online news conference. The legislator claimed that Mamata finally decided to meet Modi because she had to make demands for money. “Otherwise, how would her cadres in panchayats misappropriate the funds,” he said sarcastically. Negating Mamata’s claims that Modi had made an exception for Bengal by inviting the leader of the Opposition to the meet, Suvendu said the leader of Opposition of Odisha, BJP’s Pradipta Kumar Naik (mispronounced by Suvendu as Pradip Naik) was invited to that state’s Yaas meeting, but couldn’t attend since he had Covid-19. Adhikari added that leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was also invited, but  couldn’t attend since he was busy in Delhi. “She can’t face me,” Adhikari said. “She is a non-MLA chief minister. I’ve defeated her and been elected by the people’s mandate,” he added. He said Modi waited for Mamata and the chief secretary for over 20 minutes on Friday. He then sent an officer, Bhaskar Kulbe, to check if Mamata was at all coming. Later Mamata came, handed over the documents and left in a minute-and-a- half, he said. “She thinks Bengal is a country unto itself and she is its Prime Minister. That isn't the case and she should change her mind set,” Suvendu said. Regarding the Centre summoning chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to New Delhi, Suvendu said he had worked with the IAS officer at the state’s transport department. He has nothing against Bandyopadhyay or any IAS officer for that matter. However, Mamata has forced these officers to break protocol, Suvendu said, referring to Bandyopadhyay arriving late for and leaving early from a meeting chaired by the Prime Minister. “It (the recall) is a government decision and not a political one. But from my experience as a legislator, I can tell you that there isn’t anything wrong with it,” he said. Congress MP Chowdhury also issued a statement regarding Bandyopadhyay's recall and urged both the governments to work together at this critical hour. He mentioned that Bandyopadhyay was an able officer and hence the state government had sought his extension. Chowdhury also stood by Mamata, and said that Modi did not invite the Congress leader of Opposition of Gujarat at a recent meeting. “You cannot prefer one and not the other. The treatment has to be the same in all cases,” Chowdhury said. He added that he was invited for the meeting at Kalaikunda, but couldn’t attend because he got the information late.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Digha repairs pick pace after CM’s prod||Repair and clean-up drives began in East Midnapore’s Digha early on Saturday, spearheaded by the Digha Sankarpur Development Authority (DSDA) in less than a day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee held an administrative meeting in the tourist town and made clear her dismay about the devastation and pulled up officials for faltering on projects. The DSDA began the day’s efforts with clean-up drives and repairs, including putting back electricity poles and filling up craters on the road caused by flooding triggered by Cyclone Yaas. “There are much larger projects that need to be looked into immediately but that will take a couple of days after discussion with competent authorities,” said DSDA vice-chairman Tarun Jena. “We are going to call a meeting soon in order to draft requisitions for such projects so we can submit them to the state government,” he added. On Friday, the chief minister had voiced her dismay at the apparent dilly-dallying in completing three bridges constituting the Marine Drive Highway. Sources on Saturday said the public works department had been asked to look into the delay in implementing the projects this week. The order comes after the chief minister on Friday asked chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to be the interim head of DSDA in place of incumbent Jyotirmoy Kar. The sources said beautification efforts to “restore Digha’s former glory”, had been assigned to the DSDA and reconstruction of guard walls had been assigned to the irrigation department. After a brief review of the initial repairs on Saturday morning, the chief minister left for Calcutta by helicopter around 1pm. Before heading for Calcutta, Mamata spoke to Ramnagar MLA and fisheries minister Akhil Giri in the presence of Bandyopadhyay. Speaking to reporters afterwards Mamata left for Calcutta, Giri said DSDA officials had understood the chief minister’s exhortation to restore Digha’s glory on a “war footing”. “I was the DSDA chairman for quite some time, and the responsibility is the chief secretary's now. We are not dithering on the repairs. Panchayat officials are also in the know of what is going on. Tourists are going to return after the lockdown and the town needs to be prepared,” he said and added that on his way to Calcutta the chief minister would carry out a survey of flood-ravaged areas of Nandigram, Khejuri and Haldia. Giri added that asked for erection of temporary guard walls along the coastline wherever demolition or severe flooding had taken place. “There will be a high tide again on June 10 so we are working on that. We are also making the roads higher,” he said. Officials also inspected damaged shutters of vendors’ stalls by the seaside. e that had been damaged by rushing floods. Digha hoteliers’ association joint secretary Bipradas Chakraborty said he was happy with the chief minister's efforts to restore the sea resort to its former state. “It will help our industry immensely. We have been hit badly over the past year,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Four charred bodies brought out of New Barrackpore factory||The charred bodies of four employees, including the assistant manager of the vest manufacturing unit here which caught fire early on Thursday, were brought out by firefighters on Saturday. The four had desperately tried to save themselves from the blaze by fleeing to the rooftop of the three-storey building located in the Bilkanda-Sajirhat area of New Barrackpore. Unfortunately, the door was locked and all of them reportedly suffocated to death on the staircase. On Saturday morning, fire-fighters recovered the bodies from the staircase that connects to the rooftop of the building, after the fire was partially brought under control after 60 hours of efforts. The bodies, sources said, could not be immediately recognised by their families. The four victims were identified as Swarup Ghosh, 42, Subrata Ghosh, 35, Amit Sen, 32 and Tanmoy Ghosh, 23, who were residents of Nadia. Their bodies were handed over to New Barrackpore police, and were later sent to the College of Medicine and Sagar Dutta Hospital for autopsy. Sources said that even as of Saturday evening, portions of the fire continued to burn. Police and fire service sources claimed the existence of “pocket fires” while fire-fighters divided their efforts throughout the premises. Around 10.30am on Saturday, a team of PWD engineers examined the condition of the building before allowing firefighters to enter inside. Some walls of the top floor were demolished for an aerial view when police needed to use a drone camera to identify the pocket fires, and then located the charred bodies on the staircase. Police also began a probe based on two complaints lodged against the owners of the vest company by the fire services department and the family of deceased assistant manager Tanmoy Ghosh. The owner remains absconding. Commissioner of Barrackpore police Manoj Verma said: “We have started a case against the owner of the vest company and  are trying to locate its owner. The fire, however, could not be brought under control completely as pocket fires have been spotted on the premises .” Local MP Sougata Roy said that families of each victim had been handed a cheque of Rs 2 lakh as compensation by the state government “We will try to ensure payment of their dues like PF as early as possible”, he said. The fire broke out at the Nabadurga Textiles — a vest manufacturing company on the Bilkanda-Sajirhat industrial zone of New Barrackpore  — around 3am on May 27. The fire spread fast and engulfed the godown of a prominent medicine retail chain housed on the two upper floors of the same building. The fire department engaged 14 fire tenders and two robot fire-fighters to douse the blaze. Nevertheless, the blaze could not be brought under control until the early hours of Saturday. Four employees of the vest company were trapped inside the building, which was reportedly full of inflammable items like petroleum gas cylinders, petroleum-based products, chemicals used for colour dying and ethanol-based sanitizers, as well as raw materials for vests that made the task difficult for fire-fighters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams ‘PMO’s one-sided fake news’||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she felt insulted at the manner in which the Prime Minister’s Office and the saffron ecosystem spread selective news, which didn’t include her version of what happened in the Yaas review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kalaikunda on Friday. “I was very sad yesterday (Friday) by the way I was insulted in all of Delhi with one-sided fake news…And these news are planted by the PMO and the ministers are asked to parrot them....,” Mamata said. Since Friday evening, the BJP and the saffron echo chamber have been circulating a picture of Modi chairing the meeting at Kalaikunda with governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri and BJP’s leader of Opposition in Bengal Suvendu Adhikari and two empty chairs. According to the BJP, those seats were meant for Mamata and state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. “...Why would I sit there?...When I’ve seen that so many political parties (persons) are waiting…who are not even entitled to attend to the PM-CM’s meeting,” Mamata said, referring to the presence of Adhikari. She also expressed her suspicion over the time the picture was taken. The central government, along with the saffron ecosystem, has lodged an all-out attack against Mamata since Friday evening, after she allegedly “insulted” Modi by not attending the review meeting the Prime Minister had convened to discuss the impact of Cyclone Yaas on Bengal. Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, BJP’s national chief JP Nadda, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and party MPs, MLAs along with Dhankhar, took to Twitter to condemn Mamata. Mamata, however, repeatedly said that she had left the room with Modi’s permission. On the incidents on Friday, Mamata said: “When we went to Sagar, you can ask the local reporters, administration and ATC…we had got the information that we have to wait 20 minutes there, because Prime Minister’s helicopter will be landing there...” “Which we don’t mind, because we always give priority to the Prime Minister’s security,” she added. On reaching Kalaikunda, Mamata found the PM was already there and she was asked to wait in a room. After about 15 minutes, the head of her security services, IPS Vivek Sahay, checked with the SPG if she could meet Modi for a minute. Mamata said the SPG supposedly told Sahay they would have to wait an hour. After waiting for some more time, the CM and Bandyopadhyay went to the conference room where Modi was sitting and with due permission entered the room and handed over the documents related to the devastation induced by Yaas. “It’s a fact that there was no need to sit there (at the meeting)...Because the meeting…earlier it was decided PM and CM…but later on a totally reversed list is being given…the MLA, then Opposition leader…So, the big BJP party and I’m alone…and the meeting is not Prime Minister-chief minister,” Mamata said, on her reason for handing over the documents to Modi instead of attending the meeting. She questioned why the Centre did not recognise the Opposition parties in Delhi, for the last two years, why the leader of the Opposition of Gujarat was not invited at a meeting the PM chaired a few days ago in that state. On the Yaas-related meeting Modi convened at Odisha on Friday, Mamata said that the leader of the Opposition of Odisha wasn’t invited there either. “In my state whenever you come, you always create some confusion, you always create some confrontation…Why?” Mamata asked. Mamata was visibly choking when she requested the Prime Minister with folded hands to be generous towards the people of Bengal and put an end to the politics of vendetta, indicating the BJP’s recent poll drubbing in the state. “Prime Minister Sir, if you have any grudge against me, if you’ll be happy, I will touch your feet, I can even do that for the people of Bengal…public is my first priority, I’m pro-people…But please Prime Minister kindly don’t play this dirty game,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief secretary transfer bares sour grapes of wrath||As one who has served the state government for half the “senior, secretariat years” while the other half of this period was at the Centre, one could be a little distant from parochial quarrels. Incidentally, governments were almost always in confrontational mode and one is quite used to the issues and tensions involved. Mercifully, the PM and most of the ministers that one served were better educated and more cultured and the debate between the two levels of the federation did not hit the rock bottom that it does now. It is obvious that such limitations of genteel conduct do not hold back the present clique and its current depredations are met by a street-fighter who can retort measure for measure. This explains, to some degree, the present no-holds-barred war between the two, which is quite unprecedented even to those who have seen battles before and had, willy-nilly, to be involved with one side — depending on where one was posted at what time. A bit of tension between the two layers of federal governance is, however, not too unhealthy for establishing working procedures in such a constitutional arrangement. It also permits the release of steam on both sides that often represent and articulate contesting interests of separate audiences. Occasional blow-ups actually help absorb the heat of the conflict and may assist in finding new ways out. It is, however, ironical that Narendra Modi (chief minister from 2001 to 2014), who was the greatest votary of the autonomy of states in a federal set-up, is the one who has now taken upon himself the task of destroying India’s federal structure with the intolerance of an Aurangzeb. But it is his special venom towards Mamata Banerjee and Bengal that is worrisome, not because he would succeed in wreaking much havoc on either, but because of the ill-effects it has on his own health. Like blackmail, sulking and vengeance have little place in a democratic federal structure. If the PM was so insistent, he could have easily requested the CM in advance to accompany him on his aerial survey of the cyclone-devastated areas yesterday. Instead, he seethed within when the CM moved on her pre-announced tour of the affected areas. Such pent-up rage is not conducive to his health or that of the nation that is entrusted to him. Issuing a summons to the chief secretary (CS) to be present in Delhi on the last date of his service does not behove of a Prime Minister. The poor CS certainly does not dictate what his CM should do or not do. In fact, if the PM felt, he could also have requested the CM to depute her CS to attend his meeting, instead of victimising him later. The “order” of May 28, 2021, sent by the Centre is full of inconsistencies unbefitting the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet of a once-mighty republic that is on its knees begging the world for succour to control a pandemic that it failed to do. First of all, it cannot issue a unilateral order on an IAS officer who is not under its control, but under another government within the federation. These issues have been settled time and again, and its obverse is that the state government cannot issue an order on an IAS or IPS officer of its own cadre who happens to be posted under the central government while he has tenure left with the Centre, without the Centre’s approval. The second striking feature is that it is really not a posting order because it does not mention to which post the CS of this state has been posted. It is more of an intimation rather than a formal order and it requests the state government to release him. What is utterly humiliating is that a senior Union secretary-ranking officer is told to report to a central ministry, much like sub-inspectors of police are ordered. The short point is that the central government cannot force an IAS or IPS officer to join a central posting in Delhi against his will, without either his written ‘option’ or his cadre-controlling authority, the state government, giving him prior clearance to ‘opt’ for the Centre. Managing All India Service officers entails a complex balancing act and the founding fathers of our Constitution wanted it to be so. They have held the federation together through the worst of times like the long, bloody separative movements in Punjab, Assam and several other parts of India — when local people were determined to break away and state governments were taking sides. Rule 6 (1) of the IAS Cadre Rules of 1954 has been quoted but the rule reads: “A cadre officer may, with the concurrence of the state governments concerned, and the central government, be deputed for service under the central government….” This “concurrence” is most critical. The procedures enjoin that the Centre has to inform the state government of its intention to take deputationists from the state and officers have to give their ‘options’, which then has to be cleared by the state. Many of us have not been ‘cleared’ and were stuck with the state, but that is how it is. Incidentally, the national record for not permitting state IAS and IPS officers to go on central postings is held by none other than Narendra Modi as CM. Neither did the CS opt for the Centre, nor was his name cleared and forwarded by the state. Assuming that all these procedures are short-circuited for some grave national emergency (the central government is not likely to collapse if the incumbent is not released), the question still remains that it is the state that has finally to decide whether to release him, even if it has ‘cleared’ his name for deputation in the first place. The Centre can raise this issue further, but there is no time left for the matter to be dragged further as the officer retires from service on the next working day, May 31. The gross injustice of heckling an officer of this rank by summoning him to Delhi on that very day hits even those who are ardent fans of strong administration. Yes, the service of the incumbent has, indeed, been extended for three months, by this very central government just four days ago but this is purely in the interests of continuity in the fight against the raging pandemic — not to be, say, Union Secretary for Panchayati Raj. The so-called order is surely nothing more than an expression of the central government's frustration and rage. The law and the established procedures are in favour of the state government and even though the Centre has alerted the Administrative Tribunal, it will surely sweat profusely to justify its ham-handed and quite unprecedented order in the light of the law and natural justice. It can huff and it can puff, but it can do little else. It could not have issued similar unilateral orders of transfer of four IPS officers from the state to the Centre the last time, a few months ago, because pique is no substitute for governance. Better legal counsel must have prevailed, and this “order” is even more ridiculous. It cannot stop the officer’s pension under any circumstances and the law is very clear on this. The order is absurdly and politically vindictive but we must also understand that it highlights not only the sheer pettiness of the Prime Minister but his style of constantly attacking the foe in his/her own territory, very much like Kabaddi. And as it happens in this game, the attackers gets pinned down and knocked out. In an earlier prediction made on May 1 in these columns before the Assembly election results were out  (“My fear: Whoever wins, trouble and chaos lurk”), one had mentioned that “one is quite apprehensive that trouble and chaos may thus rule, at least in the near future”. It is time to realise that all the dots that appeared thereafter join together — the shrill campaign to declare President's Rule because of a bout of post-election violence; the swoop at dawn to arrest prominent leaders of the ruling party and consigning them to jail and this present assault of federalism. Modi has, somehow, vent his wrath at the historic vote against him by the electors of this state and, more important, he must nail Mamata Banerjee to Bengal as he is almost certain that she is appearing as the only Opposition leader in India who is a real threat to him. The boy from the small town of Vadnagar has met his match in the feisty woman in hawai chappals from the bylanes of Kalighat. ********* Those endowed with some minimal education are usually fortunate enough to be exposed to knowledge and to civilising values that assist them in developing their world view beyond the small universe into which they are born. It usually leads to the realisation that life is not just scoring points and intimidation. But some who were unfortunate enough to be bred in painfully underdeveloped regions, such as Sicily and Calabria in south Italy, could not however avail of the broader civilisational virtues of America even after they migrated there in the early part of the 20th century. They continued to believe in the power of their rustic stiletto dagger that could lunge deep into the enemy’s heart and were exhilarated by the power and resources that capitulated before them. Civilisation, however, hit back in due course — exterminating the scourge of their unfettered gangsterism. Other nations have also gone through similar learning cycles where such vicious fringe forces are concerned, but not until they have wreaked their complete cycle of havoc that propels them, quite genetically. In a large but underdeveloped democratic polity and a struggling developing economy, crude operators can strengthen their position through mutually beneficial alliances with big capital, and then move on to perfect heavily-funded electoral management. They delight in   letting loose a well-planned, systems-driven, relentless juggernaut on lesser-equipped, naturally-divided democratic forces. Once they and their enthralled brown-shirts have attained their objective of seizing power through democracy, they are terribly uncomfortable with irritants like plural, liberal democracy. The regime thus established goes around tackling the messy inheritance of constitutional governance by corroding and destroying national-level institutions and all organisations that ensure democratic governance. It achieves this with the connivance of user-friendly aspirants among the elite corps of the bureaucracy — who are so easily persuaded by assured promotion to the highly coveted posts, in this cut-throat competitive market. The regime then lets loose these hounds and their agencies of investigation and command to bludgeon into submission the institutions of constitutional governance, as they are so high on smash and grab that they forget to rule and deliver. The all-knowing whisperatti of Delhi discuss, in  hushed tones, their methodology used in specific cases — like persuasion, cajoling, temptation, transferring incumbents (where possible), bullying and finally, threatening with hints of minutely detailed dossiers on them. Much of the ‘dark side’ reportedly flaunted could well consists of exaggerations, perverted interpretations or simply imaginative constructions of falsehood. One can now understand why the most protected and respected of national institutions are collapsing before such an onslaught, while others have simply been taken over by foisting the regime’s trusted and surely amoral bureaucrats. Jawhar Sircar is a retired IAS officer and former Union secretary||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Jharkhand floodwater closes Farakka highway||A downward flow of floodwater from the Rajmahal plateau of Jharkhand into Murshidabad’s Farakka, two days after Cyclone Yaas triggered heavy rain in the neighbouring state too, on Saturday morning forced the Farakka-Barharoa highway to close and caused waist-high flooding in some villages near the interstate border. The flooding, though not a surprise to local residents who are used to floodwater gushing from Jharkhand owing to the difference in altitude, held up traffic for hours and disrupted  trucks carrying stone and construction materials on the highway, a mainstay of the local economy. Sources said floods originated from Jharkhand’s Pakur, Barharoa, Islampur and Maharajpur regions where water accumulated late on Wednesday and gradually flowed into the river Bhagirathi near Farakka causing water levels to rise significantly by Saturday morning, completely flooding the  highway. “We have closed off the highway and the accumulated water is in the process of draining out as rainfall has stopped in the neighbouring state. The process will take some time and till then there will be no traffic on the highway ,” said Farakka block development officer Sanjoy Biswas. “Police are ensuring no traffic resumes till it is safe to do so,” added police chief (Jangipur), Y. Raghuvamshi. Sources said the Farakka feeder canal had overflowed during the same time. Residents of Farakka, Suti and Samserganj in Murshidabad said they were used to receiving downward flowing water during heavy rains but could not recall these levels of flooding in recent history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
