31-05-2021||West Bengal||Alapan retires, Mamata appoints him adviser for three years  ||West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay retired from service on Monday amid a tussle with the Centre with chief minister Mamata Banerjee announcing that he would now work as Chief Adviser for the next three years to help the state government tide over the Covid pandemic. “The Centre has asked him to join North Block on Tuesday, but it cannot force an officer to join it without the permission of the state administration,” Mamata told a press conference.
"The CS got a letter from the Centre asking him to join North Block by tomorrow (Tuesday). This is not a reply to my letter but to the CS. I have not received any reply from it to the letter which I had sent earlier today (Monday)," she said.
The central government's decision is unilateral and unconstitutional, the chief minister claimed. "We are not relieving him. He has superannuated today (Monday), but he will act as the chief advisor to the CM for the next three years," Mamata said. H.K. Dwivedi has taken over as chief secretary, she added. "They have given no reason. I am shocked. I have decided we need his service for the Covid pandemic. For Covid and for Cyclone Yaas, he must continue his service to the poor, the state, the country, the affected people..." Mamata said, according to ndtv.com. "If a bureaucrat is insulted after he has dedicated his life to his work, what message is the government and PM sending out? Are they bonded labourers? There are many Bengali cadre officers at the Centre. Can I recall them without consultation, Mr Prime Minister? Mr Busy Prime Minister? Mr Mann-ki-baat Prime Minister?" “PM, Amit Shah behaving like autocrats such as Hitler, Stalin,” she added. Earlier in the day, Mamata wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to withdraw the Centre's order recalling chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, and said her government "is not releasing" the top bureaucrat. In a five-page letter, Mamata urged the prime minister to reconsider the Centre's decision to recall the chief secretary after giving him a three-month extension. Mamata said she was shocked by the Centre's decision and termed the order as "unilateral", which was issued "without any prior consultation" with the state government. "This so-called unilateral order is an unreasoned volte face and by your own admission, against the interests of the state and its people. "I humbly request you to withdraw, recall, reconsider your decision and rescind the latest so-called order in larger public interest. I appeal to your conscience and good sense, on the behalf of the people of West Bengal," she said in her letter to PM Modi. She also said, "The West Bengal government cannot release, and is not releasing its chief secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid." The Centre, in a surprise move, had on May 28 night sought Bandyopadhyay's services and asked the state government to immediately release the top bureaucrat. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre, was scheduled to retire on Monday after completion of 60 years of age. However, he was granted a three-month extension following a nod from the Centre to work on COVID management. Referring to the Centre's May 24 order granting extension to Bandyopadhyay for another three months after his scheduled retirement on Monday, Mamata said, "I presume that the said order of granting extension as chief secretary, issued after mutual written consultations and on the basis of the reasons deliberated upon during such consultations in accordance with due process, stands and ought to stand in any case. "In this regard, I seek your kind confirmation in public interest and in the larger interests of the people of the state of West Bengal in these difficult times." She also mentioned in her letter that the "all-India services and the laws, including the rules framed for it, have federal cooperation as the cornerstone of its legal architecture". Mamata said the aim of the all-India services has been to "protect and give greater cohesion to the federal foundations" of the Constitution. "With unilateral and non-consultative orders being issued, the federal system is gravely endangered and severely undermined. If a chief secretary of a state can be asked to be relieved like this how can the lower bureaucracy take, obey and implement orders in their letter or spirit from the chief minister, other ministers and officers. "I presume and hope that you do not want to damage the federal amity... and destroy the morale of all the All India Service officers working in various states," she said. Expressing her anguish in the entire episode of recalling Bandyopadhyay even after granting him a three-month extension, the Bengal CM questioned whether the decision has any connection with her and the chief secretary's meeting with the PM at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district on May 28. "I really and sincerely hope that this latest order is not related to my meeting with you at Kalaikunda. If that be the reason, it would be sad, unfortunate and would amount to sacrificing public interest at the altar of misplaced priorities." In a communique to the state government, the Personnel Ministry on May 28 said the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the placement of the services of Bandyopadhyay with Government of India as per provisions of the Indian Administrative Service (cadre) Rules, 1954, "with immediate effect". It also directed Bandyopadhyay to report to the Department of Personnel and Training, North Block, New Delhi by 10 am on Monday. The order came on a day when the prime minister visited Odisha and West Bengal to review the situation and damages caused by cyclone 'Yaas'. Mamata had on Saturday called the Centre's decision to recall Bandyopadhyay as "unconstitutional" and "illegal", and appealed to the Union government to withdraw its order. She had a brief meeting with the prime minister at the Kalaikunda airbase where she handed over a memorandum on the post-cyclone situation. The BJP leaders later accused her of cutting short the planned review meeting. Leader of the opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari had on Saturday alleged that Mamata and the chief secretary have insulted PM Modi by not attending a meeting chaired by him to discuss the ravages caused by the cyclone 'Yaas'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata requests PM to rescind order recalling chief secretary||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to withdraw the Centre's order recalling Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, and said her government "is not releasing" the top bureaucrat. In a five-page letter, Banerjee urged the prime minister to reconsider the Centre's decision to recall the chief secretary after giving him a three-month extension. Banerjee said she was shocked by the Centre's decision and termed the order as "unilateral", which was issued "without any prior consultation" with the state government. "This so-called unilateral order is an unreasoned volte face and by your own admission, against the interests of the state and its people. "I humbly request you to withdraw, recall, reconsider your decision and rescind the latest so-called order in larger public interest. I appeal to your conscience and good sense, on the behalf of the people of West Bengal," Banerjee said in her letter to PM Modi. She also said, "The West Bengal government cannot release, and is not releasing its chief secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid." The Centre, in a surprise move, had on May 28 night sought Bandyopadhyay's services and asked the state government to immediately release the top bureaucrat. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre, was scheduled to retire on Monday after completion of 60 years of age. However, he was granted a three-month extension following a nod from the Centre to work on COVID management. Referring to the Centre's May 24 order granting extension to Bandyopadhyay for another three months after his scheduled retirement on Monday, Banerjee said, "I presume that the said order of granting extension as chief secretary, issued after mutual written consultations and on the basis of the reasons deliberated upon during such consultations in accordance with due process, stands and ought to stand in any case. "In this regard, I seek your kind confirmation in public interest and in the larger interests of the people of the state of West Bengal in these difficult times." She also mentioned in her letter that the "all-India services and the laws, including the rules framed for it, have federal cooperation as the cornerstone of its legal architecture". Banerjee said the aim of the all-India services has been to "protect and give greater cohesion to the federal foundations" of the Constitution. "With unilateral and non-consultative orders being issued, the federal system is gravely endangered and severely undermined. If a chief secretary of a state can be asked to be relieved like this how can the lower bureaucracy take, obey and implement orders in their letter or spirit from the chief minister, other ministers and officers. "I presume and hope that you do not want to damage the federal amity... and destroy the morale of all the All India Service officers working in various states," Banerjee said. Expressing her anguish in the entire episode of recalling Bandyopadhyay even after granting him a three-month extension, the Bengal CM questioned whether the decision has any connection with her and the chief secretary's meeting with the PM at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district on May 28. "I really and sincerely hope that this latest order is not related to my meeting with you at Kalaikunda. If that be the reason, it would be sad, unfortunate and would amount to sacrificing public interest at the altar of misplaced priorities." In a communique to the state government, the Personnel Ministry on May 28 said the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the placement of the services of Bandyopadhyay with Government of India as per provisions of the Indian Administrative Service (cadre) Rules, 1954, "with immediate effect". It also directed Bandyopadhyay to report to the Department of Personnel and Training, North Block, New Delhi by 10 am on Monday. The order came on a day when the prime minister visited Odisha and West Bengal to review the situation and damages caused by cyclone 'Yaas'. Banerjee had on Saturday called the Centre's decision to recall Bandyopadhyay as "unconstitutional" and "illegal", and appealed to the Union government to withdraw its order. Banerjee had a brief meeting with the prime minister at the Kalaikunda airbase where she handed over a memorandum on the post-cyclone situation. The BJP leaders later accused her of cutting short the planned review meeting. Leader of the opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari had on Saturday alleged that Banerjee and the chief secretary have insulted PM Modi by not attending a meeting chaired by him to discuss the ravages caused by the cyclone 'Yaas'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid treatment in Darjeeling minus CT scan facility||Covid-19 patients in the Darjeeling district hospital have no access to CT scan, a basic diagnostic tool for treatment, and more alarmingly, the facility has been forced to start conducting X-rays for both Covid-19 and general patients at the same unit since Saturday despite the obvious risk of the spread of the infection. “CT scan is the main diagnostic tool to see the severity of infection in the lungs, but unfortunately, we don’t have a CT scan facility in Darjeeling,” said a doctor. Doctors say the first test advised for patients showing Covid-19 symptoms is a computerised tomography (CT) scan to understand the severity of the infection. In its absence, doctors need to rely on chest X-ray. Until Friday, hospital authorities said they were not conducting X-rays on Covid-19 patients admitted to the Darjeeling district hospital. The hospital’s demand for a portable X-ray machine has not yet been met. Doctors were not using the same X-ray room for Covid and non-Covid patients for fear of infection and were treating Covid-19 patients by simply “monitoring temperature and other vital parameters (like oxygen saturation level).” Since Saturday, Dr Subasish Chanda, the superintendent of the Darjeeling district hospital, said they had started taking X-rays of Covid patients at the same unit where scans of non-Covid patients are taken, but “at different hours and after sanitising the place”. “It is definitely risky (for non-Covid patients),” admitted Dr Chanda. In Darjeeling town, which is the district headquarters, none of the three private hospitals as well has facilities for a CT scan. Between 2005 and 2007, citizens of Darjeeling had voluntarily pooled in Rs 43 lakh to set up a CT scan unit but the venture was unsuccessful. Amar Singh Rai, chairman of Rogi Kalyan Samiti of Darjeeling district hospital, on Friday wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting a CT scan machine in the Darjeeling district hospital. Rai said it had been approved in 2019. The Telegraph on May 17 reported Covid-19 patients had no access to ventilators at the Darjeeling district hospital. Dr Chanda had then stated four machines would arrive soon. On Sunday, he said five ventilators had arrived from the government hospital in Kalimpong, but the machines had not yet been put to work as work to set up a critical care unit and high dependency unit was on. “Rain in the past 48 hours has slowed down work but very soon it will be completed,” said Dr Chanda. Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, has criticised the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration’s plan to develop infrastructure for trekking in Rimbick at an estimated cost of Rs 16 crore instead of setting up a CT scan facility “for Rs 1 crore.” “Is it leadership crisis or leadership corruption?” asked Edwards who added that the amount (Rs 16 crore) could have been used to overhaul health care in the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas-ravaged districts mull grass shield||The Bengal irrigation department has started the process of examining the feasibility of planting trees and plants with strong roots, such as vetiver grass, to prevent breaches in river embankments during high tide that causes large-scale flooding in North and South 24-Parganas every year. During a post-Cyclone Yaas review meeting at Nabanna on Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee formed a committee involving the irrigation, finance, forest, home, disaster management and environment departments, and advised irrigation officials to coordinate with the Nadia district administration, which a few years ago had implemented a vetiver plantation project to prevent the erosion of a river embankment. She also advised the committee to talk to experts in the field and repeated her advice to the two 24-Parganas district administrations in her meetings with officials in Hingalganj and Sagar on Friday. Earlier on Tuesday and Wednesday, at least 134km of earthen embankments were damaged across North and South 24-Parganas under the impact of Cyclone Yaas, in addition to some in coastal areas in East Midnapore when a high tide rushed in around the time of the cyclone’s landfall on Wednesday. The ensuing flooding caused by breaches of the embankments was so devastating that nearly 15 lakh people had to be evacuated from these areas. Angry over such damage and apparent lack of preparedness, the chief minister during the review meeting at Nabanna advised the irrigation officials to be more “careful” and to find a solution. “If every year such a cyclone occurs and all protective work completed by us is washed away due to high tide, you must look for an alternative solution like planting mangrove trees or vetiver grass,” Mamata told irrigation officials during the meeting. “We have scarcity of funds. So it is not possible to make concrete all embankments. We should look for alternative solutions at least for those earthen embankments which cannot be made concrete for lack of funds,” she added. She also advised the district magistrates and irrigation officials to coordinate with the Nadia administration and check the feasibility of planting vetiver grass. “I know about a project on vetiver grass plantation implemented by Nadia to prevent erosion of river embankments. They got results. You can check its feasibility”, she said, advising the DMs to talk to P.B. Salim, the managing director of WBPDCL, who served Nadia as the district magistrate during the implementation of those projects. During March 2015, the Nadia administration had taken up a Rs 33 crore vetiver plantation drive. The grass was planted along the Jalangi, Bhagirathi and Hooghly river embankments. The Nadia administration had contacted P. Vincent, known as the pioneer of vetiver plantation in India, for inputs. Vetiver grass (Vetiveria zizanioides), which survives for about 35 years, is commonly known as khus ghas and has a finely structured mat-like root system that grows about 3-4m downward and works well as a soil binder to control  erosion of soil along river embankments. “November to February is the ideal time for its plantation. It takes three months to grow strong and within nine months its routes expand a strong network going deep into the earth and binds it”. A teacher of Bidhan Chandra Krishi Visvavidyalaya agreed that vetiver was one of the best soil binders. However, considering the high tide in rivers along the coastal Sunderbans, which causes water to rise up to 6 feet or more during cyclones, it is uncertain how effective vetiver would be in saving embankments or controlling floods, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief secretary unlikely to report to Delhi||Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay is unlikely to report to Delhi on Monday and is expected to continue to work in Bengal as the state government had not issued a release order to him till late Sunday evening, a source in Nabanna said. “As the state government did not issue any release order to the chief secretary, it is not possible for him to comply with the Centre’s order that had asked him to report to the department of personnel and training by 10am tomorrow,” a senior official said on Sunday. The chief secretary attended office at Nabanna for about three hours on Sunday. On Friday, the Centre had asked the chief secretary to report to hte DoPT, the cadre-controlling authority for IAS officers, in an unprecedented order. Although the order did not mention the reason behind the unilateral step, it is believed that the chief secretary became a target after he and the chief minister skipped a review meeting convened by Narendra Modi in Kalaikunda. A section of officials said that as the chief secretary would not report to the DoPT on Monday, he would continue to work for the state. “He is likely to attend a review meeting to be convened by the chief minister with officials from the cyclone-affected districts tomorrow. It appears the state will not allow him to go to Delhi,” a source said. A section of officials said the state personnel and administrative reforms (P&AR) department would send a letter on Monday morning to the DoPT saying the Bengal government would not be able to release Bandyopadhyay with the fight against Covid still going on. Moreover, his presence is necessary to initiate relief and rehabilitation after Cyclone Yaas. “The chief secretary himself can also write a letter to the DoPT saying he could not report to the DoPT as he was not released by the state,” a source said. “The Centre can write to the state again requesting it to release Bandyopadhyay.” The sources said the state would not go into a legal battle over the issue right now and would wait for the Centre’ response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal forest department repairs storm-hit fence in Sunderbans Tiger Reserve||The Bengal forest department has started repairing a 30km stretch of nylon fence in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, days after Cyclone Yaas wrecked havoc in the region. The artificial barrier meant to protect villagers from tigers had been heavily damaged in the cyclone on May 26. A 105 km stretch of nylon fencing had been erected a few years ago to prevent man-animal conflicts, a daily reality for villagers whose livelihoods include fishing and honey foraging. Sources said the fence had been damaged during Cyclone Amphan last year as well. They, however, said the repair had been hindered this time because a large part of the tiger reserve had also been flooded. “Around 30 per cent of the nylon fencing was damaged during Yaas and it is important to repair it as soon as possible to stop the entry of tigers into human habitats. Forty of our staff are working hard to repair the fences even though the bases are submerged,” said Jones Justin, deputy field director of the reserve. “It will take more than three or four days to repair the fencing completely,” he added. A survey carried out between November 2019 and January 2021 had pegged the population of royal Bengal tigers in the Sunderbans at 96. The foresters said the repair of nylon nets was important even in inundated areas as the animals were adept at swimming and they could intrude into human habitats. Asked whether there was a threat to the staff working in high water to repair the nets, the forest officers said the risk was minimal as tigers were unable to jump out of water without land under their feet. After the experience with Cyclone Amphan in 2020, foresters in the Sunderbans formed four separate teams and equipped them with huge nylon nets and bamboo poles at different strategic points following the landfall of Yaas so that they could start repairing the damaged fence without delay. “We had stockpiled huge nylon nets and bamboo poles and divided them among the four separate teams to start the repairs immediately. It is normal that any animal should try to find high land after any type of natural disaster,” said deputy director Justin. The nylon fences play an important role in preventing tigers from straying into villages. There are dedicated employees, including local inhabitants, in the Sunderbans who take care of maintaining the fencing, a forester said. During Cyclone Amphan, different parts of a 52km stretch of the nylon fencing in the tiger reserve had been damaged severely. Since the forest department was not fully equipped to face the challenge, it had deployed several teams to monitor whether tigers had then entered the villages. The sources said apart from the nylon nets, as many as 30 departmental outposts in the mangrove’s interior pockets remained partially submerged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s total active Covid-19 cases fall below a lakh||Bengal’s total of active Covid-19 cases fell below 1 lakh for the first time since crossing it on April 27, as the state on Sunday reported a drop by 7,500 in that total, which is now 94,898. The state logged 18,642 recoveries, 11,284 new infections and 142 deaths in the 24-hour window. Bengal now has 4.64 per cent of India’s active cases and dropped to seventh among states with most active cases. “Having less than 1 lakh active cases to deal with, once again, is a huge landmark, at least psychologically, given the monstrous proportions of the second wave in India. We have managed to drag it back from the all-time high of 1,32,181 of May 21, just nine days ago,” said a minister. “What’s heartening to note is the fact that the number of new infections detected daily has been steadily on the decline, despite no major drop in the number of tests,” he added, referring to the daily positive confirmation rate that fell to 16.04 per cent on Sunday, less than half of the second wave peak of around 33. Deemed a key indicator this pandemic, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. In another significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 29th consecutive day, to 91.93 per cent, rising by around five percentage points in a couple of weeks. The national rate now is 91.5. With a total of 15,410 deaths this pandemic, Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.12 per cent, while the national rate is 1.17 now. Of the 142 deaths reported on Sunday, 33 were reported from Calcutta and 49 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts. Calcutta logged 1,830 new infections, North 24-Parganas 2,482. “Even the Calcutta-North 24-Parganas picture has started improving. Nine days ago, they had between them nearly 53,000 total active cases (around 40 per cent of Bengal’s total). Today, they collectively have around 32,000 (around 34 per cent),” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP accuses TMC of not letting them help the Covid-hit in Jalpaiguri||The saffron camp has accused leaders of Mamata Banerjee’s party of creating hurdles in their way of helping people during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in Jalpaiguri and has simultaneously alleged that the district administration is biased. “Trinamul leaders, workers and supporters with no official position are roaming around freely in the streets every day, despite restrictions, on the pretext of reaching out to people during the pandemic. On the other hand, whenever our leaders and workers take initiatives to help people, they are stopped, either by Trinamul cadres or by the administration,” said Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP president. He also alleged that while the Trinamul supporters were allowed to go scot-free, those in BJP are threatened with legal steps for allegedly flouting the curbs. “We had witnessed a similar attitude of the police and administration during last year’s lockdown....This is complete bias,” added Goswami. Trinamul leaders, on the other hand, have accused the BJP of needlessly creating controversies. K.K. Kalyani, the district Trinamul president, said they have been consistently working for people during and have engaged their frontal organisations in the task. “We have formed teams in wards to help to Covid patients and their families….. recently, we even engaged our teachers’ front. They are going to households, distributing free ration and providing other help,” said Kalyani. “The cadres of the BJP have not taken any initiative to stand by people and are only interested in political activities. To hide their failure, they are saying these things. In Jalpaiguri, many organisations are into relief and other work, and no one is stopping them,” Kalyani added. Trinamul leaders also asked what the BJP did for people directly or indirectly affected by the pandemic. In Jalpaiguri, the BJP won four of seven seats. The remaining three seats were bagged by Trinamul. “Only one-and-a-half-months back, thousands voted for BJP and those candidates are MLAs now. What are they doing these days? Like the MPs who had got elected back in 2019 and did nothing for north Bengal, the MLAs and their party leaders have miserably failed to stand by the people,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), run by a board of administrators with former state minister Gautam Deb as chairman, will provide free oxygen supply to patients who need it from Monday. The civic body, sources said, has also opened an emergency relief fund to treat Covid patients. “To start with, the chairperson (Deb) has donated Rs 1.54 lakh in the fund out of his own resources,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Boats bring soil to repair dykes||Irrigation department officials in the coastal district of East Midnapore, and in stretches of North and South 24-Parganas are transporting earth in motorboats in flooded areas to repair embankments damaged by Cyclone Yaas. The reason? Earthmovers and other construction machinery still can’t venture inside flooded areas. Roads are under water. And repairs must be done quickly so that floods don’t recur on June 10 and 11, when a high tide is likely in the area. Sources said around 136 points along these areas have been earmarked as flood-prone, and work had begun in these areas over the weekend. However, given the challenging nature of the task, some officials are unsure of finishing the task in time. “We can’t move earthmoving machines towards the embankments as the entire area is waterlogged. We can’t get manpower too, as people here are still struggling. Another problem is the distance we have to cover to transport fresh earth. We don’t know if we will be able to repair the entire embankment before the next high tide,” said a senior irrigation official in South 24 Parganas. “We have started what we can do by bringing earth in these vessels,” he added. Sources in the irrigation department said embankments have been breached in three districts at 136 points, and over 290 spots of a 400km earthen embankment has been damaged by the sudden surge in water level. After engineers on the ground apprised senior irrigation officials of the situation over the weekend, a high-level meeting was held on Thursday evening, headed by minister Saumen Kumar Mahapatra. “It is really challenging to finish repairing embankments within 10-12 days. So, we planned to hire large vessels to carry earth and machinery through water immediately,” irrigation minister Mahapatra said. Mahapatra said this meant extra costs but the government had no other option. “It will take time if we wait for waterto flow down from flooded areas. It will be also tough to get a large supply of earth from neighbouring areas as most places are under water. We have made a primary estimate of around Rs 160 crore to complete these immediate repairs,” the minister added. After Amphan last year, the department had stockpiled construction materials at 122 points across 10 districts before Yaas arrived. “We had kept ready construction materials in 112 vulnerable areas of 75 blocks where Cyclone Yaas could leave an impact. This was done to ensure that the repairing of embankments could be started at the earliest. With vessels, it will be easier to deliver materials to the sites,” said a state irrigation official. However, some officials said this wasn’t feasible as motorboats cannot bear the load of earth or other materials required to repair embankments. “We can repair embankments at a few points by bringing earth from far away. But this time the damage is bigger than Amphan and I doubt whether it will be possible to repair every place by bringing soil via waterways,” said a senior irrigation official in North 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Sikkim lockdown extended till June 7||The Sikkim government on Sunday extended the fortnight-long lockdown in the state by another seven days till June 7, though with some more relaxations for certain sectors, in view of the continuing threat posed by the novel coronavirus While extending the lockdown that was to have ended on Monday morning, a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay) decided to extend the business hours for shops selling essential commodities from 7am till noon as against the present 8am to 11am window. Intra-state and inter-state transport of essential commodities will also be allowed in the third phase of the lockdown that was necessitated by the second wave of the pandemic which has infected and killed more people than in the first phase last year. “Construction work, both government and private, will also be allowed, but with only local workers,” said an official source. Liquor shops, which have been closed since the start of the latest rounds of lockdown on May 17, will remain open from 7am till noon. Social gatherings and functions, however, remain strictly prohibited. Sikkim logged 264 infections on Sunday, taking the overall caseload to 15,171. With 130 new recoveries, the total number of cured patients reached 10,746. The death toll touched the 250 mark with three fatalities in the past 24 hours. According to a release issued by the state labour department, the meeting also directed pharmaceutical companies to provide Rs 2 lakh each as ex-gratia to the families of workers who die of Covid-19. The pharmaceutical companies have been exempted from the purview of the lockdown. Over 50 medicine companies, including big players like Cipla, Sun Pharma and Zydus Cadila, operate in the state and they employ about 20,000 workers. The companies were asked to pay full wages to Covid-positive workers and their primary contacts who fail to report for duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers shun event to mark 7 years of PM Narendra Modi||The BJP has been struggling to execute Seva Hi Sangathan programme — a pan-India event to mark the seventh anniversary of Narendra Modi’s ascent to the prime ministerial chair — in Bengal because, according to sources in the party’s state unit, large sections of workers have called it “a bluff”. Several BJP sources said on condition of anonymity that those workers had been angry that the party did not stand by them either during the post-results violence or in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. Besides, according to them, the party has been of “no help at all” in the first or the second wave of Covid-19. “Amid the complete absence of any real cooperation or support from the leadership, this Seva Hi Sangathan programme is just a photo op in which most workers are not interested,” said a state BJP functionary. The Seva Hi Sangathan programme was inaugurated on Sunday through a virtual address by BJP national president J.P. Nadda. As part of the programme, state BJP leaders, MPs, MLAs and elected representatives at local bodies have been instructed to select two booths in their areas and carry out relief works. They were also asked to take pictures of the exercise and share the same without fail on social media. “Workers at the ground level, mostly in south Bengal, are firmly unwilling to participate in the program. Many of them have clearly said they are busy protecting their homes and families right now, and don’t have the time to pose for photos,” said the state BJP functionary. “The party has failed to provide security to its own workers, and is now busy trying to promote a superficial PR exercise that matters little to the masses… it has no meaning in a state that thoroughly rejected the BJP just weeks ago,” he added. While some elected representatives and office bearers of the BJP were seen carrying out relief works at a few places on Sunday, the likes of mandal committee presidents and booth-level workers were mostly absent. Many of those grassroots workers were absent from the preparatory meetings held for the programme. A booth president of the BJP’s South Calcutta organisational district said: “For whom should we do so much work, even now?” “We took every risk, going all out against the Trinamul Congress during the polls — which we were supposedly guaranteed to win — for our candidates. Then, we got trounced in the election. Now, while we struggle to withstand attacks from Trinamul, our candidates or our leaders won’t even talk to us and will not even take our calls,” he added. He pointed out the organisational district’s office-bearers had called for a virtual meet with the workers and candidates of the 10 Assembly constituencies (all of which the BJP lost) under it on Saturday evening. Only one of the 10 candidates bothered to join the meeting. “Lokenath Chatterjee, the candidate for Ballygunge, was the only one available. None of the celebrities, the stars, not even the candidates with political backgrounds cared to show up,” he said. The Mathurapur organisational district has seven Assembly constituencies (all of which the BJP lost) under it. Four of the candidates have not been seen in public since the results. Two of the remaining three sometimes visit the constituencies. Most booth and mandal presidents, of the many this newspaper spoke to, said the workers had been disillusioned with how the BJP allegedly turned its back on them after the historic Bengal mandate handed it a drubbing. Many said they were afraid that Trinamul workers would attack them again if they were found distributing relief material for the BJP. “Besides, the government will distribute a lot of relief and compensation to those affected by Yaas. BJP workers do not want to rub the ruling party the wrong way even now and miss out on that,” said a mandal chief in the Diamond Harbour organisation district with seven Assembly seats (all of which the BJP lost). “The leaders will take pictures and post them on social media. They will be applauded for just that. What will the ordinary worker get? He will only be running the risk of being identified by Trinamul, for victimisation in future. Victimisation from which the BJP will not protect him,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
