16-04-2021||World||US says Russia was given Trump campaign polling data in 2016||It was one of the more tantalising, yet unresolved, questions of the investigation into possible connections between Russia and Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign: Why was a business associate of campaign chairman Paul Manafort given internal polling data — and what did he do with it?A Treasury Department statement Thursday offered a potentially significant clue, asserting that Konstantin Kilimnik, a Russian and Ukrainian political consultant, had shared sensitive campaign and polling information with Russian intelligence services.Kilimnik has long been alleged by US officials to have ties to Russian intelligence. But the statement in a broader Treasury Department sanctions announcement was the first time the US government had so directly drawn a connection from the Trump campaign to the Kremlin's intelligence services.The revelation was all the more startling because it went beyond any allegation made in either special counsel Robert Mueller's 2019 report or in an even more damning and detailed document released last year by the Senate Intelligence Committee.Both those investigations were unable to determine what Kilimnik did with the data and whether he shared it further.The issue resurfaced Thursday because Kilimnik was one of 32 people and entities sanctioned by the US government for interference in the 2020 election.Officials say Kilimnik sought to promote the bogus narrative that Ukraine, not Russia, had interfered in the 2016 election.Kilimnik was a key but mysterious figure in Mueller's investigation into potential coordination between Russia and the 2016 Trump campaign.A business associate of Manafort's who worked closely with him, even managing his firm's office in Kyiv, Kilimnik is mentioned by name 156 times in the Mueller report.He was also indicted alongside Manafort on witness tampering allegations, but has not appeared in the US to face those charges.The FBI has issued a USD 250,000 award for information leading to his arrest.A key episode examined by Mueller involved Manafort's decision to share campaign polling data with Kilimnik — something prosecutors say Manafort lied about when questioned. Investigators scrutinized a series of secretive encounters between the men, including one in August 2016 at the Grand Havana Club in New York.There, according to statements provided by Mueller, Manafort briefed Kilimnik on internal campaign data and messaging and they discussed battleground states.The exchange of polling data was an eye-catching data point, especially since it suggested Russia could have exploited such inside information to target influence campaigns aimed at boosting Trump's election bid in 2016.But Mueller's team said it couldn't “reliably determine” Manafort's purpose in sharing it, nor assess what Kilimnik may have done with it — in part due to questions over Manafort's credibility.The Senate committee also came up empty, though its report drew attention for its characterization of Kilimnik as a Russian intelligence officer.It was not clear what new information, if any, led to the Treasury Department's assessment that Kilimnik had “provided the Russian Intelligence Services with sensitive information on polling and campaign strategy.” A Treasury Department spokesman did not return an email seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-russia-was-given-donald-trump-campaign-polling-data-in-2016-101618593428410.html
16-04-2021||World||Heavy metal guitarist 1st suspect to plead guilty in Capitol riot||A heavy metal guitarist on Friday became the first defendant to plead guilty to federal charges in connection with the insurrection at the U.S. Capitol.Jon Ryan Schaffer, the frontman of the band Iced Earth, has agreed to cooperate with investigators in hopes of getting a lighter sentence, and the Justice Department will consider putting Schaffer in the federal witness security program, US District Judge Amit Mehta said.This signals that federal prosecutors see him as a valuable cooperator as they continue to investigate the militia groups and other extremists involved in the insurrection on Jan. 6 as Congress was meeting to certify President Joe Biden's electoral win.Schaffer was accused of storming the Capitol and spraying police officers with bear spray. He pleaded guilty in a deal with prosecutors in federal court in Washington to two counts: obstruction of an official proceeding, and entering and remaining in a restricted building with a dangerous or deadly weapon.An email seeking comment was sent to an attorney for Schaffer.Schaffer is among more than 370 people facing federal charges in the deadly insurrection, which sent lawmakers into hiding and delayed the certification of Biden's win. The Justice Department has indicated it is in separate plea negotiations with other defendants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heavy-metal-guitarist-1st-suspect-to-plead-guilty-in-capitol-riot-101618592018162.html
16-04-2021||World||Maldives seeks renewal of annual quotas of essential items from India||Maldives foreign minister Abdulla Shahid on Friday asked the Indian government to renew quotas for essential commodities in line with the bilateral trade agreement of 1981, people familiar with the developments said. The matter figured in Shahid’s meeting with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar in New Delhi. The two ministers discussed bilateral, regional and global issues of mutual interest and Indian assistance to help the Maldives cope with the Covid-19 pandemic, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. “Shahid requested the Indian side for renewal of Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) notifications regarding assured supply of essential commodities to the Maldives from India according to the bilateral trade agreement,” said one of the people cited above. Jaishankar assured Shahid that the Indian commitment would be honoured, the people said. Every year, the Indian government makes quota allocations for supplying essential commodities to the Maldives. Since the Maldives is almost completely dependent on imports, these quotas provide certainty and price stability for the Indian Ocean archipelago. Last year, the quotas set by India were the highest ever since the agreement was signed. The Maldives, along with Bangladesh, occupied a special place in India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy and has benefited from grants and lines of credit for development and infrastructure projects. It was also among the first countries to benefit from grants under the Vaccine Maitri initiative. The two ministers reviewed ongoing India-aided projects in the Maldives. India is currently developing projects worth $2 billion, including major infrastructure schemes for ports, roads, bridges, water and sanitation, and socio-economic development. A growing number of Indian tourists have visited the Maldives this year, aiding the archipelago’s economy in difficult times. Under a bilateral air bubble arrangement, India is the number one tourist market for the Maldives, and Indian travellers currently account for 23% of international tourist arrivals. As part of his two-day visit to India, Shahid also participated in the Raisina Dialogue through the virtual mode. His trip to New Delhi came in the wake of Jaishankar’s visit to the Maldives in February. Jaishankar also reaffirmed India’s support for Shahid’s candidacy as the president of the 76th UN General Assembly. The ministers also discussed cooperation at international forums such as the UN, Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, Commonwealth and South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/maldives-seeks-renewal-of-annual-quotas-of-essential-items-from-india-101618591816295.html
16-04-2021||World||Russia to expel 10 US diplomats in response to sanctions by Biden administration||Russia on Friday responded in kind to a barrage of new U.S. sanctions, saying it would expel 10 U.S. diplomats and take other retaliatory moves in a tense showdown with Washington.Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov also said Moscow will add eight U.S. officials to its sanctions list and move to restrict and stop the activities of U.S. nongovernment organizations from interfering in Russia’s politics.He said the Kremlin suggested that U.S. Ambassador John Sullivan follow the example of his Russian counterpart and head home for consultations. Russia will also move to deny the U.S. Embassy the possibility to hire personnel from Russia and third countries as support staff.The moves follow the sanctions on Russia announced this week by the Biden administration.While the U.S. wields the power to cripple the Russian economy, Moscow lacks levers to respond in kind, although it potentially could hurt American interests in many other ways around the globe.Lavrov noted that while Russia could take “painful measures” against American business interests in Russia, it wouldn’t immediately move to do thatRussia has denied interfering in the 2020 U.S. presidential election and involvement in the SolarWind hack of federal agencies — the activities punished by the latest U.S. sanctions. The Russian Foreign Ministry warned of an “inevitable” retaliation, charging that “Washington should realize that it will have to pay a price for the degradation of bilateral ties.”The U.S. on Thursday ordered 10 Russian diplomats expelled, targeted dozens of companies and people, and imposed new curbs on Russia's ability to borrow money. Pundits had predicted that while Moscow would respond in kind to the expulsions, it would refrain from any other significant moves to avoid a further escalation.Russia's economic potential and its global reach are limited compared with the Soviet Union that competed with the U.S for international influence during the Cold War. Still, Russia's nuclear arsenal and its leverage in many parts of the world make it a power that Washington needs to reckon with.Aware of that, President Joe Biden called for de-escalating tensions and held the door open for cooperation with Russia in certain areas. Biden said he told Putin in Tuesday's call that he chose not to impose tougher sanctions for now and proposed to meet in a third country in the summer.Lavrov said the summit offer was being analyzed.While the new U.S. sanctions further limited Russia’s ability to borrow money by banning U.S. financial institutions from buying Russian government bonds directly from state institutions, they didn't target the secondary market.“It’s very important that there’re no sanctions on secondary debt because that means that non-U.S. persons can buy the debt and sell it to the U.S. persons,” said Tom Adshead, director of research at Macro-Advisory Ltd, an analytics and advisory company.Tougher restrictions would also hurt Western businesses, inflict significant economic pain on the Russian population and allow Putin to rally anti-U.S. sentiments to shore up his rule.Ramping up sanctions could eventually drive Russia into a corner and provoke even more reckless Kremlin action, such as a potential escalation in Ukraine, which has recently faced a surge in clashes with Russia-backed separatists in the east and a massive Russian troops buildup across the border.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was in Paris on Friday to discuss the tensions with French President Emmanuel Macron. German Chancellor Angela Merkel was to join them in a call later.Fyodor Lukyanov, a top foreign policy expert who leads the Moscow-based Council for Foreign and Defense Policies, predicted Putin would likely accept Biden's invitation to join next week’s call on climate change but could drag his feet on accepting the summit offer.“There is no way to make any deals,” Lukyanov said. “There is a mutual antipathy and a total lack of trust.”He charged that the only practical outcome of the summit could be an agreement to launch long and difficult talks on a replacement to the New START nuclear reduction agreement that Russia and the U.S. extended in February for another five years.Lukyanov noted that the growing U.S. pressure will push Russia and China closer together in the long run.“Closer cooperation with China on coordinating actions to contain the United States will develop more quickly now as the Chinese are interested in that,” he said. While Russia lacks tools for a symmetrical answer to the U.S. sanctions, “it has ample capabilities to stimulate changes in the world order,” he added.Konstantin Kosachev, the Kremlin-connected deputy speaker of the upper house of parliament, said that by hitting Russia with sanctions and proposing a summit at the same time, the U.S. sought to take a commanding stance.“Russia's consent would be interpreted as a reflection of its desire to soften the sanctions, allowing the U.S. to secure a dominant position at the meeting, while our refusal to meet would be a convenient pretext for more punitive measures," Kosachev wrote on Facebook.He argued that Russia should not rush to accept Biden's summit offer.“Revenge is a dish best served cold,” Kosachev wrote. “I believe the saying is quite adaptable to a situation when we talk not about revenge but a due answer to aggressive action by an opponent.”Some predicted the U.S. sanctions could discourage Russia from cooperating with the U.S. on international crises.“The Russian position will grow tougher on Syria, the Iranian nuclear deal and other issues,” Ivan Timofeev, program director at Russian International Affairs Council, said in a commentary. Instead of acting as a deterrent, he warned, the sanctions would “only anger Russia and make its policy even tougher.”However, any attempt by Russia to undermine American interests would dangerously escalate tensions with the U.S. and trigger even harder sanctions — something the Kremlin certainly wants to avoid.Despite the soaring tensions, Russia and the U.S. have shared interests in many global hot spots. For example, Moscow fears that instability could spread from Afghanistan to former Soviet republics in Central Asia, and it is interested in a political settlement there.As for Iran, Moscow also doesn't want to see it with nuclear weapons, despite its friendly ties with Tehran.Lukyanov said that Russia wouldn't try to use global hot spots to hurt the U.S. and would wait patiently to see them erode U.S. domination.“It's not a matter of playing the spoiler here or there,” he said. “The ongoing developments will help accelerate the process of consolidation of leading powers against the U.S. domination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-to-expel-10-american-diplomats-in-response-to-us-sanctions-101618589458996.html
16-04-2021||World||Prince Philip’s funeral: Here’s the list of 30 attendees; How to watch||Buckingham Palace on Thursday released the names of the 30 members of the royal family who will attend the funeral of Prince Philip on April 17. The Duke of Edinburgh died at Windsor Castle last week aged 99. The number of attendees has been restricted to 30 due to the restrictions imposed by the British government in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.It will be a “ceremonial royal funeral” and not a “state funeral” that is generally reserved for British monarchs. The coffin will emerge from the state entrance of Windsor Castle into the Quadrangle, followed by members of the royal family walking in the procession. Everyone present in the Quadrangle will give a royal salute to the coffin before it is placed onto the Land Rover.The palace revealed that Prince William and Prince Harry will not walk side-by-side. Harry’s cousin Peter Philips will walk between the princes while escorting the coffin to St. George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle, west of London. Prince Charles, the heir to the throne, will lead the 15-member procession along with his sister, Princess Anne.Here’s the list of 30 members of the royal family who will attend the funeral:The mourners are expected to be at St George's Chapel, Windsor for the service at 3:00pm BST on Saturday (7:30pm IST). The funeral will be broadcast live on BBC One, Sky, and ITN. CNN International will broadcast the proceedings starting at 5:30 pm (IST). BBC World News will commence live coverage from Windsor Castle at 10:30 am IST, with coverage of the funeral beginning at 5:00pm (IST).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-philip-s-funeral-here-s-the-list-of-30-attendees-how-to-watch-101618588275987.html
16-04-2021||World||India, Afghanistan criticise Pakistan for backing Taliban, meddling in Afghan affairs||Pakistan’s role in backing the Taliban and meddling in Afghanistan was criticised on Friday by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and Afghan National Security Adviser Hamdullah Mohib, who said democratic and constitutional structures created in the war-torn country must be preserved. Without naming Pakistan, both Jaishankar and Mohib referred to the negative role of a “neighbour” of Afghanistan while participating in a virtual discussion at the Raisina Dialogue. However, their remarks left no one in doubt as to which country they were talking about. Iranian foreign minister Javad Zarif, who also participated in the discussion, was more circumspect but urged the Taliban to join negotiations aimed at ensuring a peaceful and stable Afghanistan. Jaishankar noted that thousands of foreign fighters are still in Afghanistan and said all stakeholders should buy into a fair and broad-based process aimed at ensuring lasting peace in Afghanistan. The resolution in Afghanistan must be supported by all its neighbours and cannot be based solely on “the wishes of the most forceful set of people in that society”, he said. “The neighbours of Afghanistan unfortunately have very often played a very negative role...The neighbours also need to lay off Afghanistan and let the Afghan people do what is in their best interest,” Jaishankar said. Mohib endorsed Jaishankar’s comments about the presence of foreign fighters and said: “It’s not just the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan, it’s also the withdrawal of foreign fighters from Afghanistan, [whom] the Taliban are working closely with and who are involved in destructive activities in our country and...will remain a threat to the region.” He said everything alleged about the Taliban’s links with a neighbouring country had “become a clear reality” over the past 18 months following the visit of Taliban leaders to their injured fighters and their public discussions. “Any further push would mean that there is direct involvement in Afghanistan by a neighbour, which could be very dangerous. The nationalistic forces in Afghanistan are very upset and angry over this and if this limit is passed, I think there would be huge problems for the said neighbour, in their country by all Afghans who are there and from within Afghanistan,” Mohib said. “There could be a huge blowback effect that I think could be destructive for these neighbours,” he added. Jaishankar dismissed Pakistan’s narrative about being encircled by India and any India-friendly government in Kabul, saying New Delhi’s actions were only aimed at creating power infrastructure, dams, health clinics and roads. “This is actually an absolute fantasy that somewhere our very presence and our activities there are aimed at Pakistan. It completely ignores the feelings that we have for the Afghan people,” he said. Mohib pointed to the coordination between the Indian and Afghan governments, saying he had spoken to NSA Ajit Doval on Friday morning to assess the situation and to prepare for the dialogue with the Taliban. The Afghan side will put together a team to work with the US and NATO on a transition plan but all efforts will be aimed at ensuring a united, democratic and sovereign Afghanistan, he said. The discussion was held against the backdrop of US President Joe Biden’s announcement about the withdrawal of all American forces from Afghanistan by September to end their two-decade-long deployment. US secretary of state Antony Blinken visited Kabul on Thursday to discuss the transition with President Ashraf Ghani. The Taliban have said they won’t attend a meeting in Turkey this month to decide on Afghanistan’s future until all foreign forces leave the country. Taliban leaders have also spoken of their plans to restore the Islamic emirate they had created in the 1990s. However, Jaishankar, Mohib and Zarif ruled out the possibility of taking Afghanistan back to the era of the Taliban’s emirate and said all the gains made in the past two decades – including the rights of minorities and women, democratic structures and choosing representatives through elections – must be preserved. All three leaders acknowledged that the existing system in Afghanistan wasn’t perfect but said it was preferable to the Taliban’s plans to impose an Islamic system. “The Taliban have no reason to continue their violence in Afghanistan anymore...It’s time for them to make real peace with the Afghan government and become part of the mainstream political society,” Mohib said. Zarif said the Iranian government has had frank discussions with the Taliban to convince them of the need for a broad-based and inclusive peace in Afghanistan. The Taliban shouldn’t use the withdrawal of US troops as an opportunity to increase violence, he added. “We cannot create a vacuum, Taliban should not be asking for a vacuum. Taliban should start negotiating now with the government and people of Afghanistan, with various groups in Afghanistan,” Zarif said, adding a vacuum would draw in “fighting, violence and a civil war”....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-afghanistan-criticise-pakistan-for-backing-taliban-meddling-in-afghan-affairs-101618586835936.html
16-04-2021||World||China's massed drills near Taiwan take aim at Washington audience||Chinese carrier drills and stepped-up incursions into Taiwan's air defence zone in recent weeks are meant to send a message to Washington to stand down and back off, security sources in Taipei say.The increased activity - which China, unusually, described as "combat drills" on Wednesday - has raised alarm in both Taipei and Washington, though security officials do not see it as a sign of an imminent attack.Rather, according to an official familiar with Taiwan's security planning, at least some of the exercises are practicing "access denial" manoeuvres to prevent foreign forces from coming to Taipei's defence in a war."China claimed that the drills are near Taiwan, but judging by their location it's actually meant for the U.S. military," said the official in Taiwan, speaking on condition of anonymity as he was not authorised to speak to the media.As China sailed an aircraft carrier group near Taiwan last week, its air force simulated attacks on American ships, although no U.S. Navy vessels were known to be in the area at the time, the source said.The U.S. Navy has been carrying out regular transits of the Taiwan Strait, which separates the island from China.One Western security source said the almost-daily flights by Chinese anti-submarine aircraft in the northernmost part of the South China Sea were probably a response to U.S. missions there, including by submarines, or to show the Pentagon that China can hunt for U.S. submarines."They are not chasing Taiwanese subs," the source said, pointing to Taiwan's own tiny fleet of four, two of which date from World War Two.The U.S. Navy does not give details of any submarine patrols near Taiwan or in the South China Sea.President Joe Biden's White House has maintained a tough-on-China stance inherited from the Trump administration. That has included more visible support for Taiwan, angering China, which considers the island part of its territory and sees Washington as giving succour to Taiwanese who seek independence, a red line for Beijing.Two U.S. military officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said that although the United States was concerned about Chinese activity around Taiwan, there was no sense of an imminent attack."For the past five years, China has been the centrepiece of the United States' national defence strategy. So of course we're concerned," one official said.China's Defence Ministry and the U.S. Navy's 7th Fleet did not respond to requests for comment.Taiwan's Defence Ministry said that it was keeping a close watch on "enemy movements" and that it has combat plans to deal with scenarios for a Chinese attack. It did not elaborate.'INESCAPABLE RESPONSIBILITY'Although China has escalated its rhetoric in response to U.S. warships passing through the Taiwan Strait, a U.S. defence official said Washington had not seen any kind of operational military escalation by the Chinese in response.In a statement to Reuters, China's Foreign Ministry said the United States has "swelled the arrogance of Taiwan independence forces".Washington "bears an inescapable responsibility for tensions in the Taiwan Strait", it added.A senior U.S. administration official said that regardless of who Beijing's incursions near Taiwan were aimed at, their effect was direct "intimidation and coercion" of Taiwan."Our operations there have been in a pretty steady state consistently," the official said. "So I don't think there's an increased pace of U.S. military operations that are necessarily driving what Beijing is doing. That feels a little bit like an excuse there for what they're doing."The U.S. Navy this month took the rare step of publishing a photo on its main website of a U.S. warship in the Philippine Sea watching China's Liaoning carrier.Raising the stakes, China's Navy said for the first time last week that carrier drills near Taiwan would become routine.Another U.S. warship sailed through the Taiwan Strait two days after China's announcement of its carrier manoeuvres, part of what the Pentagon refers to as "routine" transits that have prompted Beijing to accuse Washington of causing regional tensions."China's top concern in any Taiwan contingency would be preventing or at least blunting armed intervention by the U.S.", said Greg Poling, a maritime security expert at Washington's Center for Strategic and International Studies."So demonstrating increased ability to deny U.S. access is a coercive message sent to both Washington and Taipei."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-massed-drills-near-taiwan-take-aim-at-washington-audience-101618583588145.html
16-04-2021||World||China likely to approve BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine by July: Report||China is planning to authorize the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Germany's BioNTech SE by July, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday, citing people familiar with the matter.If approved, it would become the first foreign Covid-19 vaccine to be authorized in the country.Chinese officials are reviewing clinical-trial data for the vaccine and are expected to authorize it for domestic use within the next 10 weeks, the report said.BioNTech did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment.The German drugmaker announced a potential deal with Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co Ltd in August to supply 10 million doses of their Covid-19 vaccine to Hong Kong and Macau.The vaccine, developed in collaboration with Pfizer Inc, is already approved in several countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom and Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-likely-to-approve-biontech-s-covid-19-vaccine-by-july-report-101618578664089.html
16-04-2021||World||Shy podcaster helped cops solve California cold case killing||Chris Lambert would like to get back to making music but he can’t seem to stop chasing a ghost that has haunted him for nearly 25 years.A billboard on the side of the road on California’s Central Coast led him on a detour three years ago from his career as a singer-songwriter and recording engineer. He created a podcast about the 1996 disappearance of college freshman Kristin Smart and it’s taken over his life.“I can’t step away from it for more than a few days,” Lambert said. “I just get sucked right back in because I want to be resolving things.”It was an unlikely turn for someone who refers to himself as a shy, “random boy with a beard” and it has produced results he never imagined.On Tuesday, as San Luis Obispo County Sheriff Ian Parkinson announced arrests, he credited Lambert with helping draw worldwide attention to the case and bringing forward several key witnesses.The longtime suspect, Paul Flores, and Smart were fellow freshmen at the California Polytechnic State University campus in San Luis Obispo. Now 44, Flores was charged with murder in the killing of the 19-year-old while trying to rape her in his dorm room, prosecutors said.His father, Ruben Flores, 80, was charged as an accessory after authorities said he helped hide the body, which has never been located.Paul Flores’ lawyer has declined to comment on the criminal charge. A lawyer for Ruben Flores said his client is innocent.Lambert has been thrust into the spotlight with the arrests. His eight-part series, “Your Own Backyard,” hit 7.5 million downloads Thursday and it was the No. 2 podcast on iTunes. Lambert’s phone has been blowing up with messages — from fans, tipsters and news reporters. He appreciates the attention but has been overwhelmed.“It’s driving me insane,” he said, yet he remained focused, patient and polite during a 45-minute interview with The Associated Press on Wednesday.All the attention isn’t leading to any money — Lambert takes no advertising for the podcast, relying on donations.His is the latest in a line of true-crime podcasts to play a role in an arrest, a court appeal or even an exoneration.“Up and Vanished” led a man to confess to killing a Georgia beauty queen, while “Serial” helped a convicted murderer win a new trial in Maryland. “In the Dark” unearthed new evidence in a case prosecutors dropped instead of seeking a seventh trial against a Mississippi man who spent decades on death row.Lambert, 33, was just 8 when Smart vanished a short drive up the coast from his own home in the small town of Orcutt, about 140 miles (225 kilometers) northwest of Los Angeles. It scared him that someone had gone missing and no one knew what happened.For more than two decades, a billboard featuring a photo of a grinning Smart advertised a $75,000 reward. It’s located in the town of Arroyo Grande. where Paul Flores grew up and his parents still live.Lambert passed it many times and it ultimately motivated him to start investigating.“I thought I’d give it a shot and see if I could get a few people talking,” Lambert said. “All I have to do is get over my shyness and start calling these people out of the blue and start asking really personal questions.”He bought some high-quality recording equipment and began making calls. He located overlooked or reluctant witnesses who hadn’t spoken with police, he said.People opened up to Lambert and he encouraged them to contact investigators with relevant information. Deputies started calling him to connect them with people he interviewed.“What Chris did with the podcast was put it out nationally to bring in new information,” Parkinson said without elaborating on the new evidence. “It did produce some information that I believe was valuable.”A former colleague of Paul Flores’ mother, Susan Flores, told him Mrs. Flores came into work after Memorial Day weekend 1996 — when Smart went missing — saying she didn’t sleep well because her husband had gotten a phone call in the middle of the night and left in his car.“The speculation has been all along that Paul called his dad in the middle of the night and his dad came up and helped him get rid of Kristin’s body,” Lambert said.A tenant who lived for a year at Susan Flores’ home told him she heard a watch alarm every morning at 4:20 a.m. Smart had worked as a lifeguard at 5 a.m. at the Cal Poly pool, so it’s possible she set her watch to wake up at that early hour.“That seems to be the moment in the podcast series that most people have been just completely shaken,” he said. “This may be the piece of evidence that points to the fact that Kristin was buried in that backyard or that her belongings were buried in that backyard.”Susan Flores, who hung up when called by the AP, told KSBY-TV in March in the only interview she’s granted that she could “shoot a lot of holes into a lot of (Lambert’s) lies.”She said Lambert never contacted her. He said he sent an intermediary to her house and Susan Flores threatened to call the police. His efforts to speak with Paul Flores were also fruitless, he said.Lambert spoke with a former Australian exchange student at Cal Poly who said he saw Flores and Smart struggling near where Smart was last seen. Lambert said investigators had dismissed that account in the early years of the probe.Lambert has developed a close relationship with the Smart family, who issued a statement after the arrest, praising his skills and “unselfish dedication.”He is grateful to have grown close to the family. He feels like he’s gotten to know Kristin Smart, but wishes he had the chance to meet her.“For most of my life, Kristin Smart has been a face on a billboard,” he wrote on Instagram. “I’ve learned about Kristin the daughter, Kristin the big sister, Kristin the friend, the neighbor, the roommate. Kristin the swimmer. Kristin the dreamer. And I’ve learned that you can miss a person you never even got to meet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shy-podcaster-helped-cops-solve-california-cold-case-killing-101618578672119.html
16-04-2021||World||Australia reports first blood clot death 'likely' due to AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine||Australia on Friday reported its first fatality from blood clots in a recipient of AstraZeneca's COVID-19 shot, and its regulator said there was a likely link between the 48-year-old woman's death and the vaccine.Hers was the third instance of the rare blood clots appearing in people who have been administered the vaccine in Australia. The other two are recovering well, the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) added.It said it was "carefully reviewing" similar instances in Australia.The New South Wales woman received the AstraZeneca vaccine on April 8, the day that the government announced that the Pfizer vaccine would be given as a preference to patients under 50, delaying its inoculation timetable.In the absence of an alternative cause for the clot that she developed, Australia's Vaccine Safety Investigation Group (VSIG) "believed that a causative link to vaccination should be assumed at this time," the TGA said.The VSIG had held a meeting late on Friday following news of the woman's death.The TGA said her case had been complicated by underlying medical conditions, including diabetes, "as well as some atypical features."There had been at least 885,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccines administered in Australia so far, equating to a frequency of instance of blood clot in every 295,000 cases, the TGA said."The overall number ...so far has been no higher than the expected background rate for the more common type of blood clots," it said.The UK regulator, the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, has concluded from its review of cases reported in the UK that the overall risk of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis - a rare blood clot in the brain - was approximately 1 in 250,000 who receive the vaccine.Australia has reported over 22,000 COVID-19 cases of community transmission and 909 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-reports-first-blood-clot-death-likely-due-to-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-101618579588054.html
16-04-2021||World||With ‘folded hands’, Poonawalla urges Biden to lift export ban from these raw materials||Serum Institute of India (SII) chief executive Adar Poonawalla on Friday urged US President Joe Biden to lift the export ban on critical raw materials required for the production of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The United States in February invoked the Defense Production Act, which gives the power to control the distribution of products, to curb the export of raw materials critical for vaccine production.“Respected @POTUS, if we are to truly unite in beating this virus, on behalf of the vaccine industry outside the U.S., I humbly request you to lift the embargo of raw material exports out of the U.S. so that vaccine production can ramp up. Your administration has the details,” tweeted Poonawalla, adding a ‘folded hands’ emoji at the end.Respected @POTUS, if we are to truly unite in beating this virus, on behalf of the vaccine industry outside the U.S., I humbly request you to lift the embargo of raw material exports out of the U.S. so that vaccine production can ramp up. Your administration has the details. 🙏🙏Why did the US block the export of critical raw materials?In November last year, American pharmaceutical company Pfizer Inc. cut short its vaccine production target by half, citing a shortage of raw material. Pfizer, which is producing mRNA Covid-19 vaccines, had earlier planned to roll out over 1.2 billion shots in 2021 but reduced the target by half due to raw material shortage in the United States and Europe.The revised target was a major hindrance to Biden’s poll promise of administering 100 million vaccination shots in his first 100 days in office. The US government has purchased 600 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines from both Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc., which will be delivered in regular increments through the end of July 2021. In order to accelerate vaccine production, the Biden administration decided to invoke the Defense Production Act for the short term."We'll continue to use the Defense Production Act to expedite critical materials in vaccine production, such as equipment, machinery, and supplies," Biden had said.What are those critical raw materials?The long list of raw materials that SII imports from the US include filters, bags, and adjuvant. Large, sterile plastic bags are used to grow vaccine cells. An adjuvant is a substance that is used to increase the efficacy of a vaccine and helps the immune system generate antibodies.While vaccine manufacturers can establish a fresh supply chain for raw materials like filters and sterile plastic bags, the disruption in the supply of adjuvant could hamper production for a longer period. Authorised vaccines are made with a certain adjuvant and any change in the vendor of that adjuvant would lead to fresh clinical trials and approvals.“Developing new suppliers in the eleventh hour will take a bit of time. We will do that. We will not be dependent on the US after six months. The problem is we need it now,” Adar Poonawalla was quoted by India Today as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccine-what-raw-materials-poonawalla-wants-us-to-lift-export-ban-from-101618576174734.html
16-04-2021||World||Imran Khan appoints new finance minister, Shaukat Tareen to assume charge||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has appointed Shaukat Tareen as the new finance minister of the country, the fourth to don the mantle, in another cabinet reshuffle, it was announced by his office on Friday.Also Read | Pak PM Imran Khan replaces finance minister, appoints industry minister to postA banker by profession, Tareen, 68, served in the same capacity in the government of Pakistan Peoples Party (2009-10) for a short period before he decided to step down to raise capital for his Silk Bank. Tareen was facing corruption charges and had initially refused to accept the post until his name was cleared.It was not known if the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) dropped charges against him or not.He is a cousin of Jehangir Tareen, dubbed as sugar baron due to several sugar mills, who is an influential politician but is facing probe in the sugar scandal of the present government.Shaukat Tareen is replacing Hammad Azhar, who was appointed towards the end of the last month after Dr Abdul Hafeez Shaikh was removed for failure to control raging inflation in the country.Azhar, who was also serving a minister of industries and production, was appointed Minister for Energy after the reshuffle, while Khusro Bakhtiar was given the charge of ministry of industries and production.Minister for Science Fawad Chaudhry was appointed information minister while his predecessor Shibli Faraz was appointed as minister for science.It will be Chauhdry’s second stint as information minister as he was given the charge in 2018 but later shifted to ministry of science. Former energy minister Umar Ayub Khan was shifted to head the ministry of economic affairs.Khan has shuffled his cabinet several times since coming to power in August 2018, which his critics say was a sign of his failure to find a proper combination.“Ministers have been changed many times but it made no difference. Maybe it is time to change the prime minister,” Murtaza Wahab of Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-appoints-new-finance-minister-shaukat-tareen-to-assume-charge-101618571150998.html
16-04-2021||World||Indianapolis mass shooting: 8 killed at FedEx facility. What do we know so far||Eight people were killed and several others injured Thursday in the latest mass shooting incident at a FedEx facility in the US city of Indianapolis, according to police. Genae Cook, the police spokesperson, told a news conference that at least four people were hospitalised, including one victim with critical injuries."As officers arrived, they came into contact with an active shooting incident," said Cook, adding that the shooting had taken place at around 11:00pm local time (08:30am IST, Friday).According to the spokesperson, officers entered the facility without hesitation and “did their job”, stressing that they are trying to face this “because this is a sight no one should ever have to see.” Cook said that the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) is leading the investigation into the mass shooting and working with state police to interview witnesses from the scene. She added that the motive for the killing was unclear.Local media quoted a FedEx worker, Jeremiah Miller, as saying he had seen the gunman firing with a “submachine gun”. "I saw a man with a sub-machine gun of some sort, an automatic rifle, and he was firing in the open. I immediately ducked down and got scared and my friend’s mother, she came in and told us to get inside the car," Miller said.An Indian-origin man, Parminder Singh, told local WTTV that his niece was among those who were injured in the shooting incident. “She called as I was asleep at home. She said there was a shooting in the FedEx. So we just drove from Brownsburg,” said Singh. “She got shot on her left arm...she's fine, she's in the hospital now,” he added.After law enforcement officials were informed of a "mass casualty situation" at the FedEx ground facility near Indianapolis International Airport, the delivery services company said in a statement that they were working to gather more information and cooperating with investigating authorities.Last month, a shooting at a Colorado supermarket claimed 10 lives including that of a police officer. In Georgia, a white gunman went on a shooting rampage at three Atlanta-area massage parlours that sent terror through the Asian American community.According to the Gun Violence Archive, a non-profit group that provides near real-time reporting of gun violence incidents in the United States, gun violence deaths from all causes stands at 12,395 so far this year in the US, of which 147 were in mass shootings. US President Joe Biden recently announced six executive measures to help stem the gun violence cases but legislation for greater gun control is being resisted by Republicans.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianapolis-mass-shooting-8-killed-at-fedex-facility-what-do-we-know-so-far-101618569983249.html
16-04-2021||World||Indian-origin man says his niece among those injured in Indianapolis shooting||An Indian-origin man has said his niece was among those who were injured in a mass shooting incident at the FedEx facility in the US city of Indianapolis that left 8 people dead, according to a media report.The Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) said at least eight people died and several others were wounded during the shooting on Thursday night.The girl, who was not named, was sitting in her car in the driver's seat when the gunfire erupted, her uncle Parminder Singh told local WTTV.“She called as I was asleep at home. She said there was a shooting in the FedEx. So we just drove from Brownsburg,” said Singh.She was wounded, he said.“She got shot on her left arm,” said Singh.“She's fine, she's in the hospital now.”Singh told the channels that his niece did not know who the shooter was. IMPD said the shooting happened at the FedEx facility in the 8900 block of Mirabel Road. When officers arrived around 11 pm, they encountered an active shooter incident.Preliminary information from the department indicated the shooter took his own life.Eight victims at the scene were pronounced dead. Police did not include the shooter in that toll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianorigin-man-says-his-niece-among-those-injured-in-indianapolis-shooting-101618570358143.html
16-04-2021||World||Pakistan suspends services of social media platforms following violent protest||Pakistan on Friday temporarily suspended the services of social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook and WhatsApp to stop their use to organise demonstrations following violent protests by a radical religious group that has now been banned by the government.The government banned Tehreek-i-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) on Thursday following three days of violent protest by it to force the government to expel the French ambassador over a blasphemous caricature published in France last year.The TLP had launched the country-wide protest on Monday after the arrest of its chief Saad Hussain Rizvi.The TLP supporters clashed with the law enforcement agencies in several towns and cities earlier this week, leaving seven persons dead and over 300 policemen injured.To stop the protests after Friday prayers, the Interior Ministry directed the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) to suspend social media services for four hours from 11 am to 3 pm.The PTA said in a notification that “complete access to social media platforms (Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp, YouTube and Telegram) may be blocked”.The reason for the suspension of the services was not stated by the PTA but official sources said that it was feared that protesters could use social media to organise demonstrations.Suspension of internet and mobile phone services is a common practice in Pakistan to forestall protests and acts of terrorism.But this time only social media has been particularly targeted as the TLP was reportedly using it effectively against the government action.On Thursday, Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed warned the TLP against using YouTube to upload propaganda videos. The TLP came to prominence in November 2017 when it staged a sit-in at the Faizabad interchange near Islamabad and cut off the capital from the old international airport.Pakistan Muslims League-Nawaz (PML-N) was in the government then and Imran Khan, the current prime minister, and his Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf party had supported the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-suspends-services-of-social-media-platforms-following-violent-protest-101618567590777.html
16-04-2021||World||3 resign from Auschwitz museum board after right-wing leader's appointment||Three members of an advisory council for the Auschwitz-Birkenau Museum in Poland have resigned after the government appointed a former Polish prime minister Beata Szydlo, a top member of the country's right-wing ruling party, to serve on the council.Culture minister Piotr Glinski recently appointed Szydlo to a four-year term on the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum Council, a nine-member body made up of Poles who meet once a year to advise the museum's director. It is separate from the International Auschwitz Council, which is made up of Holocaust survivors and international experts.The first advisory council member to resign was philosopher Stanislaw Krajewski, who said he took the step Tuesday to protest what he called the “politicisation” of a group that so far had been made up of experts. He was followed by historians Marek Lasota, who also belongs to the ruling party, and Krystyna Oleksy, a former deputy director of the Auschwitz museum.Krajewski, who was about to begin his third four-year term, told The Associated Press on Friday that he does not remember a politician ever being named to the council and he did not feel comfortable with the step, particularly given the of the populist and nationalist Law and Justice Party.“It’s hard to say what would happen, but it would change the nature of the body very considerably,” Krajewski said. “I don’t want to be on the same council with a major politician of the ruling party today.”Krajewski is a co-creator of a post-World War II history section at the POLIN Museum of the History of Polish Jews in Warsaw and a co-founder of the Polish Council of Christians and Jews. He is also a leading member of Warsaw's Jewish community who since the 1970s has worked to revive the Jewish life in Poland that was nearly wiped out by the Holocaust.After the Law and Justice party took power in 2015, its leaders launched what they described as a “historical policy offensive” aimed at building national pride in the nation's past. The party has used museums, state media and other tools to push a patriotic vision of Poland which critics say has veered into an abuse of history and distortion.Poles are extremely proud of the nation's role in resisting the German occupation during nearly six years of World War II, both at home and abroad. The government has sought to focus on that aspect of Polish behavior during the war, including the Poles who saved Jews, while seeking to discourage examinations of the role some Poles had in helping occupying German forces in their roundup and mass killing of Jews.The strategy has led to accusations of historical whitewashing and created international controversies in recent years.“The fear is that this would be another move in the direction of making also the Auschwitz-Birkenau museum part of their historical policy," Krajewski said.Szydlo, who was prime minister from 2015-2017, made commented at a memorial observance at Auschwitz in 2017 that appeared to defend her government's tough anti-refugee policies. Szydlo later denied that her comments were about migration.Szydlo is now is a member of the European Parliament for the Law and Justice party. She has studied ethnography and history, and is from the area of Oswiecim, the Polish town where the site of the former Auschwitz death camp is located.Earlier this week, she called her appointment “an honor and a great duty for me, an inhabitant of the Oswiecim region.”Emails to her office and the Culture Ministry seeking comment on the council resignations went unanswered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-resign-from-auschwitz-museum-board-after-right-wing-leader-s-appointment-101618567764143.html
16-04-2021||World||WHO chief calls growth in Covid-19 cases 'worrying'||The head of the World Health Organisation said coronavirus cases are continuing to rise globally at “worrying” rates and noted that the number of new cases confirmed per week has nearly doubled during the past two months.At a press briefing on Friday, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the number of new cases “is approaching the highest rate of infection that we have seen so far in the pandemic.”Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Tedros said some countries that had been able to avoid widespread Covid-19 outbreaks are now seeing steep increases, citing Papua New Guinea as an example.“Until the beginning of this year, Papua New Guinea had reported less than 900 cases and nine deaths,” Tedros said.The country has now identified more than 9,000 cases and 83 deaths, half of which were reported in the last month.“Papua New Guinea is a perfect example of why vaccine equity is so important,” Tedros said, adding that the Pacific island nation has relied on vaccine donations from Australia and the UN-backed COVAX initiative.To date, COVAX has shipped about 40 million vaccines to more than 100 countries, or enough to protect about 0.25 per cent of the world's population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-chief-calls-growth-in-covid-19-cases-worrying-101618566448712.html
16-04-2021||World||China’s GDP grows at record 18.3% in first quarter as recovery speeds up||China’s economy grew by a record 18.3% in the first quarter of 2021, propelled by demand at home and abroad and government fiscal support after a deep pandemic-induced slump last year.It was the biggest jump in gross domestic product (GDP) since China started keeping quarterly records in 1992.The GDP reached 24.93 trillion yuan ($3.82 trillion) in Q1, up 0.6% from the fourth quarter of last year, data from China’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed on Friday.The Chinese economy had registered a 6.8% contraction in Q1 2020 due to the impact of lockdowns following the outbreak of the coronavirus, which first emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan.Aided by stringent virus containment and tracking measures and financial emergency relief for businesses, the economy has since slowly recovered – a rebound, firstly, led by overseas demand, and then by local consumption as shops, restaurants and markets across China opened up.The jump in GDP undershot the 19% forecast by economists in a Reuters poll, but it was the fastest since 1992, and up from 6.5% in the fourth quarter last year.“Thanks to the effective measures that the government has taken to control the pandemic and stimulate the economy, we have observed resilient momentum in economic indicators coming from both the production and consumption side,” Hoffman Cheong, EY China North managing partner, told the news agency Xinhua.In particular, catering sales had almost returned to the level at the beginning of 2019, suggesting strong sentiment of the populace to go out, meet people and spend money, said Cheong.“This is the underlying reason why we are confident in China’s outlook,” Cheong said.“Millions of Chinese stayed at their working cities during the spring festival holidays, coupled with the resurgence of sporadic coronavirus cases, which curbed consumption to some extent in the first two months. With the roll-out of vaccination plans across the country, there is a turnaround in March,” Lian Ping, head of Zhixin Investment Research Institute, told the tabloid Global Times.Despite the economic rebound, the NBS warned of “high uncertainties and instabilities” as Covid-19 continues to spread globally and the foundation for the domestic economic recovery is yet to solidify.“The long-standing structural problems remain prominent with new situations and issues arising from development,” the NBS said.The International Monetary Fund projected that the Chinese economy will grow by 8.4% in 2021, 0.3% points above the January forecast, according to its World Economic Outlook released in early April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-gdp-grows-at-record-18-3-in-first-quarter-as-recovery-speeds-up-101618565715273.html
16-04-2021||World||How the Kremlin provides a safe harbor for ransomware||A global epidemic of digital extortion known as ransomware is crippling local governments, hospitals, school districts and businesses by scrambling their data files until they pay up. Law enforcement has been largely powerless to stop it.One big reason: Ransomware rackets are dominated by Russian-speaking cybercriminals who are shielded — and sometimes employed — by Russian intelligence agencies, according to security researchers, US law enforcement, and now the Biden administration.On Thursday, as the US slapped sanctions on Russia for malign activities including state-backed hacking, the Treasury Department said Russian intelligence has enabled ransomware attacks by cultivating and co-opting criminal hackers and giving them safe harbor. With ransomware damages now well into the tens of billions of dollars, former British intelligence cyber chief Marcus Willett recently deemed the scourge “arguably more strategically damaging than state cyber-spying.”The value of Kremlin protection isn’t lost on the cybercriminals themselves. Earlier this year, a Russian-language dark-web forum lit up with criticism of a ransomware purveyor known only as “Bugatti,” whose gang had been caught in a rare US-Europol sting. The assembled posters accused him of inviting the crackdown with technical sloppiness and by recruiting non-Russian affiliates who might be snitches or undercover cops.Worst of all, in the view of one long-active forum member, Bugatti had allowed Western authorities to seize ransomware servers that could have been sheltered in Russia instead. “Mother Russia will help,” that individual wrote. “Love your country and nothing will happen to you.” The conversation was captured by the security firm Advanced Intelligence, which shared it with the Associated Press.“Like almost any major industry in Russia, (cybercriminals) work kind of with the tacit consent and sometimes explicit consent of the security services,” said Michael van Landingham, a former CIA analyst who runs the consultancy Active Measures LLC.Russian authorities have a simple rule, said Karen Kazaryan, CEO of the software industry-supported Internet Research Institute in Moscow: “Just don’t ever work against your country and businesses in this country. If you steal something from Americans, that’s fine.”Unlike North Korea, there is no indication Russia’s government benefits directly from ransomware crime, although Russian President Vladimir Putin may consider the resulting havoc a strategic bonus.In the US alone last year, ransomware struck more than a hundred federal, state and municipal agencies, upward of 500 hospitals and other health care centers, some 1,680 schools, colleges and universities and hundreds of businesses, according to the cybersecurity firm Emsisoft.Damage in the public sector alone is measured in rerouted ambulances, postponed cancer treatments, interrupted municipal bill collection, canceled classes and rising insurance costs – all during the worst public health crisis in more than a century.The idea behind these attacks is simple: Criminals infiltrate malicious data-scrambling software into computer networks, use it to “kidnap” an organization’s data files, then demand huge payments, now as high as $50 million, to restore them. The latest twist: if victims fail to pay up, the criminals may publish their unscrambled data on the open internet.In recent months, US law enforcement has worked with partners including Ukraine and Bulgaria to bust up these networks. But with the criminal masterminds out of reach, such operations are generally little more than whac-a-mole.Collusion between criminals and the government is nothing new in Russia, said Adam Hickey, a US deputy assistant attorney general, who noted that cybercrime can provide good cover for espionage.Back in the 1990s, Russian intelligence frequently recruited hackers for that purpose, said Kazaryan. Now, he said, ransomware criminals are just as likely to be moonlighting state-employed hackers.The Kremlin sometimes enlists arrested criminal hackers by offering them a choice between prison and working for the state, said Dmitri Alperovitch, former chief technical officer of the cybersecurity firm Crowdstrike. Sometimes the hackers use the same computer systems for state-sanctioned hacking and off-the-clock cybercrime for personal enrichment, he said. They may even mix state with personal business.That’s what happened in a 2014 hack of Yahoo that compromised more than 500 million user accounts, allegedly including those of Russian journalists and US and Russian government officials. A US investigation led to the 2017 indictment of four men, including two officers of Russia’s FSB security service – a successor to the KGB. One of them, Dmitry Dokuchaev, worked in the same FSB office that cooperates with the FBI on computer crime. Another defendant, Alexsey Belan, allegedly used the hack for personal gain.A Russian Embassy spokesman declined to address questions about his government’s alleged ties to ransomware criminals and state employees’ alleged involvement in cybercrime. “We do not comment on any indictments or rumors,” said Anton Azizov, the deputy press attache in Washington.Proving links between the Russian state and ransomware gangs is not easy. The criminals hide behind pseudonyms and periodically change the names of their malware strains to confuse Western law enforcement.But at least one ransomware purveyor has been linked to the Kremlin. Maksim Yakubets, 33, is best known as co-leader of a cybergang that cockily calls itself Evil Corp. The Ukraine-born Yakubets lives a flashy lifestyle, He drives a customized Lamborghini supercar with a personalized number plate that translates to ‘Thief,’ according to Britain’s National Crime Agency.Yakubets started working for the FSB in 2017, tasked with projects including “acquiring confidential documents through cyber-enabled means and conducting cyber-enabled operations on its behalf,” according to a December 2019 US indictment. At the same time, the US Treasury Department slapped sanctions on Yakubets and offered a $5 million reward for information leading to his capture. It said he was known to have been “in the process of obtaining a license to work with Russian classified information from the FSB.”The indictment charged Evil Corp. with developing and distributing ransomware used to steal at least $100 million in more than 40 countries over the previous decade, including payrolls pilfered from towns in the American heartland.By the time Yakubets was indicted, Evil Corp. had become a major ransomware player, security researchers say. By May 2020, the gang was distributing a ransomware strain that was used to attack eight Fortune 500 companies, including the GPS device maker Garmin, whose network was offline for days after an attack, according to Advanced Intelligence.Yakubets remains at large. Another Russian currently imprisoned in France, however, might offer more insight into the dealings of cybercriminals and the Russian state. Alexander Vinnick was convicted of laundering $160 million in criminal proceeds through a cryptocurrency exchange called BTC-e. A 2017 US indictment charged that “some of the largest known purveyors of ransomware” actually used it to launder $4 billion. But Vinnick can’t be extradited until he completes his 5-year French prison sentence in 2024.Still, a 2018 study by the nonpartisan think tank Third Way found the odds of successfully prosecuting authors of cyberattacks against US targets — ransomware and online bank theft are the costliest — are no better than three in a thousand. Experts say that those odds have gotten longer.This week’s sanctions send a strong message, but aren't likely to deter Putin unless the financial sting hits closer to home, many analysts believe.That might require the kind of massive multinational coordination that followed the 9/11 terror attacks. For instance, allied countries could identify banking institutions known to launder ransomware proceeds and cut them off from the global financial community.“If you’re able to follow the money and disrupt the money and take the economic incentive out, that’ll go a long way in stopping ransomware attacks,” said John Riggi, cybersecurity advisor for the American Hospital Association and a former FBI official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-the-kremlin-provides-a-safe-harbor-for-ransomware-101618565060769.html
16-04-2021||World||Adar Poonawalla appeals to Joe Biden to lift embargo on raw material exports||The Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest vaccine maker, on Friday urged U.S. President Joe Biden to lift an embargo on U.S. exports of raw materials that is hurting its production of Covid-19 shots."Respected @POTUS, if we are to truly unite in beating this virus, on behalf of the vaccine industry outside the U.S., I humbly request you to lift the embargo of raw material exports out of the U.S. so that vaccine production can ramp up," SII Chief Executive Adar Poonawalla said in a tweet.SII is making the AstraZeneca shot for the world and will soon start producing the Novavax vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/serum-institute-appeals-to-biden-to-lift-embargo-on-raw-material-exports-101618564469605.html
16-04-2021||World||Iran starts enriching uranium at 60%, its highest level ever||Iran began enriching uranium up to 60% purity Friday, its highest level ever, after an attack targeted its Natanz nuclear site, the country's parliament speaker said.The comment by Mohammad Bagher Qalibaf, quoted by state television, did not elaborate on the amount Iran planned to enrich. However, it is likely to raise tensions even as Iran negotiates with world powers in Vienna over a way to allow the U.S. back into the agreement and lift the crushing economic sanctions it faces.The announcement also marks a significant escalation after the sabotage that damaged centrifuges, an attack this past weekend suspected of having been carried out by Israel. While Israel has yet to claim it, the country is widely suspected of having carried out the still-unexplained sabotage at Natanz, Iran's main enrichment site.“The will of the Iranian nation is a miracle-maker and it will defuse any conspiracy,” state television quoted Qalibaf as saying. He said the enrichment began just after midnight Friday.The move could inspire a further response from Israel amid a long-running shadow war between the nations.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed never to allow Tehran to obtain a nuclear weapon and his country has twice preemptively bombed Mideast nations to stop their atomic programs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-starts-enriching-uranium-at-60-its-highest-level-ever-101618564147850.html
16-04-2021||World||Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai among five democracy activists jailed||Hong Kong media tycoon Jimmy Lai will serve 12 months in prison for taking part in an unauthorised assembly during the 2019 mass pro-democracy protests in the Chinese-ruled financial hub.Hong Kong's District Court Judge Amanda Woodcock gave Lai a 15-month sentence, reduced by three months in mitigation.Martin Lee, who helped launch the city's largest opposition Democratic Party in the 1990s and is often called the former British colony's "father of democracy," was given a suspended sentence of 11 months in the same case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-media-tycoon-jimmy-lai-among-five-democracy-activists-jailed-101618563378791.html
16-04-2021||World||UK finds 77 cases of Covid-19 variant first found in India||UK health authorities have identified 77 cases of the highly infectious B.1.617 variant of coronavirus which causes Covid-19, first found in India, and has designated it a Variant Under Investigation (VUI).Public Health England (PHE), which releases weekly updates on the number of confirmed new cases of Variants of Concern (VOC) and VUI in the UK, reported on Thursday that the variant first detected in India includes a number of mutations."A new variant has been designated a Variant Under Investigation (VUI) by PHE. The variant, first detected in India, includes a number of mutations including E484Q, L452R, and P681R,” the PHE weekly report said.“PHE has identified 77 cases of this variant in the UK and all appropriate public health interventions will be undertaken, including enhanced contact tracing. This variant has been designated VUI-21APR-01. PHE and international partners continue to monitor the situation closely,” it said.The B.1.617 strain's mutations are feared to make the variant spread faster and partially evade immunity. The variant is believed to be largely responsible for India’s current second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, with infection rates and hospitalisations on the rise once again.It also led to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson deciding to shorten the length of his India visit later this month, with the bulk of the events now expected to be limited to a day-long packed schedule on April 26.“We have been in close contact with the Indian government about the Prime Minister’s upcoming visit in light of the Covid-19 situation in India. As a result of these discussions the Prime Minister has made the decision to reduce the length of the visit, due to take place at the end of this month, to a shorter programme in New Delhi,” the UK PM’s spokesperson at 10 Downing Street said.India at present is not on the "red list" of countries, which involves more stringent hotel-based quarantine requirements for travellers commuting between India and the UK. If further concerns emerge around the Indian B.1.617 variant in the UK, it could be categorised from a Variant Under Investigation to a Variant of Concern.The latest addition brings the total number of variants detected in the UK to 56, including the so-called Kent variant and South African strains which is top of the UK's concerns. The PHE said that the dominant variant in the country continues to be VOC-20DEC-01 B.1.1.7, or the Kent variant, which is being monitored closely.“The best way to stop the spread of the virus is to remember: hands, face, space and follow the restrictions in place,” the PHE said.Earlier this week, people living in four boroughs in south London were urged to get tested as part of a surge testing drive after cases of the South African variant were found in Wandsworth, Lambeth, Barnet and Southwark.It comes as all parts of the United Kingdom began easing lockdown restrictions gradually this week, with non-essential retail shops, hairdressers and outdoor-serving restaurants among the businesses allowed to operate once again after months of lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-finds-77-cases-of-covid-19-variant-first-found-in-india-101618563326457.html
16-04-2021||World||WHO chief says Covid-19 infection rate approaching highest of pandemic so far||The number of new Covid-19 cases per week has nearly doubled globally over the past two months, approaching the highest rate seen so far during the pandemic, the head of the World Health Organization said on Friday."Cases and deaths are continuing to increase at worrying rates," Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said in a briefing focused on Papua New Guinea and the western Pacific region.He said he was very concerned about the potential for a much larger epidemic in Papua New Guinea, and it was vital the country received more Covid-19 vaccines as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-chief-says-covid-19-infection-rate-approaching-highest-of-pandemic-so-far-101618561825492.html
16-04-2021||World||Merkel says lockdowns, curfews vital to break Germany's third wave||German Chancellor Angela Merkel urged lawmakers on Friday to approve new powers that would allow her to force coronavirus lockdowns and curfews on areas with high infection rates, saying a majority of Germans were in favour of stricter measures."The third wave of the pandemic has our country firmly in its grip," said Merkel, whose speech was interrupted by heckles from lawmakers of the far-right Alternative for Germany party opposed to lockdowns."Intensive care workers are sending one distress call after the other. Who are we to ignore their pleas?" Merkel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/merkel-says-lockdowns-curfews-vital-to-break-germany-s-third-wave-101618561839423.html
16-04-2021||World||Body of Indian-origin mathematician, 31, found in New York's Hudson River||The body of a 31-year-old Indian-origin mathematician working with cryptocurrency and artificial intelligence was found floating in the Hudson River here, according to a media report which said he was battling apparent mental illness.Shuvro Biswas' body was found floating in the Hudson River on Monday, the New York Post reported.Police sources said that there were no immediate apparent signs of foul play.Shuvro's brother said that he and his family were gutted by the news, noting that they had tried in vain to help Shuvro as he battled apparent mental illness.“We’re all extremely devastated,” Biprojit Biswas, 34, was quoted by the newspaper as saying.“He’s a really good guy. He’s brilliant,” he said.Biprojit said his sibling was self-employed and most recently was working on a cryptocurrency security programme. Online profiles show that Shuvro also dabbled in artificial intelligence.He said the family started to see changes in Shuvro's demeanour over the past year, but that he largely kept his struggles to himself. Shuvro's family urged him to talk to someone.“We tried to convince him to the best of our abilities to seek professional help, but he always denied that he needed psychiatric help,” said Biprojit.“He was going to a neurologist but he wouldn’t say for what," he said.According to the report, in February, the management of Shuvro's West 37th Street apartment building took him to Manhattan Supreme Court, seeking to evict him over a slew of alleged bizarre acts inside the building, including setting fires, openly brandishing a knife and smearing blood inside the elevator, court filings show.“Defendant is a ticking time bomb who, just months into the lease, has engaged in numerous incidents of escalating, offensive nuisance-type conduct that threatens the lives, health, safety and well-being of Building staff, Building residents and Building property,” lawyers for the building wrote in one filing.The filing claimed that Biswas had intentionally set a mattress on fire in his unit — while leaving an open propane tank in the apartment.He also allegedly brandished a knife, smeared blood in the building elevator, illegally installed surveillance cameras and an alarm system, scattered bullets throughout the building and filed multiple false reports of intruders with the police — one of which saw him greet responding officers by “brandishing a sword,” according to the filing.Shuvro had explained the arson allegation as a cooking fire.The city Medical Examiner’s Office will determine a cause of death. PTI NSA NSA NSA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/body-of-indian-origin-mathematician-31-found-in-new-york-s-hudson-river-101618561428845.html
16-04-2021||World||Rebel groups see opportunity in post-coup Myanmar||Myanmar's coup has opened an unexpected window of opportunity for the various ethnic rebel outfits, which have no loyalty to either the junta or to deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi, but could together pose a threat to the army's rule.The country has been in turmoil since the military ousted Suu Kyi in February, crushing a 10-year experiment with democracy that had been enthusiastically embraced by the dominant Bamar ethnicity.But for many ethnic minorities, her administration was more foe than friend.While each ethnic armed group has its own demands, all want a version of federalism, giving them at least some measure of self-governance.Suu Kyi and her National League for Democracy (NLD) once offered them that in exchange for electoral support."The Bamar majority have given such a promise from time to time, without it materialising," Khu Oo Reh of the Karenni National Progressive Party (KNPP), told AFP."It was just words."Despite their deep-seated distrust of the NLD, several groups have condemned the putsch and the junta's use of violence -- including killing more than 700 civilians -- to quell the subsequent uprising.At least three groups in Myanmar's east, including the KNPP, are sheltering thousands of anti-junta dissidents.The anti-coup movement is now watching closely to see if the rebels will harden their opposition against the junta.Thant Myint-U, author of "The Hidden History of Burma", said the current moment could prove an opportunity for these groups to press for federalism."Their actions over these coming months may have an outsize impact in what's still an incredibly fluid situation," the historian told AFP."The seven-to-eight most powerful ethnic armed organisations now hold greater sway over Myanmar's future than any time since independence."World's longest civil war The end of British colonial rule in 1948 left a complex patchwork of cultural, ethnic and linguistic groups awkwardly sharing the new state of Myanmar.A messy struggle over autonomy, control of lucrative drug production and natural resources has pitted more than 20 different groups against each other -- among them the Bamar-majority military.The multi-faceted conflict has spanned seven decades, and been described as the world's longest-running civil war.The military -- which has never been under civilian rule -- sought to dampen the conflicts with strategic ceasefires, effectively reaching a detente with some of the rebel groups.But in the wake of the coup, those ceasefires have begun to fray.The powerful Ta'ang National Liberation Association (TNLA) and two allied groups have said they were abandoning their truce, accusing the junta of war crimes.That condemnation has raised protesters' hopes that the militias would unite to take up arms against the junta, forming a so-called "federal army".The potential for spiralling conflict has prompted observers like U.N. special envoy for Myanmar Christine Schraner Burgener to warn that "a bloodbath is imminent."The idea of mounting organised self-defence was first proposed by the Committee Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw (CRPH), a group of lawmakers mostly from the NLD who are attempting to represent the elected government.They have also unveiled a "Federal Democracy Charter", which features a governing role for ethnic armed groups.The TNLA and other northern groups -- some of whom have ties with Beijing -- have so far remained silent on the CRPH's overtures for unity.Groups in the east of the country are also lukewarm.General Yawd Serk, leader of the Restoration Council for Shan State (RCSS) -- one of the country's most powerful groups -- called it a "positive move", but stopped short of support."We are observing each other but we are not fully with (CRPH)," he told AFP.Complicating the idea of a federal army is shifting loyalties between rebels; the RCSS, for example, is currently locked in conflict with two other Shan state organisations.The various rebel groups also lack the fire and manpower of Myanmar's military, a modern army equipped with fighter jets and armoured vehicles.'Our common enemy'A humanitarian crisis is already brewing in neighbouring Karen state, where the military has carried out air strikes on towns held by the Karen National Union (KNU).About 24,000 people were displaced by the bombings, said the KNU, with thousands crossing the border briefly into Thailand.The KNU is sheltering around 2,000 dissidents who have fled urban hotspots.One activist who stayed in their territory said the distrust of CRPH -- and the ethnic Bamar majority in general -- is high, even if the rebels are outraged over the coup."They must apologise to the ethnic minorities for what the previous government has done," said the activist, declining to be named."That's the very first step by which they can gain trust."KNU's head of foreign affairs Padoh Saw Taw Nee said the group is "cautiously optimistic" about the CRPH's promise for federalism."We just have to work together with them," he told AFP."There are lots of obstacles but we are trying to find a way to overthrow our common enemy."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rebel-groups-see-opportunity-in-post-coup-myanmar-101618559965481.html
16-04-2021||World||Brazilian health workers forced to intubate Covid patients without sedatives: Reports||Reports are emerging of Brazilian health workers forced to intubate patients without the aid of sedatives, after weeks of warnings that hospitals and state governments risked running out of critical medicines.One doctor at the Albert Schweitzer municipal hospital in Rio de Janeiro told the Associated Press that for days health workers diluted sedatives to make their stock last longer. Once it ran out, nurses and doctors had to begin using neuromuscular blockers and tying patients to their beds, the doctor said.“You relax the muscles and do the procedure easily, but we don’t have sedation,” said the doctor, who agreed to discuss the sensitive situation only if not quoted by name. “Some try to talk, resist. They’re conscious.”Lack of required medicines is the latest pandemic problem to befall Brazil, which is experiencing a brutal COVID-19 outbreak that has flooded the nation’s intensive care units. The daily death count is averaging about 3,000, accounting for a quarter of deaths globally and making Brazil the epicenter of the pandemic.“Intubation kits” include anesthetics, sedatives and other medications used to put severely ill patients on ventilators. The press office of Rio city's health secretariat said in an email that occasional shortages at the Albert Schweitzer facility are due to difficulties obtaining supplies on the global market and that “substitutions are made so that there is no damage to the assistance provided.” It didn't comment on the need to tie patients to beds.The newspaper O Globo on Thursday reported similar ordeals in several other hospitals in the Rio metropolitan region, with people desperately calling other facilities seeking sedatives for their loved ones.It’s unclear whether the problem seen in Rio remains an isolated case, but others are sounding the alarm about impending shortages.Sao Paulo state's health secretary, Jean Carlo Gorinchteyn, said at a news conference Wednesday that the situation was dire in the hospitals of Brazil's most-populous state. On Thursday, more than 640 hospitals were on the verge of collapse, with shortages possible within days, officials said.“We need the federal government's support,” Gorinchteyn said. “This is not a necessity for Sao Paulo; it is a necessity for the whole country.”His state's health officials sent nine requests for intubation medication to the Health Ministry over the past 40 days, according to a statement Wednesday. Its last delivery was enough to cover just 6% of monthly needs in the state’s public health network, officials told AP.Federal Health Minister Marcelo Queiroga, who took over the post last month, said Wednesday that a shipment of sedatives was expected to arrive in Brazil “in the next ten days.” It is the result of a contract signed with the Pan American Health Organization.He said two separate efforts to acquire medications on the international market are underway “to end this day-to-day struggle.”For many weeks, the ministry has also been facing logistical constraints on getting oxygen delivered to hospitals across the country. Queiroga said it remains "a daily concern.″A more contagious coronavirus variant, known as P.1, has been spreading across Brazil this year. It may also be more aggressive than the original strain, and health workers have reported patients requiring far more oxygen than last year.The private sector has stepped up to help address some of the supply shortfall. A group of seven large companies donated 3.4 million doses of intubation drugs — enough for the management of 500 beds for six weeks — to the Health Ministry.A first batch of 2.3 million was scheduled to arrive from China late Thursday at Sao Paulo's international airport and would be distributed to states with critical shortages, the ministry said in an emailed response to AP questions about supply bottlenecks.Last month, the Health Ministry requisitioned intubation medications from laboratories, reportedly as a means to distribute to the neediest hospitals. That has caused others facilities’ stocks to dwindle, said Edson Rogatti, director of an association of more than 2,000 hospitals nationwide.“If we run out, the health sector will be in chaos,” Rogatti said on Globo News TV.Shortages aren’t limited to the public sector. Brazil’s private hospital association published a survey Thursday in which nine of 71 institutions reported having supplies for five days or less. About half said they had enough for a week.Private facilities are looking to import medications from India, but still need regulatory approval, the association told AP.The city of Itaiopolis in southern Santa Catarina state this week reported shortages of both sedatives and oxygen. Neighboring Rio Grande do Sul state also reported supplies running out.“The situation is desperate,” Rio Grande do Sul’s health secretary, Arita Bergmann, said in a statement Thursday. “We urgently need the Health Ministry to replenish hospitals’ stocks, or else intubated patients can wake up without medication, and that would be terrible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazilian-health-workers-forced-to-intubate-covid-patients-without-sedatives-reports-101618559004617.html
16-04-2021||World||Bank CEOs to testify as US Congress ramps up scrutiny of Wall Street||The US Congress will hold hearings next month with the chief executives of major Wall Street banks as Democratic lawmakers step up scrutiny of the role lenders have played in helping struggling Americans recover from the Covid-19 pandemic.The House Financial Services Committee and the Senate Banking Committee will hear testimony from JPMorgan Chase & Co , Bank of America Corp, Citigroup Inc, Wells Fargo & Co, Goldman Sachs Group Inc and Morgan Stanley, according to a notice from the House of Representatives committee.The virtual hearings scheduled for May 26 and 27 could determine how much legislative and political risk the biggest banks will face through 2022, Jaret Seiberg at Cowen Washington Research Group wrote on Thursday."These hearings may offer more upside than risk. A strong performance from the bank executives may discourage progressive Democrats from scheduling more hearings or from introducing adverse legislation," he added.While the industry's image in Washington has improved since the financial crisis a decade ago, Democratic lawmakers have expressed skepticism that lenders are doing all they can to help Americans and small businesses hurt by the pandemic.They are likely to grill the CEOs on the industry's role in the small-business Paycheck Protection Program and ask them to address concerns, flagged by several congressional reports, that lenders dished out the cash to fraudsters and discriminated against some borrowers.Industry officials also expect lawmakers to focus on how mortgage lenders are helping homeowners, and whether they are doing enough to prevent a foreclosure crisis. Other Democratic goals, including tackling racial injustice and climate change, are also expected to feature in the discussion.After the banks posted bumper profits in this year's first quarter and as President Joe Biden floats the idea of raising taxes on the wealthy, the millionaire chief executives are also likely to be grilled on whether Wall Street and its rich executives pay enough to the government.Representatives for the banks declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bank-ceos-to-testify-as-us-congress-ramps-up-scrutiny-of-wall-street-101618556967903.html
16-04-2021||World||8 people shot and killed at Fedex facility in Indianapolis; gunman dead||Eight people were shot at and killed and several others injured in an incident Thursday in the US city of Indianapolis, according to police.Police spokeswoman Genae Cook told reporters officers found an "active shooter incident" at a Fedex facility near the city's international airport, and believe the gunman died by suicide.Sgt John Perrine, an Indiana State police public information officer told relatives of Fedex employees to gather at a local Holiday Inn.Live video showed police tape at the scene of the incident, which follows several mass shootings in recent weeks.At the end of last month, four people, including a child, were shot dead in an office building in southern California.On March 22, 10 people were killed in a shooting at a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado.That came less than a week after a man shot and killed eight people, including six women of Asian descent, at spas in Atlanta, Georgia.Nearly 40,000 people in the United States die each year from guns, more than half of those being suicides.The issue of gun regulation in the United States is politically fraught.President Joe Biden this month announced six executive measures he said would help stem the gun violence crisis.The moves were immediately attacked by Republicans, with the party's senior leader in the House of Representatives, Kevin McCarthy, warning of "unconstitutional overreach."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mass-casualty-shooting-in-us-city-of-indianapolis-gunman-dead-police-101618552690185.html
16-04-2021||World||Multiple people shot at Indianapolis Fedex facility in the US: Report||A shooting has been reported late Thursday at a Fedex facility in Indianapolis.The Indianapolis Star reports police issued a news release around 11:30 pm, saying multiple victims were located at the facility near the airport.It is unclear exactly how many people were shot and the severity of their injuries.Live video from news outlets at the scene showed crime scene tape in the parking lot outside the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/multiple-people-shot-at-indianapolis-fedex-facility-in-the-us-report-101618549022863.html
16-04-2021||World||176-year-old time capsule found inside cross on Hungary's largest church||The cross on top of Hungary's largest church, the magnificent Esztergom Cathedral, has been hiding a 176-year-old time capsule that was only recovered during renovation work this year.The sealed copper canister was inside the cross on the 100-metre dome, the highest in Hungary, which survived being bombed during World War Two.The container was also badly damaged by shrapnel but when they opened it, historians discovered documents in near-perfect condition relating to the cathedral's construction.Csaba Torok, director of the Cathedral's Treasury, said the papers gave a rare glimpse of the time when the church was built from 1822 onwards.The cylindrical capsule was placed on the cross in 1845 by Archbishop Jozsef Kopacsy and chief architect Jozsef Hild, who took over after his predecessor was murdered."Archbishop Kopacsy knew he would not be able to complete the construction in his lifetime, so when the cross was finished he wanted to leave inside an imprint of the memory of the builders and of that era," Torok said.The best moment was when they found the documents: one depicting milestones in the construction and a book containing names of clergymen and parishes."These were last touched by human hands when they were placed there 176 years ago, so somehow we felt a sudden connection in time," he said."Unfortunately, we did not find any coins from the period in the capsule so there was nothing to help pay for the renovation," he added, smiling.The Catholic cathedral was built on Castle Hill, where a church was first founded over 1,000 years ago. Its iron dome was built in Vienna and carried in sections down the Danube on barges.For its consecration in 1856, Hungarian composer and pianist Franz Liszt composed a mass. But the cathedral was still not finished, with the main portico and interior only completed later in the 19th century.A new time capsule might be placed in the cross for future generations. But its copper cover will be sealed on June 30, so they will have to move quickly, Torok said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/176yearold-time-capsule-found-inside-cross-on-hungary-s-largest-church-101618548639283.html
16-04-2021||World||US introduces law on climate action, seeks renewed cooperation with India||A group of 10 US Senators have introduced a comprehensive international climate change legislation that among other things seeks to reinvigorate bilateral cooperation with India in this sector, ahead of next week's Leaders' Summit on Climate being convened by the White House.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is among the 40 world leaders invited by US President Joe Biden to the Leaders’ Summit on Climate on April 22 and 23.Being built as a key milestone on the road to the UN Climate Change Conference (COP26) this November in Glasgow, the Leaders' Summit on Climate will underscore the urgency and the economic benefits of stronger climate action.Senator Bob Menendez, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, who introduced the United States Climate Leadership in International Mitigation, Adaptation, and Technology Enhancement Act of 2021 (U.S. CLIMATE Act), along with nine of his other Democratic colleagues, said that the legislation represents the most comprehensive foreign policy focused climate change bill introduced in Congress.Laying out a bold vision to assure the United States appropriately leads the global effort to combat the climate crisis through a new suite of climate foreign policy, climate finance and foreign assistance, and climate diplomacy programmes and initiatives, the legislation also directs US bilateral and multilateral engagements and strategies on climate and improves integration of climate policy into all aspects of American foreign affairs.Devoting a separate section on India, the legislation that runs into 212 pages urges the Biden administration to take steps to reinvigorate bilateral cooperation with India on research development and investment in clean energy technology.Since demand for energy in India will increase with the expansion of the economy and middle-class of India, it is in the interest of the United States national security and global security for the US to support India in growing the energy sector of India environmentally and socially responsible ways that mitigate greenhouse gas emissions and improve the climate security of India, the legislation says.India, the act says, has met its growing energy demands by becoming a global leader in renewable energy generation.Despite significant investments in renewable energy and the implementation of strong national greenhouse gas mitigation policies, India continues to operate some of the world's dirtiest fossil fuel power plants and has high emissions generated from its transportation sector, it said.Asserting that India is a critical market for foreign investment and will be a major competitor in international clean energy development futures, the legislation says that India's leadership within the Clean Energy Ministerial, the Mission Innovation initiative, and the International Solar Alliance has put it at the forefront of renewable energy development.It has also helped India achieve a top-five global rank among clean energy producers.Installed electricity capacity from renewables in India grew by 144 per cent between 2014 and 2020.Approximately USD 42 billion was invested into India's renewable energy sector between 2014 and 2019, it said.The CLIMATE Act says that the US should support efforts to strengthen India's resilience capacities that ensure people, households, communities, institutions, and systems can assess, anticipate, prevent, adapt to, cope with, and recover from shocks and stresses as associated with the effects of climate change.The United States, through the Bureau of Energy Resources of the Department of State, the United States Agency for International Development, the United States International Development Finance Corporation, the Department of Energy, the Export-Import Bank of the US, and the International Trade Administration, should encourage private sector investment in, and financing for the development and deployment of clean energy and climate mitigation technologies in India, it said.Among others it seeks robust cooperation between the two countries to develop and deploy clean energy technologies, including private sector cooperation, should be a top bilateral energy diplomacy priority and the top priority in the countries' energy diplomacy and should include clean energy; electric vehicles and expansive charging station networks; next-generation refrigeration equipment and refrigerants; and other technologies and chemicals that are in the interest of US industry leaders in the refrigeration and chemical coolant industries that are compliant with the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Protocol.In a statement, Menendez said this comprehensive legislation has been introduced to bolster Biden's commitment to restore America's role as a responsible actor in confronting the climate change crisis."The US CLIMATE Act represents an important step forward in ensuring Congress does its part in providing resources, programs and policy to expedite the restoration of our nation's climate diplomacy and leadership," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-introduces-law-on-climate-action-seeks-renewed-cooperation-with-india-101618545879839.html
16-04-2021||World||SpaceX gets Nasa nod to launch third manned mission of the year||SpaceX is gearing up for its third astronaut launch in under a year, after getting the green light from Nasa a week ahead of next Thursday’s planned flight.Managers from Nasa and Elon Musk’s space company Thursday cleared the Falcon rocket and Dragon capsule for a dawn liftoff with a crew of four to the International Space Station. They will spend six months at the orbiting lab, replacing another SpaceX crew that’s close to coming home.This will be the first crew flight using a recycled Falcon and Dragon. Both were designed for reuse.The rocket was used to launch the current station crew last November from Nasa's Kennedy Space Center. The capsule, dubbed Endeavour, also will be making a repeat performance; it carried two test pilots to the space station on SpaceX’s first crew flight last spring.SpaceX refurbished both and added safety upgrades. Most of the capsule is already “flight-proven,” company officials noted, except for some new valves, thermal protection covers and parachutes.Kathy Lueders, head of Nasa's human exploration office, said it was “moving” to be on the verge of flying three SpaceX crew flights in 11 months.“Looking back, it’s really, really amazing what both the SpaceX and Nasa teams have accomplished,” she said.SpaceX said it must resolve one issue before conducting a test firing at the launch pad this weekend. It appears the company has been loading more liquid oxygen into its first-stage boosters than anticipated, and engineers want to make “extra certain” that poses no safety risks, said Bill Gerstenmaier, a new SpaceX vice president who used to work for Nasa.Three of the astronauts are back for their second space station mission: NASA’s Shane Kimbrough, France’s Thomas Pesquet and Japan’s Akihiko Hoshide. NASA astronaut Megan McArthur was part of the final Hubble Space Telescope repair team in 2009.For nearly a decade, the only route to the space station for astronauts was on Russian rockets. Nasa turned to private companies for taxi service after the space shuttles retired in 2011. SpaceX has been shipping cargo to the space station since 2012, using the same kind of rocket and similar capsules, and recycling those parts as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-gets-nasa-nod-to-launch-third-manned-mission-of-the-year-101618537668688.html
16-04-2021||World||Cuba's Raul Castro to step down, ending 60 years of family monopoly||Cuba's leadership is passing to a younger generation, with the last Castro leaving office and ending a 60-year family monopoly, but there is little other change as power remains firmly with the Communist Party.At a four-day party congress starting Friday, 89-year-old Raul Castro will relinquish the country's most powerful position -- that of party first secretary -- to 60-year-old Miguel Diaz-Canel, Cuba's president.This officially ends six decades of dominion over Cuban politics by Castro and his brother Fidel, who ruled for nearly half a century from 1959 to 2006 and is widely revered as the country's father and saviour.Diaz-Canel will be only the third-ever first secretary of the all-powerful Communist Party of Cuba (PCC), while still retaining the presidency.He also becomes Cuba's first civilian leader since the Castro-led revolution of the 1950s, which happened before he was even born.But while the suit-and-tie wearing, tech-savvy Beatles fan may be more modern in some ways than his predecessors -- both of whom were fond of donning military garb -- he remains first and foremost a party disciple.Socialism 'irrevocable'"He is part of the political struggle, the ideological struggle," said Carlos Alzugaray, a former Cuban diplomat."The absence of a Castro at the helm doesn't necessarily mean there's going to be an abrupt change in the Communist party's style," added Norman McKay, an analyst with The Economist Intelligence Unit.A new constitution passed in May 2019 made it clear that the country's commitment to socialism was "irrevocable."Yet many Cubans pay little heed to politics, preoccupied as they are by the worst economic crisis in 30 years, sky-high inflation, biting food shortages, snaking queues for basic necessities and limited freedoms."I hope the congress will lead to an improvement because the prices are too high," said pensioner Maria Martinez, 68."There is nothing to hope for," added Sergio, a 44-year-old cook who declined to give his full name in a country where speaking out against the government can land you in trouble."Salaries are a problem, they are not enough. There are problems with food, the lines are long," he said.Economic collapseCuba's economic crisis is caused in part by its own management failures, worsened by US sanctions ramped up under Donald Trump and the coronavirus pandemic, which dried up tourists -- a key income source for the island.The economy plummeted by 11% in 2020, the worst decline since 1993 in the country of 11.2 million.Economic reforms to phase out the US dollar-pinned "convertible" peso -- leaving only the less valuable official peso in place -- saw salaries increased by the state, but not enough to make up for the resulting price inflation.Many stores now accept only US dollars -- these are better stocked than others -- but few people can afford to frequent them.The PCC has said its congress would "review core issues of the political, economic and social life of the country."Real change 'underway'There are signs that Cuba's leadership will have little choice but to increasingly balance the interests of the old guard with a clamour for more rights and better quality of life from younger generations.In February, it opened the bulk of its government-monopolized economy to entrepreneurs in the private sector.There have also been small nods to social liberalization by Havana, under sanctions from the United States since 1962.In recent months, the government held its first-ever talks -- though short-lived -- with pro-free speech protesters, after authorizing in 2019 Cuba's first non-political demonstration, by animal rights activists."Raul Castro stepping down as head of the Communist Party in #Cuba isn't real change," tweeted US Senator Marco Rubio, who is of Cuban origin. "But real change is already underway nonetheless."'Subversion'The arrival of the internet on mobile phones at the end of 2018 has made for a paradigm shift in Cuba, with never-before-seen access to information and new forums for expression. People are even organizing demonstrations in a country where protests are rare.In response, the PCC has said its congress would be "confronting political and ideological subversion, which has made internet and social media its principal field of operations."Control over information has always been a key tool of the PCC rule.Castro has said he plans to read and take care of his grandchildren after retiring.But there are those who think he may hover in the background."Raul will be there," said former diplomat Alzugaray, in a system that may resemble "the one in China when Deng Xiaoping had no position but... everything had to be discussed with him. He had the last word."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cubas-raul-castro-to-step-down-ending-60-years-of-family-monopoly-101618537100585.html
16-04-2021||World||Capitol Police leadership held back some equipment during riot: Official||Police officers defending the US Capitol against an attack by Donald Trump's supporters might have quelled the violence sooner had their leadership not blocked them from using weapons like sting-ball grenades, a watchdog testified on Thursday.Michael Bolton, the US Capitol Police inspector general, told the House of Representatives Administration Committee that such equipment, which release dozens of small, stinging balls, "would have provided a better posture to repel the attacks."But he testified that a Capitol Police assistant deputy chief decided that such non-lethal grenades and launchers, could have been deployed in an unsafe manner, causing serious injuries. Protesters during last summer's anti-racism demonstrations were injured by such weapons.Bolton said better training would have been the remedy to that concern.Committee Chairwoman Zoe Lofgren said investigators found that riot shields were locked in a bus too far away from police officers to quickly gain access to them during the Jan. 6 attack, forcing officers to face a violent, unruly mob with inadequate protective equipment.Former President Donald Trump and some of his fellow Republicans have tried to downplay the attack, when hundreds of his supporters stormed the Capitol in an attempt to disrupt Congress' certification of Joe Biden's presidential election victory.Five people, including Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick, died in the violence, and many more officers suffered injuries. Lawmakers were forced to huddle in secure rooms while law enforcement battled the rioters.Bolton also testified that police standard operating procedures were not followed and that officer training deficiencies contributed to rioters being able to breach security and storm their way through the iconic Capitol.Republican Representative Bryan Steil asked Bolton whether past years' inspector general recommendations for improvements in intelligence operations and other areas were implemented.Bolton replied that in some cases they were, but subsequently they sometimes "slid off."He added that a recommendation that USCP officers receive security clearances so that they could receive detailed intelligence information -- allowing them to react to threats in a more nimble way -- were not implemented.Bolton's reports to Congress found the Capitol Police Civil Disturbance Unit was operating on Jan. 6 "at a decreased level of readiness" and that the department needed to improve its management of weapons, ammunition and riot shields.Internal investigations led to detailed recommendations that the Capitol Police immediately improve its intelligence operations and beef up the readiness of the civil disturbances unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/capitol-police-leadership-held-back-some-equipment-during-riot-official-101618533807752.html
16-04-2021||World||Russian IT company, sanctioned by US, partners with Microsoft, IBM||The Treasury Department on Thursday slapped six Russian technology companies with sanctions for supporting Kremlin intelligence agencies engaged in “dangerous and disruptive cyber attacks.”But only one of them stands out for its international footprint and partnerships with such IT heavyweights as Microsoft and IBM.That company, Positive Technologies, claims more than 2,000 customers in 30 countries, including major European banks Societe Generale and ING, as well as Samsung, SK Telecom of South Korea and BT, the British telecommunications giant.Its clients also include the FSB, a successor to the KGB that “cultivates and co-opts criminal hackers” who carry out ransomware and phishing attacks, the Treasury Department said. The U.S. said big conventions hosted by Positive Technologies are “used as recruiting events” by the FSB and the GRU, Russia's military intelligence agency.GRU agents are the swashbucklers of Russian intelligence. The agency stands accused of spearheading the hack-and-leak operation that interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential election to favor Donald Trump. Its agents also conducted the most damaging cyberattack on record, the runaway 2017 NotPetya virus that did more than $10 billion in global damage, its victims including the shipping giant Maersk and pharmaceutical company Merck.The CEO of the software industry-supported Internet Research Institute in Moscow, Karen Kazaryan, said he was not familiar with most of the Russian IT companies sanctioned on Thursday. But Positive Tech is well-known in the industry for its annual Hack Days conference, which is scheduled for May 20-21 at a Moscow hotel.Former CIA analyst Michael van Landingham applauded the naming and sanctioning of Russian IT companies known to have aided and abetted malign government activity.“Naming specific companies can create incentives for educated and skilled Russians who might be able to obtain jobs elsewhere where they don’t support Russian state hacking,” he said.Positive Tech's specialty is identifying vulnerabilities in popular software such as Microsoft's Windows operating system. The world’s intelligence agencies regularly lean on companies like it not to disclose potent vulnerabilities publicly when they find them but to instead quietly share them for hacking adversaries’ networks.The U.S. did not accuse Positive Technologies of any such behavior and the Treasury Department declined to answer questions about the company's activities beyond a press release.Nor would a Microsoft spokesperson discuss the company's business relationship with Positive Tech. On its website, Microsoft names the company as one of among more than 80 security software providers to which it gives early access to vulnerability information so they can make sure their customers get patches quickly. IBM also lists Positive Technologies as a security partner, offering customers one of its scanning tools.IBM didn't respond to requests for comment Thursday. Neither did other U.S. tech companies HP and VMware, which Positive Technologies lists as technology partners.On its website, Positive Technologies lists Russia’s Defense Ministry as among its first major clients, in 2004 when it was two years old with just 11 employees. It claimed more than 800 employees in 2018.Russia's biggest business database lists the company's CEO and founder as Yury Maximov, about whom little is known other than he graduated from Moscow State University. The company did not respond to questions sent to press contacts on its website.Positive Tech's website boasts of a number of accomplishments, such as providing cybersecurity for the 2018 soccer World Cup hosted by Russia and publishing data that same year on 30 high-risk vulnerabilities. It said it opened its first international office in London in 2010 and its first U.S. office in 2012.The company has sometimes used Framingham, Massachusetts, as its U.S. location in news releases, though it's not recorded in city or state records as a business by that name. An office building with an address linked to the company is a co-working space that can be rented on flexible terms for “one person or more."Market research firm IDC listed Positive Technologies as one of the fastest-growing companies in security and vulnerability management in 2012, in part because it was so small at the time, growing nearly 82% year-over-year to $30 million in worldwide revenue. Nearly all that revenue came from assessing vulnerabilities. But by 2015, its worldwide revenues fell 37.6% to $26.5 million, according to IDC, which eventually stopped tracking the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-it-company-sanctioned-by-us-partners-with-microsoft-ibm-101618533507556.html
16-04-2021||World||Daunte Wright's family wants stiffer charge for Minnesota ex-cop||Daunte Wright's family members joined with community leaders Thursday in calling for more serious charges against the white former police officer who fatally shot him, comparing her case to the murder charge brought against a Black officer who killed a white woman in nearby Minneapolis.Former Brooklyn Center police Officer Kim Potter was charged with second-degree manslaughter in Sunday's shooting of Wright, a 20-year-old Black man, during a traffic stop. The former police chief in Brooklyn Center, a majority nonwhite suburb, said Potter mistakenly fired her handgun when she meant to use her Taser. Both the chief and Potter resigned Tuesday.Also Read: Minneapolis under curfew after officer shoots Black motorist deadPotter — who was released on $100,000 bond hours after her arrest Wednesday — appeared alongside her attorney, Earl Gray, at her initial appearance Thursday over Zoom, saying little. Gray kept his camera on himself for most of the hearing, swiveling it to show Potter only briefly. Her next court appearance was set for May 17.Wright's death has been followed by protests every night this week outside the city's police station, with some demonstrators hurling objects at officers who have responded at times with gas and rubber bullets before clearing the scene with a riot line. Another protest was scheduled Thursday night, just hours after police in Chicago released graphic body camera video of an officer fatally shooting a 13-year-old boy in March.Wright's family members and protesters who have confronted police all week since his death say there’s no excuse for the shooting.“Unfortunately, there’s never going to be justice for us,” Wright’s mother, Katie Wright, said at a news conference Thursday. “Justice isn’t even a word to me. I do want accountability.”Wright family attorney Ben Crump said “full accountability, to get equal justice” is all the family wants — “nothing more, nothing less."Crump and other advocates for Wright point to the 2017 case of Mohamed Noor. The Black former Minneapolis police officer fatally shot Justine Ruszczyk Damond, a white woman who was a dual citizen of the U.S. and Australia, in the alley behind her home after she called 911 to report what she thought was a woman being assaulted.Noor was convicted of third-degree murder in addition to second-degree manslaughter and sentenced to 12 1/2 years in prison. Potter’s charge carries a maximum 10-year prison sentence. Intent isn't a necessary component of either charge. A key difference is that third-degree murder requires someone to act with a “depraved mind,” a term that has been the subject of legal disputes, but includes an act eminently dangerous to others, performed without regard for human life.Noor testified that he fired to protect his partner's life after hearing a loud bang on the squad car and seeing a woman at his partner’s window raising her arm. Prosecutors criticized Noor for shooting without seeing a weapon or Damond’s hands.Many critics of the police believe the race of those involved in the Wright shooting played a role in which charges were brought.“If the officer was Black, perhaps even a minority man, and the victim was a young, white female affluent kid, the chief would have fired him immediately and the county prosecutor would have charged him with murder, without a doubt,” said Jaylani Hussein, executive director of the Minnesota chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations.Potter could have easily been charged with third-degree murder, which carries a 25-year maximum sentence, said Rachel Moran, a law professor at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota. But she noted that one difference between the Noor and Potter cases is that Potter will likely argue using the gun was a mistake, while Noor never said he didn’t intend to use his weapon.“This is kind of the compromise charge, which isn’t to say it’s not serious. It is,” Moran said. “But they’re not reaching for the most serious charge they could theoretically file. They’re also not washing their hands and saying she has no criminal liability.”The prosecutor who brought the case, Washington County Attorney Pete Orput, did not return messages seeking comment.Wright’s death came as the broader Minneapolis area awaits the outcome of the trial for Derek Chauvin, one of four officers charged in George Floyd’s death last May. Crump pointed to that trial as having the potential to set a precedent for “police officers being held accountable and sent to prison for killing Black people.”Police say Wright was pulled over for expired tags, but they sought to arrest him after discovering he had an outstanding warrant. The warrant was for his failure to appear in court on charges that he fled from officers and possessed a gun without a permit during an encounter with Minneapolis police in June.Potter, a 26-year veteran, was training another officer at the time.Body camera video shows Wright struggling with police after they say they’re going to arrest him, before Potter pulls her gun. Potter is heard yelling “Taser!” three times before she fires and then says, “Holy (expletive), I shot him.”Naisha Wright, Daunte Wright’s aunt, grew emotional at the news conference with other family members, saying, “Can we get a conviction? Can we get something? Manslaughter?”She held up a photo of a Taser. “This is a Taser, but no,” she said, displaying a photo of a handgun. “My nephew was killed with this -- a Glock.”The criminal complaint noted that Potter holstered her handgun on the right side and her Taser on the left. To remove the Taser — which is yellow and has a black grip — Potter would have to use her left hand, the complaint said.Experts say cases of officers mistakenly firing their gun instead of a Taser are rare, usually less than once a year nationwide.Wright's funeral will be April 22 at the New Salem Missionary Baptist Church in Minneapolis, his attorney said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/daunte-wright-s-family-wants-stiffer-charge-for-minnesota-excop-101618532833824.html
16-04-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccine 3rd dose 'likely' needed within 12 months, says Pfizer CEO||The head of Pfizer said in an interview aired Thursday that people will "likely" need a third dose of his company's Covid-19 vaccine within a year of being fully vaccinated.CEO Albert Bourla also said annual vaccinations against the coronavirus may well be required."We need to see what would be the sequence, and for how often we need to do that, that remains to be seen," Bourla told CNBC in an interview recorded on April 1."A likely scenario is that there will be likely a need for a third dose, somewhere between six and 12 months and then from there, there will be an annual revaccination, but all of that needs to be confirmed," he said, adding that variants will play a "key role."Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"It is extremely important to suppress the pool of people that can be susceptible to the virus," he said.Researchers currently don't know how long vaccines provide protection against the coronavirus.Pfizer published a study earlier this month that said its jab is more than 91 percent effective at protecting against the coronavirus, and more than 95 percent effective against severe cases of Covid-19 up to six months after the second dose.But researchers say more data is needed to determine whether protection lasts after six months.David Kessler, the head of US President Joe Biden's Covid-19 response team, warned a congressional committee on Thursday that Americans should expect to receive booster shots to defend against coronavirus variants."We don't know everything at this moment," he told the House Coronavirus Crisis Subcommittee. "We are studying the durability of the antibody response."It seems strong but there is some waning of that and no doubt the variants challenge," he said."I think for planning purposes, planning purposes only, I think we should expect that we may have to boost."The Pfizer vaccine, developed in partnership with German firm BioNTech, currently plays a leading role in American and European vaccination campaigns.The pharmaceutical giant announced in February that it was testing a third dose of its vaccine to better combat the emerging variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccine-3rd-dose-likely-needed-within-12-months-says-pfizer-ceo-101618531882165.html
16-04-2021||World||Fears grow over mutating Brazil Covid-19 variant||Brazil’s P1 coronavirus variant, behind a deadly Covid-19 surge in the Latin American country that has raised international alarm, is mutating in ways that could make it better able to evade antibodies, according to scientists studying the virus.Research conducted by the public health institute Fiocruz into the variants circulating in Brazil found mutations in the spike region of the virus that is used to enter and infect cells.Those changes, the scientists said, could make the virus more resistant to vaccines with grave implications for the severity of the outbreak in the country.“We believe it’s another escape mechanism the virus is creating to evade the response of antibodies,” said Felipe Naveca, one of the authors of the study and part of Fiocruz in Manaus, where the P1 variant is believed to have originated. Naveca said the changes appeared to be similar to the mutations seen in the even more aggressive South African variant. “This is particularly worrying because the virus is continuing to accelerate in its evolution,” he added.In a bizarre development, federal prosecutors in the Brazilian state of Roraima are investigating reports that illegally-mined gold is being exchanged for Covid-19 vaccines in the Yanomami indigenous reserve.The number of people killed by Covid-19 climbed past 100,000 in France on Thursday, with the virus claiming a further 300 lives in the past 24 hours, the country’s health authority said. A day earlier, the death toll had stood at 99,805.The country of 67 million is the eighth in the world to reach the symbolic mark, and the third in Europe after the UK and Italy.Germany’s health care system is getting stretched to the brink, with many hospitals overwhelmed with Covid-19 patients and rising case numbers pointing to tougher days ahead. The occupancy rate in ICUs rose to 88% on Wednesday. On Thursday, Germany reported 31,117 new cases.More than 170 former world leaders and Nobel laureates have urged US President Joe Biden to make Covid-19 vaccines more readily available by waiving US intellectual property rules. They made the call in an open letter shared by Oxfam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fears-grow-over-mutating-brazil-covid-19-variant-101618529687863.html
16-04-2021||World||US targets Russia for cyberattacks, election interference||The US on Thursday announced tough new sanctions targeting the Russian economy, its officials and entities for “the full scope of… harmful foreign activities” including election interference, cyber-spying, misinformation campaigns and a range of “destabilising international actions” such as in Afghanistan and Crimea.America also ordered the expulsion of 10 diplomats from the Russian mission in Washington, DC, calling them “representatives of Russian intelligence services”.Russia responded sharply to the sanctions. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov called them illegal and warned of retaliatory measures. “We condemn any sanction aspirations. We believe they are illegal. In any case, the principle of reciprocity applies in this case. Reciprocity will meet our interests in the best possible way,” he said.US President Joe Biden issued these sanctions and punitive measures through a new executive order “that provides strengthened authorities to demonstrate the administration’s resolve in responding to and deterring the full scope of Russia’s harmful foreign activities”, according to a note issued by the White House.These measures are intended, the note added, to send “a signal that the US will impose costs in a strategic and economically impactful manner on Russia if it continues or escalates its destabilising international actions”.Under the authority of the executive order, US treasury has prohibited American financial institutions from trading in Ruble or non-Ruble bonds issued by the Central Bank of the Russian Federation and other Russian institutions after 2014.It designated six tech companies charging them with providing support to Russian Intelligence Services’ cyber programme. Among these cyber actions was the SolarWinds hacking of 16,000 computer systems around the world that, the US has said, were carried out by the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service, also known as APT 29, Cozy Bear, and The Dukes.US treasury also designated 32 entities and individuals, including a top official in the president’s office first deputy chief of staff Alexei Gromov, for “government-directed attempts to influence” the 2020 presidential election.Biden had informed Russian President Vladimir Putin of these upcoming measures in a phone call on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-targets-russia-for-cyber-attacks-election-interference-101618502410418.html
16-04-2021||World||China should lift birth restrictions to take on India, US economically: Report||China should lift all birth restrictions to tackle the problems of an ageing population and plan ahead to compete economically with a demographically young India and an immigration-friendly US, a new report by the central bank has said.A working paper released by the People’s Bank of China (PBOC), China’s central bank, made public on Wednesday said the country’s ageing population problems were worse than that of other nations.Primarily focused on how China should tackle the problem of its ageing population, the paper - written by four PBOC researchers - compared the country’s situation to India and the US, making the radical suggestion that the government allow three or more children per household.China’s birth rate has been falling for years and that was why the government eased the strict one-child policy, which was in place since the late 1970s, in 2016, allowing couples to have two children.The easing of the policy hasn’t worked, though.The birth rate on the Chinese mainland dropped to 10.48 per 1,000 people in 2019, the lowest in seven decades, according to the National Bureau of Statistics; the statistics of 2020’s birth rate has not been released.“In order to achieve the long-term goals in 2035, China should fully liberalise and encourage childbirth, and sweep off difficulties women faced during pregnancy, childbirth, and kindergarten and school enrollment by all means,” the report “Understanding and Countermeasures of Demographic Countermeasures in China” said in its abstract.“Since 1949, the population of China has expanded rapidly to slower growth, the population structure has changed from pyramid to rectangle, and China’s population transition is faster, and ageing problem and sub-replacement fertility is severer,” the report said.IT’S ADVANTAGE INDIAIn a detailed section on India, the report said the gap between the two countries is narrowing.As two big countries in Asia, China’s economic growth has been faster than India’s for a long time but in recent years, with India’s late-comer advantages, China’s demographic dividend fading, India’s economic growth has tended to approach China’s, the report said.More importantly, it added that China’s ageing population and the declining birth rate will become more serious in 10 years while India’s demographic structure will be further optimised.The report pointed out that India’s labour force will exceed China’s by hundreds of millions in the years ahead. “In 2019, China’s labour force was 990 million while India had 880 million, which is 110 million less than that of China. In 2035 and 2050, India will have 1.06 billion and 1.11 billion labour force respectively, which is 120 million and 270 million more than those of China.”It added that India’s pension burden will be lighter than China’s in the future.“In 2019, the dependency ratio of India was 8.3 percentage points than that of China, while in 2035 and 2050, the gap will be widened to 18 and 23.3 percentage points; In 2019, the proportion of the elderly in India was only 6.4%, 6.2 percentage points lower than that in China. In 2035 and 2050, this advantage will expand to 11.1 percentage points and 12.3 percentage points.”By 2050, India’s demographic advantage will continue to expand, the report said, adding that in 2019, the demographics of India were much narrower at the top and wider in the middle than in China.“By 2050, this advantage will continue to grow. Not only will India have a much narrower elderly population at the top and a much wider workforce in the middle, but it will also have a wider workforce at the bottom, indicating a more abundant workforce and greater growth potential beyond 2050,” the report added.The report went on to argue that since India’s demographic advantage is expected to grow for at least the next three decades, “…India’s demographic dividend will blossom more significantly and the gap between China and India will be narrower provided that appropriate political and economic measures are taken.”U.S. BENEFITS FROM IMMIGRATIONAbout the US, the authors raised the question that if China had narrowed the gap with the country over the past 40 years by relying on cheap labour and the bonus of a huge population, what can it rely on in the next 30 years?They noted how the US benefits from immigration even as China’s population ages.The report pointed out what needs to be done for China to try and reverse the trend.“China must recognise that the demographic situation has changed…recognise that population inertia is a huge force across generations, and its reactionary force will lead to changes in the population in the opposite direction; realise that education and technological progress cannot compensate for the decline in population,” the report said.China should fully liberalise the practice of having three or more children without hesitation or limitation of the effect of the existing policy, the report added.The authors suggested that China “…should vigorously encourage childbearing. To advocate procreation is not only the business of parents and families but also the responsibility of the state and society”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-should-lift-birth-restrictions-to-take-on-india-us-economically-report-101618499230061.html
