20-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Sans transport facility, 3 leave for Ropar on foot||Talwara, May 19In the absence of the public transport facility, workers who came from other districts of the state are being forced to walk to their homes.Ajit Singh, Pawan Kumar and Kali of Bhakra Mohalla, Ropar, who were working with a mason in Talwara for a long time, have left for their native place on foot as their work had stopped due to the curfew.They said after the lockdown, they got food for two times through social organisations of the area. After some time, they stopped providing food. Due to it, they started facing a lot of problems.Fearing starvation, they decided to go home as there is no work and food. Thereafter on Tuesday morning, they started their journey to home on foot with a bottle of water.The workers said there was no proper arrangement for sending migrant labourers trapped in Talwara to their native places. They said that they had applied online in this regard, but to no avail.The workers said they wanted to go to Ropar via Nangal from Una in Himachal Pradesh as it was a shorter rout. But, the Himachal Pradesh police are not allowing people to enter the state. Thereafter, they left for Ropar to cover around 150 km.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/sans-transport-facility-3-leave-for-ropar-on-foot-87298
20-05-2020||Balwant Garg||Finally, uniform fee structure in private medical institutions||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, May 19In a relief to thousands of medical aspirants in the state, the Department of Medical Education and Research on Tuesday announced a uniform fee structure for all private medical and dental colleges.Ending disparity in the fee structure for postgraduate degree and diploma courses (MD, MS, Diploma and MDS) in private medical and dental colleges in the state, which include two minority colleges and two private medical universities, the department today issued a corrigendum, announcing that all private medical colleges would charge Rs 6.5 lakh per year for MD/MS (clinical) courses and Rs 2.6 lakh for MD/MS (basic) courses. The fee structure will be implemented from the current academic year.Rs 6.5L/YEAR for MD/MS (clinical)n All private colleges will charge Rs6.5 lakh p.a. for MD/MS (clinical) courses and Rs2.6 lakh for MD/MS (basic) courses. For MDS (PG course in dental science), the department has fixed Rs5.58 lakh fee per yearFor MDS (postgraduation course in dental science), it has fixed Rs 5.58 lakh per year fee in all private dental colleges of the state.While three government medical colleges in the state charge Rs 1.25 lakh annual fee for MD/MS course, the fee in DMC and CMC, Ludhiana, was fixed at Rs 6.5 lakh.However, Adesh Medical College, Bathinda, had fixed this fee at Rs 14.90 lakh per annum. Even the SGPC-owned Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College at Amritsar had fixed the fee at Rs 9.5 lakh per annum with a 10 per cent increase in fee every year and 15 per cent registration fee on the combined fee of three years, making it about Rs 36 lakh for the three-year postgraduation clinical courses for the current academic session.So far, Adesh and Sri Guru Ram Das colleges were deciding their own fee structure. However, in all other private and government medical colleges, the fee was fixed by the state government.With this amendment, the medical aspirants are hopeful of a uniform fee structure for MBBS and BDS course in all private medical colleges this year. Two days back, The Tribune had highlighted the dilemma the students were facing in the absence of announcement of a new fee structure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/bathinda/finally-uniform-fee-structure-in-private-medical-institutions-87071
