July 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Night curfew relaxed for extra two hours, weekend shutdown to continue in 10 districts||BHUBANESWAR: With increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases in many districts, the restrictions for the Unlock-2.0 would be almost similar to that of June (unlock 1) though the state government has relaxed the night curfew by extra two hours (from 9pm till 5am instead of 7pm to 5am) while the weekend shutdown would continue in 10 districts that have more than 50 active cases. Lockdown would continue in containment zones till July 31 where only essential services are allowed. The state government on Tuesday issued a fresh set of guidelines on restrictions and relaxations which will be effective from Wednesday. “Chief minister Naveen Patnaik during a meeting of all collectors and senior officers discussed the strategy for July. He has suggested nine points and also sought feedbacks from collectors. Our strategy for July is based on the suggestions made by the CM. All the departments have put their resources in managing the situation. So, it’s an all-state approach,” said chief secretary Asit Tripathy. While most of the commercial establishments have already been allowed to function, the state government has left it to the local authorities (district collectors and municipal commissioners) for opening of shopping malls in July with appropriate restrictions. Like the previous month, restaurants and hotels are allowed only for home delivery and takeaways of food while Dhabas along the national and state highways and major road are allowed for takeaways. “Religious places and places of worship would continue to be prohibited for public in July. Opening of cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, theatres, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places has also been prohibited. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and large congregations are also not allowed,” said the chief secretary. As the state government has earlier announced for closure of all educational institutions till July 31, it has been extended till August 31 (for teaching purposes only). In a new strategy, the state government has identified 10 districts with more than 50 active cases as Zone-I districts, where the weekend shutdown would continue in July as well. These include Ganjam, Gajapati, Khurda, Cuttack, Jajpur, Jagatsinghpur, Balasore, Mayurbhan, Keonjhar and Jharsuguda.  “Of total 7065 cases, large numbers of cases are from the 10 districts identified as Zone-I districts. The remaining 20 districts are identified as zone-II districts,” said Tripathy. In June, the state government has enforced weekend shutdown in most of the costal districts and Balangir. While weekend shutdown relaxed in Puri, Nayagarhm Kendrapada, Bhadrak and Balangir, new districts-- Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Jharsuguda, Gajapati—have been added to the list for weekend shutdown. “In the Zone-I districts, the local authorities can impose restrictions on movement of intra-district public and private transport, closure of shops, establishments, government and private institutions and movement and assembly of people. Essential services identified by the state government would continue as usual,” said the chief secretary. Stating that the state government has emphasized on continuing economic activities along with protecting public health, the chief secretary said industrial units and construction activities are allowed during weekend shutdown and night curfew as well. Similarly, agriculture, horticulture, fisheries, animal husbandry, veterinary services and allied activities including procurement at mandis would continue during weekend shutdown. While the quarantine policy will continue as usual both for rural and urban areas, the local authorities can extend the duration of quarantine of the returnees based on the situation. With number of returnees has been reduced significantly, Tripathy said the number of quarantine centres will also be reduced. Similarly, Covid care homes would be opened in all panchayats to isolate suspected cases. Ward committees have also been formed in rural and urban areas for community surveillance. The chief secretary said there will be zero tolerance in July against violation of wearing masks, social distancing at public and commercial places and spitting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-night-curfew-relaxed-for-extra-two-hours-weekend-shutdown-to-continue-in-10-districts/articleshow/76719080.cms||Sujit kumar bisoyi
July 1, 2020||India||Killer of 4-yr boy among two terrorists killed in Anantnag||SRINAGAR: Two terrorists belonging to the Jammu Kashmir Islamic State (JKIS), who had killed a four year old boy and a CRPF jawan four days ago, were shot dead in an encounter in the Waghama area of Bijbehera town in South Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Tuesday. Director general of J&K Police, Dilbagh Singh confirmed that the slain terrorists were responsible for the June 26 attack on a CRPF patrol team in Bijbehera in which the boy and the jawan were killed. Police have identified one of the JKIS men as Zahid Dass, who had opened fire on the CRPF men. A joint team of J&K Police and the Army’s 03 RR battalion launched a cordon-and-search-operation on Tuesday in Waghama to hunt down the hiding terrorists. As the team encircled the suspected spot, the terrorists started firing upon the security personnel. It was retaliated by the forces, triggering off an encounter. In another incident, terrorists hurled a hand grenade on para-military troopers in South Kashmir’s Pulwama district. The grenade, targeted at the CRPF Deployment 183 Battalion posted near Pulwama post office, failed to explode. As many as 128 militants have been killed in the Valley so far this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/killer-of-4-yr-boy-among-two-terrorists-killed-in-anantnag/articleshow/76719208.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 1, 2020||India||Govt declared entire Nagaland 'disturbed area' for 6 more months||NEW DELHI: The Centre on Tuesday declared the entire Nagaland as "disturbed area" for a further period of six months till December-end. In a notification, the home ministry said the central government is of the opinion that the area comprising the whole Nagaland is in such a disturbed and dangerous condition that the use of armed forces in aid of the civil power is necessary. "Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers)Â Act, 1958 (No. 28 of 1958) the central government hereby declares that whole of the said State to be a 'disturbed area' for a period of six months with effect from 30th June, 2020 for the purpose of that Act," the home ministry said. Nagaland has been under the coverage of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) for almost six decades and it was not withdrawn even after a framework agreement was signed on August 3, 2015, by Naga insurgent group National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak Muivah) General Secretary Thuingaleng Muivah and government interlocutor R N Ravi in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The decision to maintain the status quo in Nagaland regarding coverage of AFSPA, a law slammed by many civil society groups as "draconian", came amidst reports of deteriorating law and order situation there. The AFSPA gives the armed forces sweeping powers to search and arrest, and to open fire if they deem it necessary for "the maintenance of public order".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-declared-entire-nagaland-disturbed-area-for-6-more-months/articleshow/76719373.cms||---
July 1, 2020||World||Joe Biden hammers Trump for handling of Covid-19 pandemic||WILMINGTON: Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden on Tuesday blistered President Donald Trump for his handling of the coronavirus pandemic as he tries to demonstrate to voters how he'd handle the public health and economic crisis if he were in the White House. Biden accused Trump of ``waving the white flag'' and refusing to lead the country through a pandemic that has killed 125,000 Americans and led to Depression-level unemployment. ``Despite the administration's propaganda that their response should be a cause for celebration, despite President Trump's request that we should slow down, testing because he thinks that makes it look bad, COVID-19 is still here,'' Biden said. ``It didn't have to be this way.'' Biden said a national system of testing for the virus and tracing the exposure path of those who are diagnosed is necessary to restore enough confidence for businesses to reopen and consumers to re-engage in the economy. And he added that widespread use o f masks and social distancing practices must be normal protocol for ``foreseeable future,'' and he warned that COVID-19 ``will likely worsen'' during the coming flu season. ``We can't continue half recovering, half getting worse,'' Biden said. ``We can't continue half with a plan and half just hoping for the best. We can't defeat this virus with a piecemeal approach.'' In a separate outline released ahead of his afternoon address, Biden's campaign called it ``impossible'' to predict the state of the pandemic on Inauguration Day next January, but said Biden ``won't wait to take action,'' and promised one of his first actions would be to ask Dr. Anthony Fauci, the federal government's leading infectious disease expert, to continue serving. Trump has often contradicted Fauci's guidelines on coronavirus, and the veteran of six administrations has been largely out of public view in recent weeks as COVID-19 cases have spiked across the country. Biden delivered his remarks in his hometown of Wilmington, Delaware, miles from his residence where he's spent most of his campaign time since early March, when governors and mayors around the country first began issuing stay-at-home orders and social distancing guidelines to prevent the pandemic's spread. As he has for weeks, Biden hammered Trump for giving Americans a ``false choice'' between ``lives and livelihoods.'' ``Donald Trump acts like we have to choose between our public health and our economy,'' Biden said in a Monday fundraiser ahead of his speech. The presumptive Democratic nominee reminded voters of actions he's called for over several months, in contrast to Trump downplaying the virus and bemoaning governors' orders that helped slow the economy to a crawl. Biden said he'd implement those plans as president, focusing on a national testing-and-tracing system that he touts as the key to restoring enough confidence for businesses to reopen safely and consumers to re-engage with the economy. Biden also emphasized personal protective equipment and investments in vaccine research and treatment methods. Biden called early in the pandemic for Trump to use the Defence Production Act, usually a wartime statute, to direct private sector manufacturing capacity to produce more health care materials needed to prevent, treat and combat the virus. Trump later said he was invoking the act to ramp up production of ventilators, though he spent weeks arguing that governors should be responsible for securing their own supplies. Biden also has said he'd apply the Defence Production Act to the banking sector, requiring financial institutions to prioritize small businesses as they dispense loan programs from the federal treasury. Congress has passed hundreds of billions of dollars in relief for businesses and individuals, but the programs have come under sharp criticism as larger businesses, including some larger corporations, got quick access to capital while smaller enterprises languished or closed altogether.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/joe-biden-hammers-trump-for-handling-of-covid-19-pandemic/articleshow/76719330.cms||---
July 1, 2020||India||J&K domicile law: Kargil lawyer, his aide file plea in Supreme Court||JAMMU: Apprehending that the newly introduced domicile law in Jammu & Kashmir will not provide the people of Ladakh job protection, Kargil advocate Najumul Huda and his aide have filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court. Ladakh was part of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir but now is a separate Union Territory, as is J&K. According to a statement issued on Tuesday, Huda and his aide, Nishant Khatri from Haryana, claim there is resentment over the recent J&K domicile law, despite some amendments by the Union home ministry, and thus they had filed a petition on June 15 (diary number 12903/2020) which was registered on June 23 (WP (C) No 598/2020) after all defects in the petition had been corrected. "Further, an application was also moved on 24/06/2020 for mentioning of the petition but the petition is still awaiting verification from Section-1B of the SC’s registry," the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-domicile-law-kargil-lawyer-his-aide-file-plea-in-supreme-court/articleshow/76719665.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
July 1, 2020||India||Backache, nausea, rashes could be Covid red flags||MUMBAI: Cough, cold or fever are no longer the only warning signs of Covid. Severe backache, abdominal pain, rashes or aching calves could also be the calling card of the virus. Doctors treating Covid cases in the city say diarrhoea may be more common than previously thought. Patients with no history of diabetes brought to hospital with sugar levels of 400-plus dl/gm is also a red flag. “Doctors are seeing patients with uncommon symptoms such as bodyache; some have no complaint apart from pain round the knees and below,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state government task force on Covid-19. Senior doctor Jalil Parkar who treated over 200 Covid patients before testing positive for the virus, said backache was the first symptom he had experienced. On Monday, the American Centers for Disease Control (CDC) added three new symptoms to its list of nine Covid warning signs: congestion or runny nose, nausea or vomiting, and diarrhoea. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had a fortnight ago added loss of smell (anosmia) or loss of taste (ageusia) as probable symptoms. It also added that while fever, tiredness and dry cough are the most common symptoms, “some patients may have aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhoea”. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a task force member, said nausea is emerging as a common symptom. “We have found Covid in people coming with abdominal pain and loose motions with bodyache. Even simple fever is turning out to be Covid,” said Dr Hemant Gupta, professor of medicine at Grant Medical College (JJ Hospital). “Sugar level going haywire has also become a parameter for us. Not only do the sugar levels shoot up in those with Covid, but patients also need high insulin doses,” he added. Dr Behram Pardiwala, internal medicine expert, at Wockhardt Hospital said sometimes patients have no other symptom but weakness and lethargy or lethargy and loose motions. “Some younger patients and adults are coming with complaints of itching and rashes. We have seen this in at least three adults,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/backache-nausea-rashes-could-be-covid-red-flags/articleshow/76719643.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 1, 2020||India||J&K DGP rewards BSF team that shot Pak drone||JAMMU: Jammu & Kashmir director general of police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh on Tuesday rewarded the BSF team that had gunned down a Pakistani hexacopter in Samba border area while the drone was trying to drop arms inside the Indian territory last week. The DGP was touring the border areas to monitor police preparedness in forward locations. A BSF spokesman on Tuesday said that DGP Singh, along with IG, BSF (Jammu), N S Jamwal, visited Samba border area to review the close coordination between BSF, police and other civil agencies in view of the rainy season. The DGP emphasised close coordination between border-defending forces, civil agencies and local police so that the problems and concerns of civilians could be addressed smoothly. The DGP also praised the hard work put in by the forces in guarding a volatile border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-dgp-rewards-bsf-team-that-shot-pak-drone/articleshow/76719744.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
July 1, 2020||India||Covid-19: PM Modi says rising negligence a cause of worry, urges caution||Warning of increasing negligence in social and personal behaviour with unlocking proceeding, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called for strict compliance of norms to control the spread of Covid-19. Addressing the nation on Tuesday, Modi said that the law for use of masks and norms of social distancing must apply equally to a gram pradhan or the PM, as he emphasised the need to take precautions as the unlock phase unfolds. “We have also seen that since Unlock-1, there is increasing negligence in personal and social behaviour. Earlier, we were very careful with respect to wearing masks, social distancing and washing of hands for 20 seconds. But today, when we need to be more careful, increasing negligence is a cause of worry,” PM Modi said. Referring to the onset of the monsoon, the PM said the season was one where coughs and colds increased and there was a need to protect oneself. He cited the example of Bulgarian PM Byoko Borisov, who had to pay a fine for not wearing a mask at a public place recently to underline that there should be no exceptions and called on local administrations to implement Covid norms with zeal and determination. “We are now entering Unlock-2 in our fight against the corona pandemic. We are also entering the season of increasing cases of cough, cold and fever. I, therefore, request all of you to take special care of yourselves,” Modi said. The PM said India is comparatively in a better position compared to many countries in terms of death rate as timely imposition of lockdown and other decisions saved lakhs of lives. “We need to focus more on containment zones. Those not following the rules will need to be stopped and cautioned. You must have seen in the news, the PM of a country was fined Rs 13,000 for not wearing a mask in a public place,” the PM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-pm-modi-says-rising-negligence-a-cause-of-worry-urges-caution/articleshow/76719765.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||Bonedi families start prepping for muted Durga Puja celebrations||With less than four months to go for Durga Puja, it’s that that time of the year when we usually start taking the countdown to the biggest festival of the state seriously. But 2020 is an extraordinary year. Like all other things, the ongoing pandemic is set to have a major impact on Puja celebrations too. While the barowari (public) pujas stare at an uncertain festive season, several bonedi families in Kolkata kicked off preparations with kathamo puja (worshipping the first structure of Ma Durga) on Rath Yatra. As per the tradition, some of them even gave orders for the idols (bayna) to their family sculptors on the auspicious day. While the families are trying their best to continue with age-old traditions despite all odds, they are mindful of the challenges posed by COVID-19. From scaling down celebrations to restricting the entry of devotees, bonedi baris are ready to adapt to the new normal. Here’s what some of the popular bonedi baris are planning for the upcoming Puja. Shovabazar Rajbari‘Social extravaganza will be drastically cut’ “The puja will take place in both Baag-ola Bari and Chhoto Rajbari. As per our customs, we hosted kathamo pujo on the day of Ratha Yatra. The same was hosted at Chhoto Rajbari on Ulto Rath. We’ve been following the same rituals for generations, so all the Puja paraphernalia will remain untouched, but the social extravaganza will be drastically cut. For example, there will be no procession on Saptami for Nabapatrika snan.” — Tirthankar Krishna Deb Bhawanipore Mallick Bari (96th year)‘Will have a meeting on how to control the crowd’ “We are going ahead with the age-old tradition of hosting Durga Puja at our house following the Vaishnav way of worship. Like always, this year too, we will have kathamo pujo on Janmashtami and the idol-making will start at our thakur dalan. However, we’re not expecting the usual crowd this year since social distancing is the need of the hour. There’s a meeting where all family members will discuss ways to limit the footfall if things don’t improve by Puja. Many of our relatives who stay abroad and in other cities may not be able to make it this time” — Ranjit Mallick Saborno Roy Chowdhury Family, Barisha ‘Durga Puja will be held, but on a smaller scale’ “We have six families — Boro Bari, Atchala Bari, Mejo Bari, Majher Bari, Benaki Bari and Kalikinkar Bhaban — which organise Durga Puja. And all of us have decided to carry on with the puja this year, but on a smaller scale. We are still deciding on how to tone down the celebrations. To begin with, our Annapurna Puja this year was a relatively small affair. We did not even conduct Rath Yatra. However, Durga Puja will surely take place and on Janmashtami, all the six families will host kathamo pujo. Tanmoy Ray Chaudhuri Hatibagan Kundu Bari‘It will truly be a family affair’ “Though our Puja rituals will be the same, the elaborate social functions will be scaled down this year. Our idol artist, who lives in Murshidabad, has promised to come down despite the uncertainties. He is the one who takes care of everything here. Since our family discourages the use of plastic, we have been using shola work, organic colours and biodegradable items to keep our Puja eco-friendly. This year, however, I am not sure what all we can do. My brother and other relatives are stuck in Delhi. If everything goes well, they will be here with us. This year, it will be a family affair — a barir pujo — in the true sense.” — Joydip Kundu Rani Rashmonir Barir Durga Puja, Janbazar‘Rituals will be conducted in keeping with the new normal’ “All the puja rituals will be carried out keeping the new normal in mind. Since a lot of visitors come for debi darshan, we’ll follow the latest government orders to keep that in check. We followed our tradition of hosting the kathamo puja at our thakur dalan on Rath Yatra. In August, we are expecting artisans from Birbhum who will make the idol in the house as per our age-old traditions. Our puja goes on for 10 days, starting from Prothoma. It will be the same this year. The Durga Puja at the Janbazar residence of Rani Rashmoni was started by Priti Ram Das – the father-in-law of Rani ma’s. The remarkable feature of our idol is the skin colour of Ma Durga. It is molten gold and the idol is purely handmade as we don’t use any moulds. Years back, it is in this courtyard of our house where Sri Ramkrishna Paramahansa Deb used to conduct Durga Puja.” — Prasun Hazra Sreemany Barir Durga Puja, Sukhia Street ‘We’ll try to limit the crowd of devotees’ “This year, we had to cancel Annapurna Puja because of the lockdown. We only did ghot puja on that day to keep our rituals alive. However, all the family members have decided to go ahead with our Durga Puja. We are hopeful that the situation will improve by then. If it doesn’t, we will think of ways to limit the crowd of devotees. On Rath Yatra, we did thakurer bayana (placing the order of the idol with some token money) at Kumartuli. Like every year, this year too, the idol will be traditional with daker saaj.” — Sutapa Sreemany Girish Bhawan, Bhowanipore‘First no-guest Durga Puja in 189 years’ “In the light of the pandemic, we are going to have a no-guest Durga Puja this time. This is the first time in 189 years of our puja heritage that we are just going for the ghot pujo. There will be no murti puja (idol worship) because first, we don’t want outsiders to come and carve the idol, which is made on the Girish Bhawan premises. And second, for the immersion, our deity is carried by coolies, and we don't know where they come from. No one knows how the situation is going to be during Puja. So, we are not taking any chances and all the members of Girish Bhawan have unanimously taken this decision. We hope to go back to our usual celebrations from next year.” — Kaushik Mukherjee||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bonedi-families-start-prepping-for-muted-durga-puja-celebrations/articleshow/76719915.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
July 1, 2020||Business||India’s app ban a setback to global ambitions of Chinese tech giants||BENGALURU: The Indian government's decision to ban 59 Chinese apps may not significantly impact their revenues, but it is a big setback for many internet giants with global ambitions. The ban includes apps from some of the largest Chinese technology companies, including Alibaba, Bytedance, Baidu, Tencent, Xiaomi, YY Inc and Lenovo, which have been building up user bases of millions in India. Even more worryingly for them, India's move could set a global precedent, said experts tracking the digital economy. India China standoff live updatesUnlike US tech majors like Facebook and Google, which have been able to build big businesses in Europe and Asia, India and Southeast Asia are some of the markets that large Chinese companies have been betting on to show that they can succeed beyond their home turf. With no global competitors at home due to the great Chinese firewall, many of these companies have flourished in their huge domestic market, generating billions in profits. They have used these funds to expand globally, either through investments or direct operations. Read AlsoApp makers to approach government to ‘clarify’ positionA day after the govt ordered the “blocking” of 59 Chinese apps, some of them, such as TikTok, Club Factory, decided to approach the Centre seeking to clarify their position while maintaining that they were compliant with Indian regulations. The statements came as Apple and Google said they were yet"Chinese psychology is about not giving even an inch in life. All the Chinese companies were struggling to build revenues, but India is important to them as the last large consumer market in the world," said the founder of a tech startup that counts a large Chinese company as one of its investors. Read AlsoBan China-backed news apps, Indian publishers tell govtIn response to China blocking access to Indian newspapers and websites, Indian print and digital news publishers have asked the Centre to ban all news apps and platforms with Chinese investments.An analysis of India’s top 200 apps by install volume shows the share of Chinese apps was at 38% in 2019, marginally behind 41% for apps developed locally in India. In 2018, Chinese apps were ahead, at 43%, against India's 38%. Apps like TikTok, Shareit and Xender have been topping Google's Android ecosystem, which accounts for 90-95% of smartphones in India. For example, Indians clocked 5.5 billion hours on TikTok in 2019, an increase of over five times from the 900 million hours spent in 2018, according to data of Android users assessed by mobile and data analytics firm App Annie. While Facebook is ahead in India, with total hours spent on the platform at around 25.5 billion hours, TikTok has been catching up fast by aggressively capturing new users. The TikTok app was downloaded 323 million times across Apple’s App Store and Android devices in India in 2019 — over twice the 156 million times Facebook was, according to Sensor Tower data reported by TOI in January. In December 2019, the total time spent on TikTok in India was more than the next 11 countries combined, according to App Annie. This underlines India's importance for TikTok's parent Bytedance, which is set to go for an IPO soon. Bytedance, which also owns Helo and is the world's most valuable startup at $100 billion, understands that India is an "MAU (monthly active users) market and not revenue market", according to an industry analyst. This strategy is similar to that of Facebook - which counts its highest number of global users in India even though the country contributes only a fraction of FB's revenues compared with the US. Bytedance reported revenues of just Rs 44 crore ($6 million) in India in the financial year ending March 2019, according to MCA filings. It is expected to report higher revenues in 2019-20 given that in the last quarter (Jan-March) of the year, it earned Rs 22-30 crore or $3-4 million, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. This constitutes little more than a blip on the global dashboard – the company’s worldwide revenues in calendar 2019 were $17 billion and net profit $3 billion, according to Bloomberg. Even so, losing the Indian market would take some of the lustre out of their valuation numbers. "If these companies are not global in nature, it restricts their ability to do a good global listing (IPO). India provides growth for the future- the fastest growing and highest volume market. It's also the least competitive market - Facebook and Google have hardly any competition here in India, while they do in the US," said Anand Lunia, co-founder of venture firm India Quotient, which has backed companies like Sharechat, which competes with Bytedance. The founder of a tech startup said he expected the Chinese giants to fight the ban, adding, "The big danger for them is if other countries follow in India's footsteps." While companies like Bytedance and Xiaomi have aggressively opened up direct operations in India, others like Alibaba and Tencent have primarily operated through investments. Alibaba Group has backed Indian unicorns like Paytm, Zomato and Bigbasket, while Tencent has backed Byju's, Dream11, Ola and Udaan. Watch India government's decision to ban app, a setback to global ambitions of Chinese tech giants||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indias-app-ban-a-setback-to-global-ambitions-of-chinese-tech-giants/articleshow/76719875.cms||Madhav Chanchani
July 1, 2020||India||PM Modi extends free ration to 80 crore till November||NEW DELHI: In a move to bolster food security for the poor impacted by a Covid-induced economic slowdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended the scheme to provide five kg foodgrains and one kg of pulses for free to 80 crore beneficiaries for another five months. During a national broadcast, Modi said the five-month extension will cost around Rs 90,000 crore, taking the overall cost to Rs 1.5 lakh crore. Poor families are entitled to 5 kg grains every month under the National Food Security Programme and the government is topping up the entitlement with a matching quantity, with pulses thrown in, at no charge. The other elements of the PM Garib Kalyan Yojana, however, ended on Tuesday. The decision was also seen as an early start to the campaign for Bihar elections due later this year, a state which has a large number of migrant workers who would be beneficiaries. The politically competitive element was apparent with West Bengal — due for polls in early 2021 and where BJP has emerged challenger — announcing that free foodgrains will be continued till June next year. The announcement was seen aimed at strengthening BJP’s grip over a key vote-bank ahead of the crucial state elections by tapping into the massive pile of wheat and rice with the Food Corporation of India — estimated at 98 million tonnes, more than twice the prescribed level. While it has 83 million tonnes of grains, another 15 million tonnes of paddy is with millers which will come back in the form of rice. In his remarks on the festival season, while emphasising the need for social distancing, Modi made it a point to mention Chhath, a popular religious event in Bihar. “Today, if the government is able to provide free ration to the needy and poor, then credit for it goes to two categories. One — hard working farmers of our country. Second, honest taxpayers of our country. It is your hard work and dedication, due to which the nation is able to do it. You have filled the stocks of the nation, therefore, there is food in the kitchen of poor and workers. You paid the tax honestly, you fulfilled your duty. That is why the poor of the country is successfully coping with such a big crisis,” Modi said. On May 25, TOI was the first to report about a possible extension of the scheme under the PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. On June 18, TOI reported that at least 10 CMs had approached the Centre, recommending an extension amid record procurement of wheat. Watch One nation one ration card coming soon: PM Narendra Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-extends-free-ration-to-80cr-till-nov/articleshow/76720061.cms||---
July 1, 2020||World||Sexual harassment: Pak school fires four teachers||ISLAMABAD: Four faculty members of an elite school in Lahore were sacked by the authorities on Tuesday for allegedly sexually harassing young female students and sending them objectionable pictures and messages. The school management took action after some students spoke up about the inappropriate behaviour on an Instagram page. The move encouraged more students from the school to share their experiences with the same teachers as well as students from other schools, showing how unbridled sexual harassment at their schools was. One of the accused teachers, whose screenshots of private pictures were also shared, used to teach debate and politics at the school. “He is a manipulative person and on international trips, he used to get involved with girls. He has girlfriends from every batch and many called him a playboy,” revealed one of the students. The students revealed that another accused, a chemistry teacher, used to harass them by staring at their chests and trying to touch them inappropriately. They also said that he tried to sit with them in a manner that made it very uncomfortable for them to study. One of the victims said about another accused that he used to bite his lip whenever he talked to her. “It made me very uncomfortable,” she said. Another girl complained that her teacher forced her to take a picture with him saying that he would look at it in bed right before going to sleep every night. When I tried to complain about him, he came to the class and while looking at me threatened that he would ‘fix’ anyone who tried to defame him, including by deducting marks,” she said. According to students, they had lodged various sexual harassment complaints against the accused over the years but the school administration was reluctant to take any action. The administration, however, said that after receiving evidence against the accused, which included videos, photographs and indecent messages sent by them to students, all four involved were fired. The students have started an online petition against the accused faculty members and custodial staff. Police, however, said that they have not received any complaint from the school administration so far to take action against the four accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/sexual-harassment-pak-school-fires-four-teachers/articleshow/76720163.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
July 1, 2020||World||Uphold rights of international investors, says Beijing||NEW DELHI: The government's decision to ban 59 Chinese apps, including the popular video-sharing service Tik Tok, evoked a strong reaction from China on Tuesday with its foreign ministry reminding India that it had the responsibility to uphold the “legal and legitimate rights” of international investors, including Chinese businesses. The Chinese embassy here followed the spokesperson’s remarks in Beijing with a statement saying China was seriously concerned about the move and appealed to India to shun “discriminatory" practices, bearing in mind the “fundamental interests of both sides and the overall interests of bilateral relations”. In a move widely seen as a response to the recent Chinese aggression on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the government banned these apps saying their activities were prejudicial to India’s sovereignty and integrity. Apart from the military counter build-up on the LAC, the action against the apps is seen as use of leverage that can significantly impact revenues of Chinese firms. “I want to stress that the Chinese government always asks Chinese businesses to abide by international rules, local laws and regulations in their business cooperation with foreign countries,” foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said as he expressed strong concerns. He added that China was checking and verifying the situation. The Indian government had said it has received complaints about “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting user data” to servers outside India. Zhao also claimed the pattern of “win-win” practical cooperation between the two countries had been “artificially undermined” and it was not in India’s interest. In a more elaborate response, the embassy here said the Chinese side firmly opposed India’s action. “India’s measure, selectively and discriminatorily aims at certain Chinese apps on ambiguous and far-fetched grounds, runs against fair and transparent procedure requirements, abuses national security exceptions, and violates WTO rules,” the embassy spokesperson said. The official added that India’s move also went against the general trend of international trade and e-commerce, and was not conducive to consumer interests and market competition in India. China said it wanted India to acknowledge the "mutually beneficial nature" of China-India economic and trade cooperation. The embassy urged the Indian side to change its “discriminatory” practices, maintain the momentum of China-India economic and trade cooperation, treat all investments and service providers equally, and create an “open, fair and just business environment, while bearing in mind the fundamental interests of both sides and the overall interests of bilateral relations”. Touching upon the popularity of some of these apps, the embassy said these had a large number of users in India, had been operating strictly in accordance with Indian laws and regulations, and provided efficient and fast services for Indian consumers, creators and entrepreneurs. “The ban will affect not only the employment of local Indian workers who support these apps but also the interests of Indian users and the employment and livelihoods of many creators and entrepreneurs," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/uphold-rights-of-international-investors-says-beijing/articleshow/76720166.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Business||Uphold rights of international investors, says Beijing||NEW DELHI: The government's decision to ban 59 Chinese apps, including the popular video-sharing service Tik Tok, evoked a strong reaction from China on Tuesday with its foreign ministry reminding India that it had the responsibility to uphold the “legal and legitimate rights” of international investors, including Chinese businesses. The Chinese embassy here followed the spokesperson’s remarks in Beijing with a statement saying China was seriously concerned about the move and appealed to India to shun “discriminatory" practices, bearing in mind the “fundamental interests of both sides and the overall interests of bilateral relations”. In a move widely seen as a response to the recent Chinese aggression on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the government banned these apps saying their activities were prejudicial to India’s sovereignty and integrity. Apart from the military counter build-up on the LAC, the action against the apps is seen as use of leverage that can significantly impact revenues of Chinese firms. “I want to stress that the Chinese government always asks Chinese businesses to abide by international rules, local laws and regulations in their business cooperation with foreign countries,” foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said as he expressed strong concerns. He added that China was checking and verifying the situation. The Indian government had said it has received complaints about “stealing and surreptitiously transmitting user data” to servers outside India. Zhao also claimed the pattern of “win-win” practical cooperation between the two countries had been “artificially undermined” and it was not in India’s interest. In a more elaborate response, the embassy here said the Chinese side firmly opposed India’s action. “India’s measure, selectively and discriminatorily aims at certain Chinese apps on ambiguous and far-fetched grounds, runs against fair and transparent procedure requirements, abuses national security exceptions, and violates WTO rules,” the embassy spokesperson said. The official added that India’s move also went against the general trend of international trade and e-commerce, and was not conducive to consumer interests and market competition in India. China said it wanted India to acknowledge the "mutually beneficial nature" of China-India economic and trade cooperation. The embassy urged the Indian side to change its “discriminatory” practices, maintain the momentum of China-India economic and trade cooperation, treat all investments and service providers equally, and create an “open, fair and just business environment, while bearing in mind the fundamental interests of both sides and the overall interests of bilateral relations”. Touching upon the popularity of some of these apps, the embassy said these had a large number of users in India, had been operating strictly in accordance with Indian laws and regulations, and provided efficient and fast services for Indian consumers, creators and entrepreneurs. “The ban will affect not only the employment of local Indian workers who support these apps but also the interests of Indian users and the employment and livelihoods of many creators and entrepreneurs," the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/uphold-rights-of-international-investors-says-beijing/articleshow/76719936.cms||---
July 1, 2020||World||PM Imran Khan blames India for Karachi stock exchange attack||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Tuesday that he had "no doubt" that India was behind the terror attack on the stock exchange building in the southern port city of Karachi, an allegation that has been denied by New Delhi. The attack, Khan said on the floor of the National Assembly, was an attempt to destabilise Pakistan. "What happened in Mumbai, they wanted to do the same in Karachi; they wanted to spread uncertainty. We have no doubt that this was done by India," he said while referring to the 2008 Mumbai attacks. Praising the four security personnel, including a police sub-inspector, who lost their lives in the exchange of fire with the attackers, Khan said, "They are heroes of Pakistan." "They gave sacrifices and thwarted a major terror attack, which was planned by India to destabilise us," he said, adding that the attackers had a lot of ammunition and had prepared for a long siege. "Me and my cabinet members know that all our law enforcement agencies are on high alert. They anticipated at least four major attempts of terrorism, and two of them were around Islamabad," Khan said. "We foiled a terror bid because we were fully prepared. This was a huge win for us," he said. The Pakistan Stock Exchange was stormed by four heavily armed attackers of the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA), a separatist ethnic Baloch insurgent group, on Monday. All assailants were killed in a firefight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pm-imran-khan-blames-india-for-karachi-stock-exchange-attack/articleshow/76720176.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
July 1, 2020||World||Indian woman, 29, wins £5,000 Commonwealth short story prize for Hindu-Muslim love story||LONDON: A woman from Ranchi currently studying in the US has won £5,000 after her tale about a Hindu girl falling in love with a Muslim boy beat more than 5,000 entries from 49 countries to win the 2020 Commonwealth Short Story Prize. Kritika Pandey, 29, was speechless and tearful when announced as the overall winner of the prize for "The Great Indian Tee and Snakes" at an online ceremony on Tuesday. The prize is judged by an international panel of writers, representing each of the five regions of the Commonwealth. The award was presented by the chair of the 2020 judging panel, Ghanaian writer and editor Nii Ayikwei. Her story tells of an unlikely friendship between a strong-willed Hindu girl who chooses to love a Muslim boy in India, even though she is not supposed to, mostly set at a tea seller’s stall. The energy of the piece of fiction derives from a few looks between a boy and a girl. "This is an incredible moment for me. All the aspirational middles class people, like my parents, wanted me to become an engineer," Pandey said upon hearing she had won. "I went to an engineering college and I hated it. In India you can’t just stop going to college and switch if you are middle class like me, as my father only had so much money. I had to finish it. My parents couldn’t afford the kind of education they managed to provide me. They were very conservative and they are still and wanted me to marry a certain kind of guy and have a certain kind of life. I just said ‘No’. I am supposed to have had two children already and be living in India. To get this award tells me I was not wrong. I was following something leading me somewhere. I have lived with so much guilt for letting my parents down. This really made up for so much of the struggle I went through," she added. "Messing up was never an option because so many young women back home would be told, ‘See this is why you shouldn’t get too big for your boots’," she said. "If you, like me, are a young woman from Jharkhand, then you must have immense caste and class privilege to get an education in the first place, and even if you do you would be expected to get married as soon as you finish college. I chose to read and write instead. I am honoured beyond words. I hope this helps more people trust their daughters and their dreams." Her story has been published online in literary magazine Granta. Pandey, a Pushcart-nominated Indian writer who is in her final year of a Master of Fine Arts at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, had been announced the regional winner for Asia on June 2. Ayikwei described the story as "beautifully complex". "I have no doubt you will be creating some fantastic work in the years to come," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/indian-woman-29-wins-5000-commonwealth-short-story-prize-for-hindu-muslim-love-story/articleshow/76720206.cms||NAOMI CANTON
July 1, 2020||India||Indian woman, 29, wins £5,000 Commonwealth short story prize for Hindu-Muslim love story||LONDON: A woman from Ranchi currently studying in the US has won £5,000 after her tale about a Hindu girl falling in love with a Muslim boy beat more than 5,000 entries from 49 countries to win the 2020 Commonwealth Short Story Prize. Kritika Pandey, 29, was speechless and tearful when announced as the overall winner of the prize for "The Great Indian Tee and Snakes" at an online ceremony on Tuesday. The prize is judged by an international panel of writers, representing each of the five regions of the Commonwealth. The award was presented by the chair of the 2020 judging panel, Ghanaian writer and editor Nii Ayikwei. Her story tells of an unlikely friendship between a strong-willed Hindu girl who chooses to love a Muslim boy in India, even though she is not supposed to, mostly set at a tea seller’s stall. The energy of the piece of fiction derives from a few looks between a boy and a girl. "This is an incredible moment for me. All the aspirational middles class people, like my parents, wanted me to become an engineer," Pandey said upon hearing she had won. "I went to an engineering college and I hated it. In India you can’t just stop going to college and switch if you are middle class like me, as my father only had so much money. I had to finish it. My parents couldn’t afford the kind of education they managed to provide me. They were very conservative and they are still and wanted me to marry a certain kind of guy and have a certain kind of life. I just said ‘No’. I am supposed to have had two children already and be living in India. To get this award tells me I was not wrong. I was following something leading me somewhere. I have lived with so much guilt for letting my parents down. This really made up for so much of the struggle I went through," she added. "Messing up was never an option because so many young women back home would be told, ‘See this is why you shouldn’t get too big for your boots’," she said. "If you, like me, are a young woman from Jharkhand, then you must have immense caste and class privilege to get an education in the first place, and even if you do you would be expected to get married as soon as you finish college. I chose to read and write instead. I am honoured beyond words. I hope this helps more people trust their daughters and their dreams." Her story has been published online in literary magazine Granta. Pandey, a Pushcart-nominated Indian writer who is in her final year of a Master of Fine Arts at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, had been announced the regional winner for Asia on June 2. Ayikwei described the story as "beautifully complex". "I have no doubt you will be creating some fantastic work in the years to come," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-woman-29-wins-5000-commonwealth-short-story-prize-for-hindu-muslim-love-story/articleshow/76720186.cms||NAOMI CANTON
July 1, 2020||India||Hurriyat failed miserably in its mission, Geelani said in letter: J&K DGP||SRINAGAR: Director general of J&K Police, Dilbagh Singh on Tuesday said former Hurriyat Conference chairman Syed Ali Shah Geelani had admitted in a letter sent by him to all constituents of the separatist outfit that the “path chosen by him was wrong and people were using it for personal gains, while the mission they were pursuing has failed.” Geelani, 90, the lifetime chairman of the pro-Pakistan Hurriyat Conference, made a surprise announcement of completely dissociating himself from the 16-party Hurriyat Forum on Monday, alleging lack of accountability and a brewing rebellion in the ranks. Singh, while speaking to reporters after inaugurating the all-women’s police station at Rajouri, said, “Geelani’s letter is an eye-opener. He admitted that they [Hurriyat Conference and its factions] have miserably failed in their mission and the Kashmir issue is being used by people for their personal gain. He also confessed that his path was wrong, and they were propagating negative thinking.” The DGP said, the aged leader, in his letter, had “cried hoarse” over how people sitting across LoC were luring Kashmiri youths towards narcotics and the “drugged youth are not in their senses”. Geelani had also stated that “Kashmir’s freedom struggle was reduced to mere drug abuse and serving Pakistan’s interests. He had also accused some people in the amalgam of resorting to “financial irregularities and taking decisions on behalf of him (Geelani) without his consent.” Asserting that police and other security agencies are working to strengthen the peace prevailing in the valley at present, the DGP said 128 terrorists were eliminated since the beginning of this year, but Pakistan is making all out efforts to push more terrorists into this side to keep the pot boiling. “This month alone, 48 terrorists were killed in several successful operations, which is the highest number in the month of June in the past many years. The last surviving terrorist from Doda was among three militants killed in Anantnag district yesterday [Monday], while two more militants who were involved in the recent killing of a CRPF jawan and an innocent child were eliminated (in south Kashmir) today [Tuesday],” he said. Singh said, after receiving inputs that Pakistan is trying to push militants using traditional infiltration routes, security forces have started strengthening the counter-infiltration grid on the LoC and the International Border (IB) in Jammu. “Earlier, a group of Jaish-e-Mohammed men were killed at Nagrota. The militants were using the Kathua and Poonch sectors in Jammu. We are now strengthening our border grid on IB and LoC in Jammu and in Kashmir in Keran, Uri and Karnah as well. We have reports that militants are also trying to use Machil and Gurez routes,” he said. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hurriyat-failed-miserably-in-its-mission-geelani-said-in-letter-jk-dgp/articleshow/76720213.cms||M Saleem Pandit
July 1, 2020||Business||App makers to approach government to ‘clarify’ position||NEW DELHI: A day after the government ordered the “blocking” of 59 Chinese apps, some of them, such as TikTok and Club Factory, decided to approach the Centre seeking to clarify their position, while maintaining that they were compliant with Indian regulations. The statements came as Apple and Google were yet to receive official communication to remove all the 59 Chinese apps from their platforms. As a result, some of the apps such as CamScanner could be downloaded on devices even on Tuesday — 24 hours after the ministry of electronics and IT announced the government decision to “block” apps since they were seen to be accessing devices and unauthorisedly sharing data. Apple has received an order under Section 69A of the IT Act to remove the popular Chinese video sharing app TikTok from its App Store, industry sources told TOI. Orders for the removal of the remaining 58 apps, including UC Browser, Club Factory and Shein, were yet to be received till late Tuesday evening. Google, which runs the ubiquitous Android store, had received official orders to remove around 20 apps so far, industry sources said. “We don’t implement orders based on mere press releases. We need clearly-defined instructions based on existing rules governing the content and app ecosystem.” Several of the apps could be downloaded on Google Play Store late Tuesday evening. Official sources said the IT ministry has asked the department of telecom to instruct ISPs and telecom operators to take down the apps, while also blocking content on those already downloaded. The industry source said removing an app “randomly, without any government order” will make the firm liable for action in courts. Separately, entities representing TikTok and Club Factory said they have not violated any law. TikTok, the first one to pull out its app from the Apple and Google play stores, said it will approach the government. “The government of India has issued an interim order for the blocking… and we are complying with it. We’ve been invited to meet with concerned government stakeholders for an opportunity to respond and submit clarifications,” Nikhil Gandhi, head of TikTok India, said. Watch Chinese app makers to approach govt to ‘clarify’ position||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/app-makers-to-approach-govt-to-clarify-position/articleshow/76720234.cms||Pankaj Doval
July 1, 2020||India||India records 4 lakh Covid cases, 12k deaths in June||NEW DELHI: India recorded more than 4 lakh Covid-19 cases and over 12,000 deaths from the virus in June alone, which was by far the worst month of the outbreak in the country. While the number of cases was 2.7 times higher than those reported during the previous month of May, the number of deaths was 2.8 times higher. In May, India had reported just over 1.5 lakh cases and 4,267 deaths. While fresh Covid-19 cases on the last day of June dipped slightly to 18,333, deaths crossed the 500 mark to 510, as per data collated from state governments. India had recorded 5,85,474 lakh cases of Covid-19 in all while the death toll crossed the 17,000 mark to 17,412 on Tuesday. The day’s toll was the biggest surge in deaths since 2,003 fatalities were reported on June 16, with most of those numbers comprising earlier deaths confirmed during data reconciliation processes in Maharashtra and Delhi. India’s Covid-19 caseload of 4 lakh in June was the third highest in the world after the US and Brazil while the number of deaths during the month was the fourth highest after the US, Brazil and Mexico. Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 245 Covid deaths, the second highest in a single day so far. With this, the total death toll in the state has gone up to 7,855, close to the 8,000 mark. Of the 245 deaths, 95 deaths occurred in the last 48 hours and the remaining 150 deaths were earlier fatalities added to the tally on Tuesday. June has been the deadliest month in terms of Covid cases and deaths in the state. At the end of the fourth lockdown, and in the month of June itself a total of 5,569 deaths were reported in the state. Most of the deaths were added to the tally as part of the massive data cleaning exercise taken up by the state. Meanwhile, 4,878 new Covid cases were reported in Maharashtra, the lowest in the last four days. The total number of cases in the state as on Tuesday was 1,74,761 of which 1.07 lakh cases were added in the month of June itself. Tamil Nadu continued to report close to 4,000 new cases (3,943 on Tuesday) while infections spiked to the highest single-day number in Bengal (652). The day’s count dipped significantly in Delhi, which reported 2,199 new cases, down from its peak of over 3,900 just a few days ago. However, numbers continued to be high in Karnataka (947 new cases), Telangana (945), Andhra Pradesh (704), Uttar Pradesh (672), Gujarat (620) and Assam (343). Bihar recorded eight Covid-19 deaths and 370 new cases — both single-day records — taking the fatalities toll to 71 and the number of coronavirus cases to 9,988, just 12 cases away from breaching the 10,000 mark. The state health department officially reported five deaths on Tuesday, one each from Patna, East Champaran and Gaya and two from Rohtas. However, Patna civil surgeon Dr R K Chaudhary confirmed two deaths in the district and another was confirmed by Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH). The Jammu and Kashmir government reported 260 new positive cases, 32 from Jammu division and 228 from Kashmir division, taking the total number of cases in Jammu and Kashmir to 7,497. “Also 6 deaths have been reported,” an official spokesperson said. Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday registered seven deaths and 704 Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative caseload to 14,595. The death toll rose to 187 with Krishna district reporting three deaths, Kurnool two and Guntur and Anantapur one each. The Covid infection tally in Rajasthan touched 18,014 on Tuesday with the addition of 354 fresh cases. The casualty count reached 413 with the addition of eight more deaths. In the last eight days, the state added more than 3000 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-india-records-4-lakh-covid-cases-12k-deaths-in-june/articleshow/76720292.cms||---
July 1, 2020||India||Scribes’ bodies back PTI, say PB working as ‘lackey’ of govt||NEW DELHI: Coming forward in support of Press Trust of India which was charged last week by public broadcaster Prasar Bharati of “anti-national” coverage on China, journalist organisations Indian Women’s Press Corps, Press Club of India, and Press Association accused the Centre of using the ‘autonomous’ broadcaster as a shield and a “lackey of the Union government”. Expressing shock and concern over Prasar Bharati threatening PTI with cancelling its subscription over an interview with the Chinese ambassador, which it said was “acting to the detriment of national interest and undermining India’s territorial integrity”, IWPC said PTI was “only doing its professional duty”. “At a time when the Chinese have intruded into Indian territory, it is the job of the journalist to ask the ‘other side’,” IWPC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/scribes-bodies-back-pti-say-pb-working-as-lackey-of-govt/articleshow/76720385.cms||---
July 1, 2020||India||Govt plans cashless treatment for road accident victims||NEW DELHI: In what would come as a big relief to road accident victims, the government will provide free cashless treatment up to Rs 2.5 lakh to ensure that every one has access to immediate medical care in such situations, including during the ‘Golden Hour’. The policy will cover foreign nationals as well. The road transport ministry has roped in the National Health Authority (NHA), which is implementing Ayushman Bharat PM Jan Aarogya Yojna, to process the claims raised by hospitals after treating the injured and will use its robust IT platform to run the scheme. The ministry will set up a Motor Vehicle Relief Fund with its own contribution and also from the General Insurance Company (GIC). According to the ministry, GIC will bear the expenses incurred on victims due to accidents involving insured vehicles and in ‘hit and run’ cases. The road transport ministry will bear the expenditure for crashes involving uninsured vehicles. The move gains importance considering that nearly 1.49 lakh people lost lives in road accidents in 2019 and about five lakh were left injured. About 15% of the fatalities are on account of ‘hit and run’ cases. According to a Law Commission report, nearly 50% deaths can be avoided by ensuring timely medical care to the accident victims. Moreover, the policy aims to bring relief to the poor who can’t pay upfront to hospitals for medical care. As per the plan, NHA will set up a dedicated cell for implementation of the scheme and settling the claims. NHA has been involved considering its vast experience in implementing Ayushman Bharat scheme. Nearly 20,000 private and government hospitals are on the NHA platform and this would come as a big help for quicker and successful implementation of the scheme. The claims will be released after proper assessment and there will be a “head to toe” examination of the recovered victims at a later stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-plans-cashless-treatment-for-road-accident-victims/articleshow/76720422.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar among top 10 states with high coronavirus recovery rate||PATNA: Bihar’s high recovery rate of Covid-19 cases holds out a beacon of hope amid the grim numbers of rapidly rising number of coronavirus cases in the state. The state now ranks sixth in the country in terms of recovery. Even the Covid-19 death rate in the state is better than the national average. As per data shared by Union minister of health and family welfare on Tuesday, Bihar’s recovery rate stands at 77.6% compared to the national figure of 59%. While Bihar ranks sixth, Meghalaya topped with a recovery rate of 89.4%, followed by Chandigarh with 80.2% and Chhattisgarh with 78.7% recovery rate. Neighbouring Jharkhand which stands at eighth position has a recovery rate of 76%. In terms of the number of deaths, the state’s performance is much better than many other states and Union Territories. While the death rate due to Covid-19 in India stands at 2.98%, in Bihar it is 0.64%, which means less than 1% of the total number of Covid-19 positive people in Bihar have died so far. Much to the sigh of relief of the state health department, the state does not figure in the list of top 10 states with the highest death rate. Gujarat tops this list followed by Delhi and Maharashtra. As per data reported by the Union health ministry till Tuesday morning, of 31,983 cases reported in Gujarat, 1,827 have died taking the death rate to 5.71%, which is nearly double the national average. The death rate of Delhi stood at 4.60%, followed by Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh with 4.5% and 4.21% respectively. Several north-east states have not reported any death till Monday. For instance, no death has been reported from Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland and Sikkim. Even Andaman and Nicober Island and Dadar and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu have reported zero deaths so far. In fact, these states and UTs have reported very few Covid-19 cases too. Dr HS Sharma, who is the governing body member of association of physicians of India and also holds the charge of nodal officer for Covid-19 at Jawahar lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital said, “It is a good news for all Biharis that our state is doing better in terms of recovery rate.” He added, “I think it is because of better immune system that comes from fresh fruits and vegetables we take, unlike people staying in metros who are dependent on processed food. Majority of people in Bihar live in villages and their lifestyle is also better, than those who live in metros.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-among-top-10-states-with-high-coronavirus-recovery-rate/articleshow/76716538.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 1, 2020||Patna||Patna’s pharmaceutical hub to reopen today||PATNA: About 900 wholesale shops on the Govind Mitra Road, the largest pharmaceutical hub of the state, remained closed for sanitization of their premises on Tuesday. However, cutting short their closure schedule for three days till July 2 to a single day, the Patna chemists and druggists association announced that all the shops would reopen on Wednesday. The association president, Rajesh Kumar Arya, said they decided to cut short the closure schedule for three days after talks with assistant drug controller Vishvajeet Das Gupta. He said the shopowners have been asked to take all precautionary measures. The association had announced the three-day closure after one of the shopkeepers in that area had been found infected for Covid-19 virus. Gupta also asked the wholesale dealers to place their other demands like making the entire road free of roadside vendors and sanitizing the market area at least once a week. Association secretary Arjun Kumar Yadav said all shopkeepers have been advised to avoid crowding and put up posters and banners and allow only those customers wearing masks. The GM Road pharmaceutical complex is the largest supplier of medicines in the entire state and some districts of the neighbouring states as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patnas-pharmaceutical-hub-to-reopen-today/articleshow/76716681.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Patna||Patna-Gaya road: NHAI submits report in court||PATNA: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Tuesday submitted a detailed report in Patna high court, informing it that all maintenance and overlaying work on four-laning of 117km-long Patna-Gaya-Dobhi NH-83 would be completed by July 15. The NHAI submitted its report in the court after inspecting the progress of the project. On June 25, the high court had asked the NHAI to do the inspection by forming a committee comprising NHAI regional officer and DMs of Patna, Jehanabad and Gaya. The court has now fixed July 24 as the next date of hearing in the case. During Tuesday’s virtual hearing, DMs of Patna, Jehanabad and Gaya along with NHAI regional officer Lt Col Chandan Vats and road construction department special secretary Devesh Sehra were present. The committee apprised the court of the total length of the highway, 34km falls in Patna district. “There are potholes on NH at four stretches. At seven locations, these potholes will be repaired by GAIL. At Punpun, the road is not broad enough for parallel movement of two vehicles,” the NHAI informed the court. The NH portion falling in Jehanabad and Gaya district is divided into five parts and all of them are well maintained, except the 20km stretch in Gaya. Before the high court takes up the matter again on July 24, the four-week time granted to development commissioner Arun Kumar Singh on June 22 to disburse compensation to rightful land owners and hand over acquired land to NHAI would also end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-gaya-road-nhai-submits-report-in-court/articleshow/76717889.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 1, 2020||Patna||Trial run for train traffic on Kosi bridge successful: Railways||PATNA: The 90-year-old dream of people living in Kosi region in north Bihar is likely to be fulfilled with the completion of the new rail bridge over Kosi river. The bridge, which is located on the Nirmali–Saraigarh section of the ECR’s Samastipur division, has been completed at a total cost of Rs 561.02 crore. The bridge is of strategic importance for India and seeks to provide a shorter route to the Northeast. Former PM Atal Behari Bajpayee had laid its foundation stone on June 6, 2003 on the demand of the people of Kosi region. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said that a trial run of a passenger train was made on this 1.9 km long Kosi Mahasetu on June 23. “Railways, however, intends to open the newly-built rail bridge for traffic movements after getting clearance from the commissioner of railway safety (CRS), eastern circle, Kolkata, sometimes in July this month,” he said. According to the CPRO, at present, the distance of about 298 km between Nirmali and Saraigarh is being covered via Darbhanga-Samastipur-Khagaria – Mansi – Saharsa route. It will now be hardly a distance of 22 km following completion of the Kosi rail bridge . “The Nirmali–Darbhanga–Sakri – Jhanjharpur and Saraigarh – Saharsa - Forbesganj routes were the meter gauge lines in 1887 by the then North Best Railway Company. The direct link between Nirmali and Sariagarh was, however, completely disrupted after the old Kosi rail bridge in 1934 was washed out,” he said adding, “There was no direct connectivity between these two important places Nirmali and Saraigarh since then.” According to sources, the social bonding between these two places Nirmali and Saraigarh located across the Kosi river was very strong due to solemnization of the marriages. Unfortunately, this social bonding by way of marriages between people of these places had come to a halt due to dislocation of direct communications. People of these two places were greatly relieved and overjoyed that their social bonding will now be strengthened further by the newly-built Kosi bridge, sources said . “Railways is hopeful that people of these areas will benefit a lot when several pairs of local passenger trains will start running between Nirmali and Saraigarh routes frequently and thus their long-cherished dream is translated into a reality by the railways,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trial-run-for-train-traffic-on-kosi-bridge-successful-rlys/articleshow/76717666.cms||Kumod Verma
July 1, 2020||Business||Club Factory sellers, users worry about dues, refunds||BENGALURU: Indian sellers and consumers are concerned over their payments and refunds owing to the ban of 59 Chinese apps, including e-commerce platform Club Factory. The Chinese e-commerce platform is popular for cheaper goods across the fashion, lifestyle and electronic segments coming from China. While the company has been facing government scrutiny over its various trade practices, it has been able to hold on to a set of consumers looking for cheaper goods and was also trying to increase the base of Indian sellers here. Merchants TOI spoke to complained of delayed payments, which started earlier in the month. And now, the ban on the app is leading to uncertainties. “Payments have been getting delayed for a few weeks now since the China issue started earlier in the month. Also, it would impact my ability to issue refunds of existing orders. They are not committing,” a seller said. At least two other sellers expressed similar concerns. Since the announcement of the ban on Chinese apps in India, consumers also expressed concern over their existing refunds and order cancellations on social media platforms like Twitter. “Government must ensure all payments collected by the e-commerce marketplace operator on behalf of sellers are kept in escrow immediately and duly settled to sellers,” said AIOVA, a group of online vendors. As of Tuesday evening, the platform was live and its app on Google Play Store was still available. Club Factory did not comment on TOI’s specific query on vendor payments and consumer refunds, but said that it remains complied with all local laws. “We are empowering over 30,000 registered Indian sellers with a strong focus on MSMEs in the country. Club Factory is the only e-commerce player that has empowered local sellers in India by providing them a level-playing field by not charging any commission fees. We have always been willing and continue to remain committed to working with the government to resolve any concerns,” a company spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/club-factory-sellers-users-worry-about-dues-refunds/articleshow/76718615.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 1, 2020||Business||HUL in talks to shift supply from China||MUMBAI: Hindustan Unilever (HUL) has initiated discussions on possible alternatives to raw materials that the company imports from China. This was stated by HUL CMD Sanjiv Mehta in response to shareholders’ queries at the company’s 87th annual general meeting that was held virtually on Tuesday. “We have initiated discussions on how we could help the country become self-reliant. We do have imports of over Rs 400 crore from China. These are in the form of raw materials and packaging material. During Covid, we demonstrated a huge degree of resilience. Here also, we will partner with different businesses to overcome any risk that might arise due to the geopolitical crisis,” Mehta told shareholders. Goods from China form nearly half of the company’s total imports at around Rs 900 crore in 2019-20. The company’s exports to China, said Mehta, are insignificant.In his speech titled ‘Chartering the unchartered, normalising the abnormal’, Mehta said the pandemic is a wake-up call for nations and businesses to step back and re-evaluate their current models. Mehta said the risk of recession remains real, but it must not be taken as a foregone conclusion. He said that the government should keep a close watch on the demand situation and step in unhesitatingly if it does not pick up in the next few months. “The immediate impact of the national lockdown was severe supply chain constraints. As businesses pulled down shutters, it manifested in empty shelves and shrinking pipelines. From a demand perspective, the fear of loss of jobs, dwindling earnings and eroding investments have made people circumspect with their spends. The slowdown in the wheels of the economy could lead to a financial crisis in several parts of the world. While some will be able to raise funding or latch on to the lifeline sent by the governments, many businesses will stare at ruin,” said Mehta. He added that investors will look for robust balance sheets, resilient leadership, and hardy institutions. Mehta said whether economies can avoid the recession or not, the path back to growth will depend on a range of drivers, such as the trajectory of the virus, the effectiveness of containment efforts, the economic steps taken by the governments and the reaction & behaviour of the firms & consumers, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hul-in-talks-to-shift-supply-from-china/articleshow/76718589.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Patna||Employers’ bid to woo back migrants||PATNA: Call it irony of fate that Dilip Pandey, a migrant worker from Muzaffarpur district, has to return to Ahmedabad within two months of somehow making it home after the saree factory he worked in closed during lockdown. The 30-year-old resident of Bahilwara village under Saraiya block had returned home from Gujarat on May 3 on a Shramik special. While Pandey left on Monday, fellow villager Sonu Kumar (29) had reached Ahmedabad last week itself. It took three days to reach Ahmedabad from Muzaffarpur by train. “Thank God, the company has provided me with a job once again. I have been promised more salary than earlier,” said Sonu, a skilled worker. Dilip and Sonu are among a sizeable number of migrant workers who are steadily returning to their previous places of work outside the state. On Sunday, a chartered bus full of migrant workers from Seemanchal region left for Ludhiana in Punjab from Purnia. The bus reportedly sent by the employers had arrived earlier in the day. According to some labour contractors, buses have arrived from Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Delhi, Kerala and some other states. “The arrangements of their travel either on private buses or trains are being made by the employers through labour contractors. In a few cases, the employers are dealing with the workers’ return on their own,” said Raj Kumar Mandal, a labour contractor from Supaul-Saharsa region. “It’s a win-win situation for both migrant skilled workers and the labour contractors. Both are in great demand from the private companies from across the country. While the salaries of the skilled workers have increased, the labour contractors are charging more from the companies,” said S K Sinha, a retired public servant of Kishanganj, Around 8 lakh semi-skilled workers from eastern Bihar are engaged in well-paying work in sectors such as masonry, garments, metal and agriculture. A major chunk had returned by 120 special trains during lockdown. “With some relaxation in restrictions in the lockdown, people are returning back to the earlier places of work,” said Lalitesh Jha, a social activist of Purnia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/employers-bid-to-woo-back-migrants/articleshow/76717698.cms||Ramashankar
July 1, 2020||Business||Chinese blockade: T-Shirts await buttons, shorts zippers in Tirupur||Chennai: T-Shirts without buttons, shorts without zippers. This is the peculiar situation garment exporters in Tirupur are pushed to, unwittingly, as customs officials sit on Chinese consignments containing millions of zippers, buttons and embroidery accessories without clearing them. India has intensified an economic blockade “unofficially”, aimed at hurting Chinese businesses as it pushes Indian businesses to source parts and components locally after 20 soldiers were killed by Chinese troops in Galwan valley mid-June. “We have not been able to get customs clearance for nearly 20 days. We have run out of materials to complete the garment. The operations are managed by just-in-time inventory,’ said Raja M Shanmugham, President, Tirupur Exporters Association (TEA), the apex body of garment exporters of Tirupur. Nearly 90% of Tirupurs accessory requirements are from China. “It is reached a panic situation, because of this mindless act. Payments for these goods have already been made and they are lying in Bengaluru and Chenani airport customs, besides at Chennai Port. No official has an answer,” Shanmugham said. His firm, Warsaw International is waiting for Bengaluru Airport customs to clear buttons and badges for him to complete his pending orders. TEA has shot off letters to union ministers of commerce and industry and also union finance minister seeking their immediate intervention. “At present we can make T-Shirts without buttons and shorts without zippers and ladies inner wear without embroidery,” an exporter quipped. “My clearing agent in Chennai has stopped picking up my calls,” said Amit Hurkat, Kanta Innovations, importers of garment accessories incuding zippers, buttons and embroidery badges. His 25 clients are waiting for these buttons to finish their orders. “It is not just knitwear that is getting impacted, even manufacture of PPE kits is affected,” Hurkat added. Two shipments, one in Chennai port, should have reached him in Tirupur 10 days ago, while the second is still in high seas heading to Chennai port. “Covid killed orders early on and now when we are looking for something to cling on to, this blockade has erupted. This will suck whatever little is left in us,” he said. Its not just exporters who are wits end. Even PPE makers are stuck. “We imported some cutters through Fedex. Its is in Bengaluru airport waiting to be cleared. Without those cutters we cannot operate the machine which makes PPEs. This is terrible,” said R Shanmuga Nathan, Innovative India Private Ltd. With nearly six lakh workers, Tirupur knits nearly Rs 55,000 crore worth garments for both domestic market and exports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinese-blockade-t-shirts-await-buttons-shorts-zippers-in-tirupur/articleshow/76717773.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
July 1, 2020||Patna||ECR completes projects worth Rs 9,000 crore during lockdown||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the East Central Railway (ECR) has completed several projects related to passenger amenities and infrastructure development in Bihar worth Rs9,000 crore. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said projects like track doubling, gauge conversion and laying of 700km new lines at a cost of 12 crore per km were completed in Bihar during this period. “ECR has also become the only among the newly created zones to have switched over to advanced signalling system by abolishing old mechanical lever frame system,” he said. He said the ECR has completed a record track electrification work on about 3,318 route kilometres since 2014 at a cost of nearly Rs1,000 crore. “The track electrification work is likely to save railways Rs1,500 crore per year on diesel cost. Besides, electric locomotives are environment friendly and helps railways maintain an ecological balance,” he said. The CPRO said railways has spent about Rs3,500 crore during the past several years in building road overbridges (ROBs), road under-bridges (RUBs) and improving safety measures at railway crossing gates by removing manual level crossing gates at different places under ECR jurisdiction. The ECR has procured so far 1500 Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches from Kapurthala rail coach factory to improve riding comforts and track safety. “Railways plans to replace all conventional coaches by LHB coaches latest by 2022-23,” he said, adding work on the eastern freight corridor passing through Kaimur, Rohtas and Aurangabad in Bihar, was going on in full swing. Railways has expedited construction work of the MEMU car shed at Gaya at a cost of Rs98 crore while MEMU shed at Sonepur is being constructed at a cost of Rs150 crore, Kumar said. Train timing changed: Railways has revised the departure timing of the Rajendra Nagar Terminal-New Delhi special express train (02309) from July 7. This special train will leave Rajendra Nagar Terminal at 7pm, instead of 7.20pm, and reach Patna Junction at 7.15pm following the path and schedule of the Patna-New Delhi Rajdhani Express, ECR CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-completes-projects-worth-rs-9000-crore-during-lockdown/articleshow/76716654.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Business||S&P sees NPAs surge to 13-14% this fiscal||Mumbai: S&P Global Ratings has said in a report that the Covid-19 pandemic may set back the recovery of India’s banking sector by years, which could hit credit flows and, ultimately, the economy. According to the agency, the ratio of bad loans could hit 13-14% of loans in the current fiscal. After years of rising bad loans, asset quality among Indian banks had improved over the past 18 months, helped by higher write-offs, slower accretion of bad loans, and resolution of some big cases under the new bankruptcy law. Banks had not yet cleared resolution of their overhang of bad debt when the coronavirus crisis struck, derailing the rehabilitation process. “In our base case, we expect the non-performing loans to shoot up to 13-14% of total loans in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021, compared with an estimated 8.5% in the previous fiscal year,” said S&P Global Ratings credit analyst Deepali Seth-Chhabria. “Moreover, the resolution of these bad-debt situations will likely unfold slowly, which means banks may also be saddled with a huge stock of bad loans next year. We assume only about a 100-basis-point (100bps = 1 percentage point) improvement in non-performing loans in fiscal 2022 (year ending March 31, 2022).” This would mean that in absolute terms, non-performing loans in India will hit a fresh high, more than what it was in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. That’s according to ‘Covid and Indian banks: One step forward, two steps back’ — a report published on Tuesday by S&P Global Ratings. “We believe that the effect on finance companies will be more pronounced than on banks,” said S&P Global Ratings credit analyst Geeta Chugh. “Some finance companies lend to weaker customers and have high reliance on wholesale funding. These companies were already facing a trust deficit since the 2018 default of Infrastructure Leasing & Financial Services. Finance companies also face accentuated liquidity risks due to high proportion of borrowers opting for loan moratorium.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sp-sees-npas-surge-to-13-14-this-fiscal/articleshow/76718624.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 1, 2020||Business||Leaders with agility needed in highly networked setups||By Sujaya BanerjeeThe coronavirus pandemic may be a wake-up call in many ways, but it is also emblematic of an era whose basic essence is disruption. If we look at even a snapshot of just over a decade to 2020, we would experience a world of incredible black swan events. The 2008 financial crisis, the Arab Spring and mass displacement of people across the Middle East, the Brexit vote — the list goes on. And now, a global pandemic infecting and killing people across the world, impacting livelihoods and economies. We have lived in a perfect storm of geopolitical uncertainty, accelerated innovation emerging from connectivity, networks & technology and, now this black swan event. Unfortunately, the leadership playbook through all this has remained largely frozen, still leaning on command-and-control styles, even while the need of the hour is agile leadership within highly networked organisations. Refusal to shift our sails to adapt in these times runs the risk of using old playbooks to solve new problems. The kind of leadership proficiencies we need in these times of global disruptions cannot be learnt from books or from PowerPoint presentations. These times will require a pedagogy that is more personal, experiential and intimate. Several intelligences must be at play besides social and emotional, which will be key to communicate, influence, adapt, include and inspire positive outcomes through people: * Moral intelligence will be key at this time as leaders need to demonstrate what they espouse as purpose and values of the organisation * Technological intelligence will be a game changer, so leaders will need to amplify the power of rapidly emerging technologies to connect customers and talent * Generative intelligence to use the creativity and brilliance of people to realise their true value through innovation — for both survival and growth * Transformative intelligence to drive meaningful road maps for change and become credible evangelists by creating a sense of urgency These intelligences work best when they reside in a philosophy of hope and optimism, so needed through this phase as organisations rebuild for recovery and resurgence of businesses in the midst of a continuing global health crisis. Optimism and positivity can be cultivated by consciously reducing negative talk — it’s called planned optimism. Doom and gloom talk can have a devastating impact on morale and hope — the two integral positive energies organisations need most to navigate positive outcomes through a crisis. Loss of morale and hope is a risk organisations can ill afford, especially when all hands are needed to leverage and triumph this adversity. Here are some key human-centric leadership shifts that will be most critical through the recovery and resurgence phase. Some of you may argue these were important prior to the Covid-19 crisis too, but now they have become imperative for survival. Each of these shifts must be viewed as a continuum and it is for each leader to reflect on where he/she is located along these: From fragile to resilient: Non-resilient unprepared leadership reacted to crises by asking, ‘How did I get here? What caused this to happen? How will we survive now?’ They should become a resilient, anti-fragile leadership, which gets better with every crisis, enjoys the challenges and opportunities thrown up and truly thrives in it. Centralised to distributed authority: This conversion should be from a centralised, authoritative command-and-control leadership into an empowering one that encourages distributed authority, brings agility to solving problems by working across levels, including people. Mandated change to adaptive: This is regarding leadership that drives strictly mandated change agendas, which should become an adaptive, flexible leadership that is a nimble, credible evangelist for change, creates urgency, challenges the status quo, and makes difficult choices. Bureaucratic to connected: Here, a management that is hierarchical and bureaucratic — which slows down speed of problem solving, decision making and communication — should convert into a highly connected leadership that has links with customers, employees and other stakeholders, enabling faster solutions/execution. Improving communication: Leaders need to drop a stoic, uncommunicative style, which restricts communication only to an inner circle that is expected to cascade as needed and prefers a limited ‘need-to-know’ model. Instead, they must adopt an over-communicative leadership style, by frequently communicating information with transparency, credibility, optimism and compassion. Showing vulnerability: Leaderships should not be heroic, invincible or omnipotent, believing they have the right answers, or have fixed mindsets that don’t admit to mistakes nor accept feedback. Rather, leaders must be vulnerable, authentic, having a growth mindset that is willing to explore, loves challenges, makes efforts, is open to feedback, and admitting mistakes. Being quick to adapt: Leaders must not be inward-looking, institution-building or believing in long-term strategies while being reluctant to rewrite old playbooks, or be risk-averse and control-oriented. Rather, they should be strategically and tactically adaptable, pivot as needed, discard and re-write business leadership playbooks, with contemporary and modern mindsets. Nimble digitally: From just being migrants to technology, who do not think in terms of tech solutions, leaders must be digitally transformational and enable nimble digitisation and automation to drive operational effectiveness to solve problems/improve performance. Eye on survival and growth: Aspirational, innovation leadership may be rooted in short-term priorities, while valuing consensus. This should actually be innovation-savvy leadership that believes in new thinking with imperatives for future survival and growth. Commit to employee health: Leadership must shift from a model that’s employee health & safety savvy but does not commit to concrete actions to mitigate risks associated with not being healthcare compliance-oriented. They can be committed to a model that includes not only health and safety but also psychological safety and mental health, while being compassion-oriented. The shifts along these continuums will now become imperative in the context of survival of organisations. The binding glue is compassion for people. Compassion is often seen as a weak word in the business world as it is understood as sympathy for others. Compassion is, in fact, having an authentic interest in wanting the well-being of others by understanding their pain. It’s what binds humanity and works well in the business world in many ways, especially when compassion works in conjunction with accountability. These are incredible times for leaders to demonstrate what it means to be truly compassionate. The writer is CEO, Capstone People Consulting||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/leaders-with-agility-needed-in-highly-networked-setups/articleshow/76718550.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Vadodara||Doc gives virus taste of its own medicine||Vadodara: Thrice quarantined, Covid is now a ‘mere isolation time’ for this gutsy 27-year-old doctor, who has also tested positive of the virus once. Meet Dr Hinal Upadhyay, a third-year resident doctor with anaesthesia department at the state-run SSG Hospital, who has given Covid a taste of its own medicine, literally. First, she had tested Covid positive in a week when she was supposed to take rest after she had been sent on a week’s Covid deputation to Ahmedabad’s civil hospital from May 13. “After the week ended on May 20, I was in quarantine till May 27. But I started developing sore throat and fever. On May 26, while already in quarantine, I tested positive and so the isolation got extended by 14 more days,” said Upadhyay. As soon as the 14-day quarantine period ended on June 8, she bounced back rejoining general hospital duties from June 9. However, she was assigned Covid duty again at the SSG’s isolation ward from June 13, making her undergo another week in quarantine after week ended on June 20. “The challenging part in the 8-hour PPE kit duty is the ‘no food, no loo’ drill till duty hours are over. That surely demands mental strength,” said Upadhyay, who is the first doctor in her family. The daughter of an engineer father, Upadhyay pursued her MBBS from Rajkot Medical College and is doing MD anaesthesia from Baroda Medical College. “Despite being from the city, I haven’t met my parents for the past two months who are tense for me, but keep encouraging me too,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/doc-gives-virus-taste-of-its-own-medicine/articleshow/76716540.cms||Prashant Rupera
July 1, 2020||Business||Current account swings to a rare surplus||MUMBAI: Data released by the RBI shows that the country recorded a current account surplus of $600 million (0.1% of GDP) for the January-March 2020 quarter as against a deficit of $4.5 billion (0.7%) of GDP a year ago. The last time the current account was in surplus was over a decade ago in March 2007. The surplus was generated because of the trade deficit shrinking to $35 billion and a sharp rise in net invisible receipts at $35.6 billion as compared to the year-ago period. A current account surplus is seen as a positive for the rupee as it shows that the supply of dollars for trade is more than demand. The current account position is likely to remain positive in the first quarter of the current fiscal due to the sharp decline in oil prices and the general decline in imports. For FY20, the current account deficit (CAD) narrowed to 0.9% of GDP from 2.1% in 2018-19. This was on the back of the trade deficit, which shrank to $157.5 billion in 2019-20 from $180.3 billion in 2018-19. The deficit caused by petroleum trade during the quarter was $24.5 billion as against $22.5 billion in the previous year. The country’s revenue from the export of services increased to $22 billion in March as against $21.3 billion a year ago. The increase was high because of a rise in sales by IT companies. Private receipts — Transfers from Indians working abroad — jumped 14.8% to $20.6 billion. The January-March quarter also saw foreign direct investments double to $12 billion from $6.4 billion a year ago. On a balance of payments basis (excluding valuation effects), foreign exchange reserves increased by $59.5 billion during 2019-20 as against a decrease of $3.3 billion during 2018-19. Foreign exchange reserves in nominal terms (including valuation effects) increased by $64.9 billion during 2019-20 as against a decline of $11.7 billion in the preceding year. At the end of March 2020, India’s external debt was placed at $558.5 billion (20.6% of GDP), recording an increase of $15.4 billion over its level at the end of March 2019 (19.8% of GDP). Short-term debt on residual maturity basis (including borrowing that falls due over the next 12 months) constituted 42.4% of total external debt at the end of March 2020 (43.4% at end-March 2019) and stood at 49.5% of foreign exchange reserves (57% at end-March 2019).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/current-account-swings-to-a-rare-surplus/articleshow/76718469.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Business||Rai gets 2 more years at Union Bank||Mumbai: Union Bank of India MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai has been granted a two-year extension by the government. Rai’s term was to end on June 30, 2020. Rai is currently overseeing the integration of the erstwhile business of Corporation Bank and Andhra Bank following the merger on April 1, 2020. The finance ministry had appointed Rai as MD & CEO for a period of three years from July 1, 2017. He was earlier executive director in Oriental Bank of Commerce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rai-gets-2-more-years-at-union-bank/articleshow/76718472.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Mukhiya’s husband shot dead in Jamui||PATNA: Motorcycle-borne criminals shot dead Rajesh Yadav alias Gurjar Yadav (40), husband of mukhiya of Kodbaria panchayat in Jamui district Paro Devi around 6am on Tuesday. The mukhiya said her husband was killed over a political rivalry. The incident occurred when Rajesh was on way to his new house from his ancestral home at Bhaluana village under the Chandradip police station area in the district. The criminals hurled three bombs and then pumped two bullets into his body. Jamui SDPO Ram Pukar Singh said the criminals fired from close range after hurling bombs. The bomb explosion and firing sparked violent protests by the supporters of the deceased. The local police had to beat a hasty retreat and seek reinforcement from the police lines at Jamui. The body of the deceased was lifted from the spot for postmortem after the intervention of senior police officers, who assured the mob of arresting the culprits soon. “Raids are on to nab the criminals,” the SDPO told this newspaper over the phone. “My husband was on the target ever since I was elected as panchayat head in 2016. He had sought police protection, which was denied,” Paro alleged. She also disclosed the names of the suspects involved in her husband’s murder. Rajesh’s younger brother Pramod Yadav was killed in 2014. Police, on the other hand, said Rajesh had criminal antecedents. “He had several cases pending against him in Jamui,” a police officer posted at Chandradip police station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mukhiyas-husband-shot-dead-in-jamui/articleshow/76717912.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Patna||Road fatalities in Bihar during lockdown period down by 58%||PATNA: Road fatalities in state during the lockdown period from March 24 to May 31 reduced by 58.5% and road accidents by 57.41% when compared to the same period last year. Similarly, there was 56.93% reduction in injuries due to road accidents. According to the recent data released by the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety, Bihar was among the top four states in the country which saw the maximum decline in road fatalities during the lockdown period after Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Gujarat. According to data provided by the state transport department, 878 road accidents occurred in the state during the lockdown period in which 637 people died and 674 others suffered injuries. From March 24 to May 31 last year, 2,062 accidents had claimed lives of 1,535 people in the state and left 1,565 injured. State transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said apart from the lockdown period, the first three months of this year also witnessed a declining trend as far as road fatalities in the state is concerned. “Between January and March this year, 1,777 people had died and 1,985 others were injured in 2,342 accidents. During the same period last year, the state had witnessed 1,836 deaths and 1,786 injuries in 2,563 accidents,” Agarwal added. He attributed the decline in accidents to strict enforcement of Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 and awareness drive launched by the National Cadet Corps (NCC) of transport department. “The department conducts weekly road safety drive apart from issuing e-challan and monitoring the process through closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras,” Agarwal added. In a bid to reduce road accidents, the department has started conducting survey of such spots where 10 or more accidents and five deaths took place in a year. A team has already been formed in all districts under the supervision of district magistrates to identify accident-prone spots. The transport secretary said the department has so far identified 112 black spots in the state. “We are in the process of removing these black spots through road engineering and enforcement. A comprehensive road safety action plan is being prepared to identify the spots where five deaths and 10 or more accidents occurred in last one year,” Agarwal said. He said based on the data, the department would be able to work on 4 Es of road safety – education, enforcement, engineering and emergency care. The transport department has also come up with a mobile application, ‘Road Safety App’, to collect real-time data of road accidents and fatalities and ensure quick response by the teams concerned. According to Agarwal, a successful trial run of the mobile application was conducted recently and it will be launched soon. The police stations have been asked to feed the data of road accidents, such as timing of accident, casualties, deaths and injuries, once the mobile app is launched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/road-fatalities-in-bihar-during-lockdown-period-down-by-58/articleshow/76716625.cms||Faryal Rumi
July 1, 2020||Business||Tax sop to be boon for SBI in Yes Bank rejig||MUMBAI: State Bank of India (SBI) and other lenders that had purchased 10 billion equity shares of Yes Bank at Rs 10 per share under the reconstruction scheme approved by the RBI will not have to pay tax on the price differential (between what was paid by it and the fair market value). In a notification issued on Tuesday, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has provided for an exemption from deemed tax to the equity share purchase transaction covered by the ‘Yes Bank Limited Reconstruction Scheme, 2020’. Section 56(2)(x) of the I-T Act provides that, In case shares of a company are received for a consideration less than its fair market value (FMV), then the differential is treated as ‘income from other sources’ and taxed in the hands of the investor. This, in common parlance, is referred to as deemed tax. “The notification, which carves out exceptions from the applicability of section 56(2)(x), provide a much-needed clarity and relief from unintended tax consequences that investors would have to factor in recent high-profile rescue schemes, such as Yes Bank and IL&FS, orchestrated by the government,” says Nangia Andersen partner Aravind Srivatsan. CBDT’s notification also exempts shareholders who are in receipt of unquoted shares of a company, including its tiered subsidiaries (up to three tiers), under a resolution plan approved by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) under sections 241 and 242 of the Companies Act, which cover cases of oppression and mismanagement. “In the backdrop of the pandemic resulting in distressed businesses, there could be other cases falling within the ambit of the notification that would require resolution by the NCLT. CBDT’s notification will help ensure that investors are more willing to step in and salvage the situation,” says EY-India partner (financial services) Anish Thacker. SBI’s executive committee approved of this purchase in mid-March. The notification also applies retrospectively from the financial year 2019-20 onwards (which is the assessment year 2020-21). As retrospective amendments often come in the harsh glare of stakeholders, CBDT points out, “It is hereby certified that no person is being adversely affected by giving retrospective effect to these rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tax-sop-to-be-boon-for-sbi-in-yes-bank-rejig/articleshow/76718593.cms||Lubna Kably
July 1, 2020||Business||Home loans, credit card debt slump in April-May||MUMBAI: Bank loans to individuals under the personal segment shrunk by Rs 74,790 crore in April and May 2020 driven by a sharp drop in credit card outstanding and a decline in loans against fixed deposits. Bank advances to the services sector and industry also recorded a sharp drop. A decline in bank credit to businesses in the first quarter is not unusual as corporates repay some of the high borrowings they undertake at the end of the previous fiscal. The overall drop in non-food credit in April and May 2020 at Rs 1.82 lakh crore is identical to the drop in the previous year. What makes the current fiscal unusual is the secular drop in borrowing by individuals across all categories. Typically, home loans and credit card outstanding display growth throughout the year. However, the first two months of this fiscal saw the credit card outstanding shrink by Rs 15,207 crore to below the Rs 1-lakh-crore level to Rs 92,887 crore. Last year, credit card debt during this period had grown by Rs 5,381 crore. Home loan outstanding fell by Rs 9,817 crore in April and May to Rs 13.3 lakh crore. Last year, the same period had seen home loans grow by Rs 16,815 crore. According to lenders, this is because repayments continued, while purchase of residential property came to a standstill due to the lockdown. Similarly, the drop in credit card outstanding was because of the absence of consumption as malls and shops remained shut. According to data released by the RBI on sectoral deployment of bank credit, bank credit to industry between March 29, 2019 and May 22, 2020 declined by Rs 43,544 crore to Rs 28.6 lakh crore. Last year, the same period had seen credit to industry drop by Rs 71,739 crore. The fall was less this year because the March-end surge in lending (which gets repaid in the first quarter) did not take place this year amid the lockdown. There are also signs that banks had turned risk-averse to micro and small businesses in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Loans to the micro and small segment fell by Rs 28,876 crore in April-May 2020 as against a decline of Rs 10,197 crore in the previous year. Loans to medium-sized industry fell by Rs 5,751 crore as against a decline of Rs 996 crore in the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/home-loans-credit-card-debt-slump-in-april-may/articleshow/76718407.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 1, 2020||Patna||IMA: Donate plasma after recovering from Covid-19||PATNA: As the country gears up to celebrate National Doctor’s Day on Wednesday, the medical fraternity has urged people to stay indoors and adopt all precautionary measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. Despite being at the highest risk of contracting the deadly virus, health workers are leaving no stone unturned to save corona patients. In fact, many of them have also tested positive for Covid-19. The Indian Medical Association (Bihar chapter) has, therefore, urged the recovered patients to donate their plasma. IMA senior vice president Ajay Kumar told this newspaper, “We are coming across several cases of doctors from different districts being infected by corona every day. If these frontline heroes are not safe during this pandemic, nobody else is. They are working tirelessly to save the lives of patients. Now, it is their turn to save the lives of doctors by donating plasma.” City-based doctor, Kaushal Kishore Keshari, urged people to stay indoors. He said, “If doctors are risking their lives, people should also do their bit by acting responsibly and staying at home.” Head of microbiology department at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Dr Satyendra Narayan Singh, asked the government to make masks mandatory and take strict action against the violators. “Even after hundreds of cases being reported every day, people are not wearing masks. The government and the authorities concerned should create awareness about the importance of masks,” Dr Singh said and added that antibody tests should be introduced in the state as soon as possible. Some doctors also pointed out that they were concerned about the well-being of their family members. President of Resident Doctors’ Association at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna, Dr Vinay Kumar, said, “Health workers, especially doctors, should be allotted a temporary place where they can live while treating corona patients. Going back home increases the risk of others being infected.” Pratyush Kumar, a general physician at the PMCH, also claimed that doctors were the most vulnerable to coronavirus and could infect their family members easily. “We, therefore, request people to wear masks, use sanitizers, maintain social distancing and not spit on roads,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ima-donate-plasma-after-recovering-from-covid-19/articleshow/76716553.cms||Archi Rani
July 1, 2020||Varanasi||KVT installs LED screens for live darshan amid Covid curbs during Shrawan month||Varanasi: There is good news for the devotees of Shiva who were not sure of being able to have their deity’s darshan in Kashi Vishwanath temple due to Covid-19 restrictions in Shrawan month. Come Shrawan and the Kashi Vishwanath temple in association with Varanasi Smart City Limited will start relaying aarti, prayers and darshan of the ‘jyotirlinga’ in the sanctum sanctorum live on LED screens installed at city crossings. The temple administration took the decision of starting the facility to enable the devotees to get darshan of Lord Vishwanath without visiting the temple, where strict curbs are being followed to avoid gathering in view of Covid-19 menace. The Kanwar Yatra has already been suspended due to the pandemic. KVT chief executive officer Gaurang Rathi, who is also municipal commissioner and CEO of VSCL, said, “The Shrawan month begins on July 6 and five Mondays will fall in the holy month this year. Despite all restrictions, there is a possibility of huge turnout of devotees for offering prayers in Shrawan month.” “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, all necessary arrangements have been made to ensure safety of devotees and preventing spread of infection,” he added. “Devotees come to offer prayers in huge numbers during Shrawan month every year, but due to Covid-19 restrictions this year it will not be possible to have the usual rush. So, we decided to install two unipolar LED screens at Ravidas Gate in Lanka area and another at Bhojubir for live darshan and prayers in the sanctum sanctorum of KVT. Besides, eight more LED screens will be installed in the city but recorded visuals will be shown on them,” he said. The LED screens have been installed after assessing that traffic movement will not be hit in case people gather at the spot, he added. The rules for entry, exit of devotees and their time of stay in temple are already being followed as per government guidelines, Rathi said. “During Shrawan month also, devotees will maintain social distancing in queues. Wearing a mask and sanitising hands at entry will be must. Only a limited number of devotees will be allowed entry at a time. They will not be allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum. No sparsh darshan (touching jyotirlinga) will be permitted," he added. Devotees will be allowed entry from Pancho Pandav, Chhattadwar and Dhundiraj Ganesh points. The temple premises will be sanitised every six hours while ambulances will be there on the standby.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kvt-installs-led-screens-for-live-darshan-amid-covid-curbs-during-shrawan-month/articleshow/76719746.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 1, 2020||Patna||Unlock 2.0: Gym, cinema hall owners hit hard in Bihar||PATNA: Even as the Centre has issued guidelines for Unlock 2.0 that will come into effect from Wednesday, cinema halls, theatres and gymnasiums will have to wait at least till July 31 to reopen. Owners of these establishments, however, said they might not survive economically till then. They said it’s not possible for them to pay rent, electricity bills, maintenance charges and staff salaries due to lack of revenue. Vishal Boobna, owner of a Hajipur-based multiplex, said, “Our income has come down to zero, but the expenditure remains the same. The situation is so bad that the saved funds are also getting exhausted. With big films getting released on over-the-top (OTT) platforms, people have got an alternate option. These digital platforms are shattering our hopes of business revival in the coming months.” Few others, however, said there’s no logic in opening cinema halls in the middle of a pandemic. Ajay Kumar, owner of a cinema hall in Phulwarisharif, said it’s very dangerous to reopen cinema halls under the present circumstances. “Even if the government permits us to reopen, we won’t take risk. The government should, however, cut taxes and electricity charges to provide us some relief,” he said. Gymnasiums are also incurring massive losses due to the lockdown. Pankaj Kumar, owner of a gym on Bailey Road, said, “Surviving in a situation like this is next to impossible. Income has totally stopped. It’s not easy to pay rent and electricity bills without any income.” City-based physical trainer Sajid Khan has become jobless due to the closure of gyms. “Government has reopened almost everything, including malls, religious places and salons. It’s like an injustice to people like me,” he added. Shamshad Alam, personal trainer at a fitness club on Ashiana-Digha Road, said most trainers have no money left with them. “People are also hesitant in taking home training. We urge the government to think about our families and allow gyms to reopen. We will follow all preventive measures,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gym-cinema-hall-owners-hit-hard/articleshow/76716672.cms||Archi Rani
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No longer up in the air, dining in open space to be reality||NEW DELHI: Taking a cue from European countries, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is planning to allow open-air restaurants in the areas falling under its jurisdiction. The corporation has come out with a draft policy on such restaurants offering dining in their open spaces. They will also be allowed to play light music, though seating diners on the pavements as done abroad will not be permitted. With only a limited number of customers possible due to social distancing restrictions, restaurants and eateries have seen a drastic reduction in their revenues on being allowed to resume business after the Covid-19 lockdown. There are around 2,000 dining establishments in south Delhi, and many of them may benefit from the new policy. Civic officials claimed that the policy was in the pipeline before the pandemic struck. But its importance has increased in the time of corona, they added. “Open spaces with good circulation of air are considered to be safer than closed rooms with air conditioning. Not only is the risk of infection lower but open spaces will also allow more sitting capacity augmentation,” explained an SDMC official. Another official said, “While the final licensing rates may be modified, they are likely to be around Rs100 per square feet of restaurant space. The policy is ready and the preamble has been put forward. It will be discussed in the next standing committee meeting of the civic body, after which the councillors are likely to approve of the measure.” An official reasoned that under this new policy, the existing health trade licence holders would be allowed to use their open spaces to set up open-air restaurants, providing not only a new dining experience to the customers, but also helping generate new revenues for the civic body. Under the draft provisions, restrictions have been proposed on the music to be played in such open-air establishments. “Neither live band performances nor loud music will be allowed. Mellow jazz-like music, however, can be played in the background,” added another official, who has worked on the policy. Regulations prohibit noise levels beyond 45-55 decibels in residential areas. However, unlike some west European countries, the pavement space outside the restaurants will not be permitted to be used to seat customers. And to prevent fire accidents, the policy also doesn’t permit the setting up of open-area kitchen, thereby ruling out barbecues and similar facilities. “Food will have to be prepared in enclosed kitchens and all safety standards in terms of hygiene and fire hazards will be applicable on this food preparation area to prevent diseases or fire accidents,” an official said. The official added, “The licensing rate may be tweaked, but we have decided that the licence will only be granted to groups that are already running a licensed indoor restaurant. With the standing committee and mayoral elections of SDMC over now, the policy is likely to get the nod soon.” Watch SDMC may soon allow open-air restaurants to start biz||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-longer-up-in-the-air-dining-in-open-space-to-be-reality/articleshow/76719462.cms||Paras Singh
July 1, 2020||Patna||Centre’s decision on Chinese apps applicable to all: Bihar ADG||PATNA: Bihar police headquarters is yet to receive a copy of the central government’s order on Monday to block the 59 apps owned or backed by the Chinese. “Once the order is received, we would study it. If needed, separate instruction may be issued to police personnel across the state as per requirements,” ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said on Tuesday. He, however, said the Centre’s decision was applicable to everyone, including policemen in the state. He, however, refused to comment when asked if the special branch personnel of Bihar engaged in gathering intelligence inputs and handling sensitive information in the backdrop of border tensions with Nepal and China would at least be directed sternly to keep off such apps. But an IPS officer, who had earlier been on central deputation, said those involved in intelligence inputs gathering and in the chain of command for dissipation of sensitive information, must strictly avoid the use of such apps in their cellphones for security reasons. “They don’t keep any apps downloaded in their cellphones other than those which can’t be intercepted due to encryption. Amid the present scenario, they should remain more alert if working in the state due to its geographical location,” he said, preferring anonymity. A senior intelligence officer said they don’t use any such apps. “Though we don’t have any official communication, but we always strictly avoid such apps,” he said. Another IPS officer, preferring anonymity, said if someone has downloaded apps like TikTok or UC Browser installed, s/he should presume that the cellphone would be hacked. “These apps have their servers installed in China where they send several user-data from the cellphone in which these are installed. With such apps in cellphone, one should keep in mind that their social media profiles or data can be hacked any time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centres-decision-on-chinese-apps-applicable-to-all-adg/articleshow/76717785.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Booked for stopping min, Spiti women get support||Manali: A large number of women’s organisations from across Himachal Pradesh have extended support to about 190 women of Spiti who are facing legal action for assembling and stopping the movement of agriculture and tribal welfare minister Ram Lal Markanda by blocking the national highway near Kaza on June 9. Women from mahila mandals (women’s groups) were served with show-cause notice and a case was registered against them at Kaza police station after the incident. Now, a signature campaign has also been started across the state. In a letter signed by woman activists, it has been stated that women were used by politicians for vote bank, but were suppressed when they raised their voice for safety of society. “If the FIR against women is not withdrawn and if police do not stop harassing and insulting them, we will take this issue to the women’s commission and tribal commission. The minister who honoured the women and had returned from Kaza should also come out in women’s support.” Lahaul-Spiti was the only district in Himachal where Covid-19 had not entered until Monday, when two migrant labourers tested positive. Locals had taken many strict decisions to stop the virus. Mahila mandals were guarding villages and were not allowing outsiders to enter. Despite this, two cases have been found in Lahaul valley. Now, residents of Spiti valley fear the disease will reach their doorstep as well. While there is no restriction in intra-state movement in Himachal, Spiti residents are still not allowing anybody from other districts. If anyone enters, residents have made a rule of 15 days of quarantine for them. Women from Kaza mahila mandal said thousands of people had been booked for not adhering to Covid-19 and lockdown rules, but government should praise the efforts of the responsible residents who have sacrificed their businesses, farming and all the works and made their own strict rules to stop spread of the infection. We have been seeking government and administration cooperation in making our efforts successful since mid-March,” they said.A member of Kaza mahila mandal said they had not congregated especially to oppose the minister on June 9. “Tribal advisory council (TAC) had started bringing labourers from outside even when he had said no. Mahila mandals, yuvak mandals and beopar mandal members had congregated at Spiti headquarters to oppose this. We got to know that all officials were present at Kaza’s entry gate to receive the minister and we also moved to meet them. There, we saw minister coming with 15 other vehicles. We had politely asked minister Ram Lal Markanda that we have made a rule of 15 days of quarantine for all or we will not allow him entry. Our protest was not preplanned,” said the member. Later, a case of unlawful assembly and wrongful restraint was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/booked-for-stopping-min-spiti-women-get-support/articleshow/76719465.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Business||Desi clones rush to fill space vacated by TikTok||BENGALURU: The race to replace China’s TikTok, and grab its users and creators, is heating up. A new set of Indian startups in the social and short-video sharing space — like Chingari, Roposo, Public and Mitron — has emerged in the list of top 20 downloaded apps on Google’s Play Store in the last few days. Among the 59 apps banned by the government on Monday evening, TikTok was the largest in terms of users, which stood at about 200 million registered and 120 million monthly active users (MAUs). While Roposo, owned by India’s first unicorn InMobi, has been racking up downloads, new startups like Mitron, Chingari and Trell are also gaining. Almost all of these platforms found themselves adding extra server capacity to host the rising volume of users. For example, Bengaluru-based Chingari has seen one million new users in the last 24 hours. As of Tuesday afternoon, it had about 3.5 million downloads. “Most of our installs have come since June 10. We are the fastest growing platform in this space,” said Sumit Ghosh, co-founder of the platform. He pulled an all-nighter due to the surge in traffic and for managing the load on servers, which crashed on Monday night. “Prior to the ban (of Chinese apps), when we had around 2.5 million users, we had daily active users of around over half a million, and now the same is 1.2-1.5 million,” said Ghosh, 34. He added that most of the new users are typically those who used TikTok and seem to be “jumping the ship” now. This is a major reason driving users and influencers to the platform, which first released its beta version two years ago. Sensing the opportunity to capitalise on the growing anti-China sentiment, Chingari started campaigns through platforms like Instagram over the last one month. Now it has about 10,000 influencers, a base that’s grown from a couple of thousands a few months ago. Chingari is adding more to this base via agencies who manage influencers. This is playing out across other platforms too as the border conflict with China in Ladakh stoked anti-Dragon nationalistic sentiments. Companies like Vokal, Trell and ShareChat have also seen significant growth, while many users are also moving to Instagram, a youth-focused platform owned by Facebook. This has also triggered the belief further among Indian startups that they can build on the current momentum to create large-scale technology companies in the segment. Most of these platforms are also multi-lingual, so their target audience goes beyond just the top cities. Typically, they are male-dominated with users coming from across tier 1-3 cities. InMobi has Glance, which shows local language content on locked smartphone screens. The company also acquired Roposo last year. InMobi founder and CEO Naveen Tewari echoed Ghosh, who is now eyeing 10 million users, before July ends. Tewari emphasised on the quality and nature of content, saying it should maintain “sanctity of the society” and over the coming months will also introduce educational content on the app. Roposo claims it has seen a 5x increase in its MAUs to 25 million as of June 29 compared to May. “The quality of the content is of the highest order. India deserves high-quality content. We did not have the growth curves that TikTok was having, but I was sure at some point of time this will get questioned,” he said. He added the company is further investing in Roposo infrastructure even though some hiccups may come in 24-48 hours. “In the last six weeks, Roposo grew by 8-10 times, ending up with 65 million users. The numbers are changing by the hour,” said Tewari. He added that the company is working on launching more social and entertainment apps. While InMobi is registered in Singapore, which he says is because its advertisement business serves a global customer base, it is founded and run by Indians with operational headquarters in Bengaluru. Trell, a lifestyle video platform of typically 3-4 minutes, said it has seen about 1 million downloads in the last 24 hours and is only cashing-in on the opening created by the government decision. Around 1 lakh new creators also joined its platform in the last two days. “This opportunity has enabled us to get more content creators to start using the Trell app and reach out to larger audiences. Our ambition is to be a global phenomena and that has just got accelerated,” said Trell co-founder Pulkit Agarwal. The Bengaluru-based startup will roll out its commerce initiative in the next two weeks, where one can purchase a range of products from within the platform via creators. So far, its focus has been fashion and lifestyle, but it is planning to expand in multiple new categories like gadgets and motivational talks. Trell said its app has been installed by 30 million users and has 9 million monthly active users.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/desi-clones-rush-to-fill-space-vacated-by-tiktok/articleshow/76718528.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||In video, man blames partner, MLA’s wife||JAGRAON SUICIDE TNNLudhiana: As per a video message of the Jagraon resident who had hanged himself to death on Monday evening, he was humiliated by his live-in partner, her son, and a Congress MLA’s wife. The deceased, Karamjit Singh, belonged to Sawaddi Kalan in Jagraon, but lived with Jasvir Kaur at Mohalla Mayijeena in the town.In the over four-minute video that Karamjit recorded before committing suicide, he claimed that he lived in his village and married Jasvir eight years ago, a year before her husband’s death. He added that the woman, who has a son, took him to Jagraon and introduced him to her parents who were in favour of their relationship. However, police said preliminary findings have revealed that he was in a live-in relation with Jasvir and was not married to her.Karamjit, who was in his forties, said his daughter from his first marriage was of marriageable age and Jasvir told him that she would not bear her expenses and used inappropriate words for her. Karamjit alleged that Jasvir used to fight with him and link him with other women. He added that he went to Patna Sahib in his vehicle about 15 days ago and they fought in a telephonic conversation. He said following this, Jasvir went to the house of MLA Darshan Singh Brar, who treated her like his daughter, at Kothe in Moga district. He alleged that she used MLA and his son, Kamaljit Brar’s, names to threaten him. He said on Sunday, he went to MLA’s place and asked her to come with him and even apologised to her, but she refused. On Monday, he again went there and took along some persons to persuade her. Karamjit said in the video the MLA supported him and asked Jasvir to go with him, but the MLA’s wife misbehaved with him and told him, “We will get you abducted and killed. We will not send our daughter with you.” In the message, Karamjit said he had also signed a compromise letter and given it to the MLA’s son, but a defiant Jasvir said, “Even if he dies, I will not go or I will get him killed… I am Kamal’s (MLA’s son) sister.”Karamjit said his four sisters should not be blamed for his extreme step. He alleged that Jasvir would link him with many women to defame him and save the MLA’s wife.Requesting for justice, Karamjit said she got him beaten up 20 days ago, of which there may be a recording as well. While the video has gone viral, police said they were probing the matter. SSP (Ludhiana rural) Vivek Sheel Soni said the statement of Karamjit’s daughter was being recorded and as per the video, the MLA has no role in it. He said they were verifying the allegations against the MLA’s wife from those who had gone with Karamjit to his house. So far, they have denied the allegations.  ‘He would beat up Jasvir’Kamaljit Brar, son of the MLA, said Karamjit, who was an addict, would brutally beat up Jasvir. “Being the sarpanch of Kothe village, my mother twice asked him to stop. We had asked Jasvir, whom I consider as my sister, to reconcile, but she refused for fear of domestic violence. My mother did not threaten him, but tried to unite them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-video-man-blames-partner-mlas-wife/articleshow/76717593.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||2 die of Covid-19; 39 of district test positive||TNNLudhiana: Covid-19 claimed two lives in Ludhiana on Tuesday. While a 43-year-old man of Madhopuri died at Christian Medical College and Hospital, a Malerkotla, Sangrur district, resident succumbed at Mohandai Oswal Hospital.The health department officials said the Madhopuri man had diabetes, blood pressure and kidney problems, besides Covid-19.Meanwhile, 39 patients from Ludhiana district have tested positive for novel coronavirus.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of 693 samples sent for testing on Monday, reports of 648 were negative and 45 were pending.The health department officials said of the 110 other pending samples, 70 were negative and 33 positive. Of these, 32 patients are from Ludhiana district and one from Nawanshahar.The Ludhiana cases include 14 patients from Saleem Tabri, four from Jamalpur, two each from Bhamiyan Kalan, Dugri, Focal Point and Civil Lines, and one each from Chander Nagar, Ber Kalan in Payal, Dhandari Kalan, Basti Jodhewal, BRS Nagar and Model Town.A Khanna resident, too, has tested positive.Of 10 positive reports received from DMCH, six are from Ludhiana district. They include a patient each from Industrial Area, Harkrishan Nagar, Dugri Phase II, Sargodha Colony and two from Barewal. The four others are from Malerkotla, Sangrur, Dasuya and Amritsar.The positive cases include a pregnant woman, a 48-year-old Ludhiana Central Jail employee and a 39-year-old healthcare worker. A 23-year-old woman of Delhi, who is at present in Nawanshahr and whose sample was collected at Sahnewal airport, is also among those who have caught the infection.The Ludhiana case count now stands at 840. Besides, 198 patients from outside the district have tested positive here.The civil surgeon said 21 patients were discharged on the day. Ten were discharged from Meritorious School Covid Care Centre, three from MCH, Vardhman, five from civil hospital, two from DMCH and one from Jagraon sub-district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-die-of-covid-19-39-of-district-test-positive/articleshow/76717585.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Over 23,000 kg Jardalu mangoes booked online||BHAGALPUR: In a bid to help mango farmers and to overcome their problems of marketing the fruit during the lockdown, the state government with the help of department of posts, Government of India, has introduced online booking orders for naturally ripened Jardalu mangoes of Bhagalpur. In fact, the Bihar Postal Circle has made an agreement with the department of horticulture, government of Bihar, under the scheme “Baag Se Ghar Tak ( From the orchard to home)”, for logistics of ‘Sahi litchis’ from Muzaffarpur and ‘Jardalu mangoes’, from Bhagalpur and its delivery at doorstep. People can place order on website—horticulture.bihar.gov.in. Assistant director, department of horticulture, Bhagalpur, Ajay Kumar Singh said, “Till date, 238.4 quintals (23,840kg) of mangoes have been booked online. Each box will contain 5kg of fresh Jardalu mangoes which will be delivered by a postman at the doorstep of those who have made the bookings.” “Mangoes are scheduled to be delivered from June 1 to June 20, besides the ongoing online bookings,” Singh added. Postal superintendent, department of posts, Bhagalpur, Ram Parikhsa Prasad said, “Postmen will deliver the packings under the scheme--Baag Se Ghar Tak--specifically arranged by the postal department and the state government. Online bookings and delivery at doorstep facility will also help cultivators/farmers by earning decent profits in this new market directly. Customers will also be benefitted as they will get good quality fruits at their doorstep at low cost.” It may be worth mentioning here that since 2007, the unique variety of Jardalu mangoes are selected from Madhuban farm at Maheshi-Tilakpur village under Sultanganj block of Ashok Choudhary by the state government and sent in nearly 2000 boxes to dignitaries across the country including the Prime Minister, President, vice-president, Lok Sabha Speaker, chief ministers across the states among others. Choudhary said that Jardalu variety of mangoes, grown in Bhagalpur region, is rich in pulp, juiciness, aroma and sweetness. “It got the prestigious GIT tag in 2018 due to its exceptional quality,” he added saying, “This time, as the mangoes are almost mature, it is urgent to get it delivered to the consumers soon as means of transportation are limited due to lockdown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-23kkg-jardalu-mangoes-booked-online/articleshow/76124074.cms||Kumar Rajesh
July 1, 2020||Patna||One more IPS officer tests corona positive||PATNA: One more IPS officer has been tested positive for Covid-19 as 189 police personnel in the state have so far been infected with the virus till Tuesday. While one of the IPS officers, posted as senior superintendent of police (SSP) in a northern Bihar district, already recovered from the infection, another one posted as SP in a neighbouring district of Patna tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. “He went into isolation along with his family members. A DSP-ranked officer is looking after the district police in place of the SP,” sources said. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said of the 189 police personnel infected so far, 159 had been cured after treatment. “One policeman has died due to Covid-19,” he said. “The department is taking utmost precaution. All mandatory standard operating procedures as per the guidelines of the central as well as state government were being followed in case of any policeman being tested Covid-19 positive across the state,” he said. Among the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel deployed in state, 12 of them had been tested positive for the virus till now. CRPF is the lone paramilitary force in state to report Covid-19 positive cases so far. Seven of its personnel at Aurangabad police lines were tested positive on June 12. Bihar sector DIG SM Hasnain said five more CRPF personnel deployed in Gaya had tested positive a week back. “They are now stable and safe. Those in Aurangabad are in isolation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-ips-officer-tests-corona-positive/articleshow/76716570.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ED files chargesheet against ex-PHED engineer||PATNA: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday filed chargesheet (prosecution complaint) against former PHED engineer Ramadhar Ram, his wife Anita Devi and son Bikash Kumar for allegedly amassing movable and immovable property worth Rs 81.49 lakh beyond his known sources of income. ED sources said the chargesheet was filed before the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, in Patna. The ED has sought confiscation of the property amassed by Ram and his punishment. “He also has a house in Motihari worth around Rs 8.85 lakh as per government rate. Besides, he also owns agricultural land measuring around 1.78 acres worth Rs 24.92 lakh as per official rate. In the open market, the rates would be in several crores,” the sources added. “Ram owns four vehicles worth Rs 12.02 lakh. He also has 12 bank accounts, some in the names of his wife and son, with Rs 1.84 lakh in deposits and four insurance policies with surrender value of worth Rs 1.41 lakh,” ED sources said. “It was actually Economic Offences Unit of state police which had registered FIR against Ram on June 18, 2013. EOU had filed chagesheet against the couple and his son on October 4, 2017 under Prevention of Corruption Act after which ED had taken suo-motu cognizance of the case,” ED sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ed-files-chargesheet-against-ex-phed-engr/articleshow/76717746.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 1, 2020||Patna||Shekhar Suman meets Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, seeks CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput's suicide||PATNA: A day after meeting the family members of late Sushant Singh Rajput at their residence in Rajeev Nagar, Shekhar Suman on Tuesday demanded a CBI probe into the actor’s suicide in Mumbai on June 14. Suman, himself an actor who had contested from Patna Sahib in the 2009 Lok Sabha election on a Congress ticket against Shatrughan Sinha, addressed a presser with leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav at 10, Circular Road here. He said crores of Sushant’s fans and supporters were demanding a CBI probe. Suman said he has launched ‘Justice for Sushant’ campaign to find out the reasons, which forced Sushant to allegedly commit suicide. He also alleged “gangism” and “groupism” in Bollywood as the possible factors. A fight to finish..at Sushan's house in Patna.won't give up no matter what.#justiceforSushantforum… https://t.co/GBSbmDy2zB— Shekhar Suman (@shekharsuman7) 1593444016000“We are the son of the same soil. I can feel the pain Sushant’s father is passing through. I too have lost my 11-year-old son, who was suffering from heart problem,” he said. He said an “intelligent person like Sushant” would have left behind a suicide note before taking such extreme step. “Also, it is a matter of investigation as to what led him to take such a step.” Suman raised various questions. “Why was it termed a suicide without any thorough probe? Be it the mark on his neck or the height of ceiling from which the body was hanging indicates it was a suicide. There was no saliva or protruding eyes, as happens in suicide cases. Though I am not a forensic expert, these are general questions in everyone’s mind. A boy who enjoyed a party the night before was on PlayStation in the morning and ordered for juice. What happened all of a sudden that he committed suicide?” he asked. He alleged that nepotism and ‘gangism’ in Bollywood was not letting talents from small towns survive. “A talented person is either erased from the industry or included in the gang if he or she agrees to lick their boots,” Suman alleged. “I wanted to meet chief minister Nitish Kumar, but conveyed my message to his office. I was told that he would not meet me because of coronavirus. He (Nitish) should have at least met the family of Sushant,” added Suman. Tejashwi again demanded that the upcoming film city in Rajgir should be named after Sushant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shekhar-meets-tejas-seeks-cbi-probe-into-ssr-suicide/articleshow/76717767.cms||Sheezan Nezami
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party protest against fuel price today||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party will be organising a country-wide protest on Wednesday against the fuel price hike, a development being ferociously opposed by Congress and other political parties. AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai tweeted that protest will begin at 11am. पेट्रोल-डीज़ल के बढ़ते दामों के खिलाफ @AamAadmiParty 1 जुलाई को सुबह 11 बजे देशभर में करेगी विरोध प्रदर्शन। https://t.co/uUZ8BWJRMc— Gopal Rai (@AapKaGopalRai) 1593497121000Since June 7, the petrol price has increased by Rs 9.17, while diesel by Rs 11.14 in the capital. Both petrol and diesel are selling above Rs 80 per litre in Delhi. AAP has a majority government in Delhi and is the main Opposition party in Punjab. It also has active units in Haryana, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and several other states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-aam-aadmi-party-protest-against-fuel-price-today/articleshow/76729664.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Masan inundates crops in Bagaha||BAGAHA: The fast current of Masan river is eroding its right bank and inundated hundreds of acres of paddy, sugar cane and maize crops in Bagaha subdivision of West Champaran district. The river bifurcates Ramnagar and Bagaha-1 blocks. A bridge over the river connecting Ramnagar and Bagaha-1 block headquarters has also been partially damaged as one of its eastern piers sunk. The brick soling on Ajamal Nagar-Jharmahuyee kuchcha road has also damaged. Tamakuhi, Ajamal Nagar, Salaha and Jharmahuyee of Salaha-Bariyarawa panchayat and some parts of Raibari Mahuyawa panchayat are among the worst affected. The locals said the river is changing its course. Meanwhile, among the major rivers, Bagmati was flowing slightly above the danger level at Runnisaidpur and Benibad on Tuesday. The Mahananda was also above the danger mark at three places and Kosi at Baltara. The water discharge through Gandak river at Valmikinagar barrage has become stationary at 86,000 from 90,000 cusecs in the morning, while the discharge through Birpur barrage across Kosi river was around 1.26 lakh cusecs on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/masan-inundates-crops-in-bagaha/articleshow/76717844.cms||Tirthraj Kushwaha
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||LIT staff member manhandled during demolition drive||LUDHIANA: Things went out of hand during a demolition drive being conducted by Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) when one of the encroachers allegedly slapped and manhandled an executive engineer of the department. The team of officials, along with police, had gone to remove the fresh encroachments being made by encroachers on prime land in Model Town Extension, Block C on Tuesday. The encroachers claimed that the land, on which shanties have been built, belonged to them. The LIT chairman had to intervene for demolition of fresh construction while for the other encroachments, officials have given one-week time to people to either produce proof of ownership or vacate. LIT officials reached the spot with heavy police force and tried to remove temporary sheds where plants were kept along the boundary wall of flats. Reacting to this, Ravinder Singh, who claimed to be owner of the land, started arguing with officials and allegedly slapped executive engineer Jagdev Singh. Police took him away while officials removed the shed. After that, Ravinderpal Sonu staged a protest with other people at the site. When LIT officials asked them to move, he said the land belonged to his ancestors since 1956 and possession of land was still in their name. LIT officials said they had paid his ancestors, after which flats were constructed in one part of the land while school site was kept reserved for construction later. Officials also said that people had filed a case in lower court and then in high court, where they lost the battle, but even then refused to vacate the prime land. Senior police officials and LIT chairman Raman Balasubramanium also reached the spot. Police asked him to either remove the recently constructed wall on his own or the LIT would do it. He agreed to remove the wall. After this, LIT chairman asked him to clear encroachment from this land in one week or show documentary proof of his ownership. The chairman said, “We did not want to take action during Covid-19 but encroachers tried to make use of this opportunity and made fresh encroachments. Therefore, we went to remove it.” He also said they have submitted a complaint against those people who misbehaved with the staff member. Ravinderpal Sonu maintained that land belonged to his grandfather who settled here during Partition. He said no decision had been made regarding possession of land as the court case is pending. He said land where flats were constructed on 6,000 square yards was also their property and it was taken by LIT when the scheme was launched. Model Town police station SHO inspector Rajan Pal said, “A case has been registered against Sonu, his brother, mother and unidentified accomplices. The accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lit-staff-member-manhandled-during-demolition-drive/articleshow/76717605.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana man stabs wife with scissors as minor children watch, arrested||LUDHIANA: A carpenter brutally killed his wife with scissors at their house in New Ashok Nagar on Monday night. Hours later, the police arrested him while he was trying to leave the city. Avtar Singh, 43, stabbed Jasveer Kaur, 40, multiple times in front of their two sons, aged 17 and six. Salem Tabri police station SHO inspector Gopal Krishan said, “Avtar was a hard drinker. He and his wife often fought over his drinking habit.” The couple’s elder son said his parents would get into a scrap over petty issues. “Avtar also suspected his wife of having an illicit relation. After losing his temper, he would ask her to leave the house and live with her paramour,” said a cop. Their teenager son, an eyewitness of the murder, said, “On returning home from work on Monday night, my father asked for dinner. As it was being prepared, my mother asked him to wait. This led to a fight between the two. My father then picked up scissors kept on a table and stabbed my mother in stomach. I rushed to save her, but my father threatened to kill me too.” The sacred teenager and his younger brother stood by as Avtar stabbed their mother multiple times in stomach, neck and chest. As soon as he escaped from the spot, the teenager raised the alarm around 9.30pm. Neighbours rushed to their house and called up the police. “Jasveer was alive when we reached their house. We took her to a hospital, where she succumbed during treatment early on Tuesday,” the SHO said. Salem Tabri police registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC against Avtar. He was arrested in the morning, when he was trying to leave the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/carpenter-stabs-wife-with-scissors-in-front-of-2-sons/articleshow/76717611.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Find way to conduct medical college exams’||Chandigarh: The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) on Tuesday urged the medical education and research department to work out a formula related to exams and practicals of students in the medical colleges of Haryana. Haryana NSUI chief Divyanshu Budhiraja and other members, accompanied by representatives of a medical college, submitted a memorandum to state medical education minister Anil Vij, urging him to take up the issue with the Centre too. “This is the most important course, so we will never advocate promotion without exams,” said Budhiraja. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/find-way-to-conduct-medical-college-exams/articleshow/76719471.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||Restore grants to Konkani and Marathi primary kids students: Velingkar||Panaji: The state government’s withdrawal of the monthly Rs 400 grant to each student of Konkani and Marathi primary schools has not gone down well with supporters of vernacular education. Former long-term Goa RSS chief and now Goa Suraksha Manch president Subhash Velingkar, on Tuesday said the Pramod Sawant government, like the earlier Manohar Parrikar-led regime, had yet again betrayed the trust of Konkani and Marathi primary schools and had snatched even the last morsels from their mouths. Velingkar demanded that the grant be restored immediately or the GSM would launch a massive agitation in the state. “The Goa BJP government’s decision to stop the Rs 400 monthly grant per student studying in Konkani and Marathi primary schools is one which has strangulated the state and national education policy. GSM expresses its objection to this decision and condemns the BJP government for this betrayal,” he said. Velingkar said that in 2012, when the BJP government was elected in Goa with a simple majority, it did not keep its promise of discontinuing grants to schools run by the Church, which had shifted the medium of instruction overnight to English. “To carry out minority appeasement, the then BJP government betrayed the Bharatiya Bhasha Suraksha Manch, which had carried out a movement for continued grants to only primary schools that offer education in the mother tongue. This forced the BBSM to protest against the same BJP leaders who had earlier joined them in a bid to protect primary education in the mother tongue. When the state was on the verge of the next elections in 2017, the government announced a grant of Rs 400 per student in Konkani and Marathi primary schools,” Velingkar said. He said that after the elections chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar set the scheme into motion. “But this traitor government has now scraped this scheme. Citizens need to be reminded when the Manohar Parrikar regime went back on its promise and decided to continue grants to Church-run schools, he had promised financial aid under many heads to Konkani and Marathi schools. But these schools have not received a penny of what was promised,” Velingkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restore-grants-to-konkani-and-marathi-primary-kids-students-velingkar/articleshow/76719501.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Schools celebrate court victory, parents feel wronged||Ludhiana: Even as schools welcome the decision of Punjab and Haryana high court permitting schools to take tuition fee, admission fee and expenditure incurred by them under annual charges, parents are upset with the decision. Mona Singh, principal, Guru Nanak Public School, Model Town Extension, said, “This is a good decision by Punjab and Haryana High Court. We will consider genuine problems being faced by parents. Otherwise also, we have been compassionate towards needy parents. Even before the high court decision, some parents had approached us saying that either they would be able to purchase books or pay fee. So I asked them to get books. Now, we request parents to pay fee as teachers also need salaries to run their families.” She urged parents not to “politicise the school and fee issue” as parents in need can approach schools and mutually sort out matters. V K Syal, manager, BCM Arya Model Senior Secondary School, Shastri Nagar, said, “A fair judgement has been passed by the high court keeping in view all aspects. We should welcome the decision and comply with it. There are other employees too besides teachers who work in school and need salaries to earn a living.” However, parents feel that the decision is unwarranted. “Parents have to pay tuition fee, admission fee and annual charges. Expenses of schools have reduced. We had to buy our children a separate smart phone, we pay for their internet, get them prints for projects but the school is not spending money anywhere as teachers use their own internet. Paying for tuition fee is enough as expenses have also reduced.” Another parent said, “My wife and I work to run the family. We have to give car installments too. We both have incurred pay cuts due to Covid-19 so now how are we supposed to pay the same school fee? Moreover, schools have been asked to take annual charges as per the expenditure incurred by them, but who will cross-check it?” Lack of accountability on the part of schools also rankles parents. “The balance sheet of schools should be made public so that everyone should know if they really don’t earn profit,” said another parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/schools-celebrate-court-victory-parents-feel-wronged/articleshow/76717634.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Punjab private schools can collect tuition fee, annual charges’||CHANDIGARH: In a major relief to the private unaided schools in Punjab, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday allowed them to collect tuition fee, admission fee and annual charges from students. As per HC orders, even those schools with no online class facilities can collect tuition fee from students. However, HC asked them not to charge for any activity or facility towards which no expenditure was incurred during the lockdown period. “The school management of each school shall work out their actual expenditure incurred under the annual charges for the period the school remained closed and recover only such genuine expenditure incurred by them including actual transport charges and actual building charges but shall not recover any charge for this period for any activity or facility towards which no expenditure was incurred. However, annual charges for the remaining period shall be recovered as already fixed by the school,” says the order. HC made it clear that schools shall restrain themselves from increasing the fee for the year 2020-21 and adopt the same fee structure as of 2019- 20. With regard to parents who cannot afford school fee on account of financial hardships due to Covid-19 pandemic, HC said they may file an application along with necessary proof about their financial status, which shall be looked into by the school authority sympathetically and decide whether to give concession or exempt the entire fee. In case the parent is still aggrieved, they may approach the regulatory body constituted under Section 7 of the Punjab Regulation of fee of Un-aided Educational Institutions Act, 2016. HC has also held that in case any school is facing a financial crunch for not having charged the increased fee for 2020-21, it may move a representation to the district education officer along with proof of the same. The officer shall look into it and pass appropriate orders within three weeks of the receipt of such an application. However, this may be exercised only in a very hard case where the school is facing financial crunch and has no reserved resources to meet the expenses, HC said. HC’s Justice Nirmaljit Kaur passed these orders while disposing of a bunch of petitions filed by the Independent Schools Association, a group of 78 unaided privately managed schools and other societies running private schools in Punjab. They had challenged the directions issued by director school education (DSE), Punjab on May 14 for being illegal and violative of the provisions of Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act, 2016. The DSE had directed the private unaided schools not to charge any fee for the lockdown/curfew period, excluding the period of summer break. The DSE, however, ordered that those schools, who have provided or are providing online education during the period of lockdown, may charge ‘tuition fee’ only. The petitioners had sought directions to set aside these directions on the ground that it was inherent and inescapable right of the private unaided schools to be able to generate funds to function and discharge their financial obligations. They had also argued that the state had no powers to issue such directions in view of the already available statute in this regard. The Punjab government, however, defended the orders on the grounds that regulation of fee of private unaided schools during the emergent situation posed by Covid-19 pandemic was in public interest and the said power was incidental to the regulations envisaged in good faith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-pvt-schools-can-collect-tuition-fee-annual-charges/articleshow/76719476.cms||Ajay Sura
July 1, 2020||Amritsar||With hike in fuel prices, PRTC to raise bus fares from today||PATIALA: Unable to keep pace with rising fuel prices and losses incurred during the Covid-19 lockdown, Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PTRC) has hiked bus fares by up to 11 paisa/km to narrow the gap between its expenses and earnings. Hiked fares will come into effect from Wednesday morning and are being implemented across ordinary and air-conditioned buses operated by the corporation. Bus fares now stand at 122 paise per km for ordinary and 146.20 paise for HVAC (heating, ventilation and air-conditioning) buses, whose fare is 20% higher than ordinary ones. Those travelling by integral coaches owned by PRTC will be paying 219.60 paise/km and super integral coach would cost passengers 244 paise/km as its fare is double that of ordinary buses. With the hike, fare for ordinary buses has gone up by six paisa, for HVAC buses by seven paisa and for Volvo buses by 11 paisa. The state government has also decided that fare above Rs 2.5 per kilometre will now be rounded off to Rs 5 a kilometre. There will be no changes in other bus fares. Minimum fare will be Rs 10. Since the lockdown, PTRC has incurred losses of more than Rs 65 crore. According to senior officials, the hike announced by the state transport department is unlikely to ease the financial burden of the transport corporation as occupancy in the buses continues to remain low. PRTC chairman K K Sharma said daily receipt of the transport corporation has fallen from Rs 1.5 crore to Rs 20 lakh a day. He said the hike is unlikely to have any impact on the losses being suffered by the transport corporation. The chairman said the unprecedented hike in prices of diesel has also dented finances of PRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/with-hike-in-fuel-prices-prtc-to-raise-bus-fares-from-today/articleshow/76726161.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nashik||NMC to decide on admission of Covid patients to private hosps||(done) Nashik: The NMC will henceforth decide whether a Covid-19 patient will be admitted to civic or private hospital, depending upon his/her condition. “The ICU beds in private hospitals should be for serious patients, but they are occupied by asymptomatic patients, who can actually be quarantined in covid care centres,” municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game said on Tuesday. “We have finally decided to centralise the admission of patients in private hospitals. We will set up a special unit in the NMC headquarters. Health officials and the district civil surgeon will take a call on admitting patients,” he said. Game said NMC has already introduced a real time dashboard online to provide information about the number of beds in civic and private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. “We are also providing information online about the Covid-19 hotspots and the locations of patients.” Meanwhile, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal instructed the municipal commissioner to ensure that every private Covid-19 hospital has liaison officers to coordinate between patients and hospitals. Bhujbal also directed Game and district collector Suraj Mandhare to take action against private hospitals that are found overcharging patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-decide-on-admission-of-covid-patients-to-private-hosps/articleshow/76717641.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||With hike in fuel prices, PRTC to raise bus fares from today||PATIALA: Unable to keep pace with rising fuel prices and losses incurred during the Covid-19 lockdown, Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PTRC) has hiked bus fares by up to 11 paisa/km to narrow the gap between its expenses and earnings. Hiked fares will come into effect from Wednesday morning and are being implemented across ordinary and air-conditioned buses operated by the corporation. Bus fares now stand at 122 paise per km for ordinary and 146.20 paise for HVAC (heating, ventilation and air-conditioning) buses, whose fare is 20% higher than ordinary ones. Those travelling by integral coaches owned by PRTC will be paying 219.60 paise/km and super integral coach would cost passengers 244 paise/km as its fare is double that of ordinary buses. With the hike, fare for ordinary buses has gone up by six paisa, for HVAC buses by seven paisa and for Volvo buses by 11 paisa. The state government has also decided that fare above Rs 2.5 per kilometre will now be rounded off to Rs 5 a kilometre. There will be no changes in other bus fares. Minimum fare will be Rs 10. Since the lockdown, PTRC has incurred losses of more than Rs 65 crore. According to senior officials, the hike announced by the state transport department is unlikely to ease the financial burden of the transport corporation as occupancy in the buses continues to remain low. PRTC chairman K K Sharma said daily receipt of the transport corporation has fallen from Rs 1.5 crore to Rs 20 lakh a day. He said the hike is unlikely to have any impact on the losses being suffered by the transport corporation. The chairman said the unprecedented hike in prices of diesel has also dented finances of PRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-hike-in-fuel-prices-prtc-to-raise-bus-fares-from-today/articleshow/76726160.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Speeding car rams pavement; 2 killed, 2 kids injured too||NEW DELHI: Two persons were killed and two children injured after a speeding car crashed into them in Rohini Sector 16 on Tuesday. Police said the four victims were sitting on the footpath outside the Hanuman temple when the car rammed into them. Police have detained four of the five occupants of the car. According to police, the call about the accident was received around 6.40pm on Tuesday. A team of officers reached the site of the incident and found a silver-coloured sedan in a damaged condition with blood marks on it near the footpath. The crime team was summoned and the four injured were taken to the hospital. “The injured identified as Harish (40) and Vimla (35) succumbed to their injuries in hospital, while five-year-old Anshu and 11-year-old Suraj are undergoing treatment,” disclosed P K Mishra, DCP (Rohini). The vehicle was registered in the name of Rahul Sharma, a resident of Budh Vihar in west Delhi. We have identified some of the suspects and are questioning them. Their names can’t be revealed as their ages are being verified. The person behind the wheels is currently absconding.” Police said of the four suspects, any could be a minor. Also, a medical examination will be conducted to ascertain if the quartet were in an inebriated state. A case of rash and negligent driving causing death has been registered. An eyewitness to the incident, Gopal Jha (43), who also made the call to the police control room, told TOI that he was in the park alongside the road when he heard a car skid. “There was a screeching noise followed by the sound of a child crying,” Jha said. “I ran towards the car and saw a man lying near the car, while a woman was stuck under near the bonnet. A little further away, a minor was lying injured on the road. The other child had also sustained injuries, but was able to stand up. We caught two of the car’s occupants, but the others managed to escape.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/speeding-car-rams-pavement-2-killed-2-kids-injured-too/articleshow/76719480.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nashik||Private doctors in city told to work in NMC hospitals once a week||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has made it mandatory for medical practitioners in the city to work in civic-run hospitals at least once a week. The decision comes in view of the shortage of doctors for treating Covid-19 patients in the city. These doctors will have to work on rotation basis. The move will help the civic body to meet the scarcity of doctors at a time when the city’s total number of coronavirus patients has crossed the 2000-mark. The state and the central governments have projected a total of 8,000 patients in Nashik district, including 4,000 patients from the city alone by July end. Moreover, the municipal corporation’s recruitment drive failed to generate the desired results. While the state government had given permission to recruit 200 doctors and medical staff for hospitals, the NMC has only been able to recruit 23 doctors so far. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game said that the city had less than 50 patients by May 19. However, the number increased after the government announced relaxation in lockdown. “We have already made arrangements for adequate number of beds in NMC-run hospitals. We are also developing new infrastructure for Covid-19 patients. But, lack of doctors and medical staff is amajor cause of concern for us,” he said. Considering the scarcity of doctors to treat Covid-19 patients, private physicians in the city should come forward to render their services, said Game.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/private-doctors-in-city-told-to-work-in-nmc-hospitals-once-a-week/articleshow/76717650.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Include martyr Gurtej’s acts of bravery in curriculum: SGPC||Amritsar: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has urged the Punjab government to include stories of the bravery of baptised Sikh soldier, Gurtej Singh in the school curriculum. Hailing the valour of Sepoy Gurtej who achieved martyrdom at the age of 23 with 19 other soldiers during the stand-off with Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said inclusion of the martyr’s acts of courage in the school curriculum would inspire students. Acting on the directions of Akal Takht, SGPC has also constituted a sub-committee to investigate allegations of Punjab Human Rights Organisation on saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib going missing from SGPC’s publication wing. After addressing a gathering of the SGPC dharam parchar committee, Longwowal said they would take stern action against anyone found guilty on the basis of the sub-committee report. The sub-committee comprises Golden Temple granthi Giani Maan Singh, SGPC general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami, SGPC executive committee members Surjit Singh Kang and Jagsir Singh Mangaeana, SGPC members Gurtej Singh and Sarwan Singh Kalar and additional secretary Simarjit Singh (coordinator). The sub committee’s report would be submitted with acting jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Harpreet Singh, said Longowal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/include-martyr-gurtejs-acts-of-bravery-in-curriculum-sgpc/articleshow/76719477.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||With hike in fuel prices, PRTC to raise bus fares from today||PATIALA: Unable to keep pace with rising fuel prices and losses incurred during the Covid-19 lockdown, Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PTRC) has hiked bus fares by up to 11 paisa/km to narrow the gap between its expenses and earnings. Hiked fares will come into effect from Wednesday morning and are being implemented across ordinary and air-conditioned buses operated by the corporation. Bus fares now stand at 122 paise per km for ordinary and 146.20 paise for HVAC (heating, ventilation and air-conditioning) buses, whose fare is 20% higher than ordinary ones. Those travelling by integral coaches owned by PRTC will be paying 219.60 paise/km and super integral coach would cost passengers 244 paise/km as its fare is double that of ordinary buses. With the hike, fare for ordinary buses has gone up by six paisa, for HVAC buses by seven paisa and for Volvo buses by 11 paisa. The state government has also decided that fare above Rs 2.5 per kilometre will now be rounded off to Rs 5 a kilometre. There will be no changes in other bus fares. Minimum fare will be Rs 10. Since the lockdown, PTRC has incurred losses of more than Rs 65 crore. According to senior officials, the hike announced by the state transport department is unlikely to ease the financial burden of the transport corporation as occupancy in the buses continues to remain low. PRTC chairman K K Sharma said daily receipt of the transport corporation has fallen from Rs 1.5 crore to Rs 20 lakh a day. He said the hike is unlikely to have any impact on the losses being suffered by the transport corporation. The chairman said the unprecedented hike in prices of diesel has also dented finances of PRTC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/with-hike-in-fuel-prices-prtc-to-raise-bus-fares-from-today/articleshow/76719484.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||PPE scam: 20 doctors give statement||AMRITSAR: Statements of 20 doctors were recorded on Tuesday in alleged wrongdoings in purchase of PPE kits by Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here. The investigation into the scam has been stepped up after Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla complained of delay in probe since he had recommended funds for the purchase of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits from his MPLAD funds. It is learnt a few doctors involved in the purchase and inspection of PPE kits had been asked to report on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ppe-scam-20-doctors-give-statement/articleshow/76719481.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Forcible fee collection barred, willing parents can pay: Govt||CHENNAI: Can schools, colleges and deemed universities demand fee from parents, despite the caution from Tamil Nadu government that parents should not be forced to pay the fee? Clearing the air a bit, Tamil Nadu government informed the Madras high court that parents, if willing, are welcome to pay school/college fee of their children and that the government’s restriction is only on institutions compelling them to pay fees. Last week, the court had raised a query as to how could the government ask schools and educational institutions to pay salaries to their staff while barring them from collecting fee from students. On Tuesday, however, advocate-general Vijay Narayan said, “The state has already sanctioned Rs 248.79 crore to such institutions towards reimbursement for the 25% seats allotted under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. With this amount, they can manage for at least two to three months.” Narayan made the submission on a batch of pleas moved by associations of such private educational institutions, challenging the government order prohibiting them from collecting fees. When the plea came up for hearing before Justice R Mahadevan, the advocate-general submitted that the fee had not been waived for the lockdown period and the institutions would get the money at some point of time. “We have to consider the plight of parents who are also affected by the ongoing crisis. Many have lost their livelihood,” Narayan said. He further added that only a few schools are conducting online classes and that the government does not know their exact count. Recording the submissions, Justice Mahadevan asked Narayan whether the government can come out with any quantum of the fees that can be collected by the institutions. To this, the advocate general said, “Let the institutions make a representation. We will ask the government to give a serious consideration.” The court then directed the institutions to make a detailed representation to the state with a formula for collection of fee either in instalments or in any other manner, giving due consideration to the affected public. “The petitioners are directed to submit a detailed representation with respect to equalities, feasibility, considering the financial constraint faced by parents as well as the institutions to the government by tomorrow evening under copy to AG. The government is directed to come out with a scheme not based on the fee fixation committee but based on the sufferings of both parents and the institutions by July 8,” the judge ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/forcible-fee-collection-barred-willing-parents-can-pay-govt/articleshow/76718893.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Have sought more rescue flights from Centre, TN tells HC||CHENNAI: A day after the Centre accused the Tamil Nadu government of refusing clearance to international rescue flights bringing back Indians stranded in various countries, the state government informed the Madras high court that it has requested the ministry of external affairs to arrange for more flights to land in the state. Citing a communication dated June 27 issued by the P Senthil Kumar, principal secretary to Tamil Nadu government (FAC), government pleader V Jayaprakash Narayan submitted on Tuesday that the state has addressed the Union ministry of external affairs to arrange adequate Vande Bharath Mission flights to the state. “.. only four flights have been arranged to evacuate stranded Tamils from UAE, Bahrain and Oman during June 27 to 29. More members of non-resident Tamils are still stranded in UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, and Oman. Hence, I am directed to request you to kindly arrange adequate number of flights under the VBM/ships from the above five countries to evacuate stranded Tamil people,” the communication said. Recording the submissions, a division bench of Justice R Subbiah and Justice Krishnan Ramaswamy directed the state to file a status request as to the number of flights that are likely to be permitted and adjourned the hearing to July 2. On Monday, the Centre informed the court that since TN government refused clearance for Vande Bharath flights, residents of the state are compelled to land in neighbouring states and then proceed to Tamil Nadu. “The state government has requested that the number of flights to Chennai be restricted to two per day and not more than one to Trichy, Coimbatore and Madurai , to facilitate smooth reception and observance of Covid-19 protocol,” the ministry of external affairs said through a memo filed in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/have-sought-more-rescue-flights-from-centre-tn-tells-hc/articleshow/76718902.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nashik||Police warn of strict action against lockdown violators||Nashik: City police, in order to implement the Unlock 2.0 guidelines, have warned of strict action against errant citizens who are found violating the lockdown rules that will be in force till July 31. A press release from the police said that they have decided to check every vehicle very. “Legal action will be taken against those who are found moving out unnecessarily. Motorists moving around in two, three and four-wheelers other than those who have an emergency would face action,” the release said. “At the same time, action will also be taken against owners and managers of establishments who are not following the norm of social distancing. Apart from this, strict implementation night curfew will also be carried out. No vehicle will be allowed to enter or leave the the border ceiling point of the city,” it added. The police also said that five or more people should not come together unnecessarily. “We would also be intensifying patrolling in the slums of the city to take action against people who have gathered at a spot or are moving out unnecessarily. Squads of the Special branch of the city police and crime branch have been deployed in various parts of the city,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-warn-of-strict-action-against-lockdown-violators/articleshow/76717654.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nashik||Ahmednagar administration warns of reinforcing strict lockdown||Nashik: The Ahmednagar district administration has warned the residents of re-introducing strict lockdown measures if they do not adhere to Covid-related safety protocols. District collector Rahul Dwivedi on Tuesday said that cases in the district, especially in Ahmednagar city, is increasing rapidly for the last few days. “A section of local residents are acting irresponsibly by not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing. This is aiding the spread of the infection. If such acts continue then the administration would be forced to enforce strict lockdown,” Dwivedi said. Four prominent areas in the city were declared as hotspots as several people were tested positive for Covid-19. These areas will now be containment zones till July 9. “In the past 10 days over 100 new cases and 75% of them are from the city areas. People are taking the Covid safety protocols casually due to which the infection is spreading,” a district official said. Currently, Ahmednagar has recorded a total of 441 cases of which 307 have recovered and 14 have succumbed due to the infection. Meanwhile, Dwivedi has also appealed to those who have recovered from the illness to donate their plasma to save the lives of others suffering from the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ahmednagar-administration-warns-of-reinforcing-strict-lockdown/articleshow/76717665.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Buffer tourism opens but tourists can’t cross dist border||Nagpur: Even as wildlife tourism in buffer zone of Tadoba starts from Wednesday, confusion prevails among tourists from other districts whether to go for safari or not as Covid-19 lockdown restrictions have been extended till July 31. Tadoba has started tourism from all 13 gates in the buffer at Kolara, Navegaon, Agarzari, Dewada, Mamla, Zarim, Doni, Madnapur, Sirkada, Alizanja and other gates with 12 vehicles in both shifts. ENT surgeon Dr Naresh Agrawal, who is keen on visiting Tadoba buffer with family, said, “The state has extended lockdown which continues restriction on inter-district travel. Even if we obtain an e-pass, there is no column about tourism in it. The e-pass makes a mention about medical emergencies and health only.” “Secondly, there is no proof that we are heading towards Tadoba as there is no online booking. The park managements should coordinate with district authorities to see that tourism is included as reason for travelling,” said Dr Agrawal. LAC member with Pench (MP) Sandeep Singh says, “Even if I make a plan, resorts will continue to remain closed and if accommodation is not available, there is no point in travelling. Restaurants will also remain closed and hence getting food will also be an issue. In MP, the tourism in core area went well due to coordination between district and wildlife officials.” One of the stakeholders from Tadoba, Nikhil Abhyankar, said, “The park management opened buffer areas for tourism but state did not allow resorts in the vicinity to open. This will hamper tourists’ inflow. Many tourists who had planned a visit are dejected and have cancelled their plans.” “Restrictions will not help purpose of providing livelihood to guides and Gypsy owners. Tadoba buffer is in demand throughout the year owing to good tiger sightings. We had already started preparations by sanitizing property and had also bought necessary equipment,” Abhyankar said. “Owing to travel restrictions, only two parties visited Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary in Yavatmal since June 19, when the park opened,” admits Melghat field director MS Reddy. Yavatmal SP M Rajkumar says, “It is true due to restrictions, tourism failed to pick up. There should be a column on tourism in the e-pass.” Even Chandrapur district collector Kunal Khemnar admits there is an issue. “We can impose more regulations but cannot relax them. I will talk to field director on the issue,” he said. Pench field director Ravikiran Govekar said, “All bookings will be available offline at entry gates. Masks and social distancing will be mandatory. Tourists will be thermal scanned. At Surewani gate, SUVs will be allowed apart from Gypsys.” Pench Buffer Opens * Nagalwadi-Surewani-Saleghat (25km): 6 vehicles (Monday closed) * Khapa-Zinjeria (Paoni): 18km: (Wednesday closed) * Karhandla-Ranbodi-Pandhragota: 24km (Monday closed) * Timings: 6.30 am to 10.30 am & 2 pm to 5.30 pm. * Fee: Monday-Friday (Rs 750 entry), Guide (Rs 350) & Gypsy (Rs 2000) * Fee: Saturday-Sunday (Rs 1,000) ENDS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/buffer-tourism-opens-but-tourists-cant-cross-dist-border/articleshow/76719594.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Plot registries pick up pace post-Unlock 1.0||Gurgaon: Two months after the revenue department received a lukewarm response for registration of properties, it has now started gaining pace with 50 registries a day to 250 registries every day. “People have started coming for the registry of their apartments and houses after the Unlock 1.0. The real estate market, which had suffered a lot during the lockdown period, has started showing signs of recovery now. Consequently, we are seeing more people coming up for the registries,” said a district administration official. After the imposition of lockdown, the revenue department started its operations on April 20. However, officials said that only a few people were visiting the office for the registration. “Even though the revenue department had resumed its services, people were hesitant to come out since curbs were not eased for the public movement. “Now that the restrictions have relaxed, more people have started coming out,” the official added. Registry is going on in six tehsils and three sub-tehsils, including Gurgaon, Sohna, Pataudi, Farrukhnagar, Manesar, Wazirabad, Badhshapur, Kadipur and Harsuru, from 9am to 5pm. Officials said that people are saving time by seeking appointments online. “The employees at the department are ensuring social distancing and wearing face masks and gloves and maintaining regular sanitisation,” an official told TOI. On April 17, the department of revenue and disaster management issued an order stating that the delivery of public services viz, registration of instruments pertaining to transfer of property etc will have to be carried out from April 20. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plot-registries-pick-up-pace-post-unlock-1-0/articleshow/76719485.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||5 injured as speeding car rams tree in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: About five youngsters suffered injuries after their speeding car ran into a tree in Sarabha Nagar on Tuesday morning. The incident, which took place outside the house of MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid around 6.15am, has been captured on CCTV cameras installed near the spot. Following the crash, passersby rushed the injured to hospitals and called the police. The CCTV cameras’ footage showed the speeding red car coming from BRS Nagar bridge side and going towards Durga Mata Mandi, Sarabha Nagar. “The injured are admitted to different hospitals. As we have received information from one hospital only, one of the youngsters has been identified. He is a 15-year-old and resident of Sargodha Colony. He is unfit to give a statement. We are yet to collect details on the others,” said Jatinder Chopra, assistant commissioner of police (Civil Lines) .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-injured-as-speeding-car-rams-tree-in-ludh/articleshow/76719487.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Vadodara||75 caught daily for not wearing masks||Vadodara: Unlock 1 was implemented by the government to restart the economic activities in the country. But for Barodians, the unlock phase seems to have brought normalcy so much so that they avoid wearing masks in public. If figures are to believed, 2,256 people were caught and fined since June 1 for not wearing masks while venturing out of their homes. That means, on an average, 75 people were fined daily for disregarding a critical safeguard against Covid transmission. Senior police officials said that people would give silly excuses when questioned about not wearing masks. “They would say that they forgot in a hurry or since they are in close vicinity of their house they had not worn, or the mask was torn. We also came across people not wearing masks in cars and when stopped by us, they would take it out from the purse or glove box of their cars,” said a police official. However, people have stopped arguing with cops like in the past when they used to be stopped for violating traffic rules. “We have been dealing very patiently by explaining to them why it is necessary for them to wear masks and they obediently pay the fine amount,” the official added. Cops have also registered 19 offence and have seized 361 vehicles during the same period for violating night curfew rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/75-caught-daily-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76717810.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||CBSE launches free online teacher training course on DIKSHA||NAGPUR: An interactive online course on ‘Experiential Learning’ for teachers and school leaders was launched on Wednesday by Union minister for human resource development Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. The free course has been developed by CBSE in association with Tata Trusts and is now available on DIKSHA platform of the MHRD. ‘Experiential Learning’ pedagogy enables students to connect the content of the learning areas and subjects with their own lives and the world around them. This promotes self-thinking, creativity and effective study skills among students. It is a proven fact that learning by rote when replaced with learning by doing accelerates the joy, understanding and conceptual clarity of the student. While the teacher facilitates and guides, the student is able to evaluate, think critically, and make decisions and master knowledge by constructing it. Teachers can follow three simple steps to join the course: Step 1: Download DIKSHA app on Android smartphone by clicking on the link: http://bit.ly/cbse-diksha Step 2: Sign in using existing DIKSHA account OR Sign in via Google OR Register on DIKSHA using e-mail id or mobile number Step 3a: Scan the QR code using DIKSHA mobile application; OR Step 3b: Click on the links to open the course on DIKSHA mobile application or desktop/laptop web browser: https://bit.ly/cbse-explrn-wb It is hoped that after completion of this course, the educators will be able to make learning more joyful, reflective and multidisciplinary. Teachers on successfully completion of the course can download course completion certificate from DIKSHA portal from July 10 onwards. CBSE has also planned regional webinars for hub leaders, and will share details through CBSE centres of excellence. For any further query schools may contact support@diksha-ncte.freshdesk.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cbse-launches-free-online-teacher-training-course-on-diksha/articleshow/76742366.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ATS nets 105 firearms worth Rs 2.30 crore||AHMEDABAD: In Gujarat’s biggest firearms haul in a single case, the anti-terrorist squad (ATS) has now seized 105 firearms worth Rs 2.30 crore, most of them imported.  The first batch of 54 firearms, worth Rs 80 lakh, was seized on June 20. On Tuesday, ATS seized 51 more guns, worth Rs 1.5 crore, from various persons in Surendranagar, Morbi, Rapar, Bhachau, Abdasa, Ahmedabad and Gangad. ATS DIG Himanshu Shukla said this is the largest firearms seizure in a single case in Gujarat. “The second largest, 69 guns, was from a dealer in Mirzapur in the late nineties,” he added. While nine persons were arrested on June 20, 14 persons were arrested in the second round, including the prime suspect Tarun Gupta, the owner of Tarun Gun House in Ramdevnagar and a resident of Goyal Terrace, Bodakdev. The others arrested in the second round are Mukesh Butiya of Surendranagar, Digvijaysinh Zala of Morbi, Gaurav Chaudhary of Bopal, Imtiazkhan Pathan of Gangad, Hafiz Pathiyar of Abdasa, Tulla Pathiyar and Anas Majthi of Bhuj, Manharsinh Jadeja of Bhachau, Bhavinsinh Vaghela of Ranip, Mukesh Kairya of Bhachau, Hukumatsinh Jadeja of Bhachau, Arvindsinh Jadeja of Rapar and Girish Thakkar of Meghpar. During their interrogation of the accused, it emerged that Digvijaysinh Zala used to procure imported weapons from outside Gujarat and sell them through gun dealers Tarun Gupta and Mukesh Butiya. “We are investigating where Zala got the firearms from,” said DSP B P Roziya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ats-nets-105-firearms-worth-rs-2-30-cr/articleshow/76719495.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Vadodara||75 Barodians caught daily for not wearing masks||VADODARA: Unlock 1 was implemented by the government to restart the economic activities in the country. But for Barodians, the unlock phase seems to have brought normalcy so much so that they avoid wearing masks in public. If figures are to believed, 2,256 people were caught and fined since June 1 for not wearing masks while venturing out of their homes. That means, on an average, 75 people were fined daily for disregarding a critical safeguard against Covid transmission. Senior police officials said that people would give silly excuses when questioned about not wearing masks. “They would say that they forgot in a hurry or since they are in close vicinity of their house they had not worn, or the mask was torn. We also came across people not wearing masks in cars and when stopped by us, they would take it out from the purse or glove box of their cars,” said a police official. However, people have stopped arguing with cops like in the past when they used to be stopped for violating traffic rules. “We have been dealing very patiently by explaining to them why it is necessary for them to wear masks and they obediently pay the fine amount,” the official added. Cops have also registered 19 offence and have seized 361 vehicles during the same period for violating night curfew rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/75-barodians-caught-daily-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76716614.cms||Jay Pachchigar
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Three steal Ferrari, soon crash into cops; held in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Three Hyderabad: Three persons, including a high-end car dealer from Hyderabad, were arrested for illegally transferring a Ferrari, purchased by a city-based businessman, on to the name of a person from Delhi and later stealing the vehicle. The offenders stole the 2-crore worth car from Mahendra Hills, but police foiled their plan and nabbed them before they could vroom away to Delhi with the car. On June 23 night, Mahendra Hills-based businessman Divesh Gandhi lodged a complaint with the Karkhana police alleging that unidentified people had stolen his car, when he parked it at a neighbour’s house. Divesh told police that in May 2019 he had purchased the Ferrari from one Jessique of Kozhikode in Kerala for 2 crore with the help of city car dealer Neeraj Sharma and his friend, Ganesh of Bangalore. Subsequently in November 2019, Divesh through Neeraj sent vehicle ownership transfer documents to one Prince Pathak, a Delhi-based car dealer, to get the vehicle transferred on to his name. “The Ferrari was registered in Delhi and the victim was trying to get the ownership transfer done in Delhi. Neeraj was overseeing the process with the help of Prince Pathak,” Karkhana inspector P Madhukar Swamy said. In December, 2019, Neeraj went to the US and Divesh assumed that the ownership transfer remained pending as the former was stuck in America due to the lockdown, police said. Meanwhile, Divesh was parking his Ferrari at a neighbour’s house and left the keys with them. At 8pm on June 23, three people went to the house and introduced themselves as Divesh’s friends, who came to check the mechanical problems of the vehicle. “The family members believed them and gave car keys to the fraudsters, who drove it away. Alerted by the family, Divesh lodged a complaint with us,” the inspector said. Police verified CCTV cameras and tracked the three accused to Tolichowki on June 26. “We arrested Neeraj Sharma, Prince Pathak’s associates Bhupinder and Saddam of Delhi and seized the car,” he added. Police found out that Prince Pathak had used forged documents and transferred the Ferrari on to his name and later on to to one Bilal of Delhi. Bilal and Prince Pathak were absconding. “We will take the accused into police custody to find out more details about the gang,” deputy commissioner of police (DCP), North Zone, Kalmeshwar Shingenavar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-steal-ferrari-soon-crash-into-cops-held/articleshow/76718906.cms||Mahesh Buddi
July 1, 2020||Delhi||80-year-old’s decomposed body found in Delhi's Malviya Nagar||NEW DELHI: The decomposed body of an 80-year-old woman was recovered from her apartment in Malviya Nagar on Monday after neighbours informed the cops of a foul smell emanating from the flat. The woman’s son lives on the fourth floor of the same apartment but has been in hospital for the past few days to treat a chronic ailment. The neighbours of the Malviya Nagar T Block resident had started enquiring about Rajrani Gulati since last week when her household help came every day but no one answered the doorbell. It was only when they detected the foul smell from her flat that they approached the police and informed her son, Rajesh. A police team from the Malviya Nagar police station broke open the door and found her body lying in the living room. It was already in a state of decomposition at the time of its discovery. There were no injuries observed on the body, and the cops sent it for an autopsy. A Covid test was also carried out to establish whether Gulati had contracted Covid-19 and succumbed to it. The initial probe determined that the octogenarian was suffering from diabetes and might have suffered a heart attack. Her family members have been asked to remain in home quarantine as a precautionary measure. Gulati had been living on the second floor of the apartment after her husband’s death a decade ago. Rajesh, 55, her younger son, and his family lived on the fourth floor. Gulati also has an elder son and a daughter, who live, respectively, in Chirag Dilli and Madangir. The elder son and his wife are both bedridden. Rajesh told the investigators that he had last met his mother early last week and provided her bread and milk to last for a fortnight. He had also met her for 3-4 consecutive days and hadn’t at any time seen anything out of the ordinary bothering her. During a visit to his sister’s house in Madangir, he felt unwell and she had got him admitted in a private hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/80-year-olds-decomposed-body-found-in-malviya-ngr/articleshow/76719489.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Patients discharged exceed new Covid-19 cases in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday reported seven deaths from novel coronavirus, but released 1,712 people who have either recovered or have mild symptoms. It is for the first time that the number of discharged is more than the number of new infected cases. While the number of new Covid-19 cases on the day stood at 945, officials said they were relieved with the biggest number of discharges since the first case broke on March 1. So far, 7,294 have been discharged, even as the total number of Covid-19 cases touched 16,339, and the death toll rose to 260. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits accounted for 849 of the new cases. In yet another positive development, officials said the staff recruited so far at TIMS hospital in Gachibowli will join the duty from Wednesday. Health minister Eatala Rajender during a high-level review meeting asked officials to expedite the recruitment process in TIMS and Gandhi hospitals. The minister asked the officials to ensure there was no dearth of medicines in the hospitals in view of monsoons. The minister said people were coming in big numbers to get tested for Covid-19 and the tests would be conducted at 11 centres, including King Koti hospital, Fever hospital, Government Nature Cure hospital, Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital in Ameerpet Government Ayurveda hospital in Erragadda, Homeopath hospital in Ramanthaapur, Nizamia TB hospital in Charminar, Areas hospitals of Kondapur, Vanathalipuram, ESI hospital in Nacharam and Saroornagar. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh registered seven deaths and 704 Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative caseload of the state to 14,595.  The death toll rose to 187 with Krishna district reporting three deaths, Kurnool two and Guntur and Anantapur one each. Altogether 279 Covid-19 patients recovered from the pandemic virus. There are currently 7,897 active cases in Andhra Pradesh with 6,511 cumulative recoveries and 187 deaths. Authorities said 56 of the 704 cases reported on Tuesday are people, who returned from foreign countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/patients-discharged-exceed-new-covid-19-cases-in-state/articleshow/76718913.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 1, 2020||Nashik||Halcon exports over 51k tonne of onions||Nashik: Halcon, a joint venture between Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) and Container Corporation of India (Concor), has exported 51,300 tonne of onions between April 1 and June 25, 2020. The Centre had banned onion exports between September 29, 2019 and March 14, 2020 owing to the in the scarcity of the produce in the domestic market. Though the ban was lifted on March 15, onion exports were again affected due to the lockdown. “This overall led to drop in the onion export during last financial year,” a Halcon official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/halcon-exports-over-51k-tonne-of-onions/articleshow/76717691.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Engineering intake: E-registration from July 9||AHMEDABAD: The state government has decided to start online registration for Class XII science students who want to pursue degree engineering courses. The online registration process for first-year engineering students is expected to begin from July 9, said sources. The admission process will be for 66,128 seats. The seats include those of 16 government-run colleges and 114 self-financed colleges. Recently, All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), under the newly introduced ‘Emerging Technologies’ course, has decided to add 1,760 seats. The online registration process will continue till August 8. The cut-off for admission in engineering colleges is 45% for general category students, the government announced in its media release. Many self-financed institutions had demanded that the cut-off be lowered to 40% to address the issue of vacant seats, said sources. This year, as many as 65% of the total engineering seats are likely to remain vacant. The reason is that only 26,287 students in Class XII science (A Group) have scored 40% or above. Students placed in the 80th percentile are eligible for Mukhyamantri Yuva Swavalamban Yojana. Some institutions want that revised to the 60th percentile due to the financial crisis being faced by parents in the Covid-19 pandemic. The new academic session will begin from June 21 for semester 3, 5 and 7 students. Initially the classes will be conducted online till the situation becomes normal in view of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/engineering-intake-e-registration-from-july-9/articleshow/76719499.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||IMD warns of heavy rain in Telangana till Saturday||HYDERABAD: The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad has issued thunderstorm accompanied with lightning warning in isolated pockets of Telangana till July 4. Light rains occurred even on Tuesday in many districts. At 24 mm, Suryapet received highest rainfall followed by 20.5 mm in Wanaparthy and 15.1 mm in Kamareddy. In the last 30 days, the state has received 34 per cent excess rainfall by recording 172.8 mm rains as against normal of 129.2 mm. According to the warning, heavy rains are expected to lash districts such as Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal Malkajgiri, Medak, Sangareddy, Siddipet, Vikarabad, Yadadri Bhuvanagri, Mahbubnagar, Narayanapet, Wanaparthy, Jogulamba Gadwal, Suryapet, Nalgonda, Khammam and Bhadadri Kothagudem. Terming it southwest monsoon activity, meteorologists have attributed the rains to a cyclonic circulation. “The cyclonic circulation over south Coastal Andhra Pradesh and neighbourhood and over Marathwada & neighbourhood has become less marked,” read the weather report issued by IMD, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/imd-warns-of-heavy-rain-till-saturday/articleshow/76718909.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Min: On state request, no auctioning of Bander, 4 coal blocks in Ch’garh||Nagpur: While the Union environment ministry is still in the dark, the coal ministry is set to issue a notification soon to withdraw auction of Bander in Chandrapur and four more coal blocks in Chhattisgarh from the national list of 41 that was announced on June 18. Bander coal block, which lies in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve in Chandrapur district, is escaping the auctioneer’s hammer for the third time. Earlier, permission for coal mining was rejected in 1999 and 2011. August 18 is the last date for submitting bids. “Before the bid process on August 18, the ministry will issue a notification to remove them from the list,” top coal ministry officials told TOI on Tuesday.Talking to TOI, Pralhad Joshi, Union minister for mines, coal and parliamentary affairs, said, “Bander blocks are being removed from the list on the request from Maharashtra government. Four blocks — Sayang, Madanpur (North), Morga (South) and Morga-II — in Hasdeo Aranya area have been removed from the auction list on the request from Chhattisgarh government. No blocks have been removed from Jharkhand’s list.”On June 19, TOI had reported that Bandar coal block, falling in the wildlife tiger corridor, was released for auction. The issue raised a storm and former environment minister Jairam Ramesh and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray wrote to Union minister Prakash Javadekar to have a rethink.Thackeray told TOI that the state is yet to receive a “formal communication”. “But this is great news. Not just me, state forest minister (Sanjay Rathod) and chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) too had written to Javadekar on Bander,” he added.However, Javadekar said, “I am not aware about the development.”Ramesh had reminded Javadekar and the coal ministry about how Bander and Lohara coal blocks (south of Tadoba) were put in ‘no go’ zone when he was minister in 2010-11.Angry green activists had warned of launching a stir. City social worker Pramod Junghare filed a PIL and the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court had sought replies from the ministers and governments.The total mining lease area on offer in Bander was 1,643.67 hectare (257ha for open cast mine and 913.16ha for underground mining), of which 1,170.16 hectare is thick forest land. The total land is as big as the meteorite-hit Lonar crater and the sanctuary around it, in Buldhana district.Based on camera trapping exercises conducted over several years, the proposed Bander block area is a well-established corridor which is used by tigers to move towards sanctuaries in Bor (Wadha), Umred Karhandla and Pench (Nagpur) and Melghat (Amravati). It also has resident tigers. In his letter to Javadekar, Chhattisgarh forest minister Mohammad Akbar said, “In the coal block between Hasdeo Aranya and Mand river area proposed for auction by the Union government there has been an increase in the numbers of wild elephants which has led to a spike in human-elephant conflict. For providing habitat for wild elephants, 1,995 sq km of forest area around Hasdeo river has been declared as Lemru elephant reserve. The process of issuing notification for the same is under process. It is necessary to stop mining in that region to prevent loss of human lives and control on man-elephant conflict.”The Jharkhand government has challenged the Centre’s decision to put up coal block in the state in the Supreme Court.WHY BANDER IS IMPORTANT* Falls in high density forest, will block wildlife corridor towards Umred-Karhandla, Bor, Melghat* Part of the block touches buffer of Tadoba, is in eco sensitive zone* As per the ESZ notification, mining not allowed* Coal mining will bring miseries for villages * Mining will flare up man-animal conflict* Ecological damage will be irreparable||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/min-on-state-request-no-auctioning-of-bander-4-coal-blocks-in-chgarh/articleshow/76719498.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Scare as 9 Nagpur jail personnel test corona positive||NAGPUR: One officer of sub-inspector rank of Nagpur central jail, along with eight other personnel, tested Covid positive on Tuesday triggering a major scare in the prison department. More testing is underway. Nagpur jail has around 1,830 inmates and staff of 350 including 30 officers. Jail superintendent Anup Kumar Kumre, who tested negative, is now home quarantined. It is learnt 105 personnel, including Kumre, were inside the prison over a period of time as per lockdown norms. One of the personnel developed symptoms on June 25. The following day, entire group of 105 left the premises making way for another group of 103 to take their place for next phase. The ailing jail personnel had on June 26 tried to remain at home but his condition did not improve. Next day, the personnel’s sample was collected. He initially tested negative but it was positive in the second test. On Monday, SP Kumre and another 30 personnel’s samples were taken as they were in the same group. Out of 30, nine came positive. On Tuesday itself, another 50 samples were collected. Kumre said he had observed wide range of precautions to stop the infection from entering the jail premises. “We are yet to start testing the inmates but have decided to do as and when required. At present, we are trying to sort out the situation,” he said. City police chief BK Upadhyay, after learning of the developments in prison, immediately despatched immunity booster medicines through chief medical officer Dr Sandeep Shinde to be distributed among the personnel. Dr Shinde is trying to provide them to the inmates too. Kumre had ensured two separate temporary ‘prison’ premises outside the main jail. Even a school was earmarked to keep the newcomers temporarily and allow them to step inside the jail’s quarantine systems only after testing negative. They were made to spend two more quarantine periods inside the jail before being allowed inside the barracks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/scare-as-9-city-jail-personnel-test-corona-positive/articleshow/76719491.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 1, 2020||Rajkot||She fights death, gets back to saving lives||Rajkot: In her war against coronavirus, 37-year-old frontline warrior Dr Meghavi Bhapal in Rajkot Civil Hospital for the first time in nine years of duty was afraid — for her own life. Bhapal, an MD in medicine and a mother of two children, who had handled Rajkot’s first Covid positive case got herself diagnosed of the virus after she returned home from her 10-day deputation to Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. In Rajkot, she had been serving at the Covid ward but she saw the contagion in its ugly form at Ahmedabad’s Covid emergency ward when she attended to patients between June 1 and 10. “Most serious Covid patients were coming to the civil hospital there directly in the third stage which is called ARDS (Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome). There was heavy viral load,” said the doc who returned home on June 10 and the very next day tested positive. She got admitted in her own hospital where she had been serving for so long. “I had very low heart rate which is a very rare complication of coronavirus itself. The cardiologist opined that there is no cardiac related problem but virus load was there which affected my heart and vagus nerve,” said Bhapal, who was afraid that she may never see her two children eight-year old Stuti and three-year-old Saurya again. After 12 days of hospitalization, she came home on June 23 and post full recovery she resumed duty in the Covid ward again from Monday. Bhapal’s husband, Dr Suketu, is an ophthalmologist who does private practice in Rajkot, while both her parents-in-law are doctors. “When you get admitted as a patient in hospital being doctor you feel that pain and the your mental status. I was first time fearing in the hospital where I had served for nine years. I had only fear that if I will die what will happen to my kids,” recounted Bhapal, who met her children after 23 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/she-fights-death-gets-back-to-saving-lives/articleshow/76717705.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 1, 2020||Varanasi||Postal dept to deliver KVT ‘prasad’ at home for Rs 251||Varanasi: Devotees could now have ‘prasad’ of Kashi Vishwanath Temple delivered at their doorstep as visiting the temple has become difficult in view of Covid-19 pandemic. This has been made possible by the postal department, which has launched a ‘prasad’ service for Rs. 251 to be paid online as well as offline. “Each ‘prasad’ box will contain images of Lord Vishwanath’s Jyotirlinga, rudraksh garland, bilwapatra offered to Lord Vishwanath, dry fruits, ‘bhasmi’ and other articles,” said postmaster general (Varanas) Pranab Kumar after the formal launch of the service at Visheshwarganj head post office on Tuesday. Kumar said that by booking the orders of ‘prasad’ online and also offline with payment of prescribed amount through electronic money order, the devotees will receive boxes containing ‘prasad’ in tamper-proof envelopes. Launching the service, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “The Covid-19 lockdown has barred the devotees, especially those from outstation destinations, from reaching Kashi to offer prayer at KVT, but they all wish to seek blessings of Lord Vishwanath. In view of the sentiments of the devotees and pilgrims, the temple trust in association with the postal department has decided to deliver ‘prasad’ at their homes.” The commissioner said that apart from other articles, the ‘prasad’ boxes will also contain specially prepared ‘laddus’, which is offered to Lord Vishwanath, soon as it can be consumed even after 15 days of making. The quality of the ‘laddus’ will be assured, he said adding, during Covid-19 lockdown the temple trust and administration tried their best to maintain the connectivity of devotees and pilgrims from across the globe with KVT. Apart from improving facilities of live ‘darshan’, he said that the facility of performing rituals like Rudrabhishek through video conferencing was also started. This facility had been started by chief minister Yogi Adityanath during his last visit. Regarding the service, Kumar said that devotees can get detailed information about ‘prasad’ service by dialling 0542-2401630, 2504164 or sending e-mail on dovaranasieast.up@indeipost.gov.in . The commissioner said that work on introduction of a ceremonial postal ticket on KVT is also in progress. He said, “Process for a tie-up with the postal department for a postal ticket on KVT is in the final stage and will be released soon. We had sought all the requirements in this regard from the postal department after which the temple is completing all basic formalities. Minimal fee charged by the postal department will also be deposited to clear all hurdles for the early release of the proposed postal ticket.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/postal-dept-to-deliver-kvt-prasad-at-home-for-rs-251/articleshow/76716561.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Act against schools over fees, online education: HC to govt||Ahmedabad: In an important order, the Gujarat high court has directed the state government to take action against schools if parents make complaint against them for pressurizing them to pay fees or creating problems in providing syllabus for online education for kids. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala ordered the state education department to act promptly on grievances expressed by parents about fees or online education. This happened in response to a PIL filed by Kishore Kumar complaining that some schools did not provide syllabus to kids during online teaching when parents failed to pay fees. Moreover, he complained that schools demand fees for the entire term, which was difficult for many to pay in these distressed times of Covid-19 pandemic. The state government told the high court that it has acted against schools, which demanded more amount in fees than fixed by the fee regulatory committee. It cited examples of Shanti Asiatic School and Ahmedabad International School in this regard that both the schools were penalized. The state government told the HC that if parents have any grievance with regard to the fees or imparting of education online, then all district education officers across the state have been directed to immediately do the needful in accordance with law. Following the government’s submission, the HC said, “…in future, if any of the parents has any grievance with regard to fees or online imparting of education then they must immediately make a complaint in writing to the district education officer and the concerned district education officer shall act promptly in accordance with law and also as directed by the education department of the state government.” Last week, the high court ordered the state government to ensure that private schools do not cancel admission of those students, whose parents failed to pay fees till June 30. These directions were in response to the complaints that many schools had threatened cancellation of admission on failure to pay fees. Besides, the high court also expressed concern about online teaching activity – on its affordability by all parents and young children’s ability to focus on studies by constantly watching screens. The court suggested for regulation of the activity by keeping the online teaching hours uniform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/act-against-schools-over-fees-online-education-hc-to-govt/articleshow/76719225.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Non-essential shops in city to stay open till 5pm on alt days||Nagpur: Extending the lockdown up to July 31, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has permitted non-essential shops to operate only up to 5pm, and only on alternate days. Mundhe has also reiterated that all liquor shops will only give home delivery within Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits.Mundhe issued the guidelines for lockdown between July 1 and 31 on Tuesday. The state government notification issued a day ago had not mentioned clearly whether non-essential shops would be allowed daily or on alternate days. The government has just mentioned whatever system prevailed in earlier orders will be continued.NMC deputy commissioner Nirbhay Jain told TOI, “The government did not change alternate day system in latest notification. Therefore, non-essential shops will continue to open on alternate days for next one month.”In line with earlier orders, shops facing towards north and east will open on odd dates, and those facing south and west on even days. Even where there are shops only on one side of the road, the same system will be applicable.It will come as a jolt for non-essential shops, which had remained open till 9pm since June 5. Also, evening hours are considered the most favourable for business in non-essential shops.Mundhe also noted only home delivery of liquor will be allowed. TOI had on June 13 reported collector Ravindra Thakre permitted opening of country liquor shops in NMC limits from June 10. Advocate Ankita Shah had served legal notice to Thakre and Mundhe, stating municipal commissioner was competent authority for NMC limits and did not allow opening of liquor shops whereas collector was authority for Nagpur Rural, but allowed opening of country liquor shops in NMC limits.The latest order by Mundhe once again notes he is competent authority for NMC limits, and has allowed only home delivery.Even Thakre on Tuesday issued guidelines for lockdown for next one month, and restricted his orders only up to Nagpur Rural.Mundhe did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages.Jain said, “The commissioner’s order is very clear that only home delivery will be allowed for liquor shops within NMC limits.”However, NMC has neither closed nor levied fine on country liquor shops operating since June 10 and remained silent on the issue.In comparison to earlier lockdown guidelines, there is one change related to educational institutions. These have been allowed to open only for non-teaching purposes, including development of e-content, evaluation of answer sheets, and declaration of results.The government had given powers to Mundhe and Thakre to enforce certain measures and necessary restrictions in specified local areas on the permitted non-essential activities, and movement of people to contain spread of Covid-19. But the two authorities have followed whatever is permitted in government’s order.In Nagpur Rural, all types of shops will open daily only between 9am and 5pm. The only difference is in the strength in private offices. Within NMC limits, Mundhe allowed 10% staff or 10 persons while Thakre permitted 33% staff or 35 persons at the most.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/non-essential-shops-in-city-to-stay-open-till-5pm-on-alt-days/articleshow/76719502.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 1, 2020||Varanasi||22 more test +ve for Covid-19, one dies in Varanasi||Varanasi: With 22 more new Covid-19 positive cases, Varanasi reached close to the mark of 500 while one more death due to Covid took the toll in district due to epidemic to 19. Among the new detected cases as many as 12 are doctors and paramedical staffs of a private hospital. At the same time, in neighbouring districts 10 new cases were detected in Mau and Ballia, each, while on late Monday night 26 more cases had been reported from Jaunpur and 12 from Chandauli. District magistrate Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma confirmed that 22 cases of Covid-19 positive had come to light with the arrival of 477 lab test reports from BHU while one of them died. “With the new figures of positive cases the total tally of Covid-19 in district reached to 496. Of thses 293 have been cured while 19 have died so far. Number of active cases in the district now are 184.” A 49-year-old kidney patient from Dikapur village of Chiraigaon area, who was admitted to BHU hospital since June 12 and also diagnosed as Covid-19 positive, died on Tuesday. In Mau, 10 news cases came to light after which total tally of the district reached to 134, said DM Mau Gyan Prakash Tripathi adding that 73 patients have become recovered while three had died. Active cases in the district are 58. Two of the persons who tested positive on Tuesday are employees of a prominent hospital of the district. In Ballia, with the detection of 10 new infected persons the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has reached to 122, said DM Hari Pratap Shahi adding that 75 patients have been cured of the disease so far. Among the newly infected persons nine are from Laxmi Market area. Earlier, on late Monday night, district magistrate Jaunpur DK Singh confirmed detection of 26 new positive cases after which district’s tally reached to 536. Of these 458 have become cured while nine had died. Active 68 cases are being treated at Jaunpur and Varanasi hospitals. In Chandauli, 12 persons including three minor girls and four women were found infected, said DM Navneet Singh Chahal adding, now total cases of Covid-19 in the district have reached up to 153 of which 65 have become cured and one had died while 89 are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/22-more-test-ve-for-covid-19-one-dies-in-varanasi/articleshow/76716598.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Hoteliers want more dining hours unlocked||AHMEDABAD/GANDHINAGAR: After the Union government issued guidelines for Unlock 2.0, which comes into force from Wednesday, July 1, the Gujarat government on Tuesday adopted all the guidelines and issued a notification to implement Unlock 2.0 guidelines from Wednesday. As suggested by the central government, lockdown norms have been further relaxed. Shops and restaurants will now be able to remain open for longer duration, while night curfew has been further curtailed. Chief minister Vijay Rupani, in a statement said, “The state government has notified the central government’s guidelines for the state for Unlock 2.0 which will be in force from July 1 in the state. Under this, lockdown norms will be relaxed further. Shops will be allowed to remain open till 8pm while restaurants will be allowed to remain open up to 9pm. Night curfew will be imposed between 10pm and 5am.” According to restaurateurs and retailers, the relaxation is unlikely to provide much relief to businesses, which are already reeling under liquidity crunch with customer footfalls at stores as well as restaurants and eateries getting adversely affected. Narendra Somani, president, Hotels & Restaurants’ Association, said, “The government should have extended the operational hours for restaurants till 11pm. Footfalls in restaurants which began with dine-in services last month had already reduced to barely 10% against pre-Covid period. With two hours of extensions, a significant change isn’t likely.” Industry players said that most restaurants will still continue with takeaway services because adding operating costs by offering dine-in services will not be viable if footfalls will be low. Similar is the case of retailers, who have been facing a decline in demand. “Due to social distancing and widespread infection, people are as such reluctant in stepping out and thus, the customer footfall at shops is bad. An hour’s extension will not really make a difference with the same. Ground realities must be considered before taking decisions,” said Vasant Tirodkar, vice-president, CG Road Retailers’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hoteliers-want-more-dining-hours-unlocked/articleshow/76719223.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Rajkot||Two carpenters killed in hit-and-run near Morbi||Rajkot: Two carpenters riding on a motorcycle were killed after a speeding car hit them from behind near Ghutu village about 15km from Morbi town late on Monday night. The incident took place on the state highway connecting Morbi and Halvad.Police said while Ramesh Rathod (47) died on the spot after a white car hit their motorcycle, his colleague, Ashok Vannarayan (40), succumbed to injuries at Morbi Civil Hospital.According to police, the duo was returning to their home town Halvad from Morbi after finishing their days carpentry works.Police has registered a case against an unidentified car driver and launched a manhunt for the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-carpenters-killed-in-hit-and-run-near-morbi/articleshow/76717769.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Techies junk on-site projects, stay home||Hyderabad: Information technology professionals getting on-site offers in different countries are declining them due to the current situation. They say corona has taught them to prioritise their health over career gains. Techie Laxminarayana N said he had gone to Tokyo ( Japan) two years ago and got an offer last month. “I had another opportunity to go there, but refused. I am unmarried and my parents are very worried about me leaving the country,” he said. “The pandemic has had a global impact and my family is worried. I am not considering any on-site work at present,” Vivek Boddam, who works at Hi-Tec City, told TOI. Though the US has shut its doors on new applicants for work visas, other countries such as the UK and South Korea continue to have open borders, allowing in workers with a valid visa. The UK would in fact start processing new visa applications in some Indian centres from July 6. For Laxminarayana, not just the pandemic, but the high work pressure at on-site is another factor to think about opportunities abroad. “While there are travel restrictions in several countries, the work burden on those on-site is increasing. Friends abroad have been telling us that more work is being allotted to existing employees. This also makes us reluctant to travel,” he said. In fact, a recent survey by Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA), offered an insight into how professionals’ perception has changed recently. The survey released this month, which has a sample size of 500 people, shows that 57% techies would rather remain at their home than fly abroad for lucrative options like on-site projects. TITA’s Sundeep Kumar Makthala said: “The trend previously was that at least 99% of techies would want to go abroad. But now there has been a shift in perception with people preferring to stay back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/techies-junk-on-site-projects-stay-home/articleshow/76718953.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court quizzes government on separate wards for transgenders||HYDERABAD: Describing the state’s affidavit on the steps taken for the welfare of transgender community during the ongoing pandemic period as vague, the Telangana high court has directed the state to inform it by July 6 whether it is ready to earmark separate isolation wards for this section of patients in hospitals. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by Vyjayanti Vasanta Mogli from Attapur in Hyderabad who sought state support for transgender persons. The bench went through the affidavit filed by the state and said that it was filled with incomplete details. The affidavit says medicines are being given to transgender persons. “It also says about roping in NGOs, but again no details on what help was rendered through which NGOs. Even a parrot in my house would deliver a tutored message within half an hour training. And this is affidavit is full of such tutored messages,” the bench said rejecting the state affidavit in toto. Advocate general BS Prasad sought time to file a clear affidavit with details of the welfare measure. He told the court about setting up of huge TIMS hospital by the state at Gachibowli. The bench told him to find out whether a separate isolation ward for transgender persons can be earmarked in this hospital to safeguard their privacy. Petitioner’s counsel Jayna Kothari urged the court to direct the state to allow the transgender people to avail rice and other groceries from the government ration shops. This would be better than state identifying them and extending help to them, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-quizzes-govt-on-separate-wards-for-transgenders/articleshow/76718963.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
July 1, 2020||Goa||KBM creates e-learning material for Konkani||Panaji: The pandemic has meant that schools have remained shut and institutions have been left to turn to online modes to reach its students. But while content related to many subjects is already available online, Konkani is one subject for which no material from the syllabus is available online. Therefore, the Konkani Bhasha Mandal (KBM) has taken the initiative now to prepare and make the language subject’s content available online for the benefit of teachers and students. KBM has announced that it has formed a group of Konkani teachers and those associated with technology who are together preparing this content from the syllabus. The Mandal has said that the content is being prepared taking into account the requirements of the new-age students, enamoured by technology, so that the learning is made fun and attractive to the students. Some of the content is also being made in the form of videos to make it interesting and engrossing for students, KBM has said. The organization has said that some of the material has already been uploaded on the KBM blog, from where it can be accessed by teachers and students. It has said that the content has been uploaded online for use only after it has been approved by senior teachers of Konkani language. “It is our expectation that teachers across Goa will make use of these learning resources for Konkani. The ready teaching-learning material can be accessed from the Mandal’s blog and teachers should spread the word about the availability of this content,” KBM has said. The Mandal has also said that it would like more teachers to join in the effort of creation of this content. “To take this task forward with even more enthusiasm, the Mandal feels that it needs support from teachers. If you also feel motivated to help in creating such online material, then you should get in touch with KBM members,” the Mandal has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kbm-creates-e-learning-material-for-konkani/articleshow/76719607.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong wants chest hospital deaths probed||Hyderabad: Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir of the Congress has demanded a high-level probe by medical experts into the deaths of two patients who were allegedly denied oxygen and ventilator support at Chest Hospital here in Hyderabad. Shabbir Ali said both the patients recorded video clips explaining their health condition while alleging that they were being neglected by hospital authorities. “The patients looked fully conscious and concerned in both the video clips although they were recorded a few hours or minutes before their deaths. They have exposed the poor treatment facilities at Chest Hospital and the negligent attitude of the government,” he said and demanded that the videos of both the patients be treated as ‘dying declaration’. “Instead of ordering a probe into the allegations, health minister Eatala Rajender has not only given clean chit to hospital authorities but found fault with the patients. He should not behave in such an insensitive and inhuman manner,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-wants-chest-hospital-deaths-probed/articleshow/76718964.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court permits lawyer to go to Bhopal jail to assist accused||Ahmedabad: The special court hearing the 2008 serial blasts case permitted a defence lawyer to go to Bhopal jail in Madhya Pradesh and assist 10 accused including Safdar Nagori to record their statements, as these accused are lodged in Bhopal jail after their conviction in a terrorism-related case two years ago.The blasts case is the only trial that is being conduct after the Gujarat high court stalled all trials in subordinate courts across the state following the nationwide lockdown due to Covid-19 pandemic. A prosecutor said that since the Supreme Court has ordered completion of trial in more than a decade-old case in time-bound manner, the high court has permitted to go ahead with the trial in this case. At present, the court is recording further statements of accused under section 313 of the CrPC. There are 78 accused in this case.Those lodged in Bhopal prison requested the special court to order the MP government to bring them to Sabarmati jail and permit them to record their statements in person. They complained about Bhopal jail authorities’ behaviour towards them and submitted that they were not in a condition to record their statements in such a condition.The special court rejected their application, in which besides seeking directions to bring them to Ahmedabad from Bhopal the prisoners had sought contempt of court proceedings against Bhopal jail officials. The court, however, allowed an application tendered by their advocate Dilshad Pathan. Under permission, advocate Pathan has been assisting the inmates in Bhopal jail since Monday. Earlier, these 10 accused had objected to their shifting from Sabarmati jail to Bhopal after their conviction to life imprisonment in a case in an MP court. After they were shifted to Bhopal, the special court in Ahmedabad directed to bring them back to Ahmedabad following certain glitches in trial, which is through video conferencing since beginning. When the MP authorities did not send the accused to Sabarmati jail, the court issued contempt of court notice to concerned officials for not obeying the court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-permits-lawyer-to-go-to-bhopal-jail-to-assist-accused/articleshow/76719221.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Varanasi||Five cyber crooks held, cash recovered||Varanasi: In a major breakthrough ,the joint team of crime branch and cyber cell of police on Monday nabbed five cyber criminals involved in withdrawing money from the bank accounts of several people. Mau SP Anurag Arya announced a cash award of Rs. 25,000 for the police team for this remarkable achievement. According to reports, the gang was on the radar of police after a local resident Manoj Sharma had lodged a complaint that an amount of Rs. 9.5 lakh was withdrawn fraudulently from his bank account. Acting on a tip-off, the police nabbed five members of the gang including the kingpin in an SUV near Awrava check post on Jiyanpur-Doharighat Road on Monday. The police recovered three laptops, hard device, Wi-Fi hotspot and Rs. 19,4000 from them. During interrogation, they confessed their involvement in crime. Besides Manoj’s account, they had also withdrawn money from the accounts of many other people in Azamgarh district. They disclosed that they used to make clones of the thumb impressions of people to get their Aadhaar card numbers and bank details. The thumb impressions were procured with the help of the two operators of Jan Seva Kendra, who were also arrested. The police also recovered machine used in clone making, chemical, negatives, thumb impression, and seals of bank officials from the shop of Sonu Sharma alias Vinay Sharma. The mastermind of the gang, Rahul Khatri, had made a digital banking wallet on the basis of fake identity. The money was transferred to this wallet from the bank accounts of other people. They had also purchased two cars with this earning. The arrested persons included Khatri of Ghosi (Mau), Sonu Sharma alias Vinay Sharma of Sidhari (Azamgarh), Tribhuvan Chauhan of Ghosi (Mau), Sudeep Yadav of Atraulia (Azamgarh), and Virendra Yadav of Nizamabad (Azamgarh).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/five-cyber-crooks-held-cash-recovered/articleshow/76716657.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara death toll reaches 55||Vadodara: For the first time since May 5, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has confirmed deaths of Covid-19 positive persons on two consecutive days. After declaring three Covid-19 infected persons dead on Monday, the civic body declared two others dead on Tuesday, taking the toll to 55. Eyebrows have been raised regarding the delay by the VMC in declaring Covid-19 positive persons dead after much delay. The VMC has been arguing that it declared deaths as soon as death audits were completed even as hospitals claim that there are no inordinate delays in submitting death audits. The two deaths included in the health bulletin by the civic body include one due to Covid-19 as the primary cause and one due to comorbidities. Of the 55 deaths, only 10 have been attributed to Covid-19 being the primary reason. The fresh number of cases reported in a single day also made peak for the second consecutive day. Fifty new cases were reported on Monday from 279 tests. On Tuesday, 52 new cases were reported from 282 tests conducted since Monday evening in the city and district. The total number of Covid-19 cases reported since the pandemic began has now gone up to 2,280. The highest number of fresh Covid-19 patients were reported from south zone of the city where 15 tested positive. This was followed by north zone where 11 cases were detected. Seven cases each were found in the east and west zone of the city. Twelve fresh cases came to light in the rural areas of the district. In all, 624 persons remained hospitalized including 39 in a serious condition on ventilators or BiPAP machines. Thirty-eight persons were discharged from home isolation and hospitals in the city taking the total number of discharged patients to 1,601.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-death-toll-reaches-55/articleshow/76717891.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||India’s first Covid plasma bank at Civil||Ahmedabad: Civil Hospital has set up a plasma bank for Covid-19 patients; it became functional on June 24. The hospital authorities said that it’s the country’s first such dedicated facility. According to the Department of Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion (IHBT), so far 30 recovered Covid-19 patients have donated their plasma at the hospital. “We follow relevant guidelines while collecting plasma and antibody screening of the donors is also performed,” said Dr Maitreya Gajjar, professor of IHBT. “The recovered patients develop antibodies that help fight the Covid-19 infection.” Gajjar went on to say: “We approach recovered patients and motivate them to donate plasma. The results of the treatment are encouraging.” Smriti Thakkar from Ahmedabad was the first plasma donor of India. She donated plasma at Civil Hospital on April 18 after her recovery. The plasma was used in the treatment of a patient at SVP Hospital. “About 200ml of convalescent plasma is administered to the patient two times during treatment,” said Dr M M Prabhakar, OSD at Medicity. “The procedure doesn’t take more than two hours and patients get the blood back after plasma is separated.” Plasma can be donated by people between 18 and 65 years, weighing more than 50kg, and bearing more than 12% haemoglobin 28 days after they are declared free of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/indias-first-covid-plasma-bank-at-civil/articleshow/76719220.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Madurai||Give proper facilities in quarantine centres: MP||Madurai: With more than 200 people testing positive for Covid-19 every day in Madurai, the district administration should take steps to provide them proper medical care at the temporary isolation and quarantine facilities, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has said. According to a statement, he said that even after repeated appeals, the authorities are yet to increase the number of Covid-19 tests in the district. The spread of the disease is reported to be 7.9% in Madurai, which is a matter of concern. Steps should be taken to increase the number of beds in the isolation wards to 4,500 in Madurai immediately. Patients at the facility established at Thiagarajar College of Engineering are undergoing a lot of stress, as it lacks many facilities. A few days ago, many of them had to wait for hours to get their beds. On June 28, lunch was arranged for only 200 people, but 600 people reached the facility by evening. This had caused a lot of stress among the patients, especially the elderly. One among them, Dhanushkodi, took the extreme step and jumped off the second floor. He died the next day. Ministers and authorities conduct review meetings through the day, but basic infrastructure is not being provided at the quarantine facilities. If this is taken to the attention of the chief minister, minister Udayakumar will accuses me of creating panic among the public. The district administration should ensure proper facilities are in place, the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/give-proper-facilities-in-quarantine-centres-mp/articleshow/76719976.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Madurai||Theerthavari Mandapam renovation work nears completion||Madurai: Renovation work on the 13th century Theerthavari Mandapam, which was undertaken a year ago, is nearing completion with 90% of the work having been completed. The mandapam is located in the middle of Vaigai river next to Puthupalam.Sources from the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department said that at present finishing of surface, plastering of surrounding walls and painting works are being carried out.The HR&CE department took up the work at an outlay of Rs 85 lakh as a portion of the mandapam got damaged due to the test of time. While there is no connection between the mandapam and the nearby Meenakshi Amman temple in terms of ceremonies, there is a strong connection between the temple and a well next to it (mandapam) as water is drawn from it regularly for the temple abishekam.P Arumugam, an assistant professor of a city college, in his book ‘Madurai Kovilkalum Thiruvizhakkalum’ has mentioned that the mandapam was constructed by Kalingarayan, a chief commander of the then Pandya ruler, in the 13th century. After the completion of the mandapam, Theerthavari festival was conducted on the last day of the Meenakshi Temple’s Masi festival. The references for the construction of mandapam and festival were found in the inscriptions found at the Ilaiyankudi Siva Temple.Chief organiser of Vaigai Nathi Makkal Iyakkam M Rajan expressed happiness at the way the mandapam is taking shape. It has got intrinsic carvings depicting gods. Some of the olden pillars, which have been ravaged by the test of time, have been replaced. “We urge the officials to take good care of the structure once it is completed. Lighting facility should be ensured. It should be secured from anti-social elements, who had used the space for consuming liquor earlier,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/theerthavari-mandapam-renovation-work-nears-completion/articleshow/76719967.cms||V Devanathan
July 1, 2020||Madurai||CBI doesn’t impress Tuticorin firing victims’ kin||TUTICORIN: The government may have ordered a CBI inquiry into the Sathankulam custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks, but there has not been much progress in a similar probe by the central agency into the police firing on anti-Sterlite protesters in the district two years ago which killed 13 people. “Transfer of case to CBI, government job for kin and compensation are just an eyewash by the government. They will not get justice just like us. If the police who killed our kin are punished and if we get justice it will be the eighth wonder of the world,” says M Jeyakumar of Peikulam in Tuticorin district whose brother M Selvasekar, 42, died in the police excesses on May 22, 2018. Jeyakumar had visited the relatives of Jeyaraj and Beniks last Friday and consoled them. On Tuesday, J Vanitha, mother of another victim, 17-year-old Snowlin, met Jeyaraj’s widow and the sisters of Beniks and consoled them. They said justice seems to be too far after the case was transferred to CBI going by their own experiences. Selvasekar was the only one who died of injuries he suffered from lathi and police boots. The victim was in front of the Tuticorin collectorate – the epicentre of the incidents – where he suffered injuries on his head and legs with lathi and was repeatedly stamped by boots on his chest on May 22. He complained of chest pain and died due to blood clots in the chest the next night. “Isn’t two years long enough to probe the killing of 13 people,” asks Jeyakumar. P Prabhu of Anti-Sterlite Thoothukudi District People Federation, who is in touch with the families of the police firing, said Tuticorin has lost hope in CBI probe. Things are going nastier as the judicial inquest in the Sathankulam incident is digging deeper. Widowed at 34 when her husband Gladston, 40, succumbed to bullet injury on May 22, G Jesurani said she was mentally disturbed hearing the double loss suffered by the kin of Jeyaraj and Beniks. “We are yet to get answers for our incident. Can’t the police think we are fellow human beings,” she said J Vanitha, whose daughter Snowlin died of a bullet injury in her mouth at the collectorate, said she did not want revenge on the police but just did not want such incidents to recur. “But it has happened once again in our district where wounds caused two years ago have not healed. We lost hope long ago that the government will give us justice. God will take care of them,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbi-doesnt-impress-tuticorin-firing-victims-kin/articleshow/76719988.cms||M K Ananth
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Infection didn’t dampen these medicos’ spirit, they’re back on Covid duty||AHMEDABAD: It has been more than 100 days of the Covid-19 outbreak in Gujarat and they may well be some of the most memorable for members of the medical fraternity here. Some doctors not only caught the infection in the line of duty, but recovered and went back to work in Covid-19 wards and fight the infection all over again. TOI profiles some of these doctors. To Covid-19 hell, and backDr Kirankumar Sajjanshetty | Final year student (medical oncology), GCRIHe remembers that he was among the first doctors on the first-ever shift at the Covid-19 hospital at GCRI on May 6. “Like all doctors, Covid-19 was new for me. I could see the fear among patients, but little did I know that I would be a patient in 10 days,” says Dr Sajjanshetty. It began with a severe headache and bodyache and soon turned into a high-grade fever and multiple complications. “The IL6 marker for inflammation had shot up to 1,300 at one point. The normal range is 0-16.4. I certainly got panicky, as those 3-4 days were very uncertain, anything could have happened,” he says. His family was in Bengaluru, but his colleagues and seniors worked as his extended family as he slowly began to show signs of recovery. “I can now talk about my ordeal to patients to motivate them,” he says. Covid-19 hospital in-charge back to dutyDr Maitreya Gajjar | In-charge, 1200-bed Covid-19 hospital at Civil HospitalA pathologist in charge of blood bank at Civil Hospital, 63-year-old Dr M D Gajjar was put in-charge of the 1,200-bed Covid-19 facility soon after it became functional. “It was in a way inevitable that I tested positive, I was constantly on the move in the wards. But having seen so many patients in different phases of the infection, I was not worried. I had full confidence in the doctors,” says Dr Gajjar, who returned to work earlier this month after completing his isolation period. ‘I hugged my child after two months’Dr Deepti Joshi | CMO, Covid-19 facility at IKDRCOn May 12, Dr Joshi got a fever along with pain in her throat, head and eyes. “But as it was not accompanied by breathlessness, I thought it could be seasonal flu. The test next day revealed that it was Covid-19,” she remembers. “I was not afraid as the symptoms were not severe, but I was worried about my family. To ensure that they don’t get infection, I preferred to stay at an isolation facility instead of home isolation.” She says that she hugged her 11-year-old son last week, after nearly two months. “I had kept him away even earlier, fearing that I may have been carrying the infection home. On a positive note, I have reached out to several relatives and friends with my experience, asking them to be cautious but not afraid,” she says. She advises proper ventilation of rooms and workplaces to reduce the risk of spread. Shares her experience with patients to boost their spiritsDr Meenakshi Patel | Assistant professor, IKDRCShe heard ‘It’s easy for you to say, only those who have got it know what it means’ more than once in Covid-19 wards, and has her response ready, “I have been through it and have come out stronger, and so will you.” For the assistant professor, Covid-19 duty was a change not only in her workplace but also her approach to the disease. “It started with diarrhoea and fever and the next day I was told I was positive. Thankfully, I did not need hospitalization and my family supported me throughout,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/infection-didnt-dampen-these-medicos-spirit-theyre-back-on-covid-duty/articleshow/76719548.cms||Parth Shastri
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Settled in Australia, but stranded in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Many individuals from Telangana, who are working in Australia but stranded here since March 20, are feeling the heat. With no salary and no means to earn, they are facing severe financial stress and finding it tough to manage their daytoday lives. One such person is Mohammed, who came to Hyderabad after his father was diagnosed with stage 4 brain cancer, who is stuck here since February. He has no money with him. Mohammed is a cab driver in Melbourne and working there for the last five years. “With Australia shutting the doors on travellers, I cannot go back. I have no money to pay even traffic fines.” He says his expenditure in Australia used to be around Rs 40,000 a month. “I have paid Rs 6 lakh towards my father’s surgery. Now, I facing severe financial stress.” Sufia Khatun from Nalgonda was one of the thousands of temporary residents from Australia stranded in India. “My husband, two kids and I came to India for my sister-in-law’s marriage which got cancalled because of the pandemic. My daughters are home sick as they have never been in India this long.” Khatun’s husband runs a gas station in San Remo near Phillip Island, Victoria, which is in losses because of their prolonged absence. “Recently, I got a job offer. But, I am stuck here,” says Khatun. Her previous employer, Aameruddin Mohammed, made a petition to Australian immigration minister, urging the government to take back temporary residents. Nikhil Babu Gottimukkula works in a supermarket and gas station in Sydney. “My employers are not paying me as I have run out of paid leaves. I have to pay my rent and insurance in Australia which comes to Rs 30,000 a month,” he said. They say that while the US ban on non-immigrant workers entering the country has grabbed attention, their plight since March has gone unnoticed. Added to this was a recent controversial ad which urged dark-skinned (Indian or African) applicants not to apply. The ad has since been withdrawn, but not without increasing fears of job losses and stigma of being foreign travellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/settled-in-oz-but-stranded-in-telangana/articleshow/76718972.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Unemployed 26-year-old hangs himself in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Upset with not being able to get a job after quitting a car showroom, a 26-year-old man ended his life at Vanasthalipuram on Monday evening. The deceased was identified as Ganduri Rajiv Kumar, a resident of Abyudaya Nagar Colony, Vanasthalipuram. He was working as a salesman with a car showroom for nine months before the lockdown. However, he quit the job after the lockdown was imposed. He searched for job opportunities, but failed to find any. Feeling repentant for resigning with no opportunity in hand, he would often regret his decision of staying home with no work, Vanasthalipuram police said. On Monday evening, he went to his room and locked it from inside. After some time, when his parents knocked on the door, he did not respond. His parents panicked and called neighbours. They broke open the door and found Rajiv hanging from the ceiling fan. Even though police did not find a suicide note, the family suspect his depression due to not finding a job was the reason for his suicide. The body was handed over to the family after an autopsy and a case of suspicious death case was registered at the Vanasthalipuram police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unemployed-26-year-old-hangs-himself/articleshow/76718974.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Veggies traded on roads as APMC reopening stalled||Ahmedabad: With the authorities dithering on the decision to reopen the Jetalpur APMC, vegetable traders on Monday night conducted business on the roads. Vegetables were sold on the main road and the service road near the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) complex. A trader said that since many like him had ordered vegetables, the commitment had to be honoured. The Jetalpur market was closed down on June 27. Trade had moved from the Jamalpur APMC to Jetalpur on April 22. Jamalpur and Kalupur vegetable markets, the Naroda fruit market, and a dozen smaller vegetable markets in the city had been closed on April 19. The closure was ordered by the authorities because they feared that overcrowding would spread Covid-19. Authorities had decided to reopen the Jamalpur APMC, with restrictions, on June 27. “On June 26, we were told that on the following day, trading at Jamalpur will be allowed,” a vegetable trader said. “We were told that each trader will be allowed into the market every three days. The traders were expecting an official declaration by Monday morning.” The trader went on to say: “Hence, we had asked farmers to get vegetables to Jetalpur. But no decision was announced and we had to conduct trade on the roads.” Eventually, on Tuesday, APMC authorities told traders that the Jamalpur market will not operate till July 15. APMC officials said police have refused to allow the reopening of the Jamalpur market over the fear of people gathering in large numbers. But the formal closure frequently brings business outside the market. For instance, last Saturday, trading was conducted on the main road outside the Jamalpur APMC complex. “Traders and APMC officials are in talks, but even on Tuesday no solution could be worked out,” said a senior APMC official. “We expect a solution by Wednesday.” A trader said that business to the tune of lakhs took place on Monday night outside the Jetalpur market without any security. However, APMC officials played down the informal sales. They said that often farmers who don’t find space in APMCs sell their produce outside the complexes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/veggies-traded-on-roads-as-apmc-reopening-stalled/articleshow/76719216.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Rajkot||Illegal sand mining: Mob of 100 thrash five cops in Kutch||Rajkot: A mob of nearly 125 people launched a massive attack on cops from Khavda police station after they detected an illegal sand mining racket flourishing near Khavda in Kutch district on Monday night.Five policemen were gheraoed and the assailants rained blows of sticks and stones on them in Juna village close to Khavda. With great difficulty, some villagers managed to rescue the cops from the furious mob and rushed them to the hospital.Three cops -- police sub-inspector Yuvrajsinh Jadeja, constable Mahipatsinh Vaghela and head constable Manek Gadhvi - suffered severe head injuries. The condition of Vaghela is said to be critical and he had to take 32 stitches on the head. Gadhvi too had to take eight stitches. During routine evening patrolling, assistant sub-inspector Nanji Malsatar and other cops stopped a tractor loaded with sand in Juna village close to Kala Dungar. They found out that the sand was mined illegally and started questioning the driver and other labourers. However, around 30-40 people gheraoed the cops. They immediately informed PSI Jadeja and he along with Vaghela, Gadhvi and other policemen Dinesh Patel and Amra Chaudhary started for Juna village from Khavda in Vaghela's car.By the time they reached, the mob had swelled to 100-125 and most of them were armed with sticks. They surrounded the police jeep and Vaghela's car and started attacking them. The police jeep as well as Vaghela’s car were badly mangled.The injured cops are under treatment at a private hospital in Bhuj.Kutch (west), superintendent of police, Saurabh Tolumbia, said, "We have arrested 20 people and all have been booked for attempt to murder, rioting and criminal conspiracy. A combing operation is also on to nab other people involved in the attack."Khavda police have lodged an offence against 36 people by their names and a mob of 100-125 people. The prime accused has been identified as Suleiman Sama, who owns a stone quarry in Juna village and the owner of the tractor that was seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illegal-sand-mining-mob-of-100-thrash-five-cops-in-kutch/articleshow/76717895.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||Wait lingers for monsoon to pick pace||Lucknow: The onset of monsoon in the city on June 24 was dull this year and it continues to be weak even after seven days of arrival. However, in comparison, average rainfall in the state has been excess in the rainy season so far. Partly cloudy sky with generally dry weather prevailed in the city on Tuesday as well. Though one or two spells of showers may occur on Wednesday, possibility of monsoon revival is less before Friday. “The system that drove the monsoon into the city on June 24 was expected to cause precipitation for a few days. However, it shifted towards central India soon after pushing the currents into Lucknow. As a result, rainfall activity dropped below expectations in the state capital. However, a fresh cyclonic circulation is now developing over Chhattisgarh which may revive the monsoon from Friday,” said state Met director JP Gupta. Total rainfall in Lucknow this June was 78.5 mm, 13% below the normal 90.2mm set for the period. Nearly 60% of the total rains in June occurred in the first three weeks of June, first due to a series of thunderstorms and then pre-monsoon showers. Another reason for below normal rains in June is that the monsoon arrived four days behind the schedule in the city. Overall, the state has witnessed good rains in the rainy season so far. UP as a whole got 55% above normal rains, the bulk of which occurred in the eastern part (above 92%) because the monsoon arrived on June 15, five days ahead of the normal date, and was active for a considerable period, whereas west UP has received 29% below normal so far because of delay in the onset of the season followed by poor rainfall activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wait-lingers-for-monsoon-to-pick-pace/articleshow/76719567.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nashik||82 booked for having pillion rider||Nashik: Panchavati police, during a special drive on Monday evening, booked as many as 82 people for riding their two-wheelers with a pillion rider, which is prohibited due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. According to police, as part of the Mission Begin Again citizens are allowed to go to work, market places, or operate their businesses. “But there are certain rules and restrictions that they are expected to follow. Wearing of masks and not having a pillion rider while riding a two-wheeler are some of the rules that citizens are supposed to abide to,” a police officer said. “However, it has come to fore that many people are not following the rules owing to which there has been a rise in the Covid-19 cases,” he added. Police inspectors Ashok Bhagat said that on Monday evening, they decided to take up a special drive on the Dindori Road to take action against the errant citizens. “Action against such motorists will continue in the future as well if they fail to adhere to the laid down rules,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/82-booked-for-having-pillion-rider/articleshow/76717901.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nashik||Cantonment hospital turned into Covid unit||Nashik: The Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) has converted its 80-bed hospital into a Covid facility in view of the rising number of cases in the area while an OPD has also been set up for non-Covid patients in a nearby school. Bhagwan Kataria, vice-president of CBD said that coronavirus positive cases are fast increasing in the Deolali Camp area. As a result, a large number of patients and Covid suspects are getting admitted to the CBD hospital. Thus, to ensure that Covid patients get timely attention and treatment, it has been decided to convert the entire 80-bed hospital into Covid facility while the OPD for non-Covid patients will be operated in a nearby school, he said. Offcie-bearers of the CBD have been spreading awareness about Covid-19 among people. The residents have been asked to stay indoors as much as possible. At the same time, they have been sensitised about wearing face masks while moving around in public places and using hand sanitisers as well as washing hands frequently. Until Sunday morning, there were at least nine containment zones and approximately 45 active cases in the Deolali Cantonment Board area. In addition, the CBD has also deployed three vehicles to spray disinfectants in the containment zones. Besides, the cantonment board hospital also provides meals to patients admitted to the Covid ward and those in the quarantine facility. A special arrangement has also been made for the doctors and other medical staff treating Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cantonment-hospital-turned-into-covid-unit/articleshow/76717908.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||351 of total 569 Covid-19 cases in Amt in June alone||Amravati: A spike of 20 cases and one death on Tuesday saw the district closing the month of June with an aggregate Covid-19 count of 569 that includes 24 deaths, 407 recovered cases and 138 active cases. With five of the 20 cases of the day coming from the hinterland, the rural count has reached 66. The month of June saw the district posting the highest — 351 — cases in 30 days as against 178 in May and 40 in April with March drawing a blank. On Covid casualty front, June edged out May on the last day of the month by posting 24th death of the district. This was the ninth fatality this month as against eight in May and seven in April. Today’s death was of a 75-year-old man from ward no. 7 of Dhamangaon Railway, who was taking treatment at Best Hospital but was shifted to Covid Hospital on Monday night after his health deteriorated there. He tested positive on Monday morning, says a release from civil surgeon’s office. With 11 patients getting discharge today, the number of recovered patients crossed 400-mark and settled at 407 for a recovery percentage of 71.52. This has left 138 active patients, nine of whom are being treated in Nagpur. While collector Shailesh Naval had announced month-long lockdown from July 1 with the same prevailing terms and conditions, a stringent lockdown of eight days has been imposed in Anjangaon Surji town which reported four cases on Tuesday to take its count to 15 since a 60-year-old male tested positive there on June 22. Covid hotspot Badnera increased its tally of 75 by three today to reach 78 while Sabanpura and Mahajanpura posted three and two cases to take tally to 18 and five, respectively. Among today’s 20 patients was a 3-year-old girl from Kholapur village and a 5 years old boy from Ambikanagar locality, the second case from that area. Vilasnagar, Ashoknagar, Gandhinagar, Nawathenagar and Congressnagar also reported a case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/351-of-total-569-covid-19-cases-in-amt-in-june-alone/articleshow/76719588.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Madurai||Tuticorin MCH conducts angioplasty for 1st time||MADURAi: For the first time, a team of doctors at the Tuticorin Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), performed an angioplasty procedure on four patients successfully, ever since a Rs 3.6 crore worth cath lab was opened at the hospital in February The four cardiac patients underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in a single day on June 27, made successful recovery and discharged on Tuesday. PTCA is a minimally invasive procedure to open up blocked coronary arteries, allowing blood to circulate unobstructed to the heart muscle. A team of cardiologists and anaesthetists led by dean of the hospital, Dr C Revathy Balan carried out the procedure. It can cost up to Rs 3 lakh in a private hospital, but was done free of cost for all four patients under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS). Earlier, cardiac patients from Tuticorin had to travel to Tirunelveli, Madurai or Chennai for the same treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuticorin-mch-conducts-angioplasty-for-1st-time/articleshow/76719991.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||Crackdown on UP Congress: A ploy to raise a competition for SP?||LUCKNOW: The Monday night arrest of UP Congress minority cell chief Shahnawaz Alam from a posh housing society near Hazratganj and subsequent protest of the party workers has triggered a debate in the state capital's political circle: Is it a deliberate attempt by the ruling party to allow some space to the Congress so that it emerges as a challenger to the Samajwadi Party in the Opposition ranks? Going by the turn of events -- the administration initially let Congress workers to stage a protest at a police station and then ordered the arrest of the party's minority cell chief, who was detained till then -- it doesn't appear to be a far-fetched imagination. "Even earlier, the Congress workers were 'allowed' to hog the limelight during the anti-CAA protests and recently the bus controversy. Besides, the Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi is often allowed opportunities to emerge as a strong leader in the opposition camp," says a political analyst. "It could be a well thought of plan to let the Grand Old Party, which could win just seven seats in 2017 assembly elections, emerge strong enough to challenge the Samajwadi Party for the slot of the main opposition party," he adds. The party insiders said that it was a brilliant move by the government to divide the Opposition votes. "If anti-BJP electorate get an option in the state they would not vote en masse for the SP, their votes would be divided," they add. The ruling party is not only allowing Congress to occupy some Opposition space, but also adopted a strategy of deliberately ignoring its principal opponent so that it vanishes from the public space. It is not pursuing cases of corruption it has dug out against the previous regime, say observers. However, such a political strategy, if at all there was one, has its own pitfalls, cautions another section of the ruling party. This section of the BJP feels if the Congress manages to cut into the urban votes, it would definitely go against the saffron party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/crackdown-on-cong-a-ploy-to-raise-a-competition-for-sp/articleshow/76719583.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 1, 2020||Vadodara||Witness alleges threats by accused out on parole||Vadodara: After over 18 years since the incident took place, a fresh controversy has been raked up involving a witness in the 2002 Bilkis Bano case. The witness has alleged that two accused in the case abused and threatened him. The incident took place on June 19 when the accused in the case Mitesh Bhatt and Radheshyam alias Lalo Shah were present in the Singvad village of Dahod district as hey were out on a parole. In an application submitted to the Godhra range inspector general of police on June 23, the witness Feroze alias Pintu Ghanchi has claimed that he and two others were harassed by the accused in the village. Copies of the application have been marked to the top brass of the Dahod police as well as others. The application has named Bhatt, Radheshyam and Radheshyam’s brother Ashish Shah as the accused. Feroze has claimed that a woman Sabera Ghanchi was called by Radheshyam in connection with an accident case Radheshyam had filed as an advocate regarding injuries to Sabera’s husband Ayub sometime before 2002. Ayub was murdered in the 2002 Gujarat riots. Feroze stated that on June 19 when Sabera’s daughter Arefa went to meet Radheshyam, he started recording her video on a mobile phone. She objected to this and called her mother Sabera. Radheshyam and Ashish started abusing the women and created a ruckus. Bhatt also joined them and pulled Arefa. The applicant claimed that he was seeing this and intervened. He alleged that Bhatt attacked him and tore his shirt. He said that Radheshyam even feigned that he was beaten up. Feroze claimed that all this drama was recorded on CCTV cameras. He added that Sabera had also submitted a complaint regarding the incident. Feroze has claimed that police officials were trying to ensure that the parties involved in the matter reach a compromise. Activist Mukhtar Sheikh, who has been involved with the case since 2002, said that this was not the first time that something like this had happened. “An application was moved regarding such harassment about a year back too, but an offence was not registered. The accused in the Bilkis Bano case are close to politicians and are being granted paroles frequently,” he said. District superintendent of police Hitesh Joysar said that the matter had not reached him yet. A group of members of the minority community including Bilkis and her family was attacked by a mob on March 3, 2002, at Randhikpur. Women were gang raped and 13 persons including children and an infant were killed and buried. Those killed included Bilkis’ three-year-old daughter Saleha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/witness-alleges-threats-by-accused-out-on-parole/articleshow/76717855.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Rajkot||Sabar Dairy reduces milk purchase prices||Palanpur: The Sabarkantha District Cooperative Milk Producers Union or Sabar Dairy has cut milk procurement rate for the farmer by Rs 10-20 per kg fat. The new rates will be applicable from Wednesday, said Sabar Dairy managing director B M Patel.According to Patel, the farmers will now get Rs 290 per kg fat for cow milk against Rs 300 per kg fat earlier. While in the case of buffalo milk the farmers will now get Rs 710 per kg fat against the previous rate of Rs 730 per kg fat. The dairy procures 22 lakh litres of milk from our 3.80 lakh farmers every day. Patel said that there was a glut in milk production as the consumption had gone down during lockdown period. “This consumption fell drastically particularly because of hotels and other sweet shops stopped functioning,” said Patel There was a decrease in consumption of ice-cream and other milk products that resulted in milk glut, hence the cut in milk procurement rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sabar-dairy-reduces-milk-purchase-prices/articleshow/76717954.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||AHNA launches helplines||Ahmedabad: After a website-based update on availability of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients, Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) on Tuesday announced launch of two helpline numbers. AHNA officials said that the service will be available for the member hospitals in Ahmedabad. The numbers of helpline are 079-26403333/9999 and it will remain functional round the clock, said AHNA officials. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that it’s perhaps the first of its kind service for the Covid-19 patients in the country. “More numbers will be added if required. The same numbers can also be used to get information about availability of ambulances for the Covid patients,” he said, adding that home care information for the member hospitals will also be made available. Currently, the bed availability is updated twice a day on AHNA website. As on Tuesday afternoon, 814 beds out of 1,100 available at 54 hospitals in Ahmedabad were occupied – giving the occupancy rate of 73.3%. Out of 92 beds of ICU with ventilator, 75 were occupied. “We intend to make that information real-time as well. Trials are already on with the member hospitals to put a system in place for the same,” said Dr Gadhvi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahna-launches-helplines/articleshow/76719207.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Rajkot||Lightning kills seven in 3 Saurashtra districts||Rajkot: At least seven people died after being struck by lightning in Jamnagar, Devbhumi Dwarka and Botad districts on Tuesday as heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorms and gusty winds lashed most parts of Saurashtra.In Jamnagar district’s Rakkha Khatiya village of Lalpur taluka, a 35-year-old woman Nita Sitapara and her 12-year-old son Vishal, got electrocuted due to lightning when they were working in a farm. Another 35-year-old woman identified as Pali Dangar her family member Komal (20) also met the same fate in Viramdad village of Devbhumi Dwarka district. Two other women were injured in the lightning and shifted to a government hospital. In Botad district, a 60 year old man and a five year old girl in Lathidad village were killed by lightning while a 17 year old girl died in Sarvai village. Incessant downpour forced closure of Bhavnagar-Somnath coastal highway twice as rainwater inundated the road at many places. Nageshree River in Amreli district. Lightning also damaged an electricity pole near Airport Road in Rajkot and electricity was snapped in some areas.The heavy raining forced to halt traffic two times on Bhavnagar Somnath highway. The Nageshree river water was flowing above the causeway between Rajula and Una. Sixteen villages of Ranigpur village of Keshod taluka in Junagadh were taken to a hospital as they got scared by lightning. However, they left after sometime and nobody suffered any injury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lightning-kills-seven-in-3-saurashtra-districts/articleshow/76717986.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Positivity rate in Delhi drops by over 17% in 2 weeks||NEW DELHI: The positivity rate of Covid-19 cases reported among the total samples tested in Delhi has dipped to 12.8%. In the second week of June, it was 30% and above on multiple occasions. On Tuesday, the data showed 2,199 out of 17,179 people testing positive for the novel coronavirus infection. The total number of cases in the capital has now reached 87,360 while the death toll stands at 2,742. Experts say the reduction in positivity rate is a positive change. “If this trend persists, it may mean that we are past the peak,” said a senior doctor at AIIMS. He, however, cautioned that there was no scope for any complacency as yet. In the past 14 days, from June 17 to 30, government data shows 905 people have died due to Covid-19 in Delhi. On average, 64 people have died daily due to the disease. ICU specialists deployed at major Covid facilities say deaths are happening mostly due to delayed admission. A review of Covid-19 deaths conducted by the Union home ministry recently has revealed the same. It showed 50% people died within one to three days of hospital admission. “This means that people rushed to hospital when their condition aggravated due to inadequate care at home. That’s why we have changed the rule for home isolation,” Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted recently, while referring to new guidelines mandating physically contacting patients under home isolation to monitor their condition and hospitalising those with high risks of fatality due to Covid-19. It has been found that giving plasma therapy to patients who have severe symptoms helps in reducing the risk of further complications and deaths. Therefore, Delhi government has decided to open a plasma bank at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. It is also appealing to people who have recovered from Covid-19 to come forward and donate their plasma, a component of blood, to save others. Additionally, Delhi government is ramping up critical care beds to treat those with moderate to severe symptoms. On Tuesday, the government issued an order to all state-run hospitals to rework their existing bed capacities in a way to increase the number of beds with ventilators over and above the existing beds. An order was also issued for constituting teams to conduct inspections of government and private hospitals for rapid assessment of the existing capacity, patient care amenities and associated aspects of the Covid care facilities in Delhi. At present, the capital has 13,651 Covid beds with oxygen support and other basic facilities. There are 780 additional beds with ventilator support. While 56% of the general beds are lying vacant, only 27% of the ventilator beds are empty, the latest data shows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/positivity-rate-drops-by-over-17-in-2-wks/articleshow/76719600.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||HC’s no to lift curbs on Dhapewada yatra||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday refused to relax restrictions imposed on religious functions at Swayambhu Shree Vitthal Rukmini Deosthan (trust) in Dhapewada due to Covid-19 pandemic. While disposing of the plea filed by the trust, a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Amit Borkar directed district collector to hear the petitioner and take into consideration his contention. On June 27, the collector had issued an order restraining the temple trust from organizing the annual yatra on Ashadhi Ekadashi, which falls on Wednesday (July 1) and other events, due to threat of spread of coronavirus. The trust then knocked HC’s doors seeking relaxation citing the June 22 judgment of the Supreme Court allowing Jagannath Puri Rath Yatra with certain conditions. “There is no challenge to collector’s order, but relaxation to some extent is claimed. The petitioner is at liberty to approach the collector and the latter can pass appropriate order after taking into consideration facts and circumstances of the case,” said the judges. While declining to pass any relaxation order, the HC made it clear that it was looking into only facts and circumstances involved in the matter. “The top court hasn’t laid down any law to be followed in such cases. Therefore, without judging the validity of the collector’s order, we are unable to interfere in this case,” said the bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hcs-no-to-lift-curbs-on-dhapewada-yatra/articleshow/76719613.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||RERA allays buyers’ fears after realtor gets notice||Lucknow: Over 200 allottees who had booked flats in a 6,000sq metre township being constructed by a private promoter in Arjunganj are worried about their investment after UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA) issued a show cause notice to the promoter who is accused of illegally occupying the land. UPRERA, however, said buyers should not be worried as their interests would be protected. UPRERA chairman Rajive Kumar said, “Buyers should not worry. If the allegations made by the petitioner are found to be true, either we will hand over the project to some other developer after giving compensation to the petitioner or we will ensure refund to allottees after seizing the assets of the builder.” UPRERA had issued a show cause to the promoter on a petition filed by Dhan Prakash Budhraja who alleged that the land in Arjunganj belongs to him and was illegally occupied by the promoter.  In the notice, UPRERA asked the promoter to submit its reply within 15 days. Homebuyers who have invested in the housing units were worried about their money and many people, who have taken housing loans, contacted the TOI to share their concern.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rera-allays-buyers-fears-after-realtor-gets-notice/articleshow/76719610.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu cop run over by truck that he chased||COIMBATORE: A 25-year-old armed reserve constable was run over by a container truck that he tried to stop after a brief chase on his two-wheeler when the vehicle did not stop at the check post, which he was guarding, in Tirupur district on Monday night. The truck driver was arrested later in Erode in the early hours of Tuesday. The empty container truck had knocked off a barricade at a check post in Erode district, hit a sports utility vehicle (SUV) and almost ran into a petrol bunk during its journey to Tirupur from Erode. The Kangeyam police identified the deceased as T Prabhu, of Kallapalayam near Gudimangalam in Tirupur district. He was a constable with the Tirupur district armed reserve police. According to a police source, Prabhu, along with head constable Loganathan, who was attached to Kangeyam police station, was deployed at Thittuparai police check post near Kangeyam on Monday night. “Police at a check post near Perundurai in Erode had alerted them about the truck that went past them despite their efforts to stop the vehicle. When the truck arrived at the Thittuparai police check post around 11pm on Monday, Prabhu attempted to stop the vehicle, but in vain. He then chased the truck on his bike. After chasing the truck for 2km, he overtook the vehicle and blocked that with his bike. However, the truck driver ran over the bike, killing the cop,” the source said. After the incident, the truck driver headed back to Erode where he was stopped by a team of police at Odanilai near Arachalur around 2.30am on Tuesday and arrested him. The driver was identified as B Baskaran, 40, of Vilamarathur in Ramanathapuram district. He was subsequently taken to a government hospital to check whether he was under the influence of alcohol. Tirupur superintendent of police Dhisha Mittal said the truck driver had a fight with his previous employer, who along with his accomplices, was chasing him in the SUV. “During inquiry, he told us that he drove the truck in a rash and negligent manner as he was being chased by the SUV, which was also hit by his vehicle. He also attributed that as a reason for not stopping the truck at check posts. At one stage, the truck was about to run into a petrol bunk.” The Kangeyam police have registered a case against the truck driver under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is on. Meanwhile, the Kangeyam police sent Prabhu’s body to the nearby government hospital for postmortem. He is survived by his father Thirumalaisamy, mother Neelavathi and younger brother Thirunavukkarasu. Inspector general of police (west zone) K Periaiah, deputy inspector general of police (Coimbatore range) G Karthikeyan and Tirupur SP visited both the accident spot and Kangeyam government hospital, where they paid homage to the deceased cop. After the postmortem, Prabhu’s body was handed over to his family members and buried at Gudimangalam with the customary 21-gun salute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cop-run-over-by-truck-that-he-chased/articleshow/76719104.cms||A Subburaj
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||Oyetri Dey death case: Panel asks hospital to pay parents Rs 10 lakh||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has directed AMRI Hospitals, Mukundapur, to pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the parents of Oyetri Dey, the two-and-half-year-old, who had died at the hospital in January 2018. The hospital said it would abide by the commission’s order. “We have directed the hospital to pay Rs 10 lakh to the parents of the child as we found several lapses on the part of the hospital,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman of WBCERC, after passing the judgment of Tuesday. The child was admitted to the hospital on January 15, 2018 with complaints of fever and bronchitis. The child died two days later. Her parents alleged that the child was given augmentin injection after which Oyetri developed respiratory distress and convulsion. They also alleged that Oyetri was not given oxygen support even as she gasped for air. Parents Jayanta and Shampa had knocked on the doors of West Bengal Medical Council and WBCERC, alleging medical negligence and ill behaviour. WBCERC said they also found that the nurse, who had administered the injection, did not have required qualification and that the hospital had failed to provide the bottle of injection for the health panel for scrutiny. “We have been fighting for justice for our daughter for more than two years now and had been waiting for this day. We are satisfied and relieved after the judgment from the health commission. Some justice has been done to Oyetri who was to be discharged from hospital soon,” said Oyetri’s father Jayanta. The parents were part of the online hearing which the health panel arranged on Tuesday. The Deys, however, had received a blow from West Bengal Medical Council (WBMC) in June last year when it dismissed charged of medical negligence. After the child’s death, the parents had approached the chief minister. WBMC had on June 21 last year given a clean chit to the doctors, who had been accused of medical negligence. WBMC is the registering body for doctors and has the power to probe allegations of medical negligence against them. WBCERC can initiate action against a private health facility if found guilty of charges levelled against it. “We were never called for any hearing by the WBMC. That’s why we appealed to the court against its verdict. The matter is now pending before the court,” said Jayanta. “In response to the order of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission regarding compensation in a case from January 2018, we are yet to receive any formal notification. However, we will abide by whatever ruling has been passed by the Hon’ble Commission,” said a press release from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oyetri-death-case-panel-asks-hospital-to-pay-parents-rs-10l/articleshow/76719013.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Covid hotels’ in the dark about what’s next||NEW DELHI: After the announcement that hotels would be turned into Covid care facilities attached to hospitals, most hotels have heard neither from the government nor the hospitals. The hotels find themselves in an unenviable position because whatever little of new income avenues they had planned by way of home delivery, takeaway or laundry services also came to a halt once the news spread of their turning into Covid facilities. An executive told TOI how his hotel had voluntarily cleared all the rooms to be transformed into quarantine spaces, and awaited the attached hospital staff’s arrival to train the hotel employees. However, no one has approached them. The hospital that the hotel was attached to said patients would only be sent when beds at the medical institution were all occupied. There was no mention of training or of preparedness measures suitable to a Covid care facility. The Suryaa was the only hotel that actually converted itself into a sickness bay. Greesh Bindra, vice-president, operations, said he had expedited the process of turning the hotel into a medical care facility out of concern for his employees. He would not push his staff into providing Covid care without training them for the task, he said. Despite this, not a single patient has checked in so far as Holy Family Hospital it is attached to has almost 70 beds available for Covid cases. One hotel manager said that after convincing the staff to report for duty and learn about the hygiene, room and food requirement for Covid patients, the associated hospital informed them that the hotel rooms would be needed only when its own beds were fully occupied. However, the announcement on the hotel becoming a Covid centre led to corporate offices in the vicinity asking their employees to work from home. “Almost 80% of the hotel staff has gone on leave without pay. Even the 20% that report to work fear for their safety and for their family’s well-being,” said another hotelier. “We expected the hotels to be allowed to reopen and instead were told they would become Covid care centres. Hotels in Delhi will not be able to sustain for long without income.” The repercussions are already there. A chef working in an Aerocity hotel said, “We received calls from our long-term patrons and corporates expressing concern about using in future a hotel that had been a Covid facility. Many customers also cancelled their home delivery orders.” Saying that a hotel in Aerocity had got six patients after the district magistrate instructed the hospital to send the patients there, a hotelier wondered if a hotel with around 100 rooms could survive on occupancy of a mere six rooms. That is why the general managers of many hotels have reached out to the district magistrates and have also sought a joint appointment with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia this week to express their willingness to help in the Covid crisis, but delineate the practical problems faced by hotels. They will request permission to resume business to stave off bigger financial losses. Watch What next for Delhi’s Covid hotels?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-hotels-in-the-dark-about-whats-next/articleshow/76719605.cms||Amin Ali
July 1, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu cop run over by truck that he chased||COIMBATORE: A 25-year-old armed reserve constable was run over by a container truck that he tried to stop after a brief chase on his two-wheeler when the vehicle did not stop at the check post, which he was guarding, in Tirupur district on Monday night. The truck driver was arrested later in Erode in the early hours of Tuesday. The empty container truck had knocked off a barricade at a check post in Erode district, hit a sports utility vehicle (SUV) and almost ran into a petrol bunk during its journey to Tirupur from Erode. The Kangeyam police identified the deceased as T Prabhu, of Kallapalayam near Gudimangalam in Tirupur district. He was a constable with the Tirupur district armed reserve police. According to a police source, Prabhu, along with head constable Loganathan, who was attached to Kangeyam police station, was deployed at Thittuparai police check post near Kangeyam on Monday night. “Police at a check post near Perundurai in Erode had alerted them about the truck that went past them despite their efforts to stop the vehicle. When the truck arrived at the Thittuparai police check post around 11pm on Monday, Prabhu attempted to stop the vehicle, but in vain. He then chased the truck on his bike. After chasing the truck for 2km, he overtook the vehicle and blocked that with his bike. However, the truck driver ran over the bike, killing the cop,” the source said. After the incident, the truck driver headed back to Erode where he was stopped by a team of police at Odanilai near Arachalur around 2.30am on Tuesday and arrested him. The driver was identified as B Baskaran, 40, of Vilamarathur in Ramanathapuram district. He was subsequently taken to a government hospital to check whether he was under the influence of alcohol. Tirupur superintendent of police Dhisha Mittal said the truck driver had a fight with his previous employer, who along with his accomplices, was chasing him in the SUV. “During inquiry, he told us that he drove the truck in a rash and negligent manner as he was being chased by the SUV, which was also hit by his vehicle. He also attributed that as a reason for not stopping the truck at check posts. At one stage, the truck was about to run into a petrol bunk.” The Kangeyam police have registered a case against the truck driver under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is on. Meanwhile, the Kangeyam police sent Prabhu’s body to the nearby government hospital for postmortem. He is survived by his father Thirumalaisamy, mother Neelavathi and younger brother Thirunavukkarasu. Inspector general of police (west zone) K Periaiah, deputy inspector general of police (Coimbatore range) G Karthikeyan and Tirupur SP visited both the accident spot and Kangeyam government hospital, where they paid homage to the deceased cop. After the postmortem, Prabhu’s body was handed over to his family members and buried at Gudimangalam with the customary 21-gun salute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/cop-run-over-by-truck-that-he-chased/articleshow/76721658.cms||A Subburaj
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Now, BEST’s daily ridership close to 10 lakh on 3,000 buses||MUMBAI: The number of daily commuters on BEST’s red buses has been rising sharply and has almost touched the one million or 10 lakh mark. The fleet size has increased, too, from 1,800 buses three weeks ago to nearly 3,000 on Tuesday. Daily ticket sales have shot past Rs 84 lakh and will soon touch a crore, said a senior official, adding there was a huge demand for red buses, which had started several routes across Mumbai and also cover Thane and Navi Mumbai. This, despite BEST curtailing most services to ferry essential staff and discontinuing special services for far-flung suburbs such as Vasai-Virar, Badlapur-Kalyan and Panvel. It hopes to run a full fleet of 3,500 buses by July-end. Meanwhile, BEST’s Covid recovery rate has improved 75%; several conductors and drivers are back on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-bests-daily-ridership-close-to-10l-on-3000-buses/articleshow/76719023.cms||Somit Sen
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doc fights off Covid to treat 4,000 others||Surat: While fighting the contagion with all his might, Dr Ashvin Vasava, 43, nodal officer for Covid-19 in south Gujarat, knew that his opponent will get the better of him one day. But the associate professor at the Government Medical College (GMC) who supervises treatment at Covid hospital in New Civil Hospital (NCH), was prepared to meet it, vowing to fight back and save even more lives. After 10 days in isolation, Vasava, a tribal from the remote Sagbara in Narmada district, is back again on duty and has created a niche for himself in matters of tenacity for other frontline workers and patients as well. Interestingly, while both Vasava and his wife Sonal tested positive for the virus and had to be in quarantine, their friends looked after their children, eight-year-old Arohi, and five -year-old Shrey for 10 days. Vasava had tested positive on June 13 and a couple of days later his wife too was found positive. They both were admitted under isolation at NCH and have recovered now. "Doctors at government hospitals have treated over 4,000 patients in the region and we come in close contact with patients daily. Even after getting infected, I was determined to resume work after recovery," Vasava told TOI. Vasava, who credits his wife for her unstinting support, claims he did not go home and stayed in hospital for 40 days during April and May. Vasava has been working in NCH since 2005. Interestingly, in her video that went viral on social media, state’s first Covid-19 positive patient and also the first to recover, Rita Bachkaniwala, also thanked Vasava for his care and treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doc-fights-off-covid-to-treat-4000-others/articleshow/76719609.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 1, 2020||Delhi||NDMC hikes health fee, traders feel the pinch||NEW DELHI: Opening a restaurant or running a hotel or a showroom in Lutyens’ is going to cost more as New Delhi Municipal Council has increased the yearly health trade licensing fee and penalty from 2% to 5%. The move comes at a time when restaurants and hotels in prominent markets and commercial complexes are shutting down due to the increasing burden of rentals post the novel coronavirus pandemic. “The revised fees will be implemented from April 1. Those who fail to pay the increased charges will be slapped with a penalty,” read an office order issued by the civic agency last week. The licence fees for various trades have been revised in accordance with the council’s resolution. “In the case of hotels, licence for each restaurant, cafe, etc, has to be taken separately and shall not be included in the hotels licence. Late fees will be charged in cases where the renewal application is received after April 30,” mentioned the order. “If the application is received within a year from the date of expiry of licence, the fees would be an additional 5% per month, and after a year, the fees would be doubled and would be multiplied with the number of years,” the order further stated. NDMC’s move has, however, been criticised by traders who claimed the civic agency was doing nothing to improve condition of markets. “For those running restaurants on rents, it would be an additional burden,” said Atul Bhargava, chief of New Delhi Traders’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ndmc-hikes-health-fee-traders-feel-the-pinch/articleshow/76699655.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||TikTok stops working, Kolkata stars lose followers||KOLKATA: As popular Chinese app TikTok became inaccessible from Tuesday evening, thousands of city-based influencers and content creators on the platform rued at losing their videos, followers and sudden fame and wondered what life will be after the ban. “Prior to TikTok, I had a boring life as I worked at a medicine store. But after I began putting up my dance videos and comic acts on TikTok, I garnered 5 lakh followers and now people on the road recognise me by face and click selfies with me. It was a great feeling. With the app no longer accessible from Tuesday, I have no clue what to do now. I will start working at my father’s fast food centre,” said Prakash Sikder, who had 900-plus videos on the platform. Owned by a Beijing-based IT Firm, ByteDance, TikTok, along with 58 other Chinese apps, were banned by India on Monday citing privacy concerns. The app allowed users to create 15-second videos, soundtracked by music clips and is globally a popular app — only second to Facebook when it comes to most downloaded non-gaming apps. Since the ban came into effect, a large number of TikTok creators had started posting videos from their profiles asking users to follow them on Instagram, Facebook and YouTube. Some of them have also provided links to their other social media handles. Many spent sleepless nights waiting in anticipation of what would happen on Tuesday morning. They were delighted to discover that the app was still working for those who had the app installed on their phones, but most could no longer find it on Google Play Store or Apple App Store. Some like businessman Arman Arora, however, said he could still find the app scrolling down the play store list. However, by evening, the app became inaccessible for a majority of users. “I first checked in the morning if the app was working. It was still there as I asked my followers to shift to my YouTube channels and Facebook page for future connectivity. But by evening, the app stopped working and no more videos could be posted,” said Sandy Saha, a popular video blogger with 1.3 million followers. In Kolkata, popular faces like actor and MP Nusrat Jahan had been active on the platform. “Though majority of contents were cringy, for many like us it was a place to show our talent of dance and acting skills. I guess I will have to shift my focus entirely to Instagram now,” said Tarannum Haque, a city-based model and popular TikTok influencer who used to do a number of ad campaigns on TikTok. Behala resident Niladri Basu said he had joined the platform barely two months ago and was already hooked on it for several hours a day. “The only criteria to gain followers is a basic smartphone along with some talent to make content. And this made millions of people in various corners of the country shoot to fame due to TikTok,” said Rajiv Jain, a cyber expert in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tiktok-stops-working-kol-stars-lose-followers/articleshow/76719039.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
July 1, 2020||Kanpur||Locusts invade residential areas||Kanpur: After invading rural landscapes, swarms of locusts have rushed towards residential pockets of the district early on Tuesday morning. The district administration sought police help asking them to use a public address system to tell locals asking them to beat drums, tin containers, utensils and even bursting firecrackers, spraying of pesticides and playing music system, to scare away locust swarms that are hovering over residential pockets. Residents across more than a dozen localities woke up to a terrifying sight of locust swarms flying on their roof-tops and gardens on Tuesday morning. As alerted by police patrolling teams late Monday night about the movement of locust swarms, locals were seen beating drums, ‘thalis’, playing music system and bursting firecrackers to ward them off. On Sunday, the locusts had attacked the Shivrajpur area. Now, the swarms have travelled to the district’s Khyora, Awadhpuri, Hengupur, Singhpur, Prempur in Bithoor, besides Chaubeypur’s Pacahur, Pem Gaon, Bansathi, Raipur Gopalpur, Nigoha, Jugrajpur and Bairibagh, low- lying areas in Kachar of Ganga river, said district agriculture department officials. The locusts had invaded the city through Shuklaganj Unnao, Fatehpur and Raebareli side. Now they have headed towards the district. “The locusts have already ruined the crops spread over several lakh of hectares in the country, now they have entered district limits via Rae Bareli and Fatehpur, besides several other districts of Bundelkhand region including Banda, Jhansi, Hamirpur and Mahoba,” district agriculture officer Ashish Kumar Singh told TOI on Tuesday. He further stated that there were inputs that these locusts had arrived in the district at around 7 am headed towards Kanpur Dehat at around 11 am. Singh said five teams made spot inspection of the affected pockets in low-lying areas of Ganga and met locals and sprayed pesticides and aware them about measures to chase locusts away. The police through its public address system also went across various localities and made announcements and alerted locals to monitor the movement of locusts and keep their doors and windows shut to avoid them. “This was the first time that we are telling locals about locust swarms intrusion in the district. We have gone over localities such as Khyora, Awadhpuri and Pem Gaon, besides several other pockets in the kachars of Ganga. There were lakhs of locusts covering an area of nearly 1 km coming towards Ganga’s Kachar area after crossing Unnao’s Shuklaganj spotted on Monday evening,” said a police officer while talking to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/locusts-invade-residential-areas/articleshow/76719618.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||BT Road stretches under water since Sunday rain, locals blame civic body||KOLKATA: The rain on Sunday has left a stretch of about two kilometres on the Dunlop-bound flank of B T Road, the north-south lifeline for the city, inundated. Another stretch from Sodepur to Kamarhati-Belghoria, too, remained under water more than 48 hours after the rain. Unlike other areas on the northern fringes of the city, where water levels receded on Monday morning, some of the localities in Sodepur, Panihati, Agarpara and Belgharia-Kamarhati, adjacent to the BT Road, remained waterlogged till Tuesday. Locals said the waterlogged streets further worsened the transport system that has already been hit by the pandemic. “Truncated auto services due to waterlogged roads, suspended bus routes and unavailability of cabs made the commute tougher for us. Since Sunday morning, we couldn’t even go to the local market to buy vegetables. Water pumps should have been pressed into service to drain out the water from the road,” said Sandip Majumdar, a railway employee and resident of Sodepur’s Natagarh. The rain left the residents of neighbouring localities, adjacent to the 2-km stretch of the Dunlop-bound flank from Sodepur’s Alpen Daiary More to Kamarhati bus stand No. 11, like Sukhchar, Bibirbagan, Tentultala, Desbandhunagar, Prabartak Jute mill area and Rathtala More in a bad shape for over a couple of days. Locals blamed the civic authorities for poor sewerage system. “The civic authorities are still reluctant to take any step, despite the arrival of monsoon. After the political party’s tenure was over and the civic body came under the administrator, no work to clean the sewerage was taken up in the past three or four months,” said Chaitali Mukherjee, a schoolteacher and a resident of Belghoria’s Nawdapara. “Due to the unavailability of manpower during the lockdown, cleaning services had been disrupted partially in some places. But the situation is under control now. The civic team led by at least four outgoing councillors started looking after the sewerage system,” said a senior administrative official of the Kamarhati Municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bt-road-stretches-under-water-since-sunday-rain-locals-blame-civic-body/articleshow/76719057.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||After Pratap, ‘Padmavat’ courts textbook trouble||JAIPUR: Even as the controversy over some remarks on Rana Pratap added in e-textbooks for Class X students rages in Rajasthan, there is another storm brewing over a reference to poet Malik Muhammad Jayasi, the writer of ‘Padmavat,’ in a chapter on Rawal Ratan Singh (1302-1303 CE) in a newly added Class X textbook for general knowledge, ‘Rajasthan Ka Itihas Evam Sanskriti’ (Rajasthan’s History and Culture). The Johar Smriti Sansthan (JSS) in Chittorgarh has raised objection at the reference of Jayasi used in a paragraph narrating the history of Rawal Ratan Singh. The textbook reference which the JSS has objected to says: “Malik Muhammad Jayasi’s (1540 CE) poem 'Padmavat' says that Alauddin Khilji attacked Rawal Ratan Singh for his wife Padmini.” JSS chief Takhat Singh Solanki, 84, said that the state has again attempted to connect two historical episodes divided by over two centuries and two different regions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-pratap-padmavatcourts-textbook-trouble/articleshow/76719629.cms||Shoeb Khan
July 1, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Ex-lover stabs woman to death in market, sits beside the body||RAJKOT: A 30-year-old woman was stabbed to death in the middle of a busy vegetable market allegedly by her ex-paramour in Daulatpara GIDC area of Junagadh late Monday evening. The woman, Bhavna Sonu Goswani, bled to death on the spot, after she was stabbed at least ten times by her former lover Sanjay Pravin Goswami (32), a resident of Lathi town in Amreli. Police said that Sanjay, a casual labourer, was furious over Bhavna dumping him for another man. After stabbing Bhavna multiple times, Sanjay sat near her body till the police arrived and arrested him. According to a complaint filed by Bhavna’s brother, Bharat Shaikh with Junagadh A Division police station, his sister had come in contact with Sanjay in 2012-13 after she got married and shifted to Lathi from home town Bagasra in Amreli. The duo was in a relationship up until 18 months ago, when Bhavna divorced her husband and went back to live with her parents in Bagasra. The complaint stated that Sanjay used to pester Bhavna into resuming their broken relationship. But Bhavna refused. She then met Sonu Goaswami over social media about nine months ago and entered into a live-in relationship with him and shifted to Junagadh. When Sanjay came to know about this he harassed her over the phone. On Monday, Sanjay arrived in Junagadh and kept a watch on Bhavna’s movements. When she was on her way to the vegetable market, Sanjay confronted her and asked her to come with him. When Bhavna refused to go with him, Sanjay stabbed her multiple times, killing her on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/woman-stabbed-to-death-by-ex-paramour-in-full-public-view/articleshow/76718066.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Labourer rapes teen sister-in-law||VADODARA: A casual labourer was booked for allegedly raping his minor sister-in-law and impregnating her in Dabhoi. Police said the accused had first raped the 17-year-old girl when his wife was pregnant last year. The labourer and his wife live at his in-law’s house in Dabhoi taluka. The teenage girl told her elder sister about the crime after which he was confronted by his wife. The couple had heated arguments and eventually, the man apologized and promised to not repeat it. The casual labourer, however, again raped the minor girl after some weeks. When his wife again questioned him, he threatened to kill both of them. He then raped the girl several times until a few days back when the girl complained of abdomen pain. The girl was taken to a hospital where it was revealed that she was pregnant. On being questioned by her parents, she narrated her ordeal. The family did not know what to do since the crime was committed by their son-in-law. But on Monday, the girl’s parents contacted 181 Abhayam helpline. The helpline counsellor counselled them and took them to Dabhoi police station where an offence of rape, criminal intimidation and violation of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered. Police said that the accused has fled and they are searching for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/labourer-rapes-teen-sister-in-law/articleshow/76717909.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Pay property tax without any penalty till July 31||NEW DELHI: The three municipal corporations on Tuesday extended the deadline for submitting property tax for the financial year 2019-20 till July 31. Taxpayers will continue to get the rebate of 15% given for timely payment even if they miss the initial deadline of June 30, according to an order issued by the assessment and collection department of the south, east and the north corporations. The mayor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation, Anamika, said the decision had been taken to help the taxpayers pay the current year’s tax. “We have even decided to provide both online and manual facilities for filing property tax returns and has developed a website for the purpose,” she said. The corporation is organising special property tax camps in all colonies in association with the residents welfare associations and local councillors, the mayor added. The south corporation has organised 145 camps where 16,480 taxpayers have completed the procedure and deposited Rs 30 crore. In the previous financial year, the corporation collected Rs 1,589 crore from property tax and transfer duties, which was almost 46.7% of its total income of Rs 3,400 crore. The spokesperson of EDMC, Arun Kumar, said, “Besides giving the extension, those who want to submit tax for previous years will also be allowed to do so without any interest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pay-property-tax-without-any-penalty-till-july-31/articleshow/76719639.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Even as Covid cases rise in Delhi, govt data mysteriously shrinks||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 data put out by Delhi government has been steadily shrinking over the past couple of months and its daily bulletins have been marked by inconsistencies in format and content. Starting April 30, the amount of information has come down though cases and deaths have grown rapidly. This is in stark contrast to some other big cities like Chennai or the detailed district-wise data released by states like Kerala and Karnataka. Delhi has no district-wise data in its bulletins. The most detailed bulletins were between April 18 and 29, three pages long and packed with information. With questions being raised about the increasing pendency in test results, data on testing, which included the number of samples collected by government and private labs, their results and pendency, disappeared by April 30. It was only after a Delhi high court order on May 4 that the government put testing data in the public domain again, but not in the daily bulletin. Again, when the pendency in private labs mounted and led to a public outcry, that data was also dropped from May 16. In fact, there had hardly been any data on the duration of pendency at any time except what was anecdotally reported by the media from hospitals and patients who complained about long waits for results. Gradually, details about measures in containment zones, such as samples tested and population covered, were reduced to just the total number of red zones. The age group-wise analysis of deaths and positive cases, too, disappeared. After media reports on hospital authorities saying they were recording more deaths than what was shown in the daily bulletin, hospital-wise death data, too, disappeared. From May 13, the death data started getting vetted by a audit committee. Hence, even hospitals have no way of knowing how many of the case sheets that they submitted to the audit committee are being counted as Covid deaths. Many public health experts have questioned the way the committee is deciding the primary cause of death to be Covid. “No protocol related to how the committee is determining deaths related to Covid have been made available,” said Malini Aisola of All India Drug Action Network. “Moreover, since bulletins don’t have institution-wise death data, there is no way to know whether there is a difference in the deaths reported by each institution and those finally deemed to be Covid-related by the committee,” Aisola pointed out. Deaths are a critical indicator of the outbreak and timely reporting linked to dates is essential, she added. All hospital-wise data, including how many patients were in ICUs or how many were on ventilators, disappeared as people questioned more patients being put in ICUs and/or on ventilators in private hospitals. Total availability of hospital beds and ICUs or ventilator beds and their occupancy, too, vanished from the bulletin. This disappearance coincided with the launch of Delhi government’s Covid app at the beginning of June, which was meant to help people track availability of beds. “The app has been of little use since it doesn’t have disaggregated data on how many beds are regular beds, beds with oxygen or ICU beds. It also doesn’t show how many of the beds shown as vacant are government rate-fixed beds and how many are unregulated. Without all this information, how is it of any use to a patient?” asked Inayat Singh Kakar of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, a network of public health organisations that has been helping Covid patients find hospital beds. Contrast this with what the daily bulletins for each district in Tamil Nadu put out. Along with all the usual data on total and active cases and deaths, Chennai and every other district give detailed breakups of age- and gender-wise deaths and positive cases, along with data on deaths in public and private institutions. They also give a detailed description of each death, including comorbidities if any. Watch Delhi: Covid-19 cases on rise, inconsistencies in state govt data||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/even-as-covid-cases-rise-in-city-govt-data-mysteriously-shrinks/articleshow/76719636.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||No clarity on promoting prof course, ATKT students||Nagpur: Even as the Maharashtra government has decided to do away with final year and semester examinations, universities are still confused how to allot marks for professional courses. The government is also yet to come clear on the fate of failure (ATKT) students, whether their exams would be conducted or they too are to be promoted like others. While cancelling examinations in view of Covid-19 pandemic, the government had requested apex bodies governing professional education courses, like AICTE, NTCE, COA, to positively consider the decision. However, none of these bodies have come out with any official communication on the government request till date. The stalemate is adding to the woes of lakhs of final year students, who are caught in a peculiar situation. Nagpur University Board of Examinations and Evaluation (BOEE) director Prafulla Sabale said they were waiting for guidelines from University Grants Commission (UGC). “Unless we receive clear instructions from the apex body on how to award average marks to students, we can’t decide future course of action,” he said. Stressing that no state university had declared final year results, the BOEE director said since the government had asked universities to devise formula for awarding average marks to non-professional students based on previous performance, now their Academic Councils will have to draw up the rules. “Even in NU, we would need Academic Council nod to award marks. We need to convene an emergent meeting. We, however, are waiting for UGC directives, so we can announce marking schemes for both professional and non-professional courses,” he said. NU officials said UGC was expected to release its guidelines on university and colleges exams by Wednesday. Like in Maharashtra, many other states, including adjoining Madhya Pradesh, had either cancelled exams or were in the process of doing so. They too were waiting for these guidelines, they told TOI. Anxious students, however, have flooded social media with requests to the government to take a decision as early as possible. Students said the confusion was leading to depression, as they could not decide on future course of action. “We’re still confused about our fate. If we opt for average marks, there’s a possibility that our grades would go down. If we opt for exams, there’s no clarity when those would be conducted, and until that time, there’s no clarity whether we would be allowed to take admissions into postgraduate programmes,” they said. #EXAM BLUES * Govt cancels all final year exams due to Covid-19 pandemic spread * It sought permission from apex bodies to cancel professional courses exams * None of these bodies have officially announced a decision till date * No varsity has started work on awarding average marks to students * Lack of clarity leading to inordinate delay in results declaration * Students’ fate hangs in balance till UGC releases specific guidelines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-clarity-on-promoting-prof-course-atkt-students/articleshow/76719649.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Railways supplies 3.79 cr litres milk||Ahmedabad: To keep the milk supply in the country unhindered, the western railway transported over 3.79 crore litres of milk during the lockdown period beginning March 24. According to a Western Railway official, 51 rakes of milk vans carrying 882 railway milk tankers (RMTs) were transported from Palanpur in Gujarat to Hind Terminal near Palwal in Haryana from March 23 to June 28. Between March 23 and 31, five rakes of RMT were loaded with 33.32 lakh litres of milk, while in April, 15 rakes of RMT were loaded with 1.09 crore litres of milk. In May, 17 rakes of RMT were loaded with 1.28 crore litres of milk and till June 28, 14 rakes of RMT were loaded with 1.09 crore litres of milk. The officials said 51 milk special trains were run by the Western Railway, with a load of more than 37,000 tonnes, generating revenue of Rs 6.45 crore. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/railways-supplies-3-79-cr-litres-milk/articleshow/76719205.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||New nomenclature upsets vocational stream teachers||Panaji: Vocational teachers in aided schools said they are upset by the decision by chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday, where he said they would be known as ‘contract basis vocational teachers’. They said they are full-time vocational teachers and produced a cabinet note dated November 22, 2016, as per which the teachers’ services were to be regularised after five years. The teachers said that instead of fulfilling this promise, the state government has instead reduced full-time vocational teachers to contract-basis ones. On Monday, while hiking the remuneration of vocational teachers to Rs 25,000 a month, Sawant had said that the nomenclature of full-time contract basis, double part-time and single part-time has been done away with. “We have been working for the past few years with the assurance that our services will be regularised. We have the same workload as general stream permanent teachers, who are paid much more and they are regularised in service after just two years probation. When the government had stated on an official document that we will be made permanent after five years, why is the government shifting goal posts now?” said a teacher. The teachers said that some of these vocational teachers have been working on contract basis for 12 years now. “Our monthly pay has now been hiked to Rs 25,000. This means we are paid just 38% of what other regular teachers are paid. It is unfair to receive such meagre amount even though we have been appointed after producing all the requisite qualifications required at the time of our appointment,” said a teacher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-nomenclature-upsets-vocational-stream-teachers/articleshow/76719663.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Exercise caution, Andhra Pradesh health minister advises public||VIJAYAWADA: Deputy chief minister and minister for health and family welfare Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Alla Nani) on Wednesday said people should be cautious about Covid-19 and give due seriousness to the outbreak. Avoiding non-essential travel is important to prevent the spread of the virus, the minister said. “We have focused on improving the quality of treatment at Covid-19 hospitals across the state,” the minister said, adding, “We are trying to sensitise the public by conducting a variety of campaigns explaining the importance of physical distancing.” The minister on Wednesday inspected new 104 and 108 ambulances ready for inauguration. “Introducing 108 and 104 emergency services is the brainchild of YS Rajasekhar Reddy. But during the TDP regime, N Chandrababu Naidu neglected and ruined the system. Soon after forming the government, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy laid special focus on these services and determined to put them back on track, with added advanced features. Besides improving the facilities, we also generated job opportunities through these emergency vehicles,” he said. The chief minister will flag-off a fleet of 1,088 vehicles that will function as 108 and 104 ambulances, equipped with modern life support systems for speedy and improved medical attention, Nani said. The estimated time of arrival of these emergency vehicles to the spot from the time an emergency call is received is expected to be 15 minutes in urban areas, 20 minutes in rural areas and 25 minutes in Vizag Agency, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/exercise-caution-health-minister-advises-public/articleshow/76718074.cms||Venu Lanka
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Gadkari writes to Centre, seeks action against Mundhe||Nagpur: Union minister Nitin Gadkari has finally broken his silence on the ongoing tussle between municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and BJP corporators. Gadkari has approached the Centre against Mundhe claiming his illegal, unlawful, unconstitutional and fraudulent affairs as CEO of Nagpur Smart City could jeopardize the ambitious central government-funded project. In his letters addressed to minister of state for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri and minister of state for DoPT Jitendra Singh, Gadkari said Mundhe as municipal commissioner has unlawfully and unconstitutionally grabbed the position of CEO of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd (NSSCDCL) and repeatedly projected himself to have been appointed by chairman of NSSDCL Pravin Singh Pardeshi. “Even otherwise, the CEO of the company cannot be appointed by chairman unilaterally as the power to appoint vests with the board of directors,” said Gadkari. Since Mundhe’s posting as municipal commissioner on January 28, tussle between the ruling party in the civic body and the former was witnessed on several occasions. Even during the recently-concluded five-day-long marathon discussion on adjournment motion in the general body, ruling party corporators and some Congress corporators had criticised the municipal commissioner. The Union minister further said after “forcefully grabbing” the position of CEO, Mundhe has revoked various unanimous decisions taken by the board of directors, such as cancellation of approved tenders, termination of contractual employees amid Covid-19 pandemic, misappropriation of funds by introducing his signature in the current account maintained with Bank of Maharashtra etc. He also mentioned that even Nagpur mayor Sandip Joshi as one of the nominee directors and shareholder of the company has already lodged a criminal complaint against Mundhe and CFO as well as accounts officer of NSSCDCL under sections 420, 463, 464, 465, 466, 468, 471 of the IPC and 447 of the Companies Act, 2013, alleging they are defrauding the exchequer and usurping public money with an oblique motive to divert it for extraneous consideration and without any authority. The Union minister and city MP demanded necessary action against Mundhe in order to prevent him for jeopardizing the ambitious project. Despite repeated attempts through calls and messages, Mundhe was not available for his comments. Meanwhile, BJP city MLAs approached police commissioner Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay against Mundhe in an alleged Rs20 crore Smart City scam. City BJP president and MLC Pravin Datke, MLAs Krishna Khopde, Sameer Meghe, Mohan Mate, Vikas Kumbhare, MLCs Girish Vyas and Anil Sole, MP Dr Vikas Mahatme handed over a complaint against the municipal commissioner to the top cop. Earlier, in a complaint lodged with Sadar police, mayor Joshi and ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav had alleged that Mundhe as CEO of Smart City project misused his powers and doctored paperwork to favour private institutions for Rs20 crore. The case has been handed over to economic offences wing (EOW) led by deputy commissioner Shweta Khedkar. Congress MLA and city president Vikas Thakre said Mundhe should not ignore elected representatives. “I don’t have much knowledge about the Smart City issue, but I think municipal commissioner should work with corporators and MLAs for city’s development,” he said. North Nagpur MLA and district guardian minister Nitin Raut refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadkari-writes-to-centre-seeks-action-against-mundhe/articleshow/76719074.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 1, 2020||Rajkot||AI proposes Rajkot-Delhi flight soon||Rajkot: Rajkot can expect to get air connectivity to Surat and Delhi in the coming days. Air India has moved a proposal to start a flight from Rajkot to Delhi via Surat from July 14. At present, Rajkot has only one flight after lockdown was relaxed. Airport director AN Sharma said, “We have received a proposal from Air India and accepted it. If they get appropriate time slots from other airports, they will finalize the new service.” According to sources, Air India is looking to operate this flight twice a week. Before the lockdown, five flights - three to Mumbai and two to Delhi - were operated by AI from Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ai-proposes-rajkot-delhi-flight-soon/articleshow/76718145.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 30% of those covered by sero survey will be minors||NEW DELHI: In the month of May, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had conducted a serological survey across 83 districts in 21 states of the country in which blood samples were collected from 26,400 individuals. A major difference in that survey and the serological survey being carried out in Delhi by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and Delhi government is that among the 20,000 blood samples that will be collected, 30% would be of minors. “Approximately 30% of our total population is paediatric and so we are focussing on collecting paediatric blood samples in Delhi,” said an NCDC official. “This is something that was not done in the ICMR survey. Also, the survey being carried out in Delhi is a randomised but uniform survey and areas have been chosen as per the proportion of population and no other template,” he added. Total 20,000 blood samples, which translate to 0.1% of Delhi’s population, will be collected in the survey that will be completed by July 10. “The testing of blood samples is being carried out in our laboratory but the test results will be shared only on/after July 10,” the official said. While the survey had a tepid start on Saturday from two districts, it has gathered pace now and is being carried out in all districts of the city. Delhi government is increasing the number of health workers and eventually, total 200 teams will be on ground. Blood samples for the survey are being collected from every fifth house in an identified area by teams comprising auxiliary nurses, lab technicians of mohalla clinics, dispensary staff and ASHA workers. “As we are carrying out randomised sampling, blood sample is taken from every fifth house of a selected locality, which may or may not be in a containment zone,” a healthcare worker deployed in the central district said. “The survey will help us gauge if the community’s immunity against Covid-19, in the shape of antibodies, has developed or not. It will also help understand the spread of Covid-19 in the community and how much antibody is present in the blood of those who have been infected but are asymptomatic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/30-of-those-covered-by-sero-survey-will-be-minors/articleshow/76719651.cms||Sidharatha Roy
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Call of duty supersedes birth of his first child||Dr Brijesh Narola’s wife delivered a baby boy on May 10 in Surat and the young father could see him for just two hoursSurat: After recovering from coronavirus infection, duty was the first priority for this doctor who wanted to serve the needy patients from rural areas of Bharuch. Dr Brijesh Narola, 28, a lone gynaecologist at the Bharuch’s New Civil Hospital, has been working without taking a day’s leave since May 9. Despite the rising Covid-19 cases in Bharuch, Narola is least worried and continues to his services to the poor patients. Such is his commitment that he visited his wife who delivered a baby boy on May 10 in Surat for just two hours and returned back to Bharuch on the same day. He was the first doctor in Bharuch to volunteer for the plasma donation to the critical patients. Narola seems to have got infection after he attended a pregnant security guard at the civil hospital on April 14. The security guard tested positive for the coronavirus on April 16. "Unlike Surat and other places, Bharuch’s civil hospital is the only option for poor patients from interior villages. I was detected Covid-19 positive on April 17 and within eight days I recovered and was discharged. After completing the home quarantine for 14 days, I resumed the duty on May 9," said Narola. "My wife gave birth to our first child on May 10. I had to be with her, but I was in the hospital checking the patients. I had rushed to Surat and spent couple of hours with my new-born baby boy and wife. But I was more needed back in Bharuch, so I returned on the same day," he added. This was his only break for personal work. Since then Narola has been working continuously without a single day’s off. "I attend about 15 patients every day. Though I have an eight-hour shift, sometimes I stay in the hospital for 10 hours to ensure all my patients are attended well on time," adds Narola.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/call-of-duty-supersedes-birth-of-his-first-child/articleshow/76719656.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kanpur||Antigen rapid card testing begins; 40 samples found -ve||Kanpur: The health authorities on Monday started Antigen Rapid Card testing to detect corona infected persons in the city. The teams collected random samples of around 40 persons in Rawatpur area. The antigen card in its report declared all samples negative. The authorities had sent the second sample to GSVM medical college lab in Lucknow to cross-check the kit results. According to the health department, a rising and fluctuating trend of infections has indicated that the number of infected persons would be higher in July, therefore, the administration is chalking out new plans. The government has provided around 5000 Antigen Rapid Cards for testing to each district. The cards give results in just 30 minutes. Chief medical officer Dr Ashok Shukla said that the health teams had also used the cards on Friday and Saturday at Kalyanpur community health centre and primary health centres in the urban area. He said the teams collected around 55 samples but their results were not declared publicly. To verify the results of the antigen rapid card, second samples were sent to the district Covid-19 lab. Now, we are waiting for the results of lab testing”, he added. Meanwhile, the surge in the corona cases forced the health authorities to increase beds in level -3 hospitals. The LLR hospital authorities are now preparing to arrange 400 beds in level -3 Covid -19 hospital. At present, LLR hospital has around 200 beds. The neuroscience centre has a strength of 100 beds and a similar number of beds are in Upper India Sugar Exchange Maternity Hospital. Prof Richa Giri, chief superintendent of LLR hospital said that the CM had ordered to increase 25000 beds for level- 3 patients. The hospital management would increase 150 beds at the maternity wing and 150 beds at Upper India Sugar Exchange Maternity Hospital, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/antigen-rapid-card-testing-begins-40-samples-found-ve/articleshow/76719655.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Udaipur royal inheritance to be shared equally by three siblings||UDAIPUR: On a 37-year-old dispute over Mewar ex-royal family’s inheritance, an additional district court here acknowledged the equal rights of all three children of former Maharana Bhagwat Singh Mewar, the last titular ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Udaipur (until the Indian govt abolished all royal titles in 1971). In a detailed 575-page judgment passed on Tuesday, the court declared all assets transferred to various trusts as a part of the Hindu undivided family property, thereby granting equal rights to the successors and awarding 1/4th share to each of three children and one share to the deceased Maharana. Narendra Singh Kachhawah, lawyer of the eldest son Mahendra Singh Mewar, told TOI, “My client has deep belief in the judicial system of the land and he fought the legal battle for inheritance for more than three-and-a-half decades. It’s the victory of justice and righteousness.” “Mahendra Singh never claimed sole rights on the entire property despite being the eldest son. He always demanded equal share for all successors of his father late Bhagwat Singh, who pleaded on the ground of ‘Rule of Primogeniture’ claiming himself a sovereign and thus having exclusive rights to dispose or will his property. The court, however, admitted our plea and gave the decree as per the Hindu undivided family property.” The youngest son Arvind Singh Mewar, who was left all the property in Maharana’s will, told TOI, “I am yet to go through the detailed judgment, however, for now, all I can say is that we are law abiding citizens and we respect the order passed by the honourable court. We will see whatever is possible and permissible under the judicial process and take steps accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udaipur-royal-inheritance-to-be-shared-equally-by-3-siblings/articleshow/76719645.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Vijayawada||AP government to take back land given to Galla Jayadev’s firm||VIJAYAWADA: The government has asked the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) to take back 253 acres of land allotted to Amar Raja Infratech, which is owned by the family of TDP MP Galla Jayadev. An order to this effect was issued on Tuesday. The order states that the Andhra Pradesh government had allotted 488.87 acres to the firm in Yadamarri and Bangarupalem mandals of Chittoor district in 2010. The land was sold at a market value of Rs 1.80 lakh per acre on the condition that the company would invest Rs 10.7 crore and utilise the land within a span of two years. The sale agreement also authorised the APIIC to take back the land if the firm failed to utilise the land and fulfil the promise of giving employment to 20,000 locals. The order says the government found that the company utilised only 229.66 acres in the last 10 years, while 253.61 acres have remained unutilised. Also, the company was found to have provided employment to only 4,310 people, as against the promise of creating 20,000 jobs for local populace. The government has, therefore, decided to take back 253.61 acres from Amar Raja Infratech at Nunegunglapally village in Bangarupalem mandal of Chittoor district, the order states. Galla Jayadev’s family has been playing an active role in the TDP. Though Jayadev’s mother, Galla Aruna Kumari, was a close associate of late Y S Rajasekhar Reddy, the family moved to TDP after bifurcation of the state in 2014. Jayadev is a two-time MP from Guntur, winning the seat in 2014 and 2019. Municipal administration and urban development minister Botcha Satyanarayana justified the decision. “There is nothing wrong or political about this. The company failed to establish an industry as promised and hence the government is taking back the land,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-take-back-land-given-to-gallas-firm/articleshow/76718139.cms||Gopi Dara
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Deaths double faster than cases, 40% didn’t survive two days in hospital||CHENNAI: The time taken for Covid-19 deaths to double in the state is now less compared to the doubling period for fresh cases – a grim trend that doctors and health authorities are desperate to reverse. On Tuesday, the state added 60 deaths with the toll reaching 1,201. The fatality rate – deaths over total cases – stood at 1.3% compared to 0.6-0.7% in May. Epidemiologists in the public health department found that the doubling time for deaths in the state was around 12.7 days, while the doubling period for the number of cases was 14.3 days. “Both cases and deaths are on the rise. However, the rate at which deaths are increasing is higher compared to the number of cases,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. While the state said that the cases were high because testing was increased, reasons for an increase in deaths aren’t that simple. In his presentation before the medical expert team on Monday, Radhakrishnan said the average doubling time for deaths is between 10 and 11 days. “The deaths you see now are probably cases that were detected or not detected a couple of weeks ago,” says infectious diseases expert Dr Subramaniam Swaminathan. “One of the reasons for deaths is delayed admissions,” he said. At least one in every 10 patients died within 24 hours of reaching the hospital. Since Saturday, the state has released records of at least seven Covid-19 patients who were declared ‘brought dead’ by various hospitals. Six of them had no comorbid conditions. On June 23, a 50-year-old-man whose identity was ‘unknown’ was brought to the emergency room. “He was declared dead on arrival. The results of test on him later turned positive,” said a senior doctor at the Royapettah hospital. The records also show that at least 40% of patients died within the first 48 hours. In addition, around 88% of patients who died had comorbidities. “Some of them are in their early 40s,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar, himself a doctor. Death audits showed 36% of the dead had a combination of diabetes and hypertension, 22% had just diabetes, 12% had hypertension. Less than 20% had no comorbidities, he said. Experts say the number of deaths increased when fresh cases went up. In June, when the daily cases spiked, the state recorded more than 1,000 deaths. Chennai, hit worst by the virus recorded, 888 deaths and three of its neighbours – Chengalpet, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram –logged 182 cases. The case fatality rate in Chennai was 1.5% compared to state average of 1.3%, while Chengalpet had 1.6% and Tiruvallur had 1.8%. Other southern and central districts that are recording more cases in the past three weeks are reporting higher deaths. For instance, Madurai has a case fatality rate of 1.25% and Villupuram has 1.6%. “Deaths are high when the incidence is high. It will stabilise when the caseload comes down,” said infectious disease expert Dr V Ramasundaram, who is part of the team working to update the standard treatment protocol for the state. It is important for all doctors to broadly follow the standard treatment protocol said former city health officer Dr P Kuganandam. “It is even more important for people to wear masks and maintain hand hygiene,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/deaths-double-faster-than-cases-40-didnt-survive-two-days-in-hospital/articleshow/76719070.cms||Pushpa Narayan
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 74-year-old morning walker run over||KOLKATA: A 74-year-old man, who had gone out for morning walk near his residence at Jodhpur Park, was knocked down by a car around 7am on Tuesday. A young businessman, who was behind the wheels of the car involved with the accident, was learning how to drive. The victim, Gopinath Das, a resident of Rahim Ostagar Lane near 95 Pally, was rushed to the nearby EEDF Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The businessman, who had no driving licence, was arrested and produced in a local court. Probing the accident that happened near Jodhpur Park Boys’ School, the Lake police said they were trying to ascertain the identity of another person believed to be sitting in the rear left seat of the car. “We have found that the accused had no permanent licence. If it is found that the other person sitting with the accused in the car was his trainer, we might take legal action against him too,” said a police officer. He added that they were also trying to find whether the accused had put up a learner’s board on his car. According to the police, Das had taken VRS from his government job and lived with his family for several years in this area. His daughter-in-law told cops that the victim was a regular morning walker to Rabindra Sarobar. After Lake was shut, he would walk in his residential area. “Many people go out for morning walk in this area. It was not the right time to practise driving,” said police. “We have registered a case under IPC sections 279 and 304 (A) for death due to rash and negligent driving. We have also slapped section 3 (i)/181 of the Motor Vehicles Act,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/74-yr-old-morning-walker-run-over/articleshow/76719069.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 1, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur royal inheritance to be shared equally by three siblings||UDAIPUR: On a 37-year-old dispute over Mewar ex-royal family’s inheritance, an additional district court here acknowledged the equal rights of all three children of former Maharana Bhagwat Singh Mewar, the last titular ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Udaipur (until the Indian govt abolished all royal titles in 1971). In a detailed 575-page judgment passed on Tuesday, the court declared all assets transferred to various trusts as a part of the Hindu undivided family property, thereby granting equal rights to the successors and awarding 1/4th share to each of three children and one share to the deceased Maharana. Narendra Singh Kachhawah, lawyer of the eldest son Mahendra Singh Mewar, told TOI, “My client has deep belief in the judicial system of the land and he fought the legal battle for inheritance for more than three-and-a-half decades. It’s the victory of justice and righteousness.” “Mahendra Singh never claimed sole rights on the entire property despite being the eldest son. He always demanded equal share for all successors of his father late Bhagwat Singh, who pleaded on the ground of ‘Rule of Primogeniture’ claiming himself a sovereign and thus having exclusive rights to dispose or will his property. The court, however, admitted our plea and gave the decree as per the Hindu undivided family property.” The youngest son Arvind Singh Mewar, who was left all the property in Maharana’s will, told TOI, “I am yet to go through the detailed judgment, however, for now, all I can say is that we are law abiding citizens and we respect the order passed by the honourable court. We will see whatever is possible and permissible under the judicial process and take steps accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/udaipur-royal-inheritance-to-be-shared-equally-by-3-siblings/articleshow/76728077.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Unlock 2.0: Don’t expect a free run yet in capital as not many relaxations given||NEW DELHI: Unlock 2.0 hasn’t brought many relaxations in the restrictions that were imposed in the capital in the last week of March. Delhi Metro, multiplexes, gyms, entertainment parks, swimming pools, schools, colleges and other educational institutions will continue to remain closed till July 31. The guidelines unveiled by the Union ministry of home affairs on Monday have also barred the opening of bars, spas and hotels. A few training institutions of the central and Delhi governments are likely to be allowed to function from July 15. For this, the Centre will be bringing out separate standard operating procedures. Delhi government had permitted various economic activities under Unlock 1.0, which included relaxing conditions imposed on different modes of public transport, like cabs and autorickshaws. All shops in the markets and elsewhere have been allowed to open. Dining services in restaurants were permitted earlier with the condition that they won’t use more than 50% of their seating capacity. Malls, offices, construction activities, industrial units and places of worship were also opened after being asked to adhere to social distancing norms. Night curfew and non-essential movement of individuals were also relaxed from 5am to 9pm earlier to 5am to 10pm. This was welcomed by traders who had been demanding extension of the evening time limit. “The 9pm limit was forcing traders to close their shops between 7.30pm and 8pm so that the workers and the owners themselves could reach home before 9pm. Because of the summer heat, buyers usually step out to shop in the evening,” said a trader. Residents of containment zones, which have now risen to over 400, also breathed a sigh of relief as essential services have been allowed in red zones. Meanwhile, the historic Jama Masjid in the Walled City, which was closed for congregational prayers earlier this month till June 30 due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the capital, will reopen from July 4. The announcement of reopening of the mosque was made by Shahi Imam Syed Ahmed Bukhari on Tuesday. While no congregational prayers were being performed, a select few had been praying there daily. The general public had been advised to offer prayers at home. The mosque had earlier opened on June 8 after remaining shut for over two months when the government allowed relaxations under Unlock 1.0. Bukhari said that the decision to reopen the mosque was taken in consultation with people and experts. The management of the mosque said it would ensure that visitors take all safety precautions, like maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and sanitisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unlock-2-0-dont-expect-a-free-run-yet-in-capital-as-not-many-relaxations-given/articleshow/76719660.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Camera traps ‘catch’ poachers in Melghat||Nagpur: Camera traps help capture wildlife movement, but Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) officials have arrested six persons caught on camera while entering the reserve with hunting dogs, apparently with the intention of poaching. “The accused were nabbed after they were caught on camera traps installed between May 5 and June 5, 2020, as part of the tiger monitoring programme. On June 6, officials saw footage of the accused, chasing wild animals with dogs and axes in their hands,” said APCCF & field director MS Reddy. The accused have been identified as Nitesh Kasdekar (23), Sagar More (20), Sanju Belsare (21), Ritesh Belsare (19), Jaipal Kasdekar (22), and Sanju Belsare (23), all residents of Salona village in Chikhaldara range. All were remanded to forest custody (FCR) till June 30 by Achalpur JMFC. RFO AK Joshi said the accused will be produced in court on Wednesday. The accused were found moving in Ghatang range in Masondi beat, which is a highly sensitive beat. Earlier, in 2013, organized gangs of Baheliya poachers had killed a sloth bear, tigers and leopards in this beat. While several accused are still absconding, several were arrested and later convicted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/camera-traps-catch-poachers-in-melghat/articleshow/76719674.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Open book exams: High court slams DU for ‘withholding info’||NEW DELHI: Delhi University has come under fire from the high court which has asked why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against it for trying to mislead the court by withholding information on deferment of online open book exams. The exams, which were scheduled to start from July 1, have been deferred by another 10 days. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad was furious that DU didn’t inform it on June 26, while it was hearing a plea challenging the conduct of online exams, about the decision to defer the examinations. The court expressed annoyance that it got to know from news reports about the exams being deferred, even as the bench was about to dispose of the petition on the basis of the DU’s statement that it was geared up to commence exams from July 1. Once DU had told it that it was fully geared up for the examinations from July 1, any change in schedule ought to have been communicated to the bench, the court added. In its defence, the university submitted the decision was taken after it came to know on June 26 around 2.20 pm that the mother of its deputy registrar (secrecy) tested positive for Covid-19 and the entire family had to be quarantined. But, the court refused to accept the stand. “If the stand of Delhi university is correct that because a family member of deputy registrar (secrecy) had gone down with Covid-19 and the university came to know that the entire family had to be quarantined only after the matter was over, then there was enough time for the university to have reverted to this court on the same day or at least the next morning and inform us". However, “this did not happen,” the court said. “...We are prima facie of the opinion that contempt proceedings ought to be initiated against DU and its officers for withholding information from the court and trying to mislead it,” the court added. It issued notice to the varsity and sought its stand as to why contempt of court proceedings not be initiated against it and listed the matter for July 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/open-book-exams-hc-slams-du-for-withholding-info/articleshow/76719664.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Rajkot||Construction halted after hunger strike||Palanpur: The Palanpur municipality authorities on Tuesday stopped the construction work at Brahman Vas locality of the town following hunger strike by a local college professor.Professor Sailesh Kumar Jaiswal sat on hunger strike on Monday after shaving his head in protest of construction work in Brahman Vas for a commercial complex.Jaiswal said, “The construction work is illegal as the residents of the locality have filed a case against the contraction work in court.” He alleged that a commercial complex was being built in a residential locality, and that too without seeking permission from competent authorities.Banaskantha collector has asked chief officer of Palanpur municipality to look in to the matter and stop construction work.Chief officer Satish Patel of Palanpur municipality said, “I have personally visited the place and got the panchnama done. I have also ordered to stop the work as the case was sub-judice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/construction-halted-after-hunger-strike/articleshow/76718162.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||57 docs dead, 1,000 tested positive.. but we shall overcome!||Following the Covid-19 outbreak, 2020 will go down in history as a year which changed mankind and civilisation. The modern way of life as we have known it will cease to exist. The instinct for survival has stood challenged once again. I am confident that we shall overcome and conquer the coronavirus pandemic at a heavy cost. Amid all the change, the medical profession--the pride and legacy of mankind-- will retain its art and science intact. In fact, the science of it stands to gain substantially. Medicine is a calling. It will remain one. Generations of doctors to come will record that we never gave up in the fight against Covid-19. In this dark time, we remain the only flicker of light. Our knowledge and compassion should lead mankind and the nation out of this abyss. We owe it to our people. It pains me a lot that 57 of our doctors have already laid down their lives in the war against Covid. Nearly a thousand have contracted the disease. Sent into the battle like a charging brigade without cover or camouflage, we have retained our poise. Now, it’s time to tell the world we are in charge. No one is. It is our battle for our people and motherland. We shall overcome. Let us resolve on this Doctors’ Day that we will lead our nation to safety and public health. Let each of us pledge to save as many lives as possible in our line of duty. Comfort, Console and Counsel. You are the angels of hope against despondence and despair. The finest humans, let your hands be the saviour of mankind. Dr. Ketan Desai Past President Indian Medical Association, Medical Council of India & World Medical Association||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/57-docs-dead-1000-tested-positive-but-we-shall-overcome/articleshow/76719653.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Ex-Smart City officer lodges harassment complaint against Mundhe||Nagpur: Former chief knowledge officer of Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Ltd (NSSCDCL) Ranjeeta (name changed) has filed a police complaint against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for harassment and humiliation. The Sadar police, however, transferred her complaint to the office of divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar. Ranjeeta said in her five-page complaint filed on June 28 that Mundhe wanted her to share internal NSSCDCL information with some external agencies to which she objected which angered Mundhe. “Thereafter, he started harassing me by making insulting and derogatory remarks in front of other staffers and persons associated with NSSCDCL,” she said in her complaint. Mundhe did not respond to TOI’s calls and text messages. According to the complaint, Mundhe had asked her to meet him in relation to official work after the office hours at places such as his residence or at Ravi Bhavan etc. “On February 2, 2020, Mundhe convened a meeting to review Smart City project. After the meeting was over, he asked me to meet him at Ravi Bhavan at 8.30pm. Although I was asked to come alone, I took two male employees along with me. Ajay Ramteke of L&T and one Prashant Magar, were also present there. He then asked me to share confidential data related to the project with Magar. I refused and so Mundhe shouted at me in front of the outsiders and also warned of consequences for not following his instructions,” Ranjeeta stated. Ranjeeta was appointed in NSSCDCL as chief knowledge officer on February 28, 2019. Based on her performance, her annual contract was renewed on February 26 this year from March 1, 2020, to February 28, 2021. “I could make out that Mundhe used to look for opportunities to insult and humiliate me due to my refusal to meet him after the office hours and outside office premises,” she stated. On June 16, she received a message from Mundhe to meet him for performance appraisal. Mundhe asked her to accept that the project assigned to her had failed and sought her resignation. “I refused to resign pointing out that my performance appraisal had already been done. The same evening, I received a communication from Mundhe terminating my services with immediate effect,” Ranjeeta said. According to her, the initial contents of her termination order were vague and non-specific. Many aspects in the order of termination pertain to accounts department. HR department was not consulted before issuing the order. She demanded action against Mundhe. Sadar police inspector Mahesh Bansode said as the complaint filed by Ranjeeta was of administrative nature. “We transferred it to the office of divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar on June 30,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-smart-city-officer-lodges-harassment-complaint-against-mundhe/articleshow/76719097.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 1, 2020||Vijayawada||50% JNPC units fared poorly in safety audit||Visakhapatnam: Industrial accidents seem to be becoming a recurring phenomenon in the pharma industries in north AP comprising Vizag, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. In Vizag city limits alone, over 100 pharma units operate from Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City (JNPC) in Parawada area. A safety audit was conducted in 2016 by the inspector of factories and around 50% of the units got adverse reports. Between 2013 and 2019, 37 people lost their lives while nearly 150 suffered injuries in accidents at pharma units situated in JNPC. Former union secretary and activist EAS Sarma has called for a comprehensive investigation and and criminal prosecution of Sainor Life Sciences. He said a similar accident happened at the same plant on September 28, 2015, in which two persons died and four others suffered injuries. “These factories, both private entities as well as public sector units like the HPCL, spew toxins into the air on a regular basis, pollute the land and water bodies in the area as well as pump poison into the sea and in general pose a serious on-site and off-site hazard,” alleged K Sudha and VS Krishna of the Human Rights Forum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/50-jnpc-units-fared-poorly-in-safety-audit/articleshow/76718154.cms||Nalla.Babu
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Doctor ups battle after three quarantines, tryst with virus||VADODARA: Thrice quarantined, Covid is now a ‘mere isolation time’ for this gutsy 27-year-old doctor, who also tested positive for the virus once. Meet Dr Hinal Upadhyay, a third-year resident doctor with anaesthesia department at the state-run SSG Hospital, who has given Covid a taste of its own medicine, literally. First, she had tested Covid positive in a week when she was supposed to take rest after she had been sent on a week’s Covid deputation to Ahmedabad’s civil hospital from May 13. "After the week ended on May 20, I was in quarantine till May 27. But I started developing sore throat and fever. On May 26, while already in quarantine, I tested positive and so the isolation got extended by 14 more days," said Upadhyay. As soon as the 14-day quarantine period ended on June 8, she bounced back rejoining general hospital duties from June 9. However, she was assigned Covid duty again at the SSG’s isolation ward from June 13, making her undergo another week in quarantine after week ended on June 20. "The challenging part of 8-hour PPE kit duty is the ‘no food, no loo’ drill till duty hours end. That demands mental strength," said Upadhyay, who is the first doctor in her family. The daughter of an engineer father, Upadhyay pursued her MBBS from Rajkot Medical College and is doing MD anaesthesia from Baroda Medical College. "Despite being from the city, I haven’t met my parents for the past two months who are tensed about me, but keeps encouraging me too," she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doc-ups-battle-after-three-quarantines-tryst-with-virus/articleshow/76719668.cms||Prashant Rupera
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Cases rising steadily, peak in Chennai soon, say experts||CHENNAI: From around 1,000 new infections a day around mid-June to double that number in the last five days, Chennai is climbing the Covid curve steadily. Epidemiologists say all big cities including Chennai, Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata, which are seeing an ‘avalanche’ of cases, could peak in the first half of July leading to the national peak around mid-July or August. The first sign of a peak is a consistent number of daily cases for at least a week before they begin to fall. By the time they reach the baseline, epidemiologists say, the infections would have doubled compared to the pre-peak period. While a lockdown can delay the peak by a few days to a week, experts said it’s time to relax the lockdown in Chennai as it is also delaying the process where a proportion of the population is exposed to the virus and develops natural immunity. Chennai, which accounted for 63.20% of new cases in TN on June 16, dropped to 53.66% on June 26, though the infection growth rose by 1.5 times, with the city adding 15,000 new cases, from around 32,000 on June 16. One reason for Chennai’s high numbers is officials testing and finding more infections. Similarly, districts like Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Tuticorin, Madurai and Cuddalore besides Chennai’ neighbouring Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Tiruvallur have been recording more cases since mid-June. From mid-July peak to October-peak, different studies with different models have shown different predictions for cities like Chennai. An epidemiologist with the state government said that while many other countries saw the peak after 5%-10% of the population was infected, the infection so far in Chennai is less than 1%. Nevertheless, that number is only the detected cases, where 80% are asymptomatic, while there could be 10 times that number that are asymptomatic and undetected. “In general, epidemics take about 100 days to reach herd immunity, but lockdowns will slow down this. The numbers could become bigger and I think in two more weeks, it could peak, but the lockdown could delay it by another two weeks. Essentially, what we are doing with lockdown is not getting rid of the virus or disease but only prolonging the drama. The justification is we cannot handle the crowd that may land in the hospital because there will be too many. But it should be people who should put lockdown for themselves by behaving in a safe manner,” said epidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cases-rising-steadily-peak-in-city-soon-say-experts/articleshow/76719105.cms||U Tejonmayam
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Social distancing: Delhi needs to triple bus fleet||NEW DELHI: India will have to increase its bus fleet to around 6.66 lakh from current 25,000 to meet the public transport demand, while effectively carrying out social distancing, an analysis by Delhi-based think tank Climate Trends has found. Delhi, which currently has 5,576 buses, will need close to 14,300 buses, the Climate Trends study stated. It took into account Mumbai’s BEST bus system, which only allows 30 passengers (25 seated and five standing), as an ‘adequate’ social distancing standards. “The disparity in the existing fleet vs what is required is enormous. Using Mumbai’s BEST guidelines, India will need close to 666,667 buses to ensure social distancing. The bus system is the backbone of mass transit, especially, now when we are also expected to follow the social distancing norms,” said Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends. She added that, for many, buying a car wasn’t the option, and there must be a ramping up of public transportation infrastructure. “Covid-19 with its compulsion of space,must be used as an opportunity to address the existing inadequacy in the public transportation and infrastructure, and bring the focus on the measures that can be adopted to strengthen the sustainable and efficient public transportation,” she added. Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) stated that 1.5 lakh buses in urban India would be required to ferry around two crore riders without accounting for social distancing norms. The current fleet falls short of that too. In cities like Mumbai, the local trains and metros are carrying approximately 40 lakh commuters daily. With average daily ridership of 43 lakh, 30 lakh of which is for Delhi Metro, Delhi will need to almost triple its existing bus fleet, the study revealed. The analysis, however, does not take into account the status of alternate forms of transport. For instance, Delhi Metro alone has a daily ridership figure of close to 30 lakh. Khosla said if the metro was not running, this would lead to a further increase in demand of buses. Amit Bhatt, director (Transport), World Resources Institute, India, said people who cannot afford personal mobility were particularly reliant on shared transport, therefore, making it essential to provide them with safe movement. “On the other hand, if choice users and people with affordability shift to private transportation, our cities will come to a grinding halt. Therefore, we need to bring the focus back on shared mobility. One way to do it will be to initiate Covid-19 safety labelling for transport services. We also need to re-imagine our street design so that it can facilitate safe walking and cycling,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/social-distancing-delhi-needs-to-triple-bus-fleet/articleshow/76719678.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 1, 2020||Kanpur||Dec 20 riots: Gangster Act invoked against 11||Kanpur: Police on Monday invoked Gangster Act against 11 alleged rioters under Babupurwa police station in connection with the violence on December 20 last year following a protest against the Citizenship Act. According to the police, out of the 35 identified accused, 19 have been arrested and sent to jail while the hunt for the others is still on. To recall, three persons had died and 13 others injured in firing in Babupurwa area of the city on December 20, 2019, during violent protests against the amended Citizenship Act. Several policemen were also injured and several vehicles, including those belonging to police, were torched by the rioters. Inspector Babupurwa Rajiv Kumar Singh said, “The police decided to invoke Gangster Act as investigations have confirmed that they acted as a gang and intentionally targeted policemen and their vehicles during the violence.” “The police have sufficient evidence against them to justify imposing of Gangster Act against them,” Singh said and added they have been identified as Haseen of Ajitganj, Akram of Babupurwa, Mohd Umar of Ram Bagh Colony, Wasif and Sarwar of Quli Bazar, Faizan Khan of Begumpurwa, Sabir Siddiqui, Aqeel and Hammad of Babupurwa, Dlishad of Bagahi and Mohd Qasim of Barabanki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dec-20-riots-gangster-act-invoked-against-11/articleshow/76719681.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||CS camp office, anti-graft unit shut||Lucknow: UP chief secretary’s camp office and the anti-corruption organisation (ACO) of UP Police were shut for 48 hours from Tuesday afternoon for sanitisation after Covid-19 cases were reported from both establishments. Altogether, 32 cases were reported on Tuesday, raising the city’s count to 1,072. “The camp office of chief secretary was shut after a data entry operator tested positive. The ACO office was also closed after the death of a head constable due to Covid-19,” said CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal. Superintendent of police (ACO), Lucknow, Rajiv Malhotra said, “Our head office on the seventh and eight floors of Tower-III at DGP headquarters has been sealed for 48 hours and the 75 personnel have been asked to home quarantine themselves. They will be tested also.” The office of deputy commissioner of police, traffic, will also be closed for sanitisation as his gunner tested positive, said health officers. Earlier, chief minister’s helpline, office of joint commissioner of police, law and order, district court and call centres of police emergency helpline UP112 and 108 and 102 ambulance services were fully or partially closed after employees were found positive for infection. Other positive cases on Tuesday included a gynaecologist at a private nursing home in Indiranagar, wife of Badali Kheda based jawan of PAC 32nd battalion and a clerk in the zone eight office of Lucknow municipal corporation.  IAS officer tests positive IAS officer and director of UP Hindi Sansthan, Sri Kant Mishra, who is nodal officer of Covid-19, Gonda, tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on Tuesday. “He gave his sample on Sunday and went to Gonda,” the CMO said. A retired PCS officer and his wife also tested positive. The couple lives in Mall Avenue and had travelled to Noida recently. KGMU lab crosses 1 lakh tests The number of Covid-19 tests conducted by KGMU’S microbiology department crossed the one lakh mark on Tuesday. The department has been testing samples from the across the state since February. Of total 1.14 lakh samples tested so far, 3,059 came positive. The team is now conducting over 2,000 tests daily, said KGMU officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cs-camp-office-anti-graft-unit-shut/articleshow/76719692.cms||Yusra Husain
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Accused must get copy of report sought by court: Delhi high court||New Delhi: Delhi high court has made it clear that whenever courts call for any report from jail authorities or the police in a bail application, its copy should be given to the accused for properly understanding the reasons given in it as “this is a basic need for access to justice and for rendering justice to the public at large”. In case the status report’s copy is not supplied to the applicant accused, the reasons have to be recorded by the court in the order. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said as far as possible, the report of the investigating officer (IO) of a case as well as of the jail superintendent should be given to the court in advance so that they can defend their case effectively. “Ordinarily, as a general rule, it ought to be kept in mind by the courts that whenever any report is called for from the jail superintendent and is given to the court either directly or through prosecutor, copy thereof should be given to the applicant of the bail application,” the court noted. The high court passed the order while allowing a petition filed by one Chirag Madan seeking directions for supply of status reports by the Jail Superintendent or reply filed on behalf of the prosecution at the time hearing bail applications before the metropolitan magistrates and sessions judges to the accused or his or her counsel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-accused-must-get-copy-of-report-sought-by-court/articleshow/76719682.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports 3,000 cases in just 8 days||JAIPUR: The Covid infection tally in the state touched 18,014 on Tuesday with the addition of 354 fresh cases. The casualty count reached 413 with the addition of 8 more deaths. In the last 8 days, the state added more than 3000 cases. Of the 8 news deaths, Jodhpur topped the list with 4 casualties, taking the district’s toll to 49. Jaipur reported three fatalities taking the toll to 160. Another person from a different state also added to the toll. As many as 299 patients 19 have been cured taking the tally of such people to 14,220. Districts which reported new cases are Bharatpur (58), Jodhpur (55), Sikar (44), Jaupur (27), Alwar (22), Dholpur (18), Sirohi (14), Kota (12), Churu (11), Barmer (11), Nagaur (9), Ajmer (8), Jalore (8), Sawai Madhopur (8), Rajsamand (7), Bikaner (7), Dungarpur (6), Udaipur (6), Bhilwara (4), Dausa (4), Pali (4), Sriganganagar (1), Jhunjhunu (1), Karauli (1), Tonk (1), one is BSF personnel and six from other states. In Jaipur, 20 different places reported 27 new cases. The areas include, Jagannathpuri A (6), Chandpole (2), while one each case was reported from Nirman Nagar, Lalana, Jhotwara, Shyam Nagar, Amber, Tripolia Bazaar, Adarsh Nagar, Dehara, SMS hospital, Malviya Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Sanganer, Tonk Road, Muhana Mandi, Jawahar Circle, Kotputli and address of two patients is not clear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-3000-cases-in-just-8-days/articleshow/76719116.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Textile shop owner faces police case for spreading virus||Coimbatore: The city corporation on Tuesday filed a police complaint against a textile shop owner for violating the government guidelines and being the reason for the spread of Covid-19 at Masakalipalayam. Assistant commissioner of east zone M Selvan filed the complaint with the Peelamedu police. The shop owner and 18 of his employees had tested positive for the infection on Sunday. The three-storied textile shop at Balaji Nagar near Masakalipalayam was sealed by south tahsildar Meenakumari on June 24 for violating social distancing norms. “Despite sealing the shop, the shop owner had reopened it the very next day to do business without any interruption. After receiving complaints, the corporation sealed the shop again on June 26,” source in the corporation said.After one of the staff members turned positive for the infection, the corporation announced the shop as containment area and a banner was installed in front of it. The shop would remain as the containment area till July 9. Subsequently, other staff members and the owner himself turned positive for the infection. District collector K Rajamani on Tuesday inspected the locality and directed the corporation officials to take necessary action against the shop owner. Based on his direction, the corporation filed a complaint for violating the government norms and being a reason for the spread of the infection. Meanwhile, the corporation officials seized about 13 vegetable lorries for attempting to trespass into the old dump yard ground near Eru company in Kavundampalayam on Tuesday. According to sources, the traders of MGR market had entered the ground to resume their business without obtaining prior permission from the corporation. They have also sealed two coaching centres on NSR Road for violating the guidelines including the social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/textile-shop-owner-faces-police-case-for-spreading-virus/articleshow/76719112.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kanpur||25 test positive, one dies of Covid||Kanpur: On Tuesday, 25 more Covid-19 positive cases were recorded by the district health department, taking the district’s total tally to 1,170. With one more Covid related death in the city the toll became 51. Meanwhile, 38 patients have been discharged so far and 281 are under treatment. A 64-year-old woman of Vishnupuri, also suffering from Type-II diabetes, COPD and hypertension breathed her last at LLR hospital. New cases were reported from Sarvodaya Nagar, Pheelkhana, Naughara, Kidwai Nagar, Naubasta, Jarib Chauki, Civil Lines, Damodar Nagar, Anandpuri, Benajhabar, Lal Bangla, Shastri Nagar, Chakeri, Rooma. Health department collected 438 samples for tests on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/25-test-positive-one-dies-of-covid/articleshow/76719686.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Nine charged with murders during northeast Delhi riots||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has filed three chargesheets against nine people who were found to be allegedly involved in several murders at Gokulpuri during the northeast Delhi riots. Two of the accused were found to be members of a WhatsApp group that was used to instigate rioters on religious lines between February 25 and 26. According to police, they had instigated rioters to catch hold of passersby beside the Johripur canal and ask them about their religious identity. They subsequently stabbed some passersby and thrown them into the canal. Cops tracked them down after scanning WhatsApp groups in which they boasted about killing three people and dumping their bodies in the canal. In the chargesheet, cops said that since the morning of February 25 till the midnight of February 26, the men bludgeoned at least nine people to death and injured several others in Bhagirathi Vihar and other areas. In one of the WhatsApp groups, two of the accused had asked the other members to identify people from the other community so that they could be attacked at night. They also instigated other group members to join them in their fight, police said. “The accused wrote that there were adequate weapons, including firearms, to protect people from the other community. They even bragged about killing several people in colonies around northeast Delhi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nine-charged-with-murders-during-ne-riots/articleshow/76719685.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Rajkot||Clerk falls to death from 10th floor||Rajkot: A 50-year-old school clerk died after he accidentally fell from the balcony of a 10th floor apartment on Kalavad Road on Tuesday morning. The deceased, Tushar Vachhani, was working as a senior clerk with S N Kansagra School on the University Road. He is survived by his wife and a son, who is currently studying in Canada, said police. According to police, Vachhani was trying to clear the clogged water outlet pipe on the roof of his balcony to release accumulated rainwater. Vachhani had climbed on a stool and was standing on the edge of his balcony in Shree Residency to remove the blockage using a stick.All of a sudden, Vachhani lost balance and fell down from the 10th floor and died on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/clerk-falls-to-death-from-10th-floor/articleshow/76718205.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||June recorded 64% of total Covid-19 cases, 56% deaths||NAGPUR: Though the central and state government predicted peak of Covid-19 between May 15 and 31, the district has registered the highest number of corona cases and deaths in June. However, the epidemic situation in the district continues to be better than other districts in the state. The district had registered 541 Covid-19 positive cases in 82 days of March, April and May. In 30 days of June, there have been 964 cases, which is 64.05% of total cases. The district’s positivity rate is also low compared to others in the state. The number of samples tested in the district in last 112 days is 24,500. Thus, the district’s positivity rate comes to 6.14% whereas it is 18.34% of the state. Similarly, 11 Covid-19 deaths were registered in 82 days of March, April and May whereas the number is 14 in June, which is 56% of total deaths. District’s mortality rate is 1.66% whereas it is 4.48% for the state, 2.98% for the country and 4.99% for the world. Fortunately, recovery continues to be the best in the district. Until now, 385 corona positive patients had recovered in 82 days of March, April and May, and the number is 843 for June, which is 68.64% of total recoveries. The recovery rate is 81.59%, with 16.74% active cases. With a motive to prepare all types of facilities to face any spike in cases, the government had in April given a projection of cases in the district. It projected that Covid-19 positive cases may be 18,902 from the district, 11,114 from city and remaining 7,788 from rural parts of the district. City instead registered 1,245 cases and Nagpur Rural 207. Remaining 53 cases are from other districts of Vidarbha, and neighbouring MP and Chhattisgarh. Though the city is third in the state as far as population is concerned, the second capital stands at 15th place in all municipal corporations as far as positive cases are concerned. Already, central government’s Rapid Response Team and experts in epidemiology have credited NMC for fewer cases and deaths in the city. A team of NMC led by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai, additional chief medical officer Dr Praveen Gantawar, zonal medical officers especially Dr Minakshi Mane and Dr Khwaja Moinuddin implemented mass quarantine and testing model followed by various innovative measures to contain spread of Covid-19. The cases were high in June reportedly due to easing of lockdown. Also, a new hotspot — Naik Talao-Bangladesh has emerged. There have been 367 cases in this zone as on date. It is the second highest figure after Mominpura, which recorded 387 cases. City’s first hotspot — Satranjipura has been reportedly free of infection after registering 138 cases. The total cases in these three zones are 892, which is 71.64% of total cases in city. A NMC official told TOI, “No new projection of cases has come from the centre or state. But we are ready with our resilience strategy to contain spread of the disease, and also end existing chains. Need is for total cooperation from people, by following all guidelines related to lockdown and Covid-19,” he said. Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe told TOI, “Rise in cases in June was not surprising. It was expected with unlocking. Also, number of tests have increased. Fortunately, mortality rate is low. Due to social and financial issues, contact between people will increase, so there is always chance of further rise in a month or two. It can be prevented if people follow distancing and take precautions, especially wearing mask properly, and take the responsibility to follow guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/june-recorded-64-of-total-covid-19-cases-56-deaths/articleshow/76719111.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Sick & unable to work, couple hang to death||Coimbatore: A couple committed suicide in their house at Anna Nagar in Anaimalai on Monday evening. They were working in a coir pith making unit in the area. Police said Y Veerankutti, 45, from Ottapalam near Palakkad and Ayyammal, 44, of Athupollachi were living together after Ayyammal had left her husband Masilamani about five years ago. The couple were found hanging from the roof of their house by neighbours. When alerted, the Anaimalai police reached spot and sent the dead body to the Vettaikaranpudur government hospital for postmortem. Both of them were suffering from some illness. They found it difficult to work and sustain themselves financially, a police officer said. After the postmortem, the bodies were handed over to the family members on Tuesday. Ayyammal is survived by a son, a daily wage worker. Police have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sick-unable-to-work-couple-hang-to-death/articleshow/76719118.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Vadodara||Man creates fake FB profile to talk with estranged wife||Vadodara: A man living on Laxmipura Road was arrested by the Vadodara rural police for creating his sister-in-law’s fake Facebook profile to reach out to his estranged wife.Police said that the accused Chetan Rohit’s wife Vaishali had moved to her parents’ home in Savli as the couple used to bicker a lot. Since Vaishali was not responding to his calls and messages, Rohit created a fake Facebook profile of Vaishali’s cousin Renuka Solanki. Rohit sent friend requests to several family members to make it look genuine.Since Vaishali was also in the friend list, Rohit started calling her through Facebook messenger, but would not speak anything when she answered. Meanwhile, on June 17, Solanki came across the profile in which the profile picture was also same as her real account. Solanki and her husband Hasmukh started probing about the creator of the account by asking family members who were in the friend list. Cops said that when Rohit got a whiff of it, he called Hasmukh to admit that he had created the fake profile and apologized for it. He said that he wanted to talk to Vaishali so he had created the profile.Later, Rohit was asked to delete the profile. However, since he did not and continued using it, Solanki lodged an offence under the Information Technology Act at Vadu police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-creates-fake-fb-profile-to-talk-with-estranged-wife/articleshow/76717927.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kochi||Vellappally quizzed in fund fraud case||ALAPPUZHA: The crime branch team investigating the Kollam SN College golden jubilee fund mismanagement case on Tuesday interrogated SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan at his residence at Kanichukulangara. The team arrived at his residence at around 4pm and recorded Natesan’s statements. On June 22, the Kerala high court directed the crime branch to complete the investigation and submit the final report in two weeks. Earlier, a Kollam native filed a complaint in a local court in Kollam alleging that Natesan misappropriated funds collected for the construction of an auditorium and library as part of the golden jubilee celebrations of the SN College, Kollam, in 1997-98. Though the local court ordered an inquiry, the crime branch had rejected the complaint citing lack of evidence. However, their report was rejected by the court. Natesan then moved the high court against the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vellappally-quizzed-in-fund-fraud-case/articleshow/76718239.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Flyover work at GN Mills Junction may begin soon||Coimbatore: Months after the failure of the first pile load test for the flyover at GN Mills Junction on Mettupalayam Road, the National Highways wing of the state highways department on Tuesday conducted a third test to double-check the bearing capacity of the piles. An official said the test results were positive. Earlier, the department had following the failure of the first pile load test stopped the flyover work. The 670 metres long flyover is expected to reduce traffic congestion on Mettupalayam Road. A senior official with the department said, “Initially, the foundation was 10 meters deep. After the initial test failed, the depth was increased to 15 meters and a similar test was conducted in January. While the result was positive, we wanted to be double sure before proceeding further.” Earlier this month, the highways officials had conducted an initial pile load test by placing sand bags weighing 2.5 times of the load expected on the piles. It was done at different points, which were not selected for laying the piles. On Tuesday, the test was conducted by placing 1.5 times the load expected on the piles, i.e., about 590 tonnes of sand bags, at the exact locations that were selected for laying piles, the official said. “As the results are positive so far, we have decided to submit a revised proposal to the state government. The construction work would be started immediately after the approval comes through,” the official said. He said the work was expected to commence in a month and that it would take 18 months for completion of flyover. While the work to increase the depth for laying foundation would incur additional cost to the department, officials are confident of managing the same within the estimated project cost of Rs 41 crore. “We are expected to incur an additional cost of Rs 30 lakh to Rs 40 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flyover-work-at-gn-mills-junction-may-begin-soon/articleshow/76719126.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||NMC ‘encroaches’ on badminton hall, mayor threatens hunger strike||Nagpur: There are limited badminton halls in the city. Long commute and paucity of practice slots are common woes faced by city shuttlers. Still, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has converted the newly-renovated Hanuman Nagar badminton hall into a tax collection centre. Local corporators, led by Ravindra (Chotu) Bhoyar, who are opposing the move, locked the entrance to the premises, shutting tax department employees inside during working hours on Tuesday. Mayor Sandip Joshi too reached the spot. Joshi directed the tax department officials to vacate the hall by Tuesday evening. “NMC is trying its best to provide infrastructure for development of sports. It doesn’t befit NMC administration to encroach upon the badminton court. If the court in not vacated by Thursday, I will also join the corporators’ hunger strike,” Joshi said. Earlier, the tax collection office was located in a Chandan Nagar school. Since the school building is dilapidated, the NMC tax collection centre was shifted to the badminton court, which was supposed to be inaugurated soon. “Since Chandan Nagar tax collection office is not available, NMC shifted entire office into the newly-constructed badminton hall. We don’t want to repeat the past, where NMC used the sports hall for office work for about 20 years. It is meant for sports and should be used only by players,” said Bhoyar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-encroaches-on-badminton-hall-mayor-threatens-hunger-strike/articleshow/76719121.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||Cop, Thakurganj resident die of Covid, city toll 20||Lucknow: Two more deaths took the city’s toll due to Covid-19 to 20 on Tuesday with one patient dying every alternate day in the month of June. A 45-year-old police head constable posted in the anti-corruption branch of UP Police died due to hypoxaemia following respiratory distress syndrome and a 40-year-old Thakurganj resident succumbed to infection following multi-organ failure. The two deceased became the third and fourth middle-aged victims of novel coronavirus infection which till date has mainly claimed lives of elderly people with comorbid conditions in the state capital. A resident of Vijay Khand in Gomtinagar, the constable was brought to KGMU at 3am with acute breathing difficulty. The test revealed that he had Covid-19, which apparently was also the cause of his respiratory problem. The disease was said to be at the last stage and the constable died around 8.15am, said Dr D Himanshu, in charge of the isolation unit and corona ward at KGMU. SP anti-corruption organisation Rajiv Malhotra said the deceased head constable was of 1995 batch and hailed from Deoria. He worked in the dispatch section and had taken leave on June 25, citing some health issues. The patient from Thakurganj was admitted on Saturday with acute renal problem. His condition was critical and he was put on dialysis. His sample was sent for test which found him positive for coronavirus. All contacts of the two deceased are in home quarantine and will be tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cop-thakurganj-resident-die-of-covid-city-toll-20/articleshow/76719701.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kanpur||Woman gets in-laws booked over dispute||Kanpur: In a first of its kind case, a woman in the city having a dispute with her in-laws got them booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act, besides accusing them of assault and harassment. The woman filed a complaint against her mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law and brother-in-law on late Monday night. Police officials said one Deepika Gupta, a resident of Basantinagar filed a complaint at Juhi police station stating she was busy doing her household chores on June 27 when her mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law and brother-in-law and latter’s son and daughter barged into her room and started quarrelling with her and tried to force her to withdraw a case of domestic violence she had filed against them few years ago. “When she offered resistance, they attacked her with sticks before threatening her with dire consequences,” said police officials. She alleged in her complaint that not only her in-laws attacked her, but they also defied the rules to be followed by all to curb coronavirus infection. “The complainant has stated that her in-laws defied pandemic regulations as they violated social distancing norms, besides none of them was wearing face mask thus putting her life at risk,” said Juhi inspector Santosh Arya. “They have been booked under Epidemic Diseases Act as well as relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” Arya added. The woman’s in-laws also lodged a complaint against her, accusing her of assaulting them and threatening them with dire consequences. “We are investigating the matter after registering both FIRs,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-gets-in-laws-booked-over-dispute/articleshow/76719697.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 4 lakh LED street lights for 2,000 habitations||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is set to launch ‘Jagananna Palle Velugu’ scheme under which four lakh LED street lights will be installed in 2,000 habitations across the state which are not yet covered under any present project. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by minister for rural development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy on Tuesday. The meeting also decided to put in place a new Complaint Monitoring System (CMS) by involving village secretariats to address complaints on non-functional street lights. Around 7,000 energy assistants will be deputed to address such complaints and the services of 2.7 village volunteers will also be utilised in identifying and reporting on malfunctioning street lights. The CMS will also have one executive at the assembly constituency level, one at the revenue division level and one at the district level to monitor and supervise repair works of street lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/4l-led-street-lights-for-2k-habitations/articleshow/76718226.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Search on for man who went missing with 1kg gold||Coimbatore: The city police are on a lookout for a goldsmith who went missing with 1kg gold bars from Sukrawarpet market on Tuesday. For the past three years, Prabhu, the accused from Virudhunagar district, had been working with Sivakumar’s gold workshop in Sukrawarpet. Sivakumar would obtain gold bars from jewellery shops in the district and turn them into ornaments. A few weeks ago, owner of a jewellery shop in Gandhipuram had approached Sivakumar asking him to make jewellery as per selected design. He had handed over 1kg f gold bars to him, said a police official. Sivakumar in turn gave the gold bars to Prabhu to start the work. As Prabhu did not return with the ornaments, Sivakumar filed a police complaint at Rathinapuri. A hunt is on. In another incident, unidentified people broke into a house and stole 25 sovereigns of gold ornaments near Velliangadu in Tirupur. The complainant, Aravind Kumar, 27, had left for his farmhouse along with his family members on Saturday. When he returned on Tuesday morning, he noticed that the backdoor of his house was damaged and gold jewels kept in the cupboard were missing. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/search-on-for-man-who-went-missing-with-1kg-gold/articleshow/76719130.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sewing machine lure: Man loses Rs 2L||Ahmedabad: A garment trader from the Sola area of city on Monday filed a complaint of cheating against an unknown man who lured him with Rs 1,800 and a sewing machine under an alleged scheme of the Union government. He lost Rs 1.98 lakh. In his FIR with Sola police, Jiken Patel, 25, a resident of Ganeshdham Bungalows on SG Road in Sola, states that he runs a garments shop in Ghatlodia. Patel received a call on June 26 from an unknown number. The caller told him that he was speaking from prime minister sewing class training centre. The man told Patel that he will be given Rs 1,800, a sewing machine and a certificate under a Union government scheme for which Patel will have to have an account in Kalupur Commercial Bank. The man also sent a photo of a sewing machine which convinced Patel that the man was really a representative of some government organisation. To this, Patel told the man that his parents had accounts in the Kalupur bank and sent the bank details. After a while, Patel’s parents received one time password (OTP) which they shared with the man and a few minutes later around Rs 1.98 lakh were deducted. Patel called up police control room and also filed a complaint with Sola police under charges of cheating along with sections of information technology act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sewing-machine-lure-man-loses-rs-2l/articleshow/76719197.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: 4 lakh LED street lights for 2,000 habitations||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is set to launch ‘Jagananna Palle Velugu’ scheme under which four lakh LED street lights will be installed in 2,000 habitations across the state which are not yet covered under any present project. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by minister for rural development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy on Tuesday. The meeting also decided to put in place a new Complaint Monitoring System (CMS) by involving village secretariats to address complaints on non-functional street lights. Around 7,000 energy assistants will be deputed to address such complaints and the services of 2.7 village volunteers will also be utilised in identifying and reporting on malfunctioning street lights. The CMS will also have one executive at the assembly constituency level, one at the revenue division level and one at the district level to monitor and supervise repair works of street lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/4l-led-street-lights-for-2k-habitations/articleshow/76721643.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Covid patients, families battle hatred, humiliation & social exclusion||CHENNAI: For 38-year-old Rajesh, an electrician, life has turned traumatic since June 19 when he tested positive for Covid-19. Native of a village near Kurisilapet and undergoing treatment in Tirupattur government hospital, it was not just the illness that was tormenting him. Rather, it was the humiliation meted out to his family back home that was bothering him more. “My family is subjected to constant neglect and humiliation in the village,” he told TOI. Rajesh said someone had spread rumours in the village that he had died of the virus in the hospital. “None of my family members is positive. But they are being kept at a distance in the village,’’ he said. Ravi, from Pachur in Tirupattur district, is worried about isolation his family was facing back home. The youth tested positive when he returned home 10 days ago from Chennai. “They think our family is cursed,” said the youth. “The villagers are calling us the ‘Corona family’,’’ he said. If family members of Covid positive people face such abuse, the recovered patients had to go through even more torment, thanks to the deeply entrenched social stigma against the virus. “When I returned home, neighbours rushed into their houses seeing us,” said a 30-year-old man from Trichy, who recently recovered. Though exercising caution and maintaining social distance is understandable, rushing into homes at the sight of a Covid survivor is nothing but ignorance and insensitivity, say health experts. Covid survivors, however, say it was more than just ignorance or insensitivity. They say it bordered on hatred. “A containment zone was created in our street. This irked a section of our neighbours as they blame us for it,’’ said the survivor. It is not just Covid survivors who have become victims of social stigma. Even those who had tested negative get similar treatment. The family of a 38-year-old van driver was prohibited from using the public toilet in his village near Vellalore in Coimbatore after he undertook a trip to Theni and returned. He took a test voluntarily which showed he was Covid negative. But villagers were apprehensive and objected to his walking in the street. In worst case scenarios, isolation of Covid patients resulted in severe depression driving some to suicide. On June 28, a 56-year-old Covid-19 patient jumped off the first floor of the building at a Covid care centre in Thirupparankundram in Madurai district. Psychiatrists say there is no sense of disgrace or disgust associated with Covid, like it is with AIDS or leprosy, but it is the fear that manifests as stigma. T Kumanan, a psychiatrist from Madurai, said Covid patients and survivors undergo severe mental stress. While society needs to be educated enough to understand the disease and accommodate the survivors by maintaining precautions, the patients have to develop mental will, said Kumanan. (Names of patients changed)(With inputs from Deepak Karthik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-patients-families-battle-hatred-humiliation-social-exclusion/articleshow/76719135.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
July 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: 4 lakh LED street lights for 2,000 habitations||VIJAYAWADA: The state government is set to launch ‘Jagananna Palle Velugu’ scheme under which four lakh LED street lights will be installed in 2,000 habitations across the state which are not yet covered under any present project. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by minister for rural development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy on Tuesday. The meeting also decided to put in place a new Complaint Monitoring System (CMS) by involving village secretariats to address complaints on non-functional street lights. Around 7,000 energy assistants will be deputed to address such complaints and the services of 2.7 village volunteers will also be utilised in identifying and reporting on malfunctioning street lights. The CMS will also have one executive at the assembly constituency level, one at the revenue division level and one at the district level to monitor and supervise repair works of street lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/4l-led-street-lights-for-2k-habitations/articleshow/76721642.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: After brush with death, doctor beats Covid and gets back on track||RAJKOT: In her war against coronavirus, 37-year-old frontline warrior Dr Meghavi Bhapal in Rajkot Civil Hospital for the first time in nine years of duty was afraid — for her own life. Bhapal, an MD in medicine and a mother of two children, got diagnosed as Rajkot’s first Covid positive case after she returned home from her 10-day deputation to Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. In Rajkot, she had been serving at the Covid ward but she saw the contagion in its ugly form at Ahmedabad’s Covid emergency ward when she attended to patients between June 1 and 10. "Most serious Covid patients were coming to the civil hospital there directly in the third stage which is called ARDS (Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome). There was heavy viral load," said the doc who returned home on June 10 and the very next day tested positive herself. She got admitted in her own hospital where she had been serving for so long. "I had a very low heart rate which is a very rare complication of coronavirus itself. The cardiologist opined that there is no cardiac related problem but virus load was there which affected my heart and vagus nerve," said Bhapal, who was afraid that she may never see her two children eight-year old Stuti and three-year-old Saurya again. After 12 days of hospitalization, she came home on June 23 and post full recovery she resumed duty in the Covid ward again from Monday. Bhapal’s husband, Dr Suketu, is an ophthalmologist who does private practice in Rajkot, while both her parents-in-law are doctors. "When you get admitted as a patient in hospital being a doctor you feel that pain and your mental status. I was first afraid in the hospital where I had served for nine years. I had only fear that if I will die what will happen to my kids," recounted Bhapal, who met her children after 23 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/after-brush-with-death-doc-beats-covid-and-gets-back-on-track/articleshow/76719687.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||NU conducts first PhD viva online on pilot basis||Nagpur: The Nagpur University (NU) on Tuesday successfully conducted its first ever online PhD viva at its exam section in LIT campus on Amravati Road. The candidate belonged to mechanical engineering branch. Another four candidates from science and technology faculty would present their viva online in the next couple of days as part of the NU’spilot project before its goes full steam ahead. Officiating Pro-VC SR Chaudhari told TOI NU had developed its own software to regulate the online PhD vivas while an online social meeting app is used for conferencing and interaction with the scholar. “The viva would be video recorded. Entire cost will be borne by the PhD cell. The software helps in generating a login ID and password for the examiner. As soon as the examiner gives his or her consent, an automated mail is sent seeking a date. Once the viva date is finalized, the head of research centre, guide, candidate and audiences receive automated mails with the venue and schedule,” Chaudhari said. The officiating Pro-VC said as of now, the NU had mandated either the guide or the candidate to be present at the PhD cell during the viva while others are on video conferencing. “Out of district candidates need to come to the cell,” he said. After the pilot, the plan is to hold at least three to four vivas at each department to clear the backlog. Following the lockdown, the vivas had been held back. Even the traditional method of viva was time consuming with candidates requiring to wait for entire panel to be available at one time. The online mode has expedited the process that had always remained slow. “All correspondence regarding examiner’s consent to date finalization and mails to other panel members was done in a single day,” Chaudhari said. Earlier the consent letter used to be sent by post, and then more days passed waiting for their reply. “Minimum human interface ensured everything went off smoothly. All entries are now recorded in the system,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-conducts-first-phd-viva-online-on-pilot-basis/articleshow/76719704.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||After downpour, island city cuts its June rain deficit to 3%, suburbs left with 22% shortfall||Mumbai: After a prolonged dry spell, many parts of the island city recorded heavy rainfall on Monday night, thus reducing its rain deficit for the month of June to nearly 3% . The suburbs, however, witnessed light showers and a rain shortfall of 22%. For Wednesday, weathermen have predicted heavy rain at isolated places. In the 12 hours ending at 8.30am on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Colaba observatory recorded 101.2mm of rainfall and the Santacruz observatory, 11.2mm. Between 8.30am and 8.30pm, it didn’t rain in the island city, but the suburbs received 0.2mm rainfall. Weathermen said that the suburbs and adjoining areas of Navi Mumbai and Thane received light rain as there were no monsoon cloud bands over the region. The southwest monsoon officially covered Mumbai on June 14, but so far there has been only one intense rain spell on June 18. The total monthly rainfall recorded till June 30 (8.30am) by the Colaba station was 524.5mm—16.4mm below its required average of 540.9mm. During the same period, the Santacruz observatory recorded 395mm of rain—110mm short of the 505mm required average. Even as historical data by the IMD (Santacruz rainfall figures are considered) show that Mumbai’s total June rainfall has been the lowest in the last six years —in June 2014, it was 87.3mm —weathermen have predicted an increase in the rainfall activity over Mumbai in the first week of July. The IMD has issued a yellow alert and forecast heavy rain at isolated places being very likely between July 2 and 4. For Wednesday, it has forecast thunderstorm accompanied with lightning/gusty winds and heavy rain at isolated places. Weather officials said they had already indicated that rainfall is likely to increase on the west coast of Maharashtra covering north Konkan wh-ich includes Mumbai, from July 2. “Mumbai and surrounding areas are likely to experience heavy rainfall from July 2 to 4,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-downpour-island-city-cuts-its-june-rain-deficit-to-3-suburbs-left-with-22-shortfall/articleshow/76719119.cms||Richa Pinto
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Probe suicide of Covid patient at RUHS hosp: JSA||Jaipur: Jan Swasthya Abhiyan (JSA), Rajasthan, has written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot requesting for a fair investigation into the case of alleged suicide by a Covid-19 patient undergoing treatment at RUHS Hospital. “This is a serious case wherein a Covid-19 infected person from Jaipur allegedly committed suicide because he was distressed for not being provided any care at RUHS Hospital where he was admitted for treatment. This pushed him into intense mental stress regarding his health,” said Chhaya Pachauli, a social activist linked with JSA. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/probe-suicide-of-covid-patient-at-ruhs-hosp-jsa/articleshow/76719138.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Surat||Doctor fights off Covid to treat 4,000 others||SURAT: While fighting the contagion with all his might, Dr Ashvin Vasava, 43, nodal officer for Covid-19 in south Gujarat, knew that his opponent will get the better of him one day. But the associate professor at the Government Medical College (GMC) who supervises treatment at Covid hospital in New Civil Hospital (NCH), was prepared to meet it, vowing to fight back and save even more lives. After 10 days in isolation, Vasava, a tribal from the remote Sagbara in Narmada district, is back again on duty and has created a niche for himself in matters of tenacity for other frontline workers and patients as well. Interestingly, while both Vasava and his wife Sonal tested positive of the virus and had to be in quarantine, their friends looked after their children, eight-year-old Arohi, and five -year-old Shrey for 10 days. Vasava had tested positive on June 13 and a couple of days later his wife too was found positive. They both were admitted under isolation at NCH and have recovered now. “Doctors at government hospitals have treated over 4,000 patients in the region and we come in close contact with patients daily. Even after getting infected, I was determined to resume work after recovery,” Vasava told TOI. Vasava, who credits his wife for her unstinting support, claims he did not go home and stayed in hospital for 40 days during April and May. Vasava is working in NCH since 2005. Interestingly, in her video that went viral on social media, state’s first Covid-19 positive patient and also the first to recover, Rita Bachkaniwala, also thanked Vasava for his care and treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/he-beat-covid-to-treat-4k-more-positive-cases/articleshow/76718329.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||SHRC seeks report on cops beating boy||COIMBATORE: Taking suo motu cognizance of a news article on police brutality on a boy that was published in the Times of India, the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has issued a notice to city police commissioner Sumit Sharan, seeking a detailed report on the incident. The news was published on June 23 with the headline “Viral video shows cops beating up 16-year-old boy”. The SHRC has given the police commissioner two weeks to submit the report. A small argument between police and a couple had turned violent in Rathinapuri on June 17 when the former started beating up the couple’s minor son. The video of the incident later went viral on WhatsApp. A police source said the incident took place when Velmayil, 47, and his wife kept their tiffin stall on Shastri Street at Rathinapuri open after 9pm. Sub-inspector (SI) Chellamani, who was on patrol, asked them to shut the shop, which was not allowed to function after 8pm as per the lockdown norms. “The couple defended themselves. Seeing their son shooting the entire episode using a mobile camera, the SI grabbed the phone from the boy, who snatched his bike key. Irked, Chellamani and another cop started assaulting the boy. He also threatened the boy’s parents that their son would be sent to jail for his behaviour,” the source said. Later, the boy, a Class X student, was taken to the police station. The Rathinapuri police also registered a case against the boy’s father. According to child activists, if a minor is involved in a conflict with the law, the person should be treated carefully by officials. “Police cannot assault a minor, nor can that person be taken to a police station. They should inform Childline officials, who deal with children in conflict with law,” an activist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/shrc-seeks-report-on-cops-beating-boy/articleshow/76719137.cms||A Subburaj
July 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Depressed man, who tested Covid-negative, ends life||Kolhapur: A school teacher, who had been depressed for the past two months, even after testing negative for Covid-19, died by suicide at his in-laws’ house in Gadhinglaj in Kolhapur district on Sunday night. While he did not leave behind any suicide note, the police are investigating his call records. Police said the deceased, Chandrashekhar Dundappa Talwar (35), was working at Hindalga village in Khamgaon in Belagavi district in Karanataka. According to his family, Talwar had undergone the Covid-19 test in March in Khamgaon as he was suffering from some sort of throat infection. Though the report of his throat swab samples returned negative, he stayed in home-quarantine in Khamgaon for 14 days after the test. Chandrashekhar’s wife Ashwini had come to her parents’ home in Gadhinglaj as she was pregnant. She delivered a baby eight months ago but could not return to her husband as the nationwide lockdown came into effect. Chandrashekhar came to Gadhinglaj to meet his wife and the newborn baby in May. He too got stuck in Gadhinglaj. Inspector of Gadhinglaj police Prakash Gaikwad told TOI that according to family members, Chandrashekhar was deppressed even after the reports of his Covid-19 test returned negative. Chandrashekhar was living in complete isolation at his in-laws’ house and never communicated with anybody. “He used to be on the terrace all the time,” said Gaikwad. On Sunday, Chandrashekhar’s wife went to the terrace to call him for dinner. She called her husband several times but he did not respond. She immediately alerted her family members. When family members came up to the terrace, they found him hanging from an electric cable. Chandrashekhar’s brother-in-law Aakash Vitekari contacted the police. “Gadhinglaj police have recorded statements of Chandrashekhar’s family members, neighbours and a few others,” Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/depressed-man-who-tested-covid-negative-ends-life/articleshow/76716968.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Surat||Duty supersedes joys of fatherhood||SURAT: After recovering from coronavirus infection, duty was the first priority for this doctor who wanted to serve the needy patients from rural areas of Bharuch. Dr Brijesh Narola, 28, a lone gynaecologist at the Bharuch’s New Civil Hospital, has been working without taking a day’s leave since May 9. Despite the rising Covid-19 cases in Bharuch, Narola is least worried and continues his services for the poor patients. Such is his commitment that he visited his wife who delivered a baby boy on May 10 in Surat for just two hours and returned back to Bharuch on the same day. He was the first doctor in Bharuch to volunteer for the plasma donation to the critical patients. Narola seems to have got infection after he attended a pregnant security guard at the civil hospital on April 14. The security guard tested positive for the coronavirus on April 16. “Unlike Surat and other places, Bharuch’s civil hospital is the only option for poor patients from interior villages. I was detected Covid-19 positive on April 17 and within eight days I recovered and was discharged. After completing the home quarantine for 14 days, I resumed the duty on May 9,” said Narola. “My wife gave birth to our first child on May 10. I had to be with her, but I was in the hospital checking the patients. I had rushed to Surat and spent couple of hours with my new-born baby boy and wife. But I was more needed back in Bharuch, so I returned on the same day,” he added. This was his only break for personal work. Since then Narola has been working continuously without a single day’s off. “I attend to about 15 patients every day. Though I have an eight-hour shift, sometimes I stay in the hospital for 10 hours to ensure all my patients are attended well on time,” adds Narola.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/duty-supersedes-joys-of-fatherhood/articleshow/76718370.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Doctors lead from the front in testing times||JAIPUR: At a time when most people prefer to stay home, thousands of doctors across the counry have sacrificed their social lives to save people hit by the Covid pandemic. In the process, many have tested positive but that did not deter them from performing their duties. Covid-19 has not only changed the lives of doctors, but also the way they work. “We have to do surgeries as we cannot leave patients suffering. For the purpose, we have to change the way we work. We have to wear full protective gears such as personal protection equipment. It is difficult to perform surgeries wearing PPEs but we do not have other options,” said Dr DS Meena, senior professor (orthopedics), SMS Hospital. The number of surgeries have also gone down as they need to sanitise operation theatres between surgeries. Many doctors have remained devoted for the past three months in containing the virus. Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I), who is sprearheading the battle against Covid-19 in the city said, “Life has changed due to Covid-19. I have to receive hundreds of calls, coordinate with my team for contact tracing and test and treat patients. All doctors in fight against Covid-19 must be appreciated for their efforts to contain the spread of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/doctors-lead-from-the-front-in-testing-times/articleshow/76719146.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Bhopal||We stand with India: TikTok stars support ban in Bhopal||BHOPAL: With the Centre banning 59 Chinese app — which includes the popular TikTok app — in the wake of India-China face-off in Ladakh, the TikTok stars of the city have supported the move, saying that they stand with the nation. Sunil Sohaniya, a banker who got hooked to the application after seeing his daughters and wife use it, said, “It was fun. But, I support the ban. My daughters had around 50 thousand followers on their accounts and enjoyed making videos, but now they have deleted the application.” Another user of the app with thousands of followers, Britney Bhaskar, said that she deleted the application immediately after the ban. “I had around 8,000 followers during the lockdown, but, I deleted the app without a second thought,” she said. “I was an the way to becoming a Tik Tok star with my followers increasing day by day. I had 1,55,000 followers within a year and used to get a lot of appreciation for my acting and dance videos,” said Kanwar. “Now that the app has been banned, I have deleted, but it will leave a void in my daily routine as I made a TikTok video every day.” Kailash Topnani, a fairly new user of the application said, “I must say the app was really for people who wish to take up acting as a hobby. I tried making a few short videos in the past couple of months, but after the announcement of the ban on the app, I deleted it. I support the ban and hope others users will also follow suit. We are citizens of India and must support the country in the time of crisis,” he said. Others said that they are eagerly waiting for India’s local alternative for the application.  “Now that TikTok has been banned, I know that India will provide its budding starts with another alternate applications. Many other applications similar to TikTok are slowly gaining popularity and more Indian apps will take its place,” said a user. Government of India banned 59 apps on June 29 which are prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the state and public order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/we-stand-with-india-tiktok-stars-support-ban/articleshow/76719145.cms||Shuchita Jha
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||SP zooms in on petitioners||Coimbatore: District superintendent of police Sujit Kumar interacted with five petitioners over a video chatting app Zoom at the district police office (DPO) here on Tuesday. The technical team of the district police has set up the facility at the reception of the DPO where petitioners sit in front of a laptop and interact with the SP, who would be sitting in his chamber on the first floor. “I interacted with five petitioners and their petitions were sent to the respective police stations for further action,” Sujit Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/sp-zooms-in-on-petitioners/articleshow/76719152.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Bhopal||Help health staff in ‘Kill Corona’ campaign: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, on Tuesday appealed to people of the state to cooperate with the official machinery and Corona volunteers, in carrying out the “Kill Corona” campaign so that the deadly virus could be eliminated from MP. The campaign is beginning on July 1 throughout the state and will continue till July 15. He said in addition to people showing symptoms of Coronavirus-infection, patients of dengue, malaria, and diarrhoea would also be given medical advice and medicines during the campaign. The chief minister further requested people to observe social distancing norms while participating in the campaign. He said that the unique massive campaign being undertaken in the state would send across a positive message to other states of the country as well. The chief minister in a videoconferencing with commissioners-collectors six days ago had given a detailed outline of the campaign and asked them to prepare for the massive exercise in their respective areas. Under the campaign, a door-to-door survey would be undertaken by 11,458 teams across the state. Every team will be provided with thermal thermometer, pulse oximeter, and necessary protective gear. Information about the suspected Covid-19, malaria, and dengue patients would be furnished in the “Sarthak” app. The sampling of suspects of Coronavirus infection would be conducted through mapped MMU and subsequently, they would be tested through RTCPR and TRUNAT. More than 3 lakh samples are expected to be taken from across the state during the campaign. Efforts are afoot to raise the testing capacity in the state to 21,000. Intensive sampling in 13 districts with more than state’s average positivity rate would be carried out through RTPCR and TRUNAT. In 29 districts, where it’s less than average, pooled sampling would be carried out for general surveillance A total of 69 TRUNAT sites are in operation in the state, where testing facility at the district-level would be available. The state health department believes that after the “Kill Corona” campaign, number of persons tested per million would go up to 7747 from 4022, which would be more than the national average. More testing would result in more precise understanding of the extent of the infection, said an official spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/help-health-staff-in-kill-corona-campaign-cm/articleshow/76718342.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Govt order says teachers must attend schools||Jaipur: The education department on Tuesday issued directions for the teachers to be followed during Unlock- 2 from July 1 till July 30. The directions say that teachers have to be present in the schools for the said period. They have to carry out the pending work and activities which are listed in the academic calendar. The directions read that teachers have to ensure that continuous supply of wheat/rice for students the Class I to VIII during the closure of schools. They have to maintain a stock register. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-order-says-teachers-must-attend-schools/articleshow/76720040.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||Unrepaired Karalli-Tilamoll road damages heavy vehicles||Quepem: The public works department’s (PWD) inaction to repair a 4km-stretch along the Margao-Curchorem road before monsoon has led to medium and heavy vehicles sinking in soggy portions of the road. Some heavy vehicles have got stuck on the unstable stretch, causing damage to the vehicle chasis and huge losses to vehicle owners. In May, the PWD’s water supply division had dug up the road near the primary health centre in Quepem to repair a broken stretch of pipeline. However, no restoration of the damaged road stretch has been carried out till date, which has given rise to accidents as the shoulders of the road stretch have been loosely filled with mud. The entire 4km-stretch from Karalli to Tilamoll was taken up for road widening and work has been temporarily stopped during monsoon. “Construction work of most of the retaining wall has been completed, but the PWD has left the widened muddy road without rubble soling,” said Selvy Miranda, a resident of Quepem town. QMC councillor and former chairperson Filu D’Costa blamed the PWD for not cordoning off the dangerous areas. When contacted, PWD’s engineer Rohan Dessai, in-charge of technical maintenance, said that the department’s water supply division in responsible for restoring the dug up areas since they had done the damage while repairing water pipelines. “PWD has not yet floated a tender for rubble soling the widened muddy road from Karalli to Tilamoll,” said Dessai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unrepaired-karalli-tilamoll-road-damages-heavy-vehicles/articleshow/76719726.cms||Johnny M
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Unlock 2.0: Schools, colleges to remain closed; night curfew revised||JAIPUR: Schools, colleges, universities and coaching centres will remain shut in the state till July 31 as per the Unlock-2.0 order issued by the state home department on Tuesday. The state has reimposed almost all the lockdown and the first unlock rules till July 31. But it has revised curfew hours from 9pm to 6am earlier to 10pm to 5am now. The extended hour in the evening and the advanced timing by an hour in the morning have been done to help people who have to travel for their jobs/businesses. Thi has left educational institutes with the only option of online classes till the end of July. Most of the schools were set to start classes from July 1 and were waiting to hear the same from the government. The state education department was of the view that schools from secondary classes should open. However, it had to bow down to the central government advisory issued on June 29. The order provides slight respite to training institutions of central and state governments which may function from July 15. “These centres have to follow all SOPs and advisories issued by the state and central governments,” the order said. This time, the order has a special focus on awareness campaign on Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-colleges-to-remain-closed-night-curfew-revised/articleshow/76719151.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Breach in Kondapochamma canal in Siddipet inundates village||HYDERABAD: A breach in a canal of the Kondapochamma Sagar reservoir in Siddipet inundated a part of Shivar Venkatapur village at Markook early on Tuesday morning. Apart from some crop and grain loss, there was not much damage as the waters receded in a few hours. The village is close to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s farmhouse at Erravalli. Taken by surprise with the water gushing into the village and their houses around 6 am, the villages tried to first carry their children to safety. They then made a desperate attempt to save the grain stored in bags. Some said their valuables got washed away. “Since there was no power all night, I allowed my children to sleep for some more time but when I saw the water coming in, I quickly woke them up and carried them away,” a woman said.  A portion of a wall of a house had to be demolished by the villagers to allow the water to flow away. Some crops, including vegetables, have been destroyed. Residents demand compensation. Officials said the breach was caused when the water was released into the canal to fill lakes. “It was a small breach and it is not unusual for such a thing to happen in a gigantic project. Flow of water at Shivar Venkatapuram was stopped and repair works have already been undertaken,” Siddipet district collector P Venkatarami Reddy told TOI. “What happened at Shivar Venkatapuram was a minor thing,” he added. The Kondapochamma Sagar reservoir was inaugurated by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on May 29. On June 13 when water was released from Mallannasagar to Kondapochamma Sagar, some breache occurred on the canal. At Markook pump houses, repairs had to be undertaken as the mud got washed away and some cracks developed on the walls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/breach-in-kondapochamma-canal-inundates-village/articleshow/76719158.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Cop held for taking bribe in Bharatpur||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday arrested a sepoy of Sikri police station in Bharatpur district for accepting a bribe of Rs 35,000. The arrest has no link to the alleged corruption case involving Bharatpur ex-DIG Laxman Gaur, officials said. Sepoy Duli Chand took the bribe for compromising the evidence in a case. “The policeman was caught taking bribe in a case and this instance is not related to the investigation in the corruption allegations involving Gaur,” said Dinesh MN, ADG, ACB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-held-for-taking-bribe-in-bharatpur/articleshow/76720047.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Official arrested for issuing fake arms licences in Alwar||Alwar: Police arrested an official of Alwar collector office for issuing arms licences by using fake documents. Accused Durgesh Chola (39) was arrested after a district administration official complained about a missing stamp from the office. “We received a complaint that the accused along with a computer operator were issuing fake arms licences to applicants after taking money in exchange for the same. We found three persons who had been issued fake arms licences by the accused by forging signatures of the concerned authority as well as office stamp,” said an official of Alwar Kotwali. The cops received a complaint that on June 19, a person had applied for arms licence who claimed that he wanted to renew the one which had been issued last year. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/official-arrested-for-issuing-fake-arms-licences-in-alwar/articleshow/76720043.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Can’t allow Vidarbha Hockey Association to participate in tournaments: HI to HC||NAGPUR: After a categorical statement from Hockey India (HI) that Vidarbha Hockey Association (VHA) wouldn’t be allowed to participate in its tournaments due to one-state one-team policy, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday kept the petition for final disposal after eight weeks. A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Amit Borkar, however, allowed VHA to amend its petition through counsel Anand Parchure, by adding Maharashtra Hockey (HM) as respondent within a week and issued notice to it. Earlier, HI filed a pursis through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, where it said VHA can’t be permitted to participate in its activities except through HM. HI however allowed city-based petitioner to participate in the sports activities to be conducted by HM. “We, therefore, don’t find that the controversy is likely to be resolved. The matter requires consideration on merits, hence we issue notice for final disposal of the matter,” the judges said. The VHA had approached the judiciary questioning HI’s move to discontinue its membership on the ground that there has to be only one body representing each state, as a policy decision. It pointed out that from May 10, 1959, to March 30, 1962, it was a registered association. Later, Madhya Pradesh Hockey Association was renamed VHA with its headquarters at Nagpur. It included Vidarbha, Marathwada and Khandesh, comprising Jalgaon and adjoining districts. Currently, in Maharashtra, there are three associations — Bombay Hockey Association (BHA), and Bombay and Maharashtra Association at Pune, apart from VHA. All of them are permitted to forward their teams at national level tournaments. On January 6, VHA received a communication from HI informing that its membership would automatically cease from July 1. VHA contended the decision was unilaterally taken and neither any show cause notice was issued, nor any opportunity of being heard was granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cant-allow-vha-to-participate-in-tournaments-hi-to-hc/articleshow/76719729.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 1, 2020||Chennai||I was not prepared to handle the situation, but did not want to make any mistake as a caretaker||When I returned from work one evening, my husband mentioned he was feverish and excessively tired. A nephrologist, he was exposed daily to the hospital environment, so we suspected that his symptoms could be due to Covid-19. He isolated himself the same day and, as mild symptoms persisted, got tested on the third day. The test was positive. Although we had discussed the possibility of one of us getting Covid-19, I realized that I was not adequately prepared to handle the situation. I felt anxiety and fear as I did not want to make any mistake as a caretaker. I was worried how we would care for our son if I also tested positive. My son and I got tested, and both were declared negative. After evaluating my husband, the doctor advised home isolation. I immediately purchased a pulse oximeter. I had read a lot about home isolation but implementing it was challenging. The toughest part is ensuring proper clinical monitoring while preventing other family members from being exposed. My husband shared his vitals and oxygen saturation with me every few hours over the phone. I kept an alarm and woke him up at least twice in the night to monitor the saturation. We organized all essential things in his room and the attached bathroom - utensils, clothes, items for washing vessels, clothes and to clean the floor and other surfaces. Health authorities advised us to add bleaching powder and use double covers for all waste. We kept all used masks in one cover and gave it for biomedical waste disposal after 14 days. We used another dustbin cover for other waste. I always wore a mask and kept food or anything else required on a table near the door. We planned a simple menu, which included fruits, vegetables, protein-rich foods, and dairy. He did not step out of the room -- books, movies and video calls kept him engaged. Home isolation can only work with stringent precautions. As my son jokingly said, “Dad, you should not cross the Lakshman Rekha.” Home quarantine for 14 days meant organizing supplies and medicines. We had a highly supportive residential association, family and friends. They dropped things at the main gate, and security personnel kept it outside our door. We managed well except for the last four days, when the Chennai lockdown As announced, and we ran out of a few things like bread. Once we told our loved ones, we got a lot of calls, which kept us busy. We extensively used WhatsApp video conference calls and connected with parents, extended family and friends across India and abroad. Our parents were very concerned, and these calls reassured them. I have a wonderful neighbour who kept talking to me from the kitchen window every day and even made biryani and kept it outside our door. Thankfully, he started recovering in the second week, and I did not develop any symptoms. Now we are working on cleaning the room and all the things used. It was a challenging time, and I wish all families can deal with the ordeal with appropriate medical advice, and love and support of people around them. (Dr Prabhdeep Kaur is deputy director at the National Institute of Epidemiology. She is a part of the state appointed committee for Covid-19 management. Views expressed are personal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/i-was-not-prepared-to-handle-the-situation-but-did-not-want-to-make-any-mistake-as-a-caretaker/articleshow/76719155.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizam family urges govt to help Covid patients||Hyderabad: The Nizam family on Tuesday appealed to the Telangana government to ensure better facilities and timely medication to coronavirus patients in hospitals. Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of erstwhile ruler of Hyderabad, said that Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan Bahadur had made available all possible infrastructure in hospitals and other institutions during his reign, but it has been neglected over the years by several administrations. “My grandfather, Mir Osman Ali Khan Bahadur, the Nizam VII, gave the state the best of infrastructure — be it hospitals or educational institutions. Hyderabad, for more than 100 years, has had the best infra in hospitals such as Osmania, Unani, Fever, NIMS and others. As the governments changed, the administration neglected the upkeep of these hospitals. This led to them being in a dilapidated state, and the common man is suffering,” said Najaf Ali Khan. “We appeal to the chief minister of Telangana to direct the officials concerned to ease the difficulties faced by Covid-19 patients. Also, we appeal to implement a complete lockdown in the interest of saving lives, and to break the chain of Covid-19 spread at the earliest,” said Najaf Ali Khan. The Nizam family praised and thanked doctors and healthcare staff for taking care of patients. Telangana has seen a steady rise in the number of cases over the days, with most cases being reported from Greater Hyderabad. Speculation is rife that another lockdown may be announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizam-family-urges-govt-to-help-covid-patients/articleshow/76719140.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kochi||Marine landings down by 15% in state, finds CMFRI study||Kochi: With a total landing of 5.44 lakh tonnes, the marine fish landings in Kerala suffered a significant drop of 15.4% in 2019, according to the latest data released by the Central Marine Fisheries Resource Institute (CMFRI). The sharp decline in the catch of oil sardine and Indian mackerel, the two major resources in the state, is the major highlight of Kerala’s landings. This year too, the scenario looks bleak with a CMFRI study of 60 days during the lockdown period putting the losses in the sector at Rs 3,481 crore. This is excluding the losses in the seafood exports and post-harvest value addition industry. While oil sardine dropped to a meagre 44,320 tonnes, the lowest in two decades, Indian mackerel (40,554 t) experienced a steep decline of 50% compared to the previous year. In 2012, the catch of oil sardine in Kerala was 3.9 lakh tonnes. Since then, there was a substantial decrease in the catch every year, but it moved up in 2017. The oil sardine landings again continued to decline for the past two years thanks to the unfavourable changes in ocean environment. The contribution from Kerala towards the overall landings in the country has now reduced to 15.3% from 18.4% in 2018. In Kerala, the value of marine fish landings in 2019, based on price at landing centres, was Rs 12,387 crore. This was an increase of 20.35% over 2018. Meanwhile, the value in the retail level was Rs 17,515 crore, an increase of nearly 19%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/marine-landings-down-by-15-in-state-finds-cmfri-study/articleshow/76718422.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||Former HoD of neurosurgery at KGMU, PGI dies||Lucknow: Renowned neurosurgeon and former head of neurosurgery both at KGMU and SGPGI, Dr Devendra K Chhabra died in Lucknow on Tuesday morning after a long illness. He is survived by his wife Dr Apjit Kaur and son Dr Sarab Chhabra. A master teacher and a disciplinarian who was warm and comforting to his patients, Dr Chhabra had invented a low-cost neurological equipment, the ‘Chhabra Shunt’, which continues to be an affordable option for the masses. He had also established the neurosurgery unit at Vivekanand Institute of Medical Sciences after retirement. Students, colleagues and the entire medical community remembered Dr Chhabra on Tuesday as a man of mild mannerisms, eye for perfection, immense discipline and a fine taste for all things classic. “He was our guru. He studied both MBBS and MS at KGMU and was the first to join neurosurgery training there, ” said current HoD Dr BK OJha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/former-hod-of-neurosurgery-at-kgmu-pgi-dies/articleshow/76719732.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Civic council prez post declared vacant||Aurangabad: Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar has declared the Majalgaon municipal council president’s post vacant and requested the government to either hand over the charge to an appropriate authority or to the vice-president of the civic body. Rekhawar, in his order dated 28-6-2020, cited provisions under Maharashtra Municipal Councils, Nagar Panchayats and Industrial Townships Act 965. The order took many by surprise as it was passed on Sunday. Suman Munde, the vice-president of the council, had moved an application against president Sahal Bin Aamer Chaus on May 27, stating that he failed to come to office during the current coronavirus pandemic for two-and-a-half months. Chaus is one of the seven accused in the alleged misappropriation of government funds to the tune of over Rs 5 crore, and is behind bars since March 4. The other accused are senior officials of the civic body. The order reads that it also came to fore that Chaus did not preside over any general body meeting since February 28 and that he neither applied for leave nor handed over charge to anyone during his absence. Rekhawar could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/civic-council-prez-post-declared-vacant/articleshow/76717000.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 1, 2020||Bengaluru||K Sudhakar returns amid signs of silent clash with R Ashoka||BENGALURU: After eight days of home quarantine, medical education minister K Sudhakar resumed duty on Tuesday and straightaway, there were some hints of the reported ego clash with revenue minister R Ashoka, who oversaw Bengaluru’s Covid-19 response in his absence. The two appeared to jostle for prominence in front of chief minister BS Yediyurappa, and seemed uncomfortable to be around each other, even as they maintained that they were working together during a public health emergency. Sudhakar, who had to self-isolate after some of his family members tested positive for coronavirus, was apparently not happy with Yediyurappa’s decision to ask Ashoka to fill in for him. Ashoka looked to outshine Sudhakar, which complicated the matters further. Last week, Sudhakar posted a tweet with a line — “I believe that leadership is not in position but in action” — that suggested there was friction between the two ministers. Back in action on Tuesday, Sudhakar attended a meeting convened by Yediyurappa with representatives of private hospitals. Ashoka was also present. After the discussion, Sudhakar made it a point to stand beside Yediyurappa when he addressed the media. Ashoka was still inside the meeting hall and he appeared upset over being left on the sidelines. Sudhakar sought to dismiss the reports of the ego tussle. “There is no confusion in this matter. I am clear, even Ashoka is clear. I have been given charge of Covid-19 management by the chief minister, and Ashoka stepped in to effectively tackle the Covid-19 situation in Bengaluru in my absence. This is a collective effort during a pandemic and I would ask everyone to set aside any political inclinations,” he said. Ashoka reportedly sent his personal assistant outside the meeting hall to check whether Sudhakar had left, so an interaction could be avoided. Earlier, Ashoka dodged questions on the issue. “I have to go to the meeting,” he said when asked who was in charge of the Covid-19 matters in Bengaluru. Ashoka left for Hassan in the afternoon before heading to Chikkamagaluru, where he will celebrate his birthday on Thursday, according to a BJP functionary. He wants to avoid a meeting with the chief minister, another party source claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/sudhakar-returns-amid-signsof-silent-clash-with-ashoka/articleshow/76718976.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
July 1, 2020||Bhopal||Piplani, TT Nagar see a drop in Covid cases||BHOPAL: A look at the 210 containment areas of the state capital, as on Monday morning, indicates that the major Covid hotspots of Bhopal are showing signs of improvement. Positive response to district administration measures can be specially seen in new Bhopal, Piplani, BHEL township and Bairagarh township.  The police station wise containment area list shows that Covid cases under TT Nagar police station have been contained to 41. This area had seen a spurt in Covid infections, mainly due to the spread ofinfections in the Banganga slum cluster. In Bairagh — where infections went from 3 to 32 within a month — continues to have only 32 active cases, which can be seen as an indication of slowed infection growth. Similarly, the number of active cases have more or less stabilised in Piplani area — with 34 cases. On the other hand, areas in Old Bhopal — Shahjehanabad, Jehangirabad and Aishbagh — top the list with 67, 64 and 57 patients, respectively. Among other areas of the city, localities under Kotwali police station have 18 containment areas, Talaiya, 23, Shyamala Hills 1, Gautam Nagar 15, Tila Jamalpura 29, Koh-e-fiza 22, Gandhi Nagar 9, Chuna Bhatti 3, Govindpura 12, Ashoka Garden 21, Bajariya 15, Nishatpura 14, Chhola Mandir 4, Ayodhya Nagar 3, Misroad 22, Kolar 11, Habibganj 6, Shahpura 8, Bagh Sevaniya 15, Avadhpuri 2, MP Nagar 1, Ratibad 3, Bilkhiriya 4, Itkhedi 10, Sukhi Sevaniya 1, Khajuri Sadak 1, Parvaliya 1 and Berasia 1. Spokesperson for the district administration, Arun Rathore, when asked how a city where new coronavirus patients are being reported every day has more or less stable 210 “containment areas”, said, “In several cases, we get 4-5 or even more patients from one house and when they live in the same house, the “containment area” would be one. Besides, “containment areas” are denotified also after a patient recovers and is declared corona-negative. So, new “containment areas” come up, while other localities are declared Covid-free and are no longer declared as containment areas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/piplani-tt-nagar-see-a-drop-in-covid-cases/articleshow/76718413.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||IMA to celebrate day as ‘Atma Samman Diwas’||Nagpur: Doctor’s Day used to be a special and festive occasion for doctors attached to the Indian medical association (IMA), but due to the lockdown and Covid distancing, they have decided to celebrate the day as ‘Atma Samman Diwas’ (Self Respect Day). “This year, Doctor’s Day is dedicated to Covid Warriors. These include not just doctors, but the administration, other healthcare workers, journalists, police and responsible citizens,” said Dr Archana Kothari, president of IMA Nagpur. IMA members will be visiting hospitals where Covid-19 patients are admitted and will felicitate heads of the institutions right at their workplace. They will also acknowledge the tireless efforts of the district and divisional administration by felicitating the divisional commissioner, district collector, municipal commissioner, civil surgeon, deputy director health services (DDHS) and district health officer. Chief matron and chief sanitary inspectors of GMCH and IGGMCH will also be feted. All resident doctors and medical officers doing Covid duties will get special ‘Covid Warrior’ certificate from IMA. “Our tradition is to felicitate senior doctors. By following Covid distancing rules, some of our members will visit their homes and felicitate them,” said secretary, Dr Rajesh Sawarbandhe. IMA will felicitate veterans like Dr Pramod and Dr Mangala Kolwadkar, Dr Milind Naik, Dr Anil Golhar, Dr Vikas Bisne, Dr Rajendra M Chandak, Dr Manmohan Rathi, Dr Naresh Rathi, Dr Milind Dangre, Dr Shrikant Potey and Dr Lalit Waghmare. NOGS-FOGSI ORGAN DONATION DRIVE Nagpur Obstetrics- Gynaecological Society (NOGS) and Federation of Gynaecological Societies of India (FOGSI) have taken up the social initiative of promotion of organ donation. In her appeal, Dr Vaidehi Marathe, president of NOGS, said that any person who wishes to pledge for organ donation can contact the NOGS office (9356632671) for further details, enquiries and the link for online form filling which will be open on Doctor’s Day. “With the online form accessible even on the mobile phone, anyone can pledge to donate their organs from the comfort of their homes or wherever they are,” said Dr Marathe. On the same day, an online program will be held, discussing in detail the need of organ donation as well as adoption. A massive online conference, E-Conclave, has been organised for the masses as well as doctors. Topics like eye donation, whole body donation and blood donation will be covered. Doubts regarding organ donation will also be cleared. People can access this online e -conclave on YouTube, Facebook Live and Instagram Live by typing E-CONCLAVE FOGSI Organ Donation in the browser window. NOGS Secretary Dr Rajasi Sengupta and Dr Alka Mukherjee, west zone coordinator of the public awareness committee of FOGSI, have appealed to the citizens to join the movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ima-to-celebrate-day-as-atma-samman-diwas/articleshow/76719662.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||PIL in SC seeks rescue of Indian workers in Gulf||Hyderabad: Gulf Telangana Welfare and Cultural Association president Pathkuri Basanth Reddy on Tuesday filed a PIL in Supreme Court urging the court to direct the government to bring back workers in the Gulf. The PIL highlighted that around 44 Indians are facing death sentences and 33,940 Indian workers have died in the past six years in the Gulf countries. Basanth Reddy said, “We have urged the Supreme Court for effective implementation of different schemes and to ensure financial and legal assistance to Indian citizens facing criminal cases or death sentences in other countries, particularly the Gulf countries, and Indian women married to NRIs.” The PIL stated that a comprehensive scheme should be prepared to assist NRIs who lost their job or who have been cheated by agents or employers in returning to India and get employment. Basanth Reddy said that the government should also evolve a comprehensive policy to bring dead bodies of Indians who died in Gulf/other countries to the country. According to the PIL, women workers in foreign countries are harassed and forced to become sex workers. “In some cases, women workers were beaten and locked up in houses. Labourers from India are physically attacked and paid meagre salaries. A large number of people from India are working as shepherds and camel caretakers in deserts and they are not getting help from government authorities. Indian embassies in many cases are not working proactively and not adopting any effective measure to bring back them,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pil-in-sc-seeks-rescue-of-indian-workers-in-gulf/articleshow/76719153.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Vid health manpower gets a boost in MUHS mini convocation||Nagpur: The Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) conducted an additional (mini) convocation on Tuesday. In this convocation, 2,500-odd health science students from Vidarbha – right from degree, diploma, PG diploma and PHD – received their degrees and certificates. In this way, Vidarbha got a major boost to health manpower on the eve of Doctor’s Day. “Medical students who completed their degree/diploma in the winter 2018 and 2019 examination and completed their internships by June 29, 2020 received their degrees during this mini convocation. More than 11,500 such students received degrees,” said Dr Ajit Pathak, Controller of Examination, MUHS. The health university organizes this mini convocation in absentia every year so that medical graduates bound for higher studies in foreign countries get their degrees on time. This year, the Covid-19 pandemic created a need for health manpower and hence, the convocation was held early. The university will send the degrees and certificates of all eligible candidates by post to their respective colleges. PG and Diploma courses students who passed in Winter-2019 session examinations as well as Ph.D. students who have been declared eligible for award of Ph.D degree up to June 29 received their degrees. In the under graduate section (MBBS, BDS, BAMS, BUMS, BHMS, BASLP), students who passed in the winter-2018 session exams and completed one year internship received degrees. Apart from them, students of occupational therapy, physiotherapy and nursing also received degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-health-manpower-gets-a-boost-in-muhs-mini-convocation/articleshow/76719680.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 1, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Dy CM posts & push for young blood hold up cabinet expansion||BHOPAL: Is the tussle for two posts of deputy chief ministers holding up cabinet expansion in Madhya Pradesh? BJP heavyweight Narottam Mishra and Jyotiraditya Scindia aide Tulsiram Silawat are said to be the two choices for deputy CM. Mishra, in fact, had flown to Delhi on Monday and is learnt to have met top BJP central leaders. As the suspense stretches on, party insiders disclosed that the central BJP leadership is keen to induct two deputy CMs, as promised ahead of Jyotiradiya Scindia’s joining the saffron party with 22 MLAs in March this year. Also, the central leadership is keen to get young blood into the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet, added sources. This could mean that a few of the old guard may have to give way. Chouhan returned to Bhopal on Tuesday morning after two days in Delhi, but remained tight-lipped about the outcome of his multiple meetings with top BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. The only thing Chouhan said was that cabinet expansion will not take place on July 1. “It will be done very soon. Not tomorrow. May be after this,” Chouhan said as he headed for the state party HQ to discuss the names of the probables with party state president VD Sharma. Gujarat Governor Anandiben Patel, who has been given additional charge of MP, is likely to arrive on Wednesday afternoon to take oath of the office. Sources said differences persist over the candidates’ list. Scindia insists on a deputy CM post and 11 ministers from his camp. Officially, however, BJP denies the two deputy CM formula. “There was no discussion on inducting two deputy CMs in the cabinet. The party leadership is keen to have young faces in the team, though. Seventeen of our ministers had lost the 2018 assembly elections, so we cannot take a chance with old-timers. But we cannot ignore them, either,” said a senior state BJP functionary who was in New Delhi on Monday. During meetings with central leaders, one of the points of contention was the repetition of some names who have been in the Shivraj cabinet for three terms, say sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dy-cm-posts-push-for-young-blood-hold-up-cabinet-expansion/articleshow/76719161.cms||Rajendra Sharma
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Tiger moves into proposed big cat sanctuary in Bundi||Kota: The voluntary movement of a tiger into state’s proposed fourth tiger reserve, the Ramgarh Vishdhari Wildlife Sanctuary, has elated wildlife enthusiasts, who are now demanding induction of a tigress for mating, expecting a boost in tourism in Hadauti. The pug-marks of the tiger were first traced by the forest staff during tracking in the sanctuary on Monday following which Wildlife DFO Bijju Joy visited the area later in the day and confirmed the presence of the tiger in the sanctuary. The tiger, however, is yet to be identified, and it is likely to be one of the two tigers that had over six months ago strayed from Ranthambore Tiger Reserve into forests of Kharayata, about 20 kilometre from Ramgarh Vishdhari Wildlife Sanctuary and forests of Kuwarti. However, it may be the third tiger having loitered into the area. “Forest staff, during tracking on Monday, found pug-marks of a tiger in Ramgarh Vishdhari Wildlife Sanctuary, following which safety and security measures were beefed up, with tracking intensified and installation of cameras at various locations to trap the picture of the wild animal for identification,” Bijju Joy told TOI on Tuesday, who visited the sanctuary on Monday. The presence of the tiger is confirmed in the sanctuary, he claimed, adding that identification of the big cat would be possible only after receipt of the pictures from the trap cameras. Area forest ranger Dharmraj Gurjar refused to share exact location of the pug-marks in the sanctuary but said at least 11 cameras have been installed at various locations to trap the picture of the animal. At least 2 to 3 tigers are already present in forests near Lakheri in Bundi district, as the tigers in their natural course stray into these forests from Ranthambore National Park, but what is important here is the tiger’s voluntary movement into the sanctuary as it would not quit the area because of it being abundant with greenery, water and plenty of prey base, said Prathvi Singh Rajawat, ex honorary wildlife warden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tiger-moves-into-proposed-big-cat-sanctuary-in-bundi/articleshow/76720050.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Recovered Covid-19 patients express gratitude to doctors||Defeated Corona at 87, soldier says docs deserve all creditCovid-19 scenario in Akola is worst in Vidarbha with 1,550 cases and 79 deaths. But the news of Vidarbha’s oldest patient recovering from Covid-19 also came from here. Sayaji Raut (name changed), 87, who served in Indian army for years, defeated Covid-19 on June 19. He said doctors were his commanders and he followed their orders. “I was in Akola GMCH from May 24 to June 18. All credit of my recovery goes to the doctors here,” he said. “Schedule of meals, medicines, check-ups everything is on the clock here. They take special care of cleanliness in Covid hospital. If you follow what doctors say, you can definitely come out of the infection,” Raut said. “Apart from medicines, doctors keep special focus on nutritious food. I got the taste of protein rich diet like we used to get in military camps,” he said wishing Happy Doctor’s Day to GMCH Akola. Doctors give much more than meds, says mother who lived with toddler at AiimsYash (name changed), a 30-month-old baby boy from Medical Chowk, tested positive for Covid-19 on June 17. He was the only member of his family to get infected. His 27-yr-old mother decided to stay with him in isolation ward. Yash got admitted at Aiims Nagpur along with his mother. On June 28, they both were discharged. Yash recovered while his mother, who stayed inside the Covid-19 ward for ten days, remained free from infection. According to her, the credit for this goes to meticulous planning by doctors. “Regular check-up and medicine is just a routine work. Doctors also provide us moral support,” she said. Understanding the process of being quarantined and admission in an isolation ward away from family can be daunting and very stressful. The team of psychiatrists at Aiims provide regular counseling and psychological support.“Earlier, there was fear of infection. Later, I realized doctors are with me. They will bring out my son from infection without letting the virus enter my body,” she said. She specifically mentioned that entertainment through TV and music system was available at Aiims for all patients. “Even cartoon shows were shown to the little one,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recovered-covid-19-patients-express-gratitude-to-doctors/articleshow/76719640.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 1, 2020||Vadodara||No time to be ill when on duty!||Vadodara: Since the outbreak of Covid-19, this 25-year-old resident doctor in general medicine at the Baroda Medical College didn’t let let her personal health issues come in the way while handling OPD duties at the state-run SSG Hospital and GMERS Medical College and Hospital at Gotri in Vadodara. And even with a sore throat, Dr Anjali Patel battled Covid-19 at Ahmedabad’s Civil Hospital when she was sent on deputation for a week on May 29. “On the second day, I voluntarily underwent tests but the results were negative. I continued attending patients at the isolation ward at the Civil Hospital which saw immense rush of cases,” said Patel, who tested positive after her seven days duty got over. “After I returned to Vadodara and was undergoing quarantine, my rhinorrhea (commonly known as runny nose) increased. I tested positive on the eleventh day and was admitted at a private hospital,” said the only doctor in her family with parents residing in Ahmedabad. “I resumed duty from June 28,” said the young doctor, rearing to fight the virus again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-time-to-be-ill-when-on-duty/articleshow/76717966.cms||Prashant Rupera
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Brick kilns not given nod to mine red earth: RTI reply||Coimbatore: In an RTI reply it gave recently to activists from the region, the district department of geology and mining has revealed that it has not given permission to any brick kiln in Veerapandi, Chinna Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, Pannimadai, and Somayampalayam panchayats in and around Thadagam near the city to mine red earth.S Ganesh, from Chinna Thadagam, has been fighting against unauthorized brick kilns and their illegal red earth mining in the region. According to Ganesh, the pollution control board, revenue department and local planning authorities had earlier replied that they had not given permission for the kilns to function. Now, the department of geology and mining also has also given the same reply. As per an RTI reply from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), which was given in May, the district environmental engineer, Coimbatore north, under the TNPCB, had recommended the closure of 182 unauthorized brick kilns in February and March this year. These kilns are situated in the same five village panchayats.Following this, earlier this month, officials of the district administration and the department of geology and mining had ordered seven brick kilns in Veerapandi and Chinna Thadagam, to stop operations. These kilns were set up in the span of last one year. These were unauthorized, and officials said if these continued to function, they would be sealed.But, Ganesh said, even after these actions, the illegal mining of red earth by unauthorized kilns continues unchecked. “Even before all this, in 2017, the pollution control board had said these kilns were unauthorized and their operation was illegal. But they continue mining red earth in the region. The area is also protected under the Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA), and therefore mining activities are not allowed here,” he said.Ganesh said kiln people had trespassed twice this month into the land of TMS Rajendran, who had filed a case against illegal mining in the region and had mined red earth from there. Attempts to reach officials of the department of geology and mining, Coimbatore, for comment, went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/brick-kilns-not-given-nod-to-mine-red-earth-rti-reply/articleshow/76719160.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Case against man for mass gathering||Jaipur: A case has been registered against a man in Bikaner’s Naya Shahar police station area after he was found to be flouting lockdown rules by organising a social event which saw attendance of around 150 persons. The case was registered against Jugal Rathi who had organised a housewarming party in which he invited more than 50 persons. The collector and police officers took stock of the situation and a case was registered against him on Monday late night. A day prior, the district administration had issued fresh orders stating that one was not allowed to invite more than 50 people for weddings, a part of lockdown guidelines and punishable by law. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/case-against-man-for-mass-gathering/articleshow/76720046.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada police crack two major property offences||VIJAYAWADA: City police cracked two major property offences within Vijayawada commissionerate limits and arrested three persons involving property worth over Rs 1 crore on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference, city police commissioner B Srinivasulu said that in the first incident, the accused was identified as G Subrahmanyam, a habitual offender who has around 12 cases registered against him. Srinivasulu said that he had committed the offence on January at a two-wheeler showroom in Vuyyur town. Explaining Subrahmanyam’s modus operandi, cops said that he had recced the place and ensured that no evidence was left behind at the crime scene including destroying hard drives containing the CCTV footage. In the second incident, cops arrested two persons from Sangli district in Maharashtra for stealing 1,225 grams of gold worth Rs 56 lakh. The main accused was identified as Amol Vasanth Patel (32), an employee at a gold workshop. The accused and his accomplice Sailesh Patel (28) were arrested in Maharashtra. The stolen gold was recovered from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/city-police-crack-two-major-property-offences/articleshow/76718390.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 1, 2020||Surat||Covid batters Surat district, number of cases rise to 547||SURAT: The number of Covid-19 cases in Surat rural went up to 547 with 22 more testing positive on Tuesday. Choryasi and Kamrej reported seven cases each while rest were from Olpad, Palsana and Bardoli talukas. A 52-year-old man from Vav village in Kamrej taluka succumbed to the infection at New Civil Hospital in Surat, taking the death toll in the rural areas to 16. Eleven patients were also discharged, taking the total recoveries to 287. In Bharuch district, 14 new positive cases surfaced, taking the total cases to 232. Six of these cases were reported from Ankleshwar, three from Bharuch, four from Jambusar and one case from Vagra. Dr Nilesh Patel, epidemic medical officer (EMO), Bharuch said, “After Jambusar, Ankleshwar is fast turning into a Covid hotspot. Door-to-door survey in the town has been intensified and those detected with mild symptoms are being tested for Covid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-batters-surat-district-number-of-cases-rise-to-547/articleshow/76718400.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP chief terms TRS as ‘leakage’ govt||Hyderabad: Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar termed state government as a ‘leakage’ government and alleged that leakages were happening because government had colluded with contractors.  Due to leakages in several irrigation projects like Kondapochamma Sagar, Kaleswaram, Mid Manair, Mallanna Sagar etc, people of the surrounding areas are afraid to live there, he added. “If the situation in KCR’s area is like this, how worse could things be in other areas,” Sanjay said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-chief-terms-trs-as-leakage-govt/articleshow/76719171.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||GDCH team saves 15 C-zone newborns with cleft lip & palate||Nagpur: Covid warriors from department of paediatric and preventive dentistry at Government Dental College and Hospital (GDCH) risked their own safety to treat cleft lip and palate (CLP) among 15 newborns referred to it from different containment zones in Nagpur and other cities during lockdown.Being at the highest risk of Covid infection, the Dental Council of India (DCI) had advised all dental colleges and private dentists to put off regular check ups and planned surgeries during the lockdown, and attend only to emergencies. GDCH doctors were initially in a dilemma as no guidelines were issued regarding CLP.CLP is the most common congenital deformity, with an average of 35,000 newborn cleft patients added every year to the Indian population.Dean Dr Mangesh Phadnaik told TOI that the condition has to be treated in a week. “It is a matter of pride that our Covid warriors saved precious lives. Our warriors are not just outside collecting swabs but inside GDCH too they are doing a great job,” he said. Department head Dr Ritesh Kalaskar said CLP causes impairment of the most basic function of suckling milk. “As a result of cleft in the palate, there is nasal regurgitation of milk, which may get aspirated into the lungs, causing pneumonia and ultimately leading to death,” he said.This life-threatening complication can be prevented by timely intervention in the form of feeding plate, which acts as a barrier between nasal and oral cavity, thereby preventing regurgitation.During Covid crisis, it had become challenging to provide cleft care to the newborn babies due to high risk of cross infection as parents and other relatives accompanied them.“We observed majority of patients had reported from containment zone in Nagpur, and also from other cities,” Dr Kalaskar said.He added that feeding difficulty tends to impair the nutritional supply to infants, hampering their immunity, which is the need of the hour during this pandemic.“None of the national and international guidelines on provision of dental care during pandemic talk of infant cleft care under emergency treatment,” he said.The relatives were asked to stay out of the department and only one parent was allowed with the infant to implement social distancing when intraoral impressions were taken, which were disinfected. After discharging the babies, resident doctors monitored them through phone calls.Besides Dr Kalaskar, the team included Dr Nupur Ninawe, Dr Surendra Bahetwar, Dr Rakesh Bahadure, Dr Priyanka Bhaje, Dr Priyanka Sharma, Dr Shruti Balasubramanian, Dr Rajesh Ijalkar, Dr Hemraj Badhe and Dr Henpu Kamki.Anil Chimote, Shubham Bansod and Bablu Toraskar disinfected the department during this time.HOW IT WAS DONE* Feeding plate is a crucial emergency care, which if not provided timely could lead to life threatening complications to newborn babies with cleft palate* Infants as young as two days old were provided feeding plates* This requires paediatric dentist to take an intraoral impression of the cleft lip and palate with impression compound, followed by preparation of cast, which records the details of the cleft* On this cast, the feeding plate is fabricated using acrylic and then delivered to the infant immediately the same or following day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gdch-team-saves-15-c-zone-newborns-with-cleft-lip-palate/articleshow/76719728.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 1, 2020||Goa||Book panchas for destroying agri land: AAP||Panaji: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday stated that the Taleigao sarpanch and members of the panchayat be held criminally liable to face imprisonment for the destruction caused to agricultural land. The party’s environment cell head Sidharth Karapurkar appealed for the registration of FIR against them for the “heinous act” of filling the fields and criminal trespass and destruction of property. The party stated that this was taking place with the backing of politicians and urged people to be vigilant against moves to destroy agriculture for real estate. The Lokayukta on Tuesday directed the Taleigao panchayat to stop filling low-lying agricultural land in the village for the construction of a new panchayat ghar. Justice P K Mishra (retd) also sought a reply from Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate and others on the issue. Recently activists were arrested for allegedly obstructing work of filling of a field in Taleigao for the construction of a new panchayat ghar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/book-panchas-for-destroying-agri-land-aap/articleshow/76719736.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Surat||Mahidharpura market under cluster||Surat: The Mahidharpura Diamond Merchants’ Association (MDMA) has opposed the decision of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) authorities for putting the Mahidharpura diamond market under cluster and demanded that the diamond merchants should be allowed to open their offices to realise the outstanding payments for maintaining cash liquidity in the market. Apart from the diamond units in Katargam and Varachha, the SMC has put the Mahidharpura diamond market under cluster for a week due to the increase in the Covid-19 cases. “About 70% of the diamonds processed in Surat are traded through the merchants in Mahidharpura. Majority of the rough diamonds are traded from here. Due to the lockdown and pandemic, huge amount of payments of the merchants have been stuck. There is no trading but the merchants want to keep their offices open to realise the outstanding payments,” said Manhar Sutaria, office-bearer of MDMA. Shrenik Vora, a diamond merchant said, “There is a severe liquidity crisis in the industry. We don’t mind the closure of factories for a week, but the diamond offices should be allowed to operate. ” MDMA says administration can impose IPC section 144 to prevent the unnecessary assembly of traders. Nandlal Nakrani, president of the Surat Diamond Brokers’ Association, said, “It’s a wrong decision on the part of the SMC to shut the entire market in the name of Covid-19. Merchants have to realise payments of more than five months due to the lockdown and it is time for paying wages to the office staff. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/mahidharpura-market-under-cluster/articleshow/76718429.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Rural police rescue minor girl||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad rural police rescued a 16-year-old girl on Tuesday morning who was being married off by her family. This is the second successful rescue operation carried out by the rural police in a span of fortnight. The girl, hailing from Karanjgaon of Vaijapur tehsil in Aurangabad district, was scheduled to get married on Tuesday morning. When police received the information, a team headed by inspector Anant Kulkarni and women redressal cell’s police sub-inspctor Ashok Jawle rushed to the village and rescued the girl. The probe by the police team found that the girl’s parents were farmers by profession and were illiterate. They did not even know the legal repercussions surrounding child marriage. Police found that the youth with whom the girl was to be married was a close relative and assisted his parents in farming. Kulkarni said that parents from both sides were summoned at the police station and counselled, following which both the parties postponed the marriage. Police have taken the incident on record and the area beat marshal has been tasked to keep a watch to ensure the girl is not married off discreetly. “Both the families have been explained about the legal consequences of child marriage. Any future attempt to commit the same will attract strict action,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rural-police-rescue-minor-girl/articleshow/76717023.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Chopper loaded with pesticides to kill locusts in various districts||Jaisalmer: Preparations have started for an aerial assault on locusts entering the country from Pakistan. A helicopter loaded with pesticides, which reached Jodhpur on Tuesday evening from Delhi, will fly to Barmer on Wednesday and launch the offensive on the pests. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and MoS Kailash Choudhary flagged off the helicopter from Greater Noida on Tuesday. The copter will land at Uttarlai Air Force Station in Barmer before heading to spray pesticides in the affected desert areas. The Central government took the initiative to protect crops and vegetation from damage. “Helicopter Bel206-B-3 carrying 250 litres of pesticide will control locusts in an area of 25-50 hectares. The helicopter will reach Uttarlai Air Force Station in Barmer on Wednesday. It will control pests at Barmer, Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Nagaur,” said Kailash Choudhary. He said that till June 28, locust control campaign was carried out over 2,33,487 hectares in 101 districts of nine states including 32 districts in Rajasthan, one district in Punjab, 40 in MP, 13 in UP, one in Chhattisgarh, five in Gujarat, four in Bihar and two districts in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chopper-loaded-with-pesticides-to-kill-locusts-in-various-districts/articleshow/76720055.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM distributes farming kits||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday urged farmers of tribal-dominated areas of the state to change their traditional mindset of farming and adopt modern farming technologies. He was addressing more than 76,000 tribal farmers through video conferencing. Fertilizers and seed kits worth Rs 35 crore were distributed to farmers of tribal areas under the agriculture diversification scheme of the state government. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-distributes-farming-kits/articleshow/76719180.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cops on toes for maintaining social distance in busy Market Yard||PUNE: The Gultekdi Market Yard — one of the busiest places in the city with almost 750 goods vehicles moving in and out every day for offloading and loading flowers, fruits, grains and farm produce — is posing a major challenge to police vis-à-vis social distancing and preventing the spread of Covid-19. On Sunday, the Market Yard police had to handle the movement of about 1,200 goods carriers in and around the market. One of the first few Covid-19 cases in Pune was reported from the Market Yard area, covering the Ambedkar, Gultekdi and Audyogik Vasahat slums surrounding the main complex, towards the end of March. It has since recorded a total of 325 cases by June 28. Of these, a total of 260 people have recovered and 11 succumbed to the contagion, while 54 active cases remain. The Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Pune, had to shut down the vegetables and fruits section and the flowers market for almost three months. The grain market, too, remained closed for eight days towards the end-March and early April. Nearly three weeks ago, the vegetables and fruits section reopened. The flowers market resumed operation eight days ago. This has led to a steady rise in the number of vehicles and the crowd of wholesale auctioneers, buyers and visitors. “We can barely afford to have any fresh infection as it is fraught with the danger of spreading the virus to the city and rural areas. Hence, precautionary steps are required,” said senior inspector S S Nimbalkar of the Market Yard police. He said, “The daily hustle and bustle in the Market Yard begins after 10pm and peaks around 2.30am, when people as well as trucks and transport vehicles carrying vegetables, fruits, food grains and farm produce start arriving. It becomes important for us to see that all those reaching the market are wearing masks, using sanitizers and maintaining physical distance while engaging in their business activity. This is done through day- and night-time patrolling of the premises by teams of 35 police personnel each.” Nimbalkar said, “Three police vans equipped with public address system are always stationed at crowded places in the Market Yard and repeatedly keep announcing measures to be followed to ensure physical distancing norms and related issues. Besides, beat marshals patrol the Nehru Road and the Shivneri Road, where large number of roadside vegetable and fruit vendors, and other shopkeepers do their business.” He said, “The APMC, too, has provided its staffers and a few vehicles to aid patrolling the area and keep a vigil on situations like crowding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-on-toes-for-maintaining-social-distance-in-busy-market-yard/articleshow/76719183.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 1, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 50% rise in Covid cases daily in Unlock 1||BHOPAL: The 30 days of Unlock 1.0 (between June 1 and June 30) have been worst for the state compared to previous 67 days of lockdown (between March 24 and May 31) as far as fresh Covid-19 cases are concerned. But, in June more people were tested than the total testing done between March 24 and May 31. By ramping up testing capacity, Madhya Pradesh has been able to conduct 1.9 lakh tests in June as against 1.67 lakh done between March 24 and May 31. On an average, 183 people tested positive for Covid-19 daily in the 30 days of Unlock 1.0 with at least 7 deaths. Overall 5,504 people had tested positive in 30 days of June and 222 died. In the period between March 24 and May 31— 8,089 people had tested positive and 350 died in the 67 days of lockdown. Thus, on an average only 122 new cases were reported daily and the daily death rate in lockdown was 5. Thus, during the easing of curbs in June there was a 50% growth in fresh Covid cases daily. On the brighter side, a total of 5,553 people had recovered from the disease in the same period. Sources said that it is not only the fact that there was a spurt in number of cases due to easing of restrictions, but a major cause for increase in number of Covid-19 patients was the increase in number of tests. Apart from it, there had been several other factors like the return of migrant workers from all over the country. Though more cases were reported number of active cases had reduced. While there were 2,897 active cases in the state on May 31, on June 30 active case number has come down to 2,626. This was because more people recovered. A total of 5,553 people had recovered in past 30 days compared to 4,842 in lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/50-rise-in-covid-cases-daily-in-unlock-1/articleshow/76718456.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||Shivaji market & Clover Centre to open from today||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has issued separate orders relating to reopening of the Shivaji market and Clover Centre commercial complex at Pune Camp with certain restrictions from July 1 to 12. “We will take a call on July 12 regarding extension of the relief following an assessment of the situation, which involves maintenance of social distancing norms by shops and commercial outlets during the first 12 days,” PCB’s chief executive officer Amit Kumar told TOI on Tuesday. He said, “Of the total 550 shops at Shivaji market, only one-third of each trade will be allowed to open on a given day from 5am to 7pm. At the Clover Centre, shops will operate on a P1/P2 basis from 9am to 8pm. These restrictions are to ensure that there is no crowding at the shops.” In other words, 183 out of 550 shops at Shivaji market will open on Wednesday followed by another 183 each on Thursday and Friday. The shops, which opened on Wednesday, will get their turn to operate next on Saturday and the chain will continue. Shivaji market, a heritage structure, is one of the main market places in Camp for vegetables, fruits, meat and sea food products. Clover Centre is a commercial complex which houses a number of shopping outlets. Both these places have remained shut ever since the nationwide lockdown was first announced on March 24. The PCB authorities had experimented with shifting some vegetable and fruit outlets on a temporary basis from Shivaji market to an open space near Golibar Maidan, but the arrangement did not work out. Since June 8, traders, shopkeepers and representatives of the Shivaji market and Clover Centre had been requesting the PCB authorities to allow them to resume their businesses. “We could not open these places due to the Covid-19 situation in the PCB limits which even now has 70 active cases. The numbers increased after June 8. In our orders, we have asked shopkeepers in Shivaji market and Clover Centre to adhere to the guidelines given by us. If we notice the situation is out of control, we will shut the market and centre with immediate effect,” Kumar added. The PCB orders stated that the Shivaji Market representatives and the Clover Centre administrator will provide thermal scanner and sanitisers at entry and exit gates. All stalls will be sanitised before use. No entry will be given without wearing mask. The board will impose a fine of Rs 1,000 on shops and vendors for not maintaining social distancing. After three repeated offences, the board will shut shops and stalls for a temporary period. Not wearing mask and spitting at a public place will attract Rs100 and Rs500 fines, respectively, the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shivaji-market-clover-centre-to-open-from-today/articleshow/76719189.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||Covid zones below 1,500 after 2 weeks in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Almost twelve days after the micro-containment zones in the city crossed the 1,500 mark and kept steadily increasing up to 1,714 units, Tuesday brought some cheer back to the city administrators as figures fell to 1,451. But the problem is far from over. In the past month, greater Behala, comprising Haridevpur, Parnasree and Thakurpukur, witnessed six deaths in June. The total number of infected climbed to 117, with most of them in east Behala. Times ViewInfections have continued to rise even as most of the city is back at work. This underlines the importance of following safe practices, both in public spaces and private. Stopping economic activity will prove counter-productive but we will have to accept that we are yet some distance away from pre-Covid social activity.Behala had reported less than 40 cases in the first two months of lockdown. Pockets in Bhowanipore, Alipore, Kalighat and Khidderpore along with Bowbazar, Girish Park and Ultadanga in the south continue to see a spurt in cases. The Egiye Bangla website says there are 63 cases in Bhowanipore, 48 in Kalighat and around 40 in Ultadanga. According to KMC, boroughs 8 and 9 are the worst hit. Also, there are a significant number of active cases in boroughs 3, 4, 10 and 12. Covid situation is worsening in large areas of south Kolkata, which had relatively remained in safer zones. For example, vast stretches of Bhowanipore, Harish Mukherjee Road, Sarat Bose Road, Ballygunge have been worst affected in the past two weeks. Bijoygarh, an area located in between Tollygunge and Jadavpur, has also seen a sudden spurt recently. However, the civic health department is more worried with numerous positive cases being reported from apartment buildings and high-rises from Bhowanipore-Sarat Bose Road and Karaya-Ballygunge belt. “We are tackling an alarming situation in Bhowanipore-Sarat Bose Road belt. Here, positive cases are registering by leaps and bounds. The Covid condition in Karaya-Ballygunge belt has been similar. At a time, when we were relieved to witness no fresh cases in large areas of Tiljala, Topsia Beniapukur areas, the spurt in cases in Karaya-Ballygunge has thrown a new challenge before us,” said a KMC health department official. In the north, the deadly virus has returned to haunt large stretches of Bowbazar, College Street and its neighbouring areas. According to a KMC health department source, the civic body was worried to witness four fresh cases in Durga Pituri lane alone in the past fortnight. The virus scare was so prominent among a section of Bijoygarh residents that they compelled traders of Bijorgarh Bazar to down their shutters for three days (till Wednesday) after a couple of the traders tested positive. The drop in containment zones, claim KMC and police, is not at loggerheads with the rise of cases in the city. There were 1,546 cases reported in the first fortnight of June and in the next 15 days there were 2,081 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-zones-below-1500-after-2-weeks/articleshow/76719187.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Five top cops retire; 2 years on, no IPS reshuffle in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Five senior police officers, including Warangal police commissioner, superannuated on Tuesday. However, instead of appointing full-time officers, the government has given in-charge roles to some Indian Police Service officers, who are already holding other posts.  As a result, Adilabad SP is now supervising three districts and Criminal Investigation Department, IG, has to handle three other posts, including officiating as Warangal police commissioner. Warangal police commissioner V Ravinder, inspector-general (IG), Intelligence, T Prabhakar Rao, Cyberabad joint commissioner A Venkateswara Rao, State Police Housing Corporation (TSPHC) managing director M Malla Reddy and Nirmal SP C Shashidhar Raju superannuated on Tuesday. Hours later, a memo was issued by the director-general of police (DGP’s) office directing Sanjay Kumar Jain, IG, P&L, Naven Chand, IG Intelligence, Pramod Kumar, IG, Criminal Investigation Department, VC Sajjanar, Cyberabad commissioner, and Vishnu S Warrier to hold full additional charge of MD, TSPHC, IG-SIB, Warangal commissioner, DCP, Madhapur, and SP, Nirmal, posts respectively. The last major reshuffle of IPS officers in the state had happened in 2018. The state government had then transferred and gave new postings to 38 Indian Police Service officers, including incumbent commissioners of Hyderabad and Cyberabad on March 11, 2018. Subsequently, several officers had been promoted, but were retained in their posts. In April, 2019, the government had promoted 23 IPS officers of the 2004 & 2005 batches, including S Chandrasekhar Reddy, SP, Sangareddy, AR Srinivas, DCP, West Zone, and V Shiva Kumar, SP, Intelligence, VB Kamalasan Reddy, commissioner, Karimnagar, Avinash Mohanty, DCP, CCS, Hyderabad, P Viswa Prasad, DCP, Central Zone, and M Ramesh, DCP, East Zone, were promoted as deputy inspectors-general (DIGs) and retained in their postings.  Similarly, 2001 batch IPS officers G Sudheer Babu, who was Rachakonda joint commissioner, was posted as additional commissioner in Rachakonda. After the superannuation of two IGs, who were working as Additional CP, Admin, and CAR, in August 2019, Additional CP, Crime, Shikha Goel and Additional CP (L&O) DS Chauhan were holding additional charge of these posts.  Shikha Goel of the 1994 batch has been promoted to the rank of additional DG in April 2019, but she still continues to work as additional CP in the Hyderabad commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-top-cops-retire-2-years-on-no-ips-reshuffle-in-state/articleshow/76719182.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two Taj hotels get terror threat calls from ‘LeT man in Pak’||MUMBAI: Two telephone calls, each lasting less than a minute, to Taj Group hotels in Colaba and Bandra around 12.30am on Tuesday threatening a 26/11-like terror attack have put the Mumbai Police on high alert. A police source said that both calls seem to have been made by the same person, who identified himself as a member of banned Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terror outfit from Pakistan, and the phone numbers were with the +92 country code, which is of Pakistan. “We have identified the caller and verification is on. The information has been shared with the intelligence bureau and Union home ministry,” said a police official. According to sources, the caller said that they would be carrying out an “aatanki hamla” (terror attack) like 26/11. The two calls came hours after a terror attack on the Pakistan Stock Exchange building on Monday. “We have traced the calls to Pakistan and have enhanced security at both Taj Mahal Palace in Colaba and Taj Lands End in Bandra,” said police commissioner Parambir Singh. The Taj Mahal Palace was one of the places targeted by the LeT in the November 26, 2008 terror attack, when terrorists stormed into the hotel, laid siege for over 60 hours, and killed dozens of staffers and guests, including several foreigners. “At 12.30am, Taj Lands End received a telephone call on its board number saying the hotel would be attacked. The caller claimed to be from LeT. The call lasted for 39 seconds. A similar call was made to Taj Mahal Palace soon after. The second call lasted 45 seconds. Both calls appear to have been made by the same person. The caller spoke in Hindi,” a police officer said. The police, however, did not disclose if both the calls originated from the same number. The two hotels have handed over the details of the calls to Mumbai Police and Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad. A senior police officer said they will take help from the Interpol to get more details about the caller. On the night of November 26, 2008, ten Pakistani terrorists entered the city through the sea route and launched a coordinated terror attack at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Cama Hospital, Nariman House, Leopold Cafe, Taj Hotel and Oberoi-Trident Hotel, killing 166 people and injuring over 300 others. While nine of them were killed in the four-day operation, Ajmal Kasab was captured alive. He was sentenced to death at Yerwada Central Jail in Pune in 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-taj-hotels-get-terror-threat-calls-from-let-man-in-pak/articleshow/76719174.cms||Mateen Hafeez
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Landscapers seek aid to tide over lockdown crisis||COIMBATORE: Hit hard by the lockdown, the landscapers and nursery owners in the city on Tuesday urged the state government to help them with loans as it had helped the micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Unable to travel and transport their materials to work sites, they said they were out of business for months together. Representatives of landscapers said there were around 300 landscaping firms in the city that employ round 500 workers, most of who were women. In total, more than 800 people depended on the sector for a livelihood. G Ramesh, president, Landscapers Welfare Association, said their members were involved in maintaining plant nurseries, making treated manure, and landscaping for buildings and their maintenance. “Since the lockdown, our business has been affected. We have not been able to carry our work freely. Our workers have not been able to travel within the city.” After landscaping and planting gardens, he said, workers needed to visit them periodically for maintenance. But due to the lockdown, they have not been able to do so, he said. “They have not been able to move around owing to lack of proper public transport. Many women workers are involved in gardening work. And this is affecting their livelihood.” To help them manage their businesses and stay afloat in this time of crisis, the representatives of the association said the state should help them get loans as it had done for MSMEs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/landscapers-seek-aid-to-tide-over-lockdown-crisis/articleshow/76719190.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cop who had paralytic attack dies||MUMBAI: A 48-year-old constable of anti-narcotics cell of city police died on Monday at KEM Hospital minutes after he was brought in for treatment. Mangesh Kamble suffered a paralytic attack few years back, said an officer. “He was gasping when taken to casualty, where ECG was immediately carried out. It was suggestive of myocardial infarction. He did not have fever or signs of breathlessness. Doctors tried to revive him but he succumbed,” said dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh, adding that senior doctors were present when he was brought in. “As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, we can’t do a throat swab of a deceased person. Also, as per medical history, he did not seem to have fever or other Covid symptoms,” the dean added. The hospital collected his wife’s swabs for testing on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cop-who-had-paralytic-attack-dies/articleshow/76718960.cms||Mateen Hafeez
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||21-year-old alleges rape, registers FIR||JAIPUR: A 21-year-old woman was allegedly raped by an acquaintance at her house when her husband was away from home in city’s Vishwakarma police station area on Sunday afternoon. The woman alleged that the accused was in an inebriated state and he forcibly entered her room and sexually assaulted her. He is yet to be arrested. Mangi Lal Bishnoi, SHO, Vishwakarma police station, said, “The complainant alleged that the accused stayed in the neighbourhood and was known to her husband. On the day of the incident, he entered her house and locked the door of her room from inside following which he raped her. It was in the middle of the afternoon when the woman’s husband had gone out for some work.” According to complainant, after the assault, the accused fled and she reported the matter to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/21-year-old-alleges-rape-registers-fir/articleshow/76720063.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Jodhpur||Three of a family killed in sleep in Jodhpur village||JODHPUR: A man, his wife and their 5-year-old son were killed and the couple’s three other children were left injured by unidentified persons while the family was asleep in their hut at Jaitiwas village near Bilara in Jodhpur district around Monday midnight. The three injured children are being treated at a hospital. The incident came to light when a passer-by spotted the bodies lying scattered around the hut on Tuesday morning. Police reached the spot and began investigation. Police are trying to get information from the injured children. According to police, the murderers apparently did not intend to rob them as the family was in absolute poverty and whatever jewellery the woman had been wearing was found intact on her body. SP (Jodhpur Rural) Rahul Barhat said that prima facie, the murders appear to have been triggered by some rivalry as the accused had come with the sole intent of eliminating the family and they attacked them with sharp-edged weapons with full ferocity while they were asleep. According to Barhat, the family of Jawarilal (35) and his wife Toladevi (30) had shifted to their current home barely 15-20 days back from some farm and were engaged in making coal from the wood in the village in order to make a living. The child who has been killed was identified as Vikram (5).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/three-of-a-family-killed-in-sleep-in-jodhpur-village/articleshow/76728544.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Three of a family killed in sleep in Jodhpur village||JODHPUR: A man, his wife and their 5-year-old son were killed and the couple’s three other children were left injured by unidentified persons while the family was asleep in their hut at Jaitiwas village near Bilara in Jodhpur district around Monday midnight. The three injured children are being treated at a hospital. The incident came to light when a passer-by spotted the bodies lying scattered around the hut on Tuesday morning. Police reached the spot and began investigation. Police are trying to get information from the injured children. According to police, the murderers apparently did not intend to rob them as the family was in absolute poverty and whatever jewellery the woman had been wearing was found intact on her body. SP (Jodhpur Rural) Rahul Barhat said that prima facie, the murders appear to have been triggered by some rivalry as the accused had come with the sole intent of eliminating the family and they attacked them with sharp-edged weapons with full ferocity while they were asleep. According to Barhat, the family of Jawarilal (35) and his wife Toladevi (30) had shifted to their current home barely 15-20 days back from some farm and were engaged in making coal from the wood in the village in order to make a living. The child who has been killed was identified as Vikram (5).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/three-of-a-family-killed-in-sleep-in-jodhpur-village/articleshow/76720059.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed SP starts helpline for people with depression||Aurangabad: Considering the stressful nature of a policeman’s job, Beed superintendent of police Harssh Poddar has launched project ‘Sahayta’ under which people can reach out to the dedicated helpline number round-the-clock.This is the first-of-its-kind initiative in the state. Under this project, an officer has been designated to answer the phone calls that come on the helpline number 8830217955. If from the call it is found that the person on the other side is depressed or shows any symptoms of mental imbalance, he would be connected to senior psychiatrists Mohammed Mujahid and Ashok Mate who have been roped in for the project. Poddar said, “Given the current situation, the society is not only fighting a war against contagion but also against depression, anxiety and other forms of mental illness. If we are able to save even one life through means of counselling and subject experts, we will assume our project has been successful.” said Poddar. He has already initiated training for policemen on field as well as in police stations to identify people in depression and the expected standard response in handling such people, irrespective of they being the complainant or the accused.Echoing Poddar, senior police officers confirmed that policemen often come across people, who are either on the verge of taking an extreme step or committing a wrong due to depression and other related mental disorders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-sp-starts-helpline-for-people-with-depression/articleshow/76717042.cms||Mohammed Akhef
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Rythu Bandhu Samithi chief attempts suicide||Warangal: Rythu Bandhu Samithi president Masam Venkateshwarlu attempted suicide by slitting his throat with a sickle at Maryrs Memorial in Hanamkonda on Tuesday. He wrote a letter alleging Narsampet TRS MLA Peddi Sudarshan Reddy was responsible for his suicide. “He is unfit for MLA position. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will not give ticket to Peddi Sudarshan Reddy in the next elections,” it read. Masam Venkateshwarlu, a resident of Alankanipeta in Nekkonda mandal of Warangal rural district, was worried over his son Ramraj’s job. Ramraj was working for ODCMS as a watchman. He was asked to leave due to the pandemic. That was when Venkateshwarlu rushed to the MLA residence in Narsampet and asked if there was a suitable job for his son there. MLA Sudarshan Reddy told him to come back after the Covid situation improved. However, he later tried to contact Narsampet MLA but his security denied him entry into his residence. He later rushed to Warangal Rural Collector office and inquired if there was an update but was denied entry there as well. Finally he went to Martyrs Memorial, adjacent to the Rural Collector Office and opposite District Court Complex and slit his throat. A traffic constable noticed this and called the Subedari Police Station. Venkateshwarlu was rushed to MGM hospital. “His condition is stable now”, said Dr Srinivasa Rao, superintendent of MGM hospital . MLA Sudarshan Reddy told him to come back after Covid situation improved. However, he later tried to go to Narsampet MLA’s residence but his security denied him entry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rythu-bandhu-samithi-chief-attempts-suicide/articleshow/76719186.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
July 1, 2020||Surat||Surat: Robots ensure social distancing in diamond firms||SURAT: At a time when the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre in Surat is facing closure due to the increase in the coronavirus cases among the diamond polishers and the social distancing issues, a few diamond companies have turned towards automation and robotics to manufacture the glittering diamonds. City-based Sahajanand Technologies Private Limited (STPL) has designed about 250 automated robomatic, 4P machines used for planning of rough diamonds to cutting and processing of the diamonds have been installed in three diamond companies in the diamond hub of Surat for addressing the low attendance of artisans and maintaining social distancing norms.  In the 4P automated machines designed by the STPL, a person can operate about five machines single-handedly. About 200 rough diamonds could be loaded into the automated 4P machine and that the programme and cutting parameters are set as per the requirement. “We have changed the software and hardware of the existing 4P machines with complete digital automation for the cutting process of the diamonds. At a time, one can load 200 diamonds in the machine and that they are processed automatically as per the parameters and programme set by the operator,” said Rahul Gaywala, CEO, STPL. “For every five 4P automated machines, the diamantaire require only one operator to monitor the process. This resolves the issue of social distancing as well as the current crisis of the skilled artisans. Once the diamonds are out of the 4P machines, they can be sent for final polishing on the emery wheels” added Gaywala. “The 4P process of diamonds is completely automated and we require only one operator to operate five machines. When lockdown and coronavirus spread in the industry has brought miseries to the diamond industry, the automated machines are proving as a boon for us,” said Shailesh Italiya, chairman of Twara diamond. Another diamantaire, Hasmukh Kakadia said, “We have over 100 4P robots installed in our factory. We are able to maintain social distancing in our factory as we need very less skilled artisans to operate the machines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/robots-ensure-social-distancing-in-diamond-firms/articleshow/76718476.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana amends FRBM Act, enables govt to seek additional borrowings||HYDERABAD: The state government on Tuesday promulgated an ordinance, amending the Telangana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act-2005 allowing it to opt for additional borrowings over and above the limits set under the Act. The Telangana FRBM (Amendment) Act 2020 now enables the government to go for additional borrowings under the existing Act. Sources said the state government’s additional borrowing limit can go up to Rs 20,000 crore now. With the revenues during the current financial year taking a nosedive on account of Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, the government was desperately looking to mop up additional resources to meet the unforeseen expenditure on account of coronavirus relief operations. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had written to the Centre some time ago, seeking an increase in the borrowing capacity to 6% of GSDP from 3% of GSDP. The CM even highlighted how states would face unprecedented financial troubles during and after the lockdown and sought increase in the borrowing limit. The Centre allowed an additional borrowing of 2% of GSDP over and above the normal limit of 3% during the current financial year, subject to carrying out the necessary amendment to the Telangana FRBM Act, 2005. Accordingly, the state government promulgated the ordinance on Tuesday, thus enabling it to make use of an additional fiscal deficit of 2% above the permissible limit. “The CM was sure that the state would get the additional Rs 20,000 crore. That is why the ordinance was brought in so that the state could go for additional borrowings without any hassles,” sources said. Sources also said the Centre had given permission to borrow additionally, subject to fulfilment of certain conditions like implementation of one nation-one ration card, reforms in ease of doing business, etc. Due to the shortfall in the devolution of share from the central tax pool, the state was allowed an additional borrowing of Rs 1,435 crore as a one-time dispensation during the previous financial year. “For the financial year 2020-21, the additional fiscal deficit of 2% over and above the permissible limit (3% of GSDP) will allow the state to get more borrowings,” sources explained. Till now, the state had already used Rs 12,500 crore in the first 50 days of nine months of financial year. Under the earlier 3% of GSDP regime, the state could have borrowed Rs 15,051 crore for the nine months of the financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-amends-frbm-act-enables-govt-to-seek-addl-borrowings/articleshow/76719195.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Pvt hosps should shoulder responsibility: Dist collector||Aurangabad: District collector Uday Choudhary, while saying that Aurangabad will overcome the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, on Tuesday appealed to the private hospitals to gear up for shouldering responsibility.The collector also requested the private hospitals to charge the patients reasonably durong this time of crisis. “We have already set up a helpdesk for the citizens to lodge complaints against hospitals either denying services or charging exorbitantly,” Choudhary said, adding that the district administration is probing around half a dozen complaints against some of the leading hospitals in the city.He also appealed to the citizen to lodged their complaints about health services at private hospitals at Abdcollhospitalgrievances@gmail.com.While informing that majority of the people found positive in Waluj are asymptomatic, Choudhary expressed confidence that during the complete lockdown in Waluj industrial area from July 4 to 12, the chain of Covid-19 will definitely break.Meanwhile, Aurangabad district on Tuesday reported as many as 282 Covid-19 patients, taking the total number of cases to 5,565. As on date there are 2,561 active cases, while 263 people have succumbed to the contagion so far. Authorities said that a total of 2,741 patients have recovered and discharged from various hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pvt-hosps-should-shoulder-responsibility-dist-collector/articleshow/76717051.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||‘Padukas’ with few warkaris reach Pandharpur by bus||Pune: Chants of `Dnyanoba-Tukaram’ filled the air as the padukas (footprints) of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram Maharaj were taken in two separate specially decorated buses from Alandi and Dehu to Pandharpur on Tuesday afternoon.The padukas will reach Vitthal-Rukmini temple in Pandharpur by Tuesday night for an early pooja by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday for `Ashadhi Ekadashi’. A select group of warkaris, wearing face marks, accompanied by taal and mrudunga, sang and danced before the buses left for a 230km journey from Alandi and Dehu. Colourful rangolis adorned the lanes near both temples.The padukas had reached Wakhri, the last halt before entering Pandharpur, around 8.30pm on Tuesday. “They will reach Pandharpur temple around 11pm. Many villagers along the route showered flowers on the buses,” Khed sub-divisional officer Sanjay Teli, who is appointed incident commander for the journey, told TOI. Sanjay More, chief trustee of Tukaram Maharaj temple, told TOI, “Devotees along the route stood by the roadside. At many places, they showered flowers and burst firecrackers. As per tradition, we will have a dinner break at Wakhri and then proceed towards Pandharpur.” Both buses were decorated with garlands and flowers. As per the government order, only twenty people were allowed with each palkhi, with a convoy of appointed incident commanders and police accompanying the vehicles.Both the padukas were taken along the traditional route through Pune, Satara and Solapur districts. Pune district collector Naval Kishore Ram said, “All warkaris were tested and both buses left as per the plan and schedule.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/padukas-with-few-warkaris-reach-pandharpur-by-bus/articleshow/76719199.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Bhopal||Three MLAs Covid +ve, yet netas in MP do away with masks||BHOPAL: Politicians in Madhya Pradesh, cutting across the party lines, have been seen without masks even as common people are fined by police if they are caught not wearing one in public. This, despite the fact that an MLA each from BJP and Congress has been found Coronavirus-infected. On Friday, the day Rajya Sabha elections were held, most legislators were seen wearing masks but there were quite a few, from both BJP and Congress, who didn’t bother to wear one, or had their mask dangling from their chin or neck. Even Madhya Pradesh home and health minister, Narottam Mishra, has often been seen without a mask. Social distancing norms were violated at one of his public meetings recently. Other ministers of the Shivraj cabinet, Kamal Patel and Govind Singh Rajput, too, have been clicked in public functions either without masks or having it dangling uselessly. Asked why he doesn’t wear a mask, Narottam Mishra said: “I do wear a mask whenever it is necessary. One should wear a mask, me and also you.” Minister for food and civil supplies, Govind Singh Rajput, who is preparing for a by-election from Surkhi constituency in Sagar, has also been seen ‘mask-less’ at public functions. He said, “I wear a mask. On occasion, you forget, but now that you are pointing this out to me, I will make sure that I wear a mask whenever I am among people.” Kamal Patel, who was earlier clicked offering flowers to the priest at Mahakaal Temple against the rules, and having his mask hanging around his chin, did not respond to calls for his reaction. On Friday, Samajwadi Party MLA Rajesh Shukla and BJP’s Sanjeev Kushwaha were seen outside the lobby of the assembly without wearing a mask. They both told TOI that they wore masks in the assembly during the RS election and “only slid it to the chin when they were talking to media on the stairs outside the lobby”. Former chief minister, Kamal Nath, Member of Parliament from Jhabua, Kantilal Bhuria, and several Congress leaders were also clicked without a mask while congratulating senior party leader Digvijaya Singh after he won the Rajya Sabha election. Congress media coordinator, Narendra Saluja, talking on behalf of the former CM, said: “Kamal Nath usually wears a mask. At times, he may have forgotten it. When he had gone to Chhindwara, pictures of him covering his face with a mask were published in the media. On certain occasions, he may not have been wearing it but it was not deliberate.” Bhuria was not available for comment. BJP chief spokesperson for the state, Deepak Vijayvargiya, said: “It is not a mask alone. It is either a mask or gamacha. When the leaders are in a crowd, they use gamacha to cover their face but when they are at a place where safe physical distancing is being maintained, they don’t cover the face.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/3-mlas-covid-ve-yet-netas-in-mp-do-away-with-masks/articleshow/76718464.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Medchal murder: Wife, 4 others held||HYDERABAD: Medchal police solved the murder of a pharma employee and arrested his wife and four of her associates on Tuesday. The accused tried to make the murder appear like a road accident but they could not succeed. The victim was, Pharma employee Dharavath Suresh, 28. The accused are, his wife, Babitha, a village ward member of Saidonigadda Tanda in Medchal, her lover, Prem Singh and their associates, U Raj, Rahul and Suraj. Suresh married Babitha seven years ago. At the time of marriage, Babitha was in love with Prem Singh. Even after the marriage, the affair continued, Medchal police said. “Suresh came to know about the affair and warned Babitha and Singh to mend their ways. The accused decided to eliminate Suresh and sought help from the other accused by offering them Rs 1 lakh cash. The plan was to make the murder look like an accident,”Balanagar DCP P V Padmaja said. During postmortem, the cause of death was identified as strangulation. Police arrested the accused based on technical evidence information given by Suresh’s parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/medchal-murder-wife-4-others-held/articleshow/76719202.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Bhopal||Undertrials getting tested for Covid-19 at JP Hospital||BHOPAL: In order to prevent the spread of Covid-19 pandemic among the jail population, all undertrials and those returning to prison from parole are being tested for the virus . If these people are found to be symptomatic for the infection, they are admitted to the district hospital. “We get about three or four people, on each working day, who are tested for the infection before being sent to jail or prison. In some cases, inmates are subjected to mandatory quarantine,” said a JP hospital official. As Unlock-2 begins, the number of such cases is expected to increase. A swab sample of the undertrial is taken; but the tests are not conducted at the district hospital. Covid test is carried out at government-authorised facility. “Medical test has been a norm before a person is sent to prison. However, Covid-19 is quite tricky. We are taking all the measures possible to maintain safe social distance,” said a policeman, accompanying an undertrial for test at the hospital. Social distancing in such cases is not always possible for these policemen. According to JP hospital superintendent Dr RK Tiwari, none of the undertrials have tested positive for the infection. RT-PCR is carried out on all symptomatic and asymptomatic people who are to be admitted to jails or returning from parole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/undertrials-getting-tested-for-covid-19-at-jp-hospital/articleshow/76719196.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand opens all its malls, hotels and religious places today||Dehradun: Uttarakhand will open all its markets, shopping malls, religious places and restaurants for dine-in from July 1. The orders were issued by chief secretary Utpal Kumar Singh, who added that institutional quarantine will not be mandatory for asymptomatic people travelling to high-load Covid-19 cities for compelling reasons like pregnancies or deaths. It will be up to the district administration and the nodal officer to allow these exemptions. The relaxations, however, will not be applicable for people from containment zones. Guests who have tested negative for the coronavirus in the last 48 hours will be allowed to leave their hotels, said chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. “Unlock 2 comes with a lot of relaxations for local residents as well tourists. In order to boost tourism and the state's hotel industry, we will allow guests to leave the hotel for sightseeing if they can produce a certificate saying they have tested negative for Covid-19 in the last 48 hours,” said the CM. “All markets, shopping malls, religious places and restaurants will be open from 7 am to 8 pm in the state. The restrictions don’t apply to loading or unloading of goods (as part of supply chain and logistics), buses carrying passengers, goods carriers plying on state and national highways or people commuting to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and flights,” the order states. The state government will allow people to go for morning walks or jogs from 5am onwards, given that they maintain social distancing norms and safety protocol as stipulated by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). However, this will not apply in containment zones until further notice. The state administration also said that people will not be allowed to stay overnight in Badrinath, as hotels and other stays have not been opened there yet. Also, entry of visitors at Lambagarh is not allowed after 4pm. Chamoli SSP Y S Chauhan told TOI that people can stay at Joshimath and nearby areas instead. Meanwhile, even as the Devasthanam Board allowed the state’s residents to take the Char Dham Yatra from Wednesday, priests of Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines have announced that they will boycott “pooja” (worship ritual) for devotees. “The priests will neither perform pindadaan, nor help devotees with any ritual like havan, tarpan etc. The decision has been taken in protest against the government’s decision to start the yatra amid the pandemic against our will,” said Brijesh Sati, spokesperson of Devbhoomi Teerth purohit Haqhakukdhari Mahapanchyat, a body representing the priests. Sati told TOI that the priests’ decision was taken in an e-meeting held among chief priests of the temples falling under the Devasthanam Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-opens-all-its-malls-hotels-and-religious-places-today/articleshow/76717064.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 1, 2020||Aurangabad||Number of patients in rural areas is now 949||Aurangabad: As the daily count of confirmed cases of Covid-19 has been hitting new high every day within the city areas, the disease is also spreading fast in rural areas of the district. The nine talukas of Aurangabad district have so far reported 949 Covid-19 patients till Monday and the tally is likely to increase considering the current trend. As many as 15 deaths have been reported from these talukas and the active cases stand at 660. The number of people who have been cured and discharged from hospital is at 274. As per official data, tehsil limits of Aurangabad has the highest (672) confirmed cases of Covid-19 followed by Gangapur (135), Kannad (36), Vaijapur (30), Paithan (22), Phulambri (17), Sillod (19), Khuldabad (13) and Soygaon (5). Civic activist Rajendra Datey-Patil said the government authorities must ensure effective health facilities and manpower in rural areas for the benefit of patients. When contacted, senior health officials said adequate facilities and manpower was available in rural areas as well for the effective treatment of Covid-19. “The mortality rate in rural areas is 1.6% and attempts are on to bring it down further along with containing the spread of the disease,” a senior health authority from Aurangabad division said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/number-of-patients-in-rural-areas-is-now-949/articleshow/76717062.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh Covid-19 volunteers to ensure dignified death||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a novel initiative, the Andhra Pradesh unit of the Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) has developed a proposal to involve interested persons in the safe and scientific disposal of bodies of persons who died of Covid-19. Volunteers will be given a daily allowance and a certificate of service. Guidelines for service will be formulated after the recruitment process of volunteers is over. The initiative comes in the wake of two incidents in Palasa and Sompeta in Srikakulam district in which officials transported the bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims to the burial ground in an earthmover in once incident, and in a tractor, in another, in a breach of the protocol on handling dead bodies of Covid-19 patients. On a pilot basis, a separate ambulance has been refurbished at a cost of Rs 1 lakh and is being readied for handling the bodies of deceased Covid-19 patients. IRCS state vice-chairman P Jaganmohan Rao said, “We will hold a state-level conference on the Red Cross’s activities on July 1 where we will introduce our concept of volunteers for Covid-19 cremations.” So far, sources said, nearly 50 volunteers across the state have contacted Red Cross to take part in the initiative. From PN Colony in Srikakulam town, Nandi Uma Shankar said he had volunteered to be part of the service being undertaken by the Red Cross. Uma Shankar told TOI, “I have saved nearly 10 persons who were about to commit suicide. I have voluntarily been involved in cremations of unclaimed bodies. This is a rare opportunity to serve society.” IRCS Visakhapatnam chairman Dr P Venugopal said disposal of bodies of Covid-19 patient must be done as per the Covid protocol and those involved in the disposal must have protective gear and basic knowledge of guidelines formulated by the World Health Organisation (WHO).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-volunteers-to-ensure-dignified-death/articleshow/76718478.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
July 1, 2020||Kolhapur||14 cases in Kolhapur dist, active cases stand at 108||Kolhapur: As many as 14 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Kolhapur between Sunday and Monday, taking district’s tally to 834. Of the 14 cases, three were reported in Kolhapur city — two from Mukt Sainik Vasahat area and one from Bondrenagar. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has already initiated preventive measures in these two areas. According to a civic official, all the three cases are local transmission and they do not have any travel history. Nikhil More, civic deputy commissioner, said the throat swab samples of 15 close contacts of these patients have been collected and sent for testing. Currently, the total number of active cases across Kolhapur district stands at 108. Eight patients treated by plasma therapy Meanwhile, eight Covid patients in the district were successfully treated by the plasma therapy. Five of these patients have already been discharged from the hospital, while the remaining three will soon be sent home. Sangli reports 10 cases Billur village in Jat tehsil of Sangli district has emerged as a new hotspot for Covid-19 as six of the 10 new cases reported on Monday were from here. District collector Abhijeet Chaudhari, after the death of a villager due to Covid-19, had visited Billur and ordered to step up efforts to stop the spread of the virus. The total number of cases in Sangli has reached to 368 with 12 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/14-cases-in-kolhapur-dist-active-cases-stand-at-108/articleshow/76696616.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||FTII, NFDC collaborate for film appreciation course||Pune: The National Film Development Corporation (NFDC) and the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) have collaborated for the first time ever for an online film appreciation course for students. The course commenced on Tuesday with 60 students from across the country and overseas. All the participants have been granted access to the NFDC's video-on-demand service of its archive, titled Cinemas of India. Largely composed of award-winning mainstream or parallel cinema, partly or wholly produced by the NFDC, some of these films are rare and out of circulation. The subscription to the Cinemas of India is popular among film researchers or filmmakers. “During film appreciation courses, we often ask participants to watch certain films as part of the course material. Some of those films may not be readily available on streaming platforms or DVDs. That is why the NFDC made Cinemas of India available to the participants,” said Bhupendra Kainthola, the FTII director. He added that this collaboration was the first among an expected few more in the coming months with the NFDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-nfdc-collaborate-for-film-appreciation-course/articleshow/76719217.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Professor loses car to fraudsters on pretext of free servicing||BHOPAL: Beware of phone calls offering free car service at your doorstep amid the lockdown. A 30-year-old MBA graduate allegedly duped a 40-year-old woman, who works as a professor at a private college, by luring her in his net on the pretext of free car service at her doorsteps on Monday morning and fled with her car, mobile phone, Aadhaar card and car registration and insurance papers. The accused clicked a picture with the victim woman in front of her car telling her that it was part of the free service scheme. Shahpura police acting on the woman’s complaint registered a case on charges of fraud against the accused and his accomplice and nabbed them within six hours with the help of technical investigations using CCTV cameras and mobile phone tracking. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said that the accused came dressed in a branded showroom mechanic’s uniform and took the woman’s car key on the pretext of test drive. He also took her documents and mobile phone on the pretext of installing a software and fled the spot. He even got a fake Indore number registration plate fixed on the car to avoid police. Police said that the kingpin is highly educated and son of a sub-inspector posted in the CISF. He has also worked in a call centre and car dealership firm in the past and is very savvy dealing with car owners over the phone. He worked in a car dealership in Satna where he illegally sold four cars and was booked on charges of fraud by Satna police. The accused was released on bail and returned to Bhopal. Here he visited car showrooms and service centres and collected the database of car owners including the car model they own and their personal details from the job cards filled by them at the time of leaving their cars for servicing. SP Thota said that complainant Sheena Thomas, wife of Vinu Thomas, a resident of Gulmohar Colony in Shahpura, works as a professor at a private college. Her husband passed away and she resides along with her minor son and in-laws. She approached Shahpura police station on Monday and filed a written complaint stating that she owns a 2017 model hatchback of a well-known car company. SP Thota said that Sheena told police that on Sunday evening she received a call from an unknown number on which the caller introduced himself from the car dealership firm and informed her that they are offering free car service to customers at their doorsteps. Sheena asked the caller to fix an appointment for servicing her car next day morning. Around 9.30am on Monday, the accused dressed in the car dealership uniform came to her house and asked her to show the car documents for service purpose. He asked her to give her identity proof and mobile phone telling her that he would install a software in her phone for facilitating service in future. Sheena gave the documents, car keys and mobile phone to the accused and went inside telling her minor son to watch the man while he works. The accused took the car on the pretext of a test drive and fled the spot. When he did not return, she approached Shahpura police and filed a complaint. Acting on Sheena’s complaint, police registered a case and nabbed accused Deepak Sharma, a resident of Chhatrapati Nagar, and his accomplice Chaitanya Kumar, (27), a resident of Sonagiri in Piplani area. SP Thota said that during investigations, police checked the CCTV and ITMS cameras and found that the accused reached the spot with his accomplice on a bike. Chaitanya waited for Deepak on the bike till he took the car from Sheena and then both fled. Police investigated Sheena’s call details and found the number used by Deepak to call and fix the appointment. The accused had even saved the number on Truecaller by the name of car dealership and has posted fake picture of a car showroom. Subsequently, police raided his house and nabbed him. SP Thota said that cops were interrogating the accused to ascertain their involvement in other crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/prof-loses-car-to-fraudsters-on-pretext-of-free-servicing/articleshow/76718483.cms||Sudeept Mishra
July 1, 2020||Bhopal||Curfew in Madhya Pradesh's Morena after Covid spurt||BHOPAL: Following a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in Morena, a three-day curfew has been imposed from Tuesday. The decision was taken after 57 Covid positive cases were detected on Monday. But day one of the curfew being the biggest muhurat for weddings, the curfew could not be implemented properly. The fact remains that coronavirus is spreading at a fast pace throughout the Chambal region, including the other two districts of Bhind and Sheopur. Divisional commissioner of Chambal, R K Mishra said, “ Cross-border business ties with Dholpur in Rajasthan seem to be the main reason behind this sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases. The situation, however, is much better in the other two districts”. Mishra said that a meeting with the business community was held before clamping the curfew. “Tuesday being a big day for weddings, some movement was there. There will be strict implementation in the next two days,” he added. Because of wedding celebrations, where more than 50 people are not allowed, people were seen moving out from one place to another. Otherwise, the city was completely closed. All shops, except those of essentials, were closed”, a district administration official said. In the last nine days, there were 247 positive cases found in Morena, compared to 159 Covid-19 cases in the 80 days before that, health department sources said. “Group testing is also taking place in , leading to more cases,” said sources. But the biggest challenge is to trace the contact history of Covid patients which is vital, the sources pointed out. In neighbouring Bhind, 266 teams of health workers and officials of district administration have been constituted for door-to-door screening in the district. Bhind CMHO Dr Ajeet Mishra, appealed to the people to cooperate with the teams and not hide the cold and cough symptoms.“ This would help check the community spread of the virus”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/curfew-in-morena-after-covid-spurt/articleshow/76718496.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Groundnut to fetch Rs 62/kg at farmgate||COIMBATORE: It seems groundnut farmers could mint some money this year, even if there is a dip in exports due to the prolonged Covid-19 pandemic situation. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has predicted a farmgate price of Rs 60 to Rs 62 per kg when it is harvested between August and September after analysing 12 year’s prices of the oilseed at the Tindivanam groundnut market. Groundnut is one of the few kharif crops sown in the district. Groundnut is cultivated across 3,300 hectares in the district. It is a popular crop for summer cultivation, which is by and large taken up during the southwest monsoon season. However, many farmers are hesitating to cultivate the crop this year, owing to poor monsoon showers. Karthik Krishnamurthy, treasurer, Tamil Nadu Vivaisaigal Sangam, said, “Groundnut can be a labour-intensive crop during harvest. If a good price does not come through, it can be difficult.” While the price of Rs 60 per kg sounds good, Karuppusamy, a farmer, said they would still wait for rain. “Otherwise, it’s a gamble.” According to TNAU, kharif cultivation of groundnut has increased in Gujarat and Rajasthan to 6.5 lakh hectares and 6.7 lakh hectares, respectively. Last year, the country had exported 6.65 lakh tonnes groundnut to southeast Asian countries. However, due to the Covid-19 situation, exports are likely to dip this year, causing a glut in the domestic market. But despite these factors, TNAU has predicted the farmgate price of Rs 60 to Rs 62 per kg for good quality groundnut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/groundnut-to-fetch-rs-62/kg-at-farmgate/articleshow/76719209.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||Crowding outside cafés, eateries raise fears of nCoV spread||Pune: Standing close to each other, group of people can be seen consuming parcelled food or beverages on the pavement outside cafés and eateries in the city these days. Probably unaware of their action, such people have become a major concern for increasing the risk of Covid-19 spread manifold.Though prevalent across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, this practice is more pronounced in areas like Baner Road, Kothrud, Karve Road, Pune Camp, Salunke Vihar Road, NIBM Road, FC Road, JM Road, Bhandarkar Road, Nigdi and Pimple Saudagar, among others. According to the residents, such groups also indulge in smoking on the road, posing a threat to everyone standing around them. “Several cafés and eateries are open for takeaways around Salunke Vihar Road, Wanowrie and Cloud 9 Society. Patrons visit these places to take parcels and stand a little down the road to chill with their groups. They smoke in the open and many even create a ruckus on the roads. Masks are obviously removed and they stand huddled up in groups. Such behaviour can lead to a disaster, ” city-based entrepreneur Sakshi Sharma said.A working professional from Pune, Abhinit Samadhiya, said, “When i went to pick parcel from a hotel in Aundh, I saw youngsters standing on the footpath and consuming the takeaway from the hotel. Another group of youngsters nearby were celebrating their friends’ birthday. Some of them had masks on but sadly there was no social distancing.”Another working professional, Rose Denis, said people tend to sit on the bonnets of cars or bikes parked on the roads while enjoying snacks and beverages. “Some sit right in front of the eateries. Social distancing is completely missing, except when a police patrol passes the area,” Denis said. President of Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) Ganesh Shetty said, “We have witnessed that people take parcels and stand closeby to consume. At the outset, several restaurants told patrons to avoid waiting on the roads but they engaged in a fight. Patrons said they were not on restaurant premises or that the road did not belong to the restaurant. We did intervene initially, but after seeing people engage in fights, we stopped saying anything.”Santosh Patil, additional commissioner, PCMC, said the establishments as well as citizens would be booked for the non-compliance of the guidelines. “We will be initiating action against such eateries and the citizens found eating there,” he said. According to officials from Pune police, restaurants have been instructed to ensure that more than five people are not allowed to wait to collect parcels. “If there is no compliance, action is being taken against the restaurant under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. If people are found to be flouting social distancing norms, we will take action against them,” the officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crowding-outside-cafs-eateries-raise-fears-of-ncov-spread/articleshow/76719206.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 1, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Home department employee tests Covid-19 positive||BHOPAL: A home department employee tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. The secretariat employees’ union apprised about it to the senior officials including the principal secretary after which the department was sanitized and those employees who were in contact with the corona patient were quarantined. The employee who tested positive was working in the secretariat till June 16. He had gone to Sagar fell ill on which he was tested for Covid. His report came two days ago. In all, fourteen employees in the department need to be tested for covid-19 after that among whom seven gave samples on Monday itself. On Sunday, all three Vallabh Bhavan buildings were sanitized, but after an employee came positive home department was sanitized again on Monday. Eight corona positive cases have been found in secretariat, so far. One case was found in commercial taxes department, two in urban administration department, four in energy department and the latest one was in home department. Six people including an IAS are undergoing treatment, while one was discharged after treatment and one has died. The state secretariat is divided into three interlinked buildings. Old building is called as Vallabh Bhavan 1, while the new buildings are called as Vallabh Bhavan II and Vallabh Bhavan III. Office of urban administration and development department of which the employee died was in Vallabh Bhavan II- the same building which houses the office chief secretary and chief minister, apart from the home minister. The energy department office and home department office where the fresh case was detected is also in the same Vallabh Bhavan II building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/home-dept-employee-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76719219.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||300 workers from Telangana protest at Erbil CGI, seek charter flight||HYDERABAD: Agitated over not being repatriated to India, nearly 300 workers from Telangana protested in front of the Consulate General of India (CGI), Erbil, Kurdistan, Iraq on Monday. The reason for workers marching to the CGI was that no flight was arranged under the Vande Bharat mission to Hyderabad. “We sought permission for a charter flight but we were informed by the consulate officials that the waiver of penalty for overstaying by the Telangana workers had not been accepted by the local Kurdistan government,” Ramchander Rayalwar, vice-president of Telugu Gulf Employees’ Welfare Association, told TOI. Nizamabad’s Paryamola Bhojanam, who had not been keeping well and wanted to return home, had died. Condition of at least three more workers is critical, according to Ramchander. Thousands have been overstaying for the last three years or more either not getting a work permit or the permit is getting expired and the government itself is not renewing it. In the last few months, the workers were practically starving as they were thrown out of jobs because of the pandemic . “Initially we were informed that the government had accepted to waive penalties. As workers did not have any money, they got some money from their families in India to pay for their airfare. But the chartered flight plan is not working as workers cannot leave without paying penalties for overstaying,” Ramchander said. Workers were upset as they felt that travel of people from other states of India was being facilitated but they were being ignored. The reason for the workers marching to the Consulate General of India was that no flight was arranged under the Vande Bharat mission to Hyderabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/300-workers-from-t-protest-at-erbil-cgi-seek-charter-flight/articleshow/76719211.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 1, 2020||Surat||Light rain in South Gujarat districts||Surat: Tapi, Surat and Dang districts in South Gujarat recorded significant overnight rainfall on Tuesday. According to district flood control rooms, Songadh in Tapi received 51 mm of rain followed by Kukarmunda (30 mm). Ahwa in Dang received 47 mm rain. Vapi in Valsad recorded 26 mm on Tuesday while Mangrol, Choryasi and Mahuva received sporadic rainfall. Meanwhile, sowing in seven districts of South Gujarat picked up with sowing being done in 93,600 hectare area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/light-rain-in-south-gujarat-districts/articleshow/76718506.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||Education director gets notice over wage dues to special teachers||Panaji: Taking suo motu cognisance of news reports, the Goa Human Rights Commission has asked the director of education to submit a detailed report on special educators not being paid their salaries for the past academic year by July 30. The special educators association of Goa along with the disability rights association of Goa met the education director and secretary last week to highlight delays in salary payout and disparity in pay scales for special educators. Special educators on contract basis in schools have not received their salaries since June 2019, the association stated, requesting that their payments be immediately released. They received salaries for the academic year beginning June 2017 only in April 2018 and for the academic year beginning June 2018 only in December and May 2019 in some cases.  The association during their meeting also stated that special educators receive appointment letters late with no pay allotted for the days they worked and instead of a nominal pay hike every year, their remuneration has been reduced from Rs 35,400 in 2017 to Rs 20,000 per month in 2019-20. Special educators are also paid less than regular educators with those who completed graduation in special education receiving undergraduate scale salaries and those who have diplomas in special education being paid according to graduate scale.  They also complained about being used as subject teachers and paper setters when they’re not qualified and demanded a job description be clearly stated and given to them along with their appointment letters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/education-director-gets-notice-over-wage-dues-to-special-teachers/articleshow/76719748.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Madurai||42 child marriages stopped in Dindigul in April, May alone||Madurai: As many as 42 child marriages, 21 each in April and May, have been stopped by officials of the social welfare department in Dindigul district. Speaking to TOI, Dindigul social welfare officer in-charge, C Poonkodi said that child marriage menace has been prevalent for long, but they usually went unnoticed during the marriage seasons, when the bigger and flashy weddings hogged the limelight. “Now, people are becoming wary of large crowds, and if it is their neighbourhood and involves a minor girl, they immediately call up the authorities. This is the reason we were able to stop many such marriages,” she said. Except one child wedding that had already taken place in Gujiliamparai in the district, where action was taken against the parents, all the other marriages were prevented before they took place. Majority of girls were in the age group of 15 to 17 years, and had completed their SSLC or Class XII, she said. One of the minors was a 13 year old girl, who had just completed her Class VIII. “When the marriages are prevented, the child welfare committee is informed, which in turn counsels the family members about the dangers of early marriage. If the parents refuse to listen, the girls are taken to short stay homes or one stop centres for a few days. Only after the parents give it in writing that they would not marry them off before 18 years, the girls are sent home,” she said. Child marriages are the reason for high infant mortality rates, because children born to these girls, who are underage are usually under nourished, she said. Parents also marry of their girls early, fearing that they would fall in love with someone not acceptable to them. “There is a better awareness now, compared to a decade ago, but, when a marriage of a minor girl is stopped it takes a lot of effort to convince the concerned parents,” Poonkodi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/42-child-marriages-stopped-in-dindigul-in-april-may-alone/articleshow/76719747.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||52 drivers seek pending salaries from car rental||HYDERABAD: Nearly 52 chauffeurs who work with a luxury car rental service staged a protest in front of their office at Madhapur demanding salaries due since March.  “We did not receive any salary from March 2020. Most of us have to pay loans, rents, school fees and so on. There is no communication from the managements side,” said Syed Taher, one of the chauffeurs, who is also a member of the Telangana Four Wheeler Drivers Association. Taher also informed that of the 55 chauffeurs who used to work for the company, three were in financial crisis and decided to return to their native places. Members of the Telangana Four Wheelers’ Association said that they will soon stage protests in different cities. When contacted, the company said that they will not be able to comment on the issue at this point.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/52-drivers-seek-pending-salaries-from-car-rental/articleshow/76719224.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Dehradun||51 fresh Covid-19 cases, two deaths reported in U’khand||Dehradun: Uttarakhand's Covid-19 tally shot up by 51 cases to 2,881 while two more positive patients died on Tuesday, taking the toll of the virus to 41 in the state. The health department also informed that 120 positive cases recovered in Uttarakhand on June 30. With this, the total number of recovered cases in the state has now become 2,231 and the recovery rate has reached 77.44%. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that as many as 28 new cases of coronavirus were reported from Udham Singh Nagar on the day. “Dehradun reported 12 fresh cases of Covid-19, followed by four cases from Nainital, two cases each from Bageshwar and Uttarkashi, and one case each from Chamoli, Champawat, and Pauri,” he said. The official informed that a 22-year-old woman and a 63-year-old man died at Shri Mahant Indresh Hospital in Dehradun. “Both the deceased were infected with coronavirus. We are awaiting their detailed report to ascertain the cause of the deaths,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/51-fresh-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-reported-in-ukhand/articleshow/76717116.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 1, 2020||Surat||Hackers wipe out business data of Surat trading firm||SURAT: Entire business-related data of a consumer product trading firm in Surat was wiped out by cyber criminals who had demanded US$500 from the firms owner. Based on complaint filed by Rakesh Popawala of Phoenix Traders a case was lodged with the Cyber Crime police station on Monday. According to police, the hackers used ransomware to break into the firm’s computer. They then sent an email demanding US$500 from Popawal (55) in September 2019. The hacker told Popawala that his firm’s data will be erased in 50 hours if $500 is not paid through bitcoin. The hacker provided his bitcoin address as well. The hacker also claimed that he had recording of Popawala’s private moments which he had captured using the office web camera. The accused threatened to send both the videos to all contacts of Popawala through email since he already had access to his e-mail contacts. The email ID from which the threat mail was sent was deactivated after some time, hence the sender could not be traced. Later, the hacker provided another email ID and threatened to double the amount if the money was not paid in 50 hours. Popawala claimed in his complaint that he suffered loss and faced difficulties in business because of loss of data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hackers-wipe-out-business-data-of-surat-trading-firm/articleshow/76718524.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||Property registration from builder’s office by July-end||Pune: Property buyers can register their agreements online sitting in the builder’s office by July-end. Builders and developers are being given access to a software to enable such a process. The pandemic and restrictions on travel has prompted the move to revive the market.Property registration officials said the online option will only be available at the first sale or for the primary market for easier verification process. The secondary or re-sale market has been kept out of this convenience. The software is waiting for clearance from the government-notified cyber security agency. It will create digital infrastructure to enable all developers to register the sale agreements and reduce footfalls at the property registration offices.According to Inspectorate General of Registration and Stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh, homebuyers can register their property agreements online from the builder’s office without travelling to the sub-registrar’s office. The process is not entirely new. It was tried out with some developers with a different software and some pre-conditions like at least 500 flats to register and a separate BSNL line.The new software using broadband will make it easier for developers with just a Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) registration number, a sanctioned building plan and registration with a developers’ association.“The entire process will be monitored by our office. There will be extra checks on the builders allocated this software. Registration officials will visit and check the process. The software is ready and is awaiting security checks before a roll out,” Deshmukh said.Earlier, 14 builders across the state were given this access with some conditions. “ Now, we have relaxed the conditions but have added Rera registration and building plan sanctions as new criteria. The online registration will now be available for those registering 20 or more property documents,” the circular added.Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India national president Satish Magar, among the developers who had the software to register his projects in Nanded City, said he found the process convenient. “We put through over 1,000 registrations. Registration department officials came over. Now, the registration department has opened up to more builders who would have to make the security checks. We had stopped registrations. The new software we will help us resume,” he told TOI.National Real Estate Development Council national president Niranjan Hiranandani told TOI that it is imperative that the registration department introduces such facilities. “It can benefit not just locals but also NRIs. The online registration process is a welcome move for our sector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/property-registration-from-builders-office-by-july-end/articleshow/76719233.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||Poor monsoon showers worry farmers||COIMBATORE: The district, as per the regional meteorological centre, has recorded just 9.8mm rainfall in June. The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) had predicted 194mm rainfall in the district by the end of the first month of southwest monsoon. However, the district has received hardly 5% of the predicted rainfall. According to farmers, much of the rain was registered in the city and that there wasn’t any rain in the farming belt and rural parts of the district. While the agriculture department remains confident of a good monsoon and increase in summer cultivation, farmers said lack of rain was affecting the annual crops and the prospect of further cultivation. Karthik Krishnakumar, secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasaigal Sangam, said, “Even the 9.8mm rainfall that we received may have been pre-monsoon showers or leftover summer rain. We have not received a single drop of monsoon showers, especially in the farming belts.” Many farmers, who usually indulge in summer cultivation, have decided to wait and watch. Karuppusamy, a farmer from Sulakkal, said, “I usually sow groundnut on four acres. But this year, I have decided not to cultivate as we haven’t received any rain so far. It is risky.” Banana and coconut farmers in and around Pollachi are also a nervous lot. “It is the good showers this season that usually help banana, especially the nendran variety, which is harvested during Onam,” said Kaliappan T, another farmer from Madukkarai. Coconut trees are not affected so far, thanks to the high groundwater table in the region due to good monsoon rain last year. Farmers say if the monsoon continues to fail, aadi pattam cultivation of vegetable crops such as tomatoes, brinjal, lady’s finger and onions, which could be harvested for Diwali, might also be hit. “We can sow seeds only after ploughing the soil and that could be done only after a good rain. No farmer can afford to irrigate the entire farmland for ploughing soil,” Krishnakumar said. The agriculture department, meanwhile, predict an increase in the acreage under summer cultivation to 2,000 hectares this year from 1,600 hectares last year. Tom P Silus, deputy director incharge of central government schemes, agriculture department, said, “The monsoon had a delayed onset. Usually, heavy rain is reported only in July and August. Many farmers have already begun ploughing the soil and sowing seeds. We will have a clear figure in a week.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/poor-monsoon-showers-worry-farmers/articleshow/76719239.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||Teachers lend students an ear with advice on careers||Pune: Issues ranging from courses suitable for speech and hearing impaired to a career in defence and questions about schools closing due to the pandemic, teachers are fielding questions and thus doubling up as counsellors during the lockdown. The state government's call-a-counsellor service that started on May 8 has been a huge hit among students, especially from the rural areas. The state had roped in 403 teachers and 17 staff at the District Institute of Education and Training to take calls from students from 35 districts and respond to their queries about career or higher education. Dinkar Patil, chairman of the State Council of Education Research and Training, said they receive around 500 calls every day and the number would triple once the results for standards X and XII are declared.“We have experienced teachers who have completed training in counselling who help. A centralised system of counselling started to address students’ queries when they are unable to go to school or any other place for guidance,” Patil said.Such counselling provides them with a way to talk with someone other than the family who can guide them and steer their careers, or simply ease their minds in troubled times, experts said.Dnyaneshwar Nagare, deputy head of the Vocational Guidance and Psychology Guidance department of the SCERT, said most calls come from Kolhapur, Nagpur, Satara, Mumbai and Thane. “Rural students are more curious about their future but have few resources to get answers so this arrangement has been a hit. As awareness spreads, the calls will double and triple,” he added.Rupali Mali, a teacher with 20 years experience at New English School Tilak Road, said while the service timing is between 10 am and 5pm, they get calls at any hour to which they respond. “Students are stressed. Sometimes, it is easier to listen to a professional than your own parents. We get younger students asking about Covid-19 and we allay their fears. Parents to call up a lot,” Mali said.Bhagwan Pandekar from Laxmanrao Apte Prashala said students who call ask how to study if they do not have laptops or why their school has not started online classes. “Some ask technical questions like can their YouTube login be misused. Rural students ask more about jobs in banks or competitive exams. When career counselling subjects are involved, we try to include the parent in the conversation so that an informed choice can be made,” Pandekar said.Talk Time May I Calls by Students 13,591Parents 319JuneI Calls by Students 16,862 Parents 142Most calls from I Kolhapur, Nagpur, Satara, Mumbai, ThaneCoordinator I Shyam RautRural students are more curious about their future but have few resources to get answers so this arrangement has been a hit. As awareness spreads, the calls will double and tripleDnyaneshwar Nagare I SCERT Official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teachers-lend-students-an-ear-with-advice-on-careers/articleshow/76719238.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 1, 2020||Madurai||135kg ganja seized from warehouse||Madurai: The Madurai district police on Tuesday seized 135kg of ganja from a warehouse in Thirumangalam, which was meant for storage of essential items. Police sources said the warehouse in Ashok Nagar area, belongs to M Krishnan, 32, from Indira Nagar. V Vijayan, 29, from Chinna Sengulam was employed as manager. A police special team conducted a search in the warehouse and found the ganja stashed inside boxes. Inquiries revealed that ganja was sold to peddlers from Madurai and Theni districts. It is also transported in vehicles in the guise of essential supplies during lockdown. Police came to know about the warehouse after the arrest of two people, who were carrying 6.5kg of ganja in a bike near Sindhupatti. A police team stopped E Kannan, 47, from Varushanadu in Theni district and A Ponnangan, 45, from Kadamalaikundu at Kangeyanatham Junction during a vehicular check. During inquiry, the duo told the police about the warehouse. While the two-wheeler used by the duo and ganja were seized, a police team was formed to check the warehouse.  While Vijayan has been arrested, a search is underway for Krishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/135kg-ganja-seized-from-warehouse/articleshow/76719750.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Pandharpur under curfew ahead of Ashadhi Ekadashi||Kolhapur: The district administration has imposed a curfew that will remain in effect till Thursday midnight in Pandharpur ahead of Ashadhi Ekadashi as seven new Covid-19 patients were identified on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive cases in the holy town to 16. Apart from Pandharpur, the curfew has also been imposed in ten surrounding villages. The entry to Chandrabhaga river has also been restricted to prevent Warkaris from coming for taking a holy bath. Nine palkhies arrived late in on Tuesday night on MSRTC buses. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who arrived in the temple town with his wife Rashmi and son Aaditya, will perform the official government puja early on Wednesday morning. 84-year-old warkari Vitthal Dnyandeo Bade will also perform the puja along with the Thackeray family. Officials said that nobody aprt from the Thackeray family would be allowed in the sanctum sanctorum while performing the puja. All the people, who have been assigned duties at the temple ahead of the auspicious day,have been asked to undergo Covid-19 test. Additional district collector Sanjiv Jadhav said that all the traditions of Ashadhi Ekadashi would be followed in presence of permitted individuals. Nine palkhies will return to their destinations by Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/pandharpur-under-curfew-ahead-of-ashadhi-ekadashi/articleshow/76717106.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Surat||Surat jewellery designer alleges online harassment||Surat: An attempt has been made to defame a 21-year-old female jewellery designer employed in a unit located in Varachha area of the city. The woman lodged a police complaint after cyber bully sent threat messages to her fiancé over social media and warned him against marrying her.Based on her complaint the Cyber Crime police station on Tuesday registered an FIR against unidentified person for attempting to defame a woman.The accused created multiple accounts on Instagram to issue threats and malign the woman. The accused has been booked for defamation, intentional insult and criminal intimidation by unknown communication under IPC, said cops. The accused used multiple social media accounts to send threat messages to her fiance’s account in February wherein he stated of being in relation with the woman for last two years and warned him against marrying her. “We have started investigation,” said a cyber crime officer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-jewellery-designer-alleges-online-harassment/articleshow/76718553.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolhapur||1.5L entered Satara in last 3 months||Kolhapur: Even though strict restrictions are in place for movement of people from one district to another, Satara has recorded an influx of over 1.5 lakh people from various places in the past three moths. However, district administration officials fear that the actual number may be even higher. They are also concerned over the continuous flow of the people coming from Mumbai metropolitan region, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad as they have found close connection with rising number of Covid-19 patients and reverse migration. The number of Covid-19 patients in the district recently crossed the four-digit mark even as the number of patients in April and May was limited. According to the official statistics, around 1.52 lakh people have registered their names after their arrival to their native places in the district. District collector Shekhar Singh has made frequent appeal to the people, coming from outside, to approach the nearest primary health center in case of any symptoms of Cocid-19. “However, people prefer to avoid it because of fear realted to the disease,” an official said. The figures suggest that as many 89,000 people have come to Satara from Mumbai metropolitan region, while 25,000 people are estimated to have come from Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Satara tehsil has recorded the highest entry of the people (29,595) followed by Karad (20,732). Other tehsils have also recorded significant arrivals, which include Patan (16,096), Khatav (15,477), Maan (13,110), Wai (11,844) and Phaltan (10,745). Meanwhile, Satara district recorded 14 new cases on Tuesday taking total number of positive patients to 1,045. All 14 patients have been admitted to a hospital in Karad. Of the 14 cases, eight were found in Karad tehsil alone. A 40-year-old man from Karad town is one of them. The remaining six patients were identified in Patan tehsil. Currently, Satara district has 283 active patients and has so far recorded 43 deaths due to the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1-5l-entered-satara-in-last-3-months/articleshow/76717127.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cyber crime cell busts online racket operating from Rajasthan, arrests 2||PANAJI: The cyber crime cell (CCC) of Goa police bust an online racket operating from Rajasthan and arrested two persons who allegedly cheated a woman from Mapusa of around Rs12 lakh on the pretext of updating her ATM cum debit card. Crime branch superintendent of police (SP) Shobit Saxena said that the cyber crime police station arrested Lakhvinder Singh, 26 and Darshan Singh, 43, residents of Anupgarh, a town in Rajasthan bordering Pakistan in a case of online vishing - a practice where fraudulent phone calls are made to customers while posing as bank officials. Saxena said that the CCC team has recovered bank ATM cards, bank pass books, SIM cards and mobile phones as well as other documents from the accused. On June 18 the lady filed a complaint with the cyber crime station about receiving a call to update her bank debit card. Over the call, the accused got her to share her banking details including the ATM/ debit card details as well as her internet banking information. After securing all the details, Rs 12,76,610 was transferred from her bank account into other accounts. The cyber crime team is investigating to trace and arrest other accused. The case is being supervised by SP cyber crime and PI cyber crime Rajesh Job, along with PSI cyber crime. The cyber crime team issued an advisory to the public not to share any banking details over the phone, email or messages. Saxena advised that in such fraudulent cases, people should visit their nearest bank branch and also inform the cyber crime team. As a safety measure, the team advises verifying the bank’s customer care number through search engines like Google or to get the number directly from the bank’s website. There have been cases when fraudsters have posted their own numbers as that of the bank’s customer care number, and tricked callers to share their banking details through phishing (via emails), vishing (phone calls) or smishing (through SMS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cyber-crime-cell-busts-online-racket-operating-from-rajasthan-arrests-2/articleshow/76719761.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Coimbatore||District sees drop in Covid-19 cases||COIMBATORE: At 25, the district saw a drop in the new Covid-19 positive cases for the second consecutive day on Tuesday from more than 40 a day earlier. Among the new cases are two with travel histories and three family members of MLA Amman Arjunan. The state health department, however, continued underreporting of cases and recorded only nine new cases in the district on Tuesday. The Telungupalayam cluster continued to grow with three more new cases from an apartment. Sources with the district health department said the three comprised a 36-year-old woman, a 10-year-old girl and a five-year-old boy. The city corporation officials have sealed the apartment and the street. Telungupalayam, a densely populated commercial cum residential area in the older parts of the city, already has close to 20 Covid-19 cases. Another 24-year-old house surgeon with the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital is also among the new cases. She is the second doctor to test positive for the novel coronavirus in the past one week. A 50-year-old nurse had also tested positive for the virus earlier. MLA Amman Arjunan’s daughter, son-in-law and grandchild were also tested positive on Tuesday. They had gone to Madurai for two days. On return, they were found to be infected. Three people from Chetti Veethi - a 39-year-old man, 30-year-old woman and a 10-year-old boy – also tested positive. The street, which is in the old part of the city and close to Telungupalayam, is likely to be declared a cluster soon. “There is dense housing and attached buildings in these areas. And with commercial activities on, quarantining will be a challenge, if we don’t seal the street,” said a corporation official. There were also three positive cases from Thudiyalur, two from Podanur and one each from RS Puram, Masakalipalayam, Papanaickenpalayam, Vadavalli, Edayarpalayam and Sundakkamuthur. On a positive note, 13 people - five men, as many women and one girl - have been recovered from Covid-19 and discharged from the ESI Hospital. At least 273 patients are currently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-sees-drop-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76719244.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Dehradun||Drones spray chemicals to drive away locusts in Agra, wildlife activists fume at ‘poison bait’||Agra/Dehradun: An army of drones, fire brigade vehicles and tractors equipped with potent pesticides were used by the Agra administration to kill locusts swarms that had swooped on fields on Monday night. According to officials of the Agra agriculture department, 60% of the insects were killed in the overnight operation. S N Singh, deputy director of the agriculture department, told TOI that four drones, five fire brigade vehicles and 10 tractors were pressed into service to spray two types of government-approved pesticides — Lambda-cyhalothrin and Chloropyrifos. In May, after locust attacks were recorded in some parts of the country, the Centre had allowed conditional use of drones for spraying pesticides. But wildlife experts are fuming. Experts TOI spoke to said locusts killed by chemical poisoning were “poison bait” and would be consumed by birds and frogs, potentially harming several other species, and also affecting soil quality. Akash Kumar Verma, an IFS officer from Uttarakhand, who tweeted the concerns on Tuesday, told TOI, “Killing locusts by spraying poison will turn them into ‘poison baits’ to be consumed by birds and by frogs and toads in the monsoon.” Director of Wildlife Institute of India, Dhananjai Mohan, said that the kind of chemicals being used would determine its effects. “Some chemicals can stay in the food chain for longer and others would disintegrate quickly.” Speaking on use of Lambda-cyhalothrin and Chloropyrifos, a senior scientist at G B Pant University of Agriculture and Technology said, “The chemicals being used are harmful in nature as they are used in homes to kill termites and other insects and people are asked to leave when they are being sprayed. Depending on the quantity being used, they could stay in the food chain for years.” Agra district’s agriculture officer Ram Pravesh said farmers were being told about “suitable proportion of chemicals to be used”. But another wildlife scientist on condition of anonymity said the pesticides were being sprayed by people who weren’t suitably trained for the task. “There is no specific dose that has been determined so there will be lapses,” she said, adding that both the pesticides being used stay in the environment for a long duration. “Lamda-cyhalothrin stays active on plants for five days, in water for seven days and in soil for 28-84 days. It is highly toxic to fish and bees when consumed directly. Also, lab studies have suggested high toxicity to rats if consumed directly." Vandana Shiva, noted environmentalist and founder of Navdanya, said many locust varieties were resistant to pesticides. “This is a reckless decision. Use of pesticides can harm human health at a time when Covid-19 is anyway posing a threat.” Meanwhile, organic farmers also rued that spraying of chemicals to drive away locusts would ruin their produce. “The government knew that locusts were going to attack, they could have come up with a better strategy. The whole point of organic crops is that they are grown without any chemicals. This will ruin us,” said Harbansh Kumar, a farmer from Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/drones-spray-chemicals-to-drive-away-locusts-in-agra-wildlife-activists-fume-at-poison-bait/articleshow/76717124.cms||Deepak Lavania
July 1, 2020||Dehradun||Can’t afford to boycott Chinese or their products as India is not self-reliant yet: U'khand industry bodies||Dehradun: The Industries Association of Uttarakhand (IAU), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and PHD Chamber have given thumbs down to the decision by a few hotels to boycott Chinese customers and products stating that India is not self-reliant yet and many are dependent of Chinese tourists and goods for their livelihood. Chairman of Uttarakhand CII Ashok Windlass told TOI, “It is a foolish decision to boycott Chinese products, and even America couldn’t do so. How could Indians imagine they will be able to boycott China when many businessmen from India have invested huge amounts there? We can gradually reduce our imports from China but first we will have to become self-reliant. India has border issues with Pakistan also, but business is going on as usual. The same is with China.” Chairman of the tourism committee of PHD Chamber of Uttarakhand Hemant Kochhar raised questions on the “availability of products in India and their not-so-reasonable pricing. “Just like Japan, we first need to come up with alternate and reasonably priced products. Boycott is not a solution, when the world is going global. Customers want the latest technology, so if India cannot make it, it will come from another country. It is a basic demand and supply chain.” He added, “We import a lot of items from China so to change the scenario, the Centre will have to take initiative.” Meanwhile, Pankaj Gupta, IAU president of Uttarakhand, sought to use the opportunity and go "vocal for local". “Anti-China sentiments are very strong now and it is the right time to grab the opportunity. But India has to do its homework well. Industries can say no to something only when we can provide a better option." A day after the Centre banned several Chinese applications, Tour Operators' Association (TOA) of Uttarakhand on Tuesday announced to boycott Chinese clients. Several hotels in Nainital and Dehradun soon followed suit and came up with a plan to boycott Chinese products and not allow their residents to stay in their hotels. They stated that they would even go to the extent of removing Chinese food items from their menus. Abhishek Ahluwalia, president of TOA Uttarakhand, said that the decision to boycott Chinese clients is in tandem with the Centre and the Army’s move to give China a “befitting reply”. However, SP Kochhar, economist and former president of Uttarakhand Association of Hotels, said, “We cannot afford to boycott Chinese products or the people as India is yet to become self-reliant. Our people are still relying on the sale of Chinese products for their livelihood. The decision is not wise and will only affect our people in the long term.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cant-afford-to-boycott-chinese-or-their-products-as-india-is-not-self-reliant-yet-ukhand-industry-bodies/articleshow/76717138.cms||Shivani Azad
July 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||On National Doctor’s Day, a reminder of challenges ahead||Visakhapatnam: From struggling with inadequate infrastructure to working long hours, dehydrated and wearing PPE suits, from facing social stigma to being subject to abuse by non-cooperative patients and their relatives, few groups are as at risk of contracting infections as doctors and healthcare staff.  On the occasion of National Doctor’s Day, observed on July 1 in memory of the birth and death anniversary of Dr Bidhan Chandra Roy, Covid warriors talk about the challenges that the fight against the novel coronavirus has thrown up. Dr Hema Prakash Kumari, head of the department of microbiology and covid nodal officer at Gitam Medical College, said, “Some of the toughest challenges we face are working with constant fear of contracting the virus, fear about the unsafe situation of our family both from us and society, but there is no risk allowance for our family if anything happens to us. Also, there is a need for standard operating procedures (SOPs), inter-sectorial coordination between departments such as community medicine, pulmonology, infection control (microbiology), anaesthesia and treating doctors. In the private set-up, tele-medicine should be regularised.” For Dr Devi Madhavi, in charge of district quarantine centres and head of the department of community medicine at KGH-AMC, lack of compliance with Covid-19 safety norms and non-cooperation by the public remains a stumbling block for doctors in flattening the Covid-19 curve.  “When cases were few, people grew panicky but now when there is a spate of cases, public is displaying an over-confident attitude. Doctors are working beyond their capacity but the public displays its non-cooperative attitude, impatience and frustration at every step.” President of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Dr PA Ramani pointed out that healthcare staff in non-Covid hospitals should also be provided with PPEs with the surge in cases. “Also, more test machines should be made available in peripheral areas as number of tests are increasing. The Centre shou ld also allow NABL-accredited private labs to conduct RT-PCR tests to quickly identify Covid-19 patients who need medical attention,” she said. Dr G Anil Kumar, consultant pulmonologist at Care Hospital expressed concern about the risks that healthcare professionals are going through as hospitals turn out to be hotspots for the virus. “Also, patients hiding their history, counselling and handling emotional outbursts of patients and their quarantined relatives, increase in asymptomatic cases, stigma against healthcare workers, working dehydrated and uncomfortable while wearing PPEs, lack of a vaccine are other challenges that we are facing today,” he said. Stating that around 70 first-year PG medicos from other states, who have been admitted to AMC, have been denied rented accommodation in various colonies, special officer for Covid (north-coastal AP) Dr PV Sudhakar said that social stigma against doctors is the biggest problem. “We do not want shows of appreciation by clapping or flower showers. Just do not treat us like untouchables. Do not discourage doctors from working by lowering their morale,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/on-national-doctors-day-a-reminder-of-challenges-ahead/articleshow/76718539.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||Covid loss casts shadow on Lucknow municipal corporation development projects||LUCKNOW: Uncertainty prevails over the fate of several projects after the Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s decision to use only around 45% of the funds, allocated by the 14th Finance Commission for development works, due to losses suffered by it during lockdown. LMC had received Rs 124 crore as grants on the recommendation of the Finance Commission in March this year but the civic body suffered losses of Rs 50 crore during lockdown and had to use Rs 80 crore from the grants to pay salaries of LMC and Jal Sansthan employees. The LMC has decided that a fresh list would be prepared to allocate the remaining Rs 44 crore to projects on priority basis. TimesViewEnvironment conservation projects are the need of the hour and augur well for the state capital that aspires to become a Smart City. All efforts should be made to stop these projects from getting delayed. Hopefully, the civic body’s efforts to generate more revenue will materialise, but if they don’t, the state government can provide financial assistance. The LMC can also explore possibilities to adopt the PPP model for completion of these crucial projects.Earlier, it was decided that Rs 124 crore grants would be used for environment conservation projects like greenatorium (Rs 3 crore), rain harvesting plants in 110 parks and LMC office (Rs 11.75 crore), semi-underground waste bins in public places (Rs 1.20), garbage compactors (Rs 1.25 crore), maintenance of cattle shelter homes (Rs 2.50 crore) and the remaining amount on 36 other projects related to road repair. However, LMC suffered revenue losses of around Rs 50 crore during lockdown as its earnings from parking, advertisement hoardings, rent from community and marriage centres and tickets in parks were hit. The civic body used revenue from these sources for payment of salaries. Under pressure from employees, LMC had to divert Rs 80 crore from the finance commission’s grant for payment of salaries. Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said payment of salaries was a priority so that employees did not suffer due to the pandemic. “The remaining Rs 44 crore of the grant will be used for development projects. A revised list of development work will be prepared on the basis of public utility and urgency. We will generate more revenue through various sources and utilize it to complete projects left out in the revised list,” he said. Two greenatoriums were to be set up in the city at Kudiya Ghat and in Alambagh. In a greenatorium, cremation can be performed using lesser quantity of wood, which means low pollution and cost. Similarly, rainwater harvesting was meant for ground water recharge. Underground bins and garbage compactors were planned to check pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-loss-casts-shadow-on-lmc-devpt-projects/articleshow/76719754.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
July 1, 2020||Madurai||20 yrs on, Kodai FM has fans from 24 dists hooked on||Madurai: R Saravanan, 53, a farmer from Chinniyampalayam in Erode district every day wakes up to Kodai FM (100.5 MHz) and when he is on his farmland he listens to it through an amplifier tied to his pump set room. An ardent fan of Kodai FM, Saravanan has been listening to it for the past 12 years. Vaanavil, a discussion involving listener’s participation, broadcast between 9am and 10am is his favourite. “My first alarm is my cockerels and Kodai FM is my second. It not only keeps us entertained, but also enlightens us,” he said. Kodai FM (owned by All India Radio) completes 20 years on July 1. The FM offers programmes for all sections like women, Tamil lovers, youth and elderly people. To encourage participation of women and first-time callers, a separate line for each have been dedicated. Apart from Vaanavil, Vannathurigai (riddle, cinema quiz and one-minute pure Tamil speech challenge) and Ilamai Pesugirathu (for college students) are popular too. The FM is transmitted from the less populated Kodaikanal town in Dindigul district, but is one the flagship revenue generators among FM Rainbow channels throughout India. The cost of advertisement in the channel is equal to stations like Chennai, Mumbai and Kolkata, say officials. N Jamal Moideen, a listener from Vandanmedu in Idukki district said, “I have been listening the to FM since its inception and most of the RJs are like my family. I am drawn too close that I have taken part a few annual functions.” L S Devasenathibathi, casual Radio Jockey associated with the FM since 2003, said there are 80 radio jockeys of which around 50 of them are from Kodaikanal villages and small towns nearby. “There is no separate RJs for each programme unlike other private commercial FMs. Whoever is on shift will take care of the programmes, which gives an opportunity to learn a lot,” he said. Located in a high altitude, the FM reaches 24 districts in Tamil Nadu. Programme Executive cum office head M John Prathap Kumar said that normally an FM has range of 80 km radius, whereas Kodai FM can reach up to Hosur in Krishnagiri district in the north and Nanguneri in Tirunelveli district in the south. He claims that the FM has an audience of 2.5 crore as it also reaches Munnar, eastern parts of Idukki and parts of Palakkad district in Kerala and occasionally Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh. “Some of the private FM stations would be envy of our revenue. It has crossed Rs 12 crore a year, though the revenue has fallen to Rs 8 crore in recent years due to various factors,” he said. During Tsunami, the FM was quick in alerting fishermen in deep seas to bring them to safety. There were feedbacks that time from fishermen that they could listen to announcements from the FM from some parts of Sri Lanka, although there is no proof to show regular listeners from the Island nation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/20-yrs-on-kodai-fm-has-fans-from-24-dists-hooked-on/articleshow/76719758.cms||V Devanathan
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||CP unwell, ADG Rlys takes addl charge||Lucknow: Additional Director General of police, Railways, Sanjay Singhal has been given additional charge of Lucknow police commissioner as the incumbent Sujeet Pandey was advised bed rest for 10 days following indisposition. On June 27, Pandey had fainted during a meeting of senior officials for the Smart City project and was rushed to Medanta hospital. The doctors kept the officer under observation for 24 hours and advised him complete bed rest for at least 10 days after all his reports were normal. ADG Sanjay Singhal was given additional charge of CP Lucknow for seven days. Singhal told TOI that he would operate from the commissioner’s office from Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cp-unwell-adg-rlys-takes-addl-charge/articleshow/76719759.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||How Covid has made executive MBA most sought after||GURUGRAM: While the world is reeling under an economic crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the number of applications for an MBA course in the top 20 institutes across the world has seen an increase. Apprehensions over job security and career progression, along with more disposable time due to remote working, are pushing many working professionals to pursue executive a master’s degree in business administration. This trend was noted at TOI’s webinar titled “Catapult your Career with Executive MBA”, a distinguished panel discussed the role and scope of an executive MBA in current times. The panel included Dr Subhajit Bhattacharyya, director, IMT Ghaziabad; Professor Rashmi K Aggarwal, IMT Ghaziabad; Gaurav Srivastava, regional director, South Asia, GMAT; Mitesh Agarwal, vice-president, global key and lead accounts, Oracle India; and Neeru Mehta, vice-president, people development and learning, Global Logic. An executive MBA, as opposed to a regular MBA, is directed at professionals with work experience. “This programme gives a more holistic experience to the executives,” explained Agarwal. It also allows the executive cross cultural and organisational learning.   This is the right time to undertake an executive MBA programme, GMAT being one way of gaining admission, said Srivastava. He advised, “Executive MBA candidates must do proper research on the country and programme they wish to apply for. One should also work out about the time one can spend in a country post-course completion because travel will be restricted in the near future.” Bhattacharya also pointed out that his institution had indeed seen a hike in admission for executive courses. “While there has been an increase in admissions, there are also apprehensions about the timeline of the courses because the colleges might not resume physical classes anytime soon,” observed the director of IMT Ghaziabad. With many sectors confronted by operational issues due the pandemic and the lockdown, up-skilling has gained even more significance. “We are looking to hire people who are not only abreast of the latest knowledge, but are also willing to learn,” said Mitesh Agarwal. “We are looking at various ways people can up-skill themselves and right now, an executive MBA is a great opportunity, specially with the option of digital courses.” With the frequent changes in technology, organisations have now started supporting their employees who want to pursue courses such as executive MBAs. Some companies even sponsor their employees. “If an organisation is looking at a very specific skill set, it will step in and sponsor 100% of the course fee,” contended Mehta. “However overall, companies will invest in these programmes if they align with the organisational objectives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-covid-has-made-exec-mba-most-sought-after/articleshow/76719245.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolhapur||40 in quarantine after attending funeral of Ichalkaranji man who later tested positive||Kolhapur: Forty people were put in quarantine on Tuesday, just a day after attending a cremation on Monday. The quarantine decision was taken as the deceased man’s tests results came out to be Covid-positive hours after the cremation.The patient was from Ichalkaranji, the textile town which has seen a recent rise in the number of cases. So far, 37 cases have been reported from the town and the Monday’s death is the second Covid-related fatality here.By Tuesday afternoon, more than 40 people who had attended the cremation were put in isolation and their swabs were collected for testing. According to local authorities, the body of the deceased person was taken home, where his relatives and neighbours paid their respects. The person had been admitted to the IGM hin Ichalkaranji on Sunday and his throat swab samples were taken. He was shifted to the CPR hospital in Kolhapur in on Monday and within hours, he succumbed.Dean of CPR hospital Arti Ghorpade said, “As per our records, the body was transferred back to IGM hospital. We are unaware of how it was taken home and then cremated. We have also initiated an inquiry at our level.”Ghorpade said the health of the person had already deteriorated when he was brought to CPR hospital. “The lung infection was severe and the person was facing other ailments too,” she added.As per protocol, bodies must be handled by trained health staff who carry out the cremation rituals as per the religion of the demised person. The body should not be handed over to family members. The cremation has to be carried out in the presence of just a few relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/40-in-quarantine-after-attending-funeral-of-ichalkaranji-man-who-later-tested-positive/articleshow/76717143.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Dehradun||Adjusting to new dining arrangements will take time: Café owners||Dehradun: Owners of restaurants and cafes are not too hopeful about reopening on Wednesday, as they think the footfall of customers will be scarce and the social distancing protocol for dine-in will need some getting used to. “It will be a new beginning, for sure but we are afraid it won’t be a smooth one,” said Kanti Kumar, owner at Sunburn Bistro. “The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) comes with a lot of protocols. We have already lost a large stock of biscuits, cold drinks and other food items during the lockdown. We expect that the number of customers will reduce to half as they will have to follow social distancing norms. Business will pick up only eventually,” he added. Ramesh Singh Negi, manager at the Berco’s outlet at Crossroads mall said, “Even though we were open for home delivery during the lockdown, we will need some time to adjust to the new dining facilities. The initial response of customers will help us decide the further course of action. We are committed to hygiene and will strictly adhere to the new protocols.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/adjusting-to-new-dining-arrangements-will-take-time-caf-owners/articleshow/76717147.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu reports 620 Covid cases, 5 deaths||MADURAI/ TRICHY: As many as 620 Covid-19 cases and five deaths were reported in the ten southern districts of the state on Tuesday, taking the tally to 7,758 cases and 70 deaths. Out of the five deaths reported on Tuesday, three were from Madurai, while two were from Ramanathapuram. Meanwhile, there was a mild dip in the number of Covid-19 cases in the central region. Among the eight districts, only five reported 78 cases taking the tally to 2,773. A 56-year-old special police sub-inspector of South Police station in Thanjavur died of Covid-19 related ailments on Tuesday. The deceased had undergone a heart surgery at a private hospital in Chennai and was admitted to the government medical hospital in Thanjavur, where he tested positive for Covid-19. Thanjavur district recorded 23 more new Covid-19 positive cases taking the toll to 448. Madurai reported 257 positive cases, the highest number in the state after Chennai. The total number of cases in the district has climbed to 2,557, which includes 1,708 active cases, while the death toll is 32. The three deaths on Tuesday were all reported at private hospitals. A 58-year-old woman from Madurai with hypertension and diabetes died on June 24. The second case was that of a 70-year-old man with hypertension and diabetes, who died on June 21. The third victim is a 65-year-old woman with hypertension who died on June 23. Meanwhile, the 257 cases include 122 Influenza-like illness (ILI) cases, 58 contacts of Covid-19 patients, and 51 frontline workers. Two Covid-19 deaths and 36 Covid-19 cases were recorded in Ramanathapuram on Tuesday. A 57-year-old man with diabetes died on June 29 at Government Head Quarters Hospital, Ramanathapuram. The second case was that of a 70-year-old woman with coronary artery disease, hypertension and diabetes who died on Tuesday at the same hospital. The total Covid-19 cases in the district have increased to 839, which include 594 active cases. Theni district, which has been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases for the past week, saw 75 more cases on Tuesday, which took the district tally to 703. It became the fifth district in the southern region to cross 700 cases. Sivaganga reported its highest-ever single day spike with 50 cases on Tuesday. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Virudhunagar (49), Trichy recorded 40 more new cases on Tuesday, taking the total count to 682 cases. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) discharged 16 patients on Tuesday. Fourteen more asymptomatic patients under treatment at Covid care centre at Bharathidasan university in Trichy were also sent back home. Covid cases were also reported in Tirunelveli (45), Tuticorin (42), Dindigul (37), Kanyakumari (20), Thiruvarur (12), Nagapattinam (2), Karur (1), and Tenkasi (11). Pudukottai has no new cases on Tuesday. There was no change in the total of Ariyalur and Perambalur districts with 462 cases and 158 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tamil-nadu-reports-620-covid-cases-5-deaths/articleshow/76720083.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Against tide: IIT-Delhi placements up 4%||NEW DELHI: Despite the job market being under stress, IIT-Delhi witnessed a 4% jump in placement offers for the academic year 2019-2020. Surpassing the previous year’s benchmarks, over 1,100 job offers were made to the students by national and international organisations. In a statement, IIT-Delhi said that 85.6% of the undergraduate and postgraduate students, who availed the facility, got placement offers. “The remaining students explored options like higher studies, research, civil services examination, start-ups or got jobs through their own contacts and efforts,” it added. Over 430 organisations offered nearly 600 job disciplines to the students. S Dharmaraja, head of IIT-D office of career services (OCS), said, “The institute has broken all previous year records with the number of placement offers increasing by 4%. This became possible because of teamwork, dynamic strategy, knowing the skills of students and profiles of core companies.” OCS industrial liaison officer Anishya O Madan told TOI, “The second phase of placements continued even during the lockdown. The companies conducted interviews and job tests online. We saw around 100 students getting job offers during this phase.” The sectoral trend data showed 31% students getting jobs in the core engineering fields and 23% in the IT sector. Students also got offers from the analytics sector (13%) and consulting (9%). “The placement process will be on till the students of the current batch pass out. If any of the remaining students wants to apply for placement, they can do so,” said Madan. Watch Despite Covid-19 pandemic, IIT-Delhi placements go up by 4%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/against-tide-iit-d-placements-up-4/articleshow/76719253.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolhapur||About 1,500 returnees skip screening in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Nearly 1,500 people, who have arrived in Kolhapur, are suspected to have skipped the health screening at the entry points of the district and not reached the institutional quarantine facilities. According to officials, over 1,500 people have skipped health screening and have directly gone home. As per the rules, the staff at the entry points gives reference letter to those arriving in the district to get screened at the nearest screening centre. The details of the persons arriving are provided to the screening centre and local governing bodies. District collector Daulat Desai said, “I have asked local authorities not let a single person skip the screening. The ward or village vigilance committees should not come under any influence and immediately facilitate the persons to get screened. Also I have asked to make persons arriving to download the Aarogya Setu app. The contacts found through the app should be screened on time.” Officials said that many people arriving in the district are apprehensive that they would have to stay in institutional quarantine for 14 days. However, these people are expected to be in institutional quarantine for seven days and a further home quarantine for seven days. Officials said that in many cases, the members of local committees are weighing in on people to be home quarantined despite the doctors at screening centres recommending institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/about-1500-returnees-skip-screening-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76717182.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolhapur||16 new Covid cases in Sangli, 6 in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Six new Covid-19 cases were reported from Kolhapur district on Tuesday, taking the tally of positive cases to 841. Currently, there are 110 active cases in the district. Minister of state for home (rural) Shambhuraj Desai, who was reviewing the Covid-19 status and the preparations taken by the district administration during his visit to Kolhapur on Tuesday, said that no person would be allowed to enter the district without a travel pass issued by the administration. Meanwhile, district collector Daulat Desai has issued orders of taking action against those shops if more than five customers are found outside the shops and are found not maintaining a distance of atleast six feet. Meanwhile, Sangli district recorded 16 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, of which six alone are from Billur village which is slowly truning into a hotspot. In the last two day, the district administration has quarantined over 100 people, which includes doctors and neighbours of three nursing staff of Sangli civil hospital. The municipal corporation has drawn up a containment zone in Samrat Nagar area of Sangli city. Meanwhile, the total number of Covid-19 cases in Sangli district reached 384, of which 131 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/16-new-covid-cases-in-sangli-6-in-kolhapur/articleshow/76717164.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||South Goa BJP MLA tests +ve, had met CM, 9 other MLAs last week||PANAJI: A South Goa BJP legislator on Tuesday became the first MLA in the state to test positive for Covid-19. The development raised a few alarms as the MLA, along with nine others who had switched over from Congress to BJP last year, met chief minister Pramod Sawant recently. “The MLA had a fever,” said a state health official. “He had been admitted to the ESI Covid hospital after he tested positive.” “He voluntarily went for testing after he came in contact with a person from South Goa who later tested positive.” Meanwhile, in the CM’s constituency of Sakhali, which has 27 cases so far, the government declared three areas — Desainagar, Bandarwada and Gauthan — as micro-containment zones after Sawant had a meeting with local officials. The town, which saw four more cases on Tuesday, will see all playgrounds and parks within its municipality’s jurisdiction sealed for the next two weeks. An official said that a special squad would be constituted comprising market inspectors and police personnel to implement social distancing norms and initiate action against offenders. The state’s active Covid-19 tally dropped to 716 after 64 new cases were detected and 72 patients got cured. The state government has started implementing the new discharge policy for Covid patients. As per this policy, asymptomatic Covid patients are discharged if they don’t display any symptoms of the virus for ten consecutive days. They don’t have to undergo a Covid test before discharge, but are required to observe home quarantine for seven days thereafter. Symptomatic patients, however, will only be discharged after they’re cured and undergo a Covid test. Earlier, the state declared patients cured after two consecutive Covid tests returned negative results. Tuesday’s positive cases included two cops attached to the police headquarters in Panaji. Ambelim, in Salcete, also saw a spike in cases with six more, taking its total to 23. Five cases were also reported from Indiranagar in Chimbel, while Sanguem and Pirna in Mapusa saw an isolated case each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/s-goa-bjp-mla-tests-ve-had-met-cm-9-other-mlas-last-wk/articleshow/76719763.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolhapur||Dist court paves way for KMC to divert sewage entering Panchaganga river to STP||Kolhapur: The civic administration can now take up the work to divert the sewage entering the Panchaganga river from three nullahs to the treatment plant as the district court has rejected the plea of farmers who had raised an objection to the work. On Monday, district judge K S Kulkarni rejected the plea of farmer Ananda Krushnat Karpe, who had pleaded that the work of laying pipelines in his farm should not be taken up. The pipelines will be laid along 1.1km stretch to carry sewage from Rajhans, Ramanmala and Dream World Park nullahs to the sewage treatment plant at Kasba Bawda. These three nullahs pour upto 4 million litre of sewage into Panchaganga river everyday. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has already started treating 90 million litre of sewage. Senior counsel for KMC Prafulla Raut said, “The National Green Tribunal has ordered KMC to complete the diversion of the nullahs carrying sewage before May 20 this year. However, the work had to be stopped as the local farmers, who had sought compensation for the land parcel reserved for development plan road, raised an objection. The court has stated that no one can obstruct the KMC to take up the work. Rejecting the plea, the court stated that the compensation is being worked out by KMC and that the work cannot be obstructed.”KMC’s deputy hydraulics engineer R K Patil said, “We will soon start the work. Currently, we chlorinate the waste water before it enters the river. Our aim, however, is to treat all the sewage entering the river in our treatment plants.”Patil said that the farmer had sought compensation in the form of transfer development rights (TDR’s). A solution is being worked upon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/dist-court-paves-way-for-kmc-to-divert-sewage-entering-panchaganga-river-to-stp/articleshow/76717195.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||‘Eye on Chimbel before shifting Panaji fish vendors’||Panaji: Fish vendors in Panaji, who are currently conducting their business outside the market premises, will be accommodated inside the complex in a week’s time, provided no new Covid positive cases emerge from Chimbel as some vendors are from this area. “For the last eight days, there have been no positive cases from the Xivrem area of Chimbel. We are therefore going to wait for another week and gauge the situation. If there are no new positive cases emerging from the area, we will bring the vendors sitting outside back in the fish market,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. Although vendors from Chimbel have submitted certificates to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) declaring their Covid negative status, the corporation had been waiting until cases in Chimbel reduce to allow them to resume business. Currently, there are a total of 70 vendors seated inside and 100 vendors outside the market. The ones outside are operating on rotation basis of 50 people on one day and 50 vendors of the next day. Only two rows of fish vendors are being allowed on each on either side of the parking lane. The CCP has marked boxes in the entire lane designating spaces for the vendors while maintaining social distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eye-on-chimbel-before-shifting-panaji-fish-vendors/articleshow/76719268.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||Lokayukta stays Taleigao land-filling by panchayat||PANAJI: The Goa Lokayukta on Tuesday directed the Taleigao village panchayat to stop filling low-lying agricultural land in the village for the construction of a new panchayat ghar. Justice P K Misra (retd) also sought a reply from Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate and others on the issue. Misra said that there are “sufficient and reasonable grounds” to proceed further and hold a detailed investigation in the matter. He added that it can’t be said that the complaint, filed by Candido Dias, was frivolous, vexatious, or not made in good faith. The Lokayukta also said that since one of the respondents is an MLA (Monserrate), the competent authority is the governor. The state government has already been impleaded through the chief secretary, he said. Hence, notices shall be issued to respondents who are public functionaries. Advocate Pundalik Raikar, who appeared for Dias, sought an injunction on the land-filling. He said that the low-lying land would be filled with all kinds of material and because of the nature of the land, it will be difficult to restore it to its status quo ante (the previously existing state). “Keeping in view the urgency of the matter and the averments made in the application for injunction, in exercise of power under Rule 7(a), I deem it appropriate to pass an interim injunction order injuncting the panchayat from filling up the low-lying land,” Misra said, adding that the injunction shall continue until further orders. The next hearing is fixed for July 29. Meanwhile, Taleigao sarpanch Agnelo D’Cunha said that the panchayat would file a reply to the order. “We have followed all legal processes,” he said. “I am constructing the panchayat ghar for the people of Taleigao. Where have we made mistakes? We’ve followed all procedures.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lokayukta-stays-taleigao-land-filling-by-panchayat/articleshow/76719772.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid scare for ex-minister Revanna||Hassan: Four police personnel in the security detail of HD Revanna tested positive on Tuesday, prompting health authorities to collect samples from the former minister. Nine of Revanna’s security staff, including personal assistants, had provided swab samples on Sunday at Holenarsipur taluk hospital. Results declared on Tuesday showed four were infected. The others are now in quarantine. DHO Dr Sathish said all four are asymptomatic. Of the four, one is from Holenarsipur and other three from Bengaluru. “Revanna says he was not in close contact with these four as they were in the vehicle moving in front or following him. So he cannot be a primary contact,” Dr Sathish said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-scare-for-ex-minister-revanna/articleshow/76718595.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||Galwan ripple: Chinese firm’s Metro bid junked||Lucknow: As the call to boycott Chinese products gets stronger in the country in the backdrop of the ongoing India-China faceoff, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has ‘disqualified’ bids placed by Chinese firm CRRC Nanjing Puzhen Co Ltd for rolling stock and signalling system for Kanpur and Agra Metro projects. According to sources, four companies—BEML Ltd, CRRC Nanjing Puzhen Company Ltd, Alstom Transport India Ltd and Bombardier Transportation India Pvt Ltd—had placed bids with UPMRC for Kanpur and Agra Metro projects on December 5 year. The officials also said that companies BEML, Alstom and Bombardier had qualified the technical evaluation round that started on February 18 and ended on Monday. The Chinese company CRRC Nanjing Puzhen Co Ltd was disqualified as ‘it did not fulfil requirements of experience and turnover’, said sources. “Soon after the completion of the technical round on Monday, financial bids were opened. However, the Chinese company’s bid was not considered because it was disqualified at the technical package evaluation stage,” they added. Among the three remaining contenders, Bombardier emerged as the lowest bidder. UPMRC gave the letter of acceptance (LoA) to Bombardier on Tuesday. Now, the company will start production of coaches at its rolling stock facility in Vadodara. As per the contract, the company will supply a total of 67 Metro trains with three coaches each for Kanpur and Agra Metro projects, said officials. Earlier, Indian Railways’s arm DFCCIL had terminated a contract awarded to Chinese company M/s Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication Group Co Ltd citing sluggish progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/galwan-ripple-chinese-firms-metro-bid-junked/articleshow/76719792.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Tuticorin custodial deaths: Evidence aplenty, should be paraded smartly during trial||CHENNAI: With some smart manoeuvres, the CBI can weave the Sathankulam custodial deaths into an air-tight case for conviction, feel veteran prosecutors. The autopsy report will be the prosecution’s hero, aided, of course, by the rather lousy first information report (FIR) registered by the Sathankulam police, they say. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+ Will justice be served in TN custodial deaths case?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/evidence-aplenty-should-be-paraded-smartly-during-trial/articleshow/76719263.cms||A Subramani
July 1, 2020||Goa||Goa proposes jail time for not giving tenant info||PANAJI: The state government on Tuesday proposed a draft bill which provides that landlords who fail to submit information about their tenants could be jailed for one year. It states that owners of houses must submit tenant verification information to the local police within seven days of the tenant beginning their stay. The government pre-published a draft of the Goa (Tenant and Guest Registration and Verification) Bill, 2020, in the official gazette, inviting objections and suggestion from the public within the next 10 days on ashome-sect.goa@nic.in. The motive of the bill, as stated, is to strengthen tenant verification and provide better security to residents. A senior state official said that as of now, the district collector issues an order under Section 144 for tenant verificaton, and this order remains in force for six months. However, there remains a dispute over which authority should act against violators. The official said that the new bill, if passed, will empower police to act against those who fail to provide the required information. The draft bill states that non-submission of information is a cognisable offence. “Whoever contravenes any provisions of this Act shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment which may extend to one year or fine which may extend to Rs 50,000, or both,” it states. It also states that if any information provided by a guest or tenant is found to be false or fabricated, it would constitute an offence. Thus, it mandates that those required to submit information should verify the bonafides of persons through identity documents such as election card, driving license, Aadhar card, passport other documents as may be notified by the government. The bill also states that those required to submit information should keep a record of it online or manually in the prescribed form, and produce it on demand to the police or other authority as may be notified by the government. In the case of existing tenants, the bill says that on commencement of the Act, owners should submit the information within 30 days to the local police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-proposes-jail-time-for-not-giving-tenant-info/articleshow/76719785.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||To & from IGI: Flights to 28 new global destinations||NEW DELHI: The post-Covid world may not be an oyster for now, but the capital’s Indira Gandhi International Airport has seen direct charter flights operate to and from 28 destinations globally, which were not connected to the city earlier. Indians flew in and foreigners flew out on these first-time direct routes like Auckland, Christchurch, Wellington and Brisbane in Australasia, Dublin in Ireland, Lubumbashi in Congo and Minsk in Belarus. Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) said 92 repatriation flights, with 8,000 passengers, flew to and from these 28 cities. Air India said it operated flights from Delhi and Mumbai to 20 cities where no other Indian carrier had been to in “recent memory”. Among these included Auckland, Vancouver, Minsk, Manama, Helsinki, Dublin and Seychelles. The national carrier is hoping to start regular flights to some of these non-network destinations like Auckland and Vancouver, given their huge demand. SpiceJet, meanwhile, flew all-cargo charters to new destinations like Ho Chi Minh City, Phnom Penh, Baghdad, Cebu, Tashkent, Incheon, Khartoum, Cairo, Bishkek, Almaty and Moscow. Several foreign airlines operating charters to fly out foreigners from India flew in to New Delhi for the first time. Among them included Air New Zealand, Qantas, South African Airways, Garuda Indonesia, EgyptAir, Niger Air and Brussels Airlines. “Operation of these international flights ensured that IGI airport was kept ready for resumption of international flights in the ‘new normal’ environment,” a DIAL official claimed. Some of these international flights flew in to Delhi and/or to other Indian cities to pick or drop repatriation passengers. Mumbai airport, for instance, for the first time saw airlines like Air New Zealand, TUI UK & Netherlands, Avia Traffic Company, Salam Air and Wamos Air; and Qantas and South African Airways after a long time. Air cargo at CSI Airport in Mumbai also saw new destinations like Limburg in Netherlands on ad-hoc basis. Given the demand for travel between these potentially new direct routes — amid an increasing preference to fly non-stop, instead of halting at different airport in the post-corona world — airport operators are sensing an opportunity. “Many of these new destinations with high tourism potential may attract airlines to add to their scheduled service routes. A recent entry among the most favoured destinations for Indian students is New Zealand,” a DIAL official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/to-from-igi-flights-to-28-new-global-destinations/articleshow/76719277.cms||Saurabh Sinha
July 1, 2020||Goa||Chapter on GFP MLAs joining BJP shut for now: Lobo||Panaji: Ports minister Michael Lobo on Tuesday sought to shut down talk of two Goa Forward Party (GFP) MLAs joining BJP. “That chapter is closed now,” he said. However, he said that in politics, nothing is permanently closed. “When it opens (again), we will see,” he said. Lobo told reporters that “people are always welcome through the front door”. He said that if someone wishes to enter BJP, the decision would have to be taken by state party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade, chief minister Pramod Sawant, and organising secretary Satish Dhond. Lobo was reacting to strong rumours over the past few days that Saligao MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar and Siolim MLA Vinod Paliencar wanted to split the GFP and join BJP. Both of them, however, categorically denied any such plans. Salgaonkar said that the rumours were a conspiracy to malign their image. He added that the rumours emanated from the BJP camp, and that former tourism minister Dilip Parulekar gave credence to them. Sawant and Dhond were part of the negotiations to move the two MLAs to the BJP camp. In politics, nothing is permanently closed. When it opens (again), we will see. People are always welcome through the front door||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chapter-on-gfp-mlas-joining-bjp-shut-for-now-lobo/articleshow/76719790.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||June logs better rain record than last yr||Panaji: The spatial distribution of rainfall in Goa this season has been good in June, according to weather experts. Ever since the onset of monsoon on June 11, there have been abundant showers in the maiden month with Goa having received approximately 274mm higher rainfall compared to June last year. In June 2020, Goa received 19% rain which was higher than normal; the same was minus 14% in June, 2019 and was 11% higher in 2018; according to figures shared by the India meteorological department (IMD). Three weather systems are credited with the enhanced monsoon advancement and rainfall over Goa – cyclone Nisarga, the depression in the Bay of Bengal and the circulation over the North Konkan. “Out of all three, the circulation over the North Konkan brought the highest amount of rainfall from June 16 to 18,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. This year, the first spell of excess rainfall from June 1 to 3, was due to cyclone Nisarga. The other two systems led to large amounts of moisture being transported into the Indian subcontinent, especially over Goa, said M R Ramesh Kumar, former chief scientist in the physical oceanography division, of National Institute of Oceanography (NIO). “This is due to the low-level jet at a height of 1.5km, which gave rainfall over the entire west coast and other favourable features such as monsoon offshore trough,” he said. From June 20 to 27, however, the absence of such weather systems weakened the southwest monsoon over Goa. IMD has said that it has returned to an active phase from June 28 onwards, which will continue until July 2. “The last year, the Indian subcontinent was under the spell of an El Nino Modoki, which occurred over the central equatorial Pacific Ocean. This altered the Walker circulation and split it into two cells instead of a single cell, which affected the monsoon. There were drought-like conditions over the subcontinent, including Goa,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/june-logs-better-rain-record-than-last-yr/articleshow/76719279.cms||Nida Sayed
July 1, 2020||Pune||Pregnant & asymptomatic nCoV cases a new concern||Pune: Identifying Covid-19 cases among pregnant women in the absence of symptoms is among the biggest challenges for health workers in Pune. Fifty of the 83 pregnant women who were tested and found positive at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital between April 14 and June 18 were asymptomatic. The finding indicates that hospitals and maternity homes must take adequate precautions while treating pregnant women and carrying out deliveries. Every pregnant woman turning up for any treatment or delivery, irrespective of whether she resides in a containment zone or not, should be considered an asymptomatic carrier and handled with infection control steps, say experts. "We have been screening pregnant women for Covid-19 since March. Since then, we have identified 83 Covid-19 pregnant women after testing 145 suspected pregnant women. Currently, seven expecting mothers who are infected are undergoing treatment,"a gynaecologist from the hospital who refused to be named said. Most of the infected women were from the containment zones of municipal limits of Pune and rural parts."Quite a few had underlying medical conditions, including pregnancy-induced hypertension called eclampsia, hypothyroidism and anaemia," the doctor said. The hospital performed the first delivery of a Covid-19 infected woman on April 17. The delivery was through Caesarean section. Among the deliveries of the infected were three pairs of twins, two through assisted in-vitro fertilisation. In two instances, the newborns had contracted Covid-19 infection a few days after the delivery. The youngest was 12 days old. "Both recovered and none developed severe symptoms," the doctor said. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Hospital Board of India, a hospital wing of Indian Medical Association said, "The high prevalence of the infected pregnant women remaining symptom-free warrants that every pregnant woman entering a hospital or maternity home should be treated as an asymptomatic carrier and should be dealt with universal infection control measures." The Federation of Obstetric and Gynaecological Societies of India emphasises on noting down the patient’s history before treatment. Healthcare workers should enquire about breathlessness, travel abroad and/or contact with a known or possible Covid-19 infected person. “Infection can be through contact or by residing in a hotspot or a containment zone or from evacuees," senior gynaecologist Sanjay Gupte, past president of FOGSI, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pregnant-asymptomatic-ncov-cases-a-new-concern/articleshow/76719273.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||CISH app to assist UP’s mango growers||Lucknow: An app will bring experts closer to farmers and provide solutions to their problems. ‘Bagwaan Mitra’ (friend of farmer), an app designed by Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH), a Lucknow-based ICAR lab, was launched on Tuesday by agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi, who also inaugurated the mango exhibition organised by the institute. CISH developed the app to help farmers and other stakeholders during lockdown. “It will be of help to mango growers,” said the minister. UP produces 41% of the country’s mangoes. At least 1,05,333 hectare land is under mango production in UP. Due to lockdown, there have been limited field visits by scientists and one-to-one meetings between farmers and experts. The app is simple and user friendly with a special feature to convert speech into text. It will help farmers who cannot type. As soon as they speak, the institute would receive the text message through the server. Many times, farmers are not able to describe the problems or diseases in their crops. The app will allow farmers to send pictures of the diseased plants along with the message, said the director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cish-app-to-assist-ups-mango-growers/articleshow/76719817.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||After Michael Lobo’s no, Goa CM says yes to tourism restart||PANAJI: A day after state ports minister Michael Lobo said that it wouldn’t be possible for tourism activities in the state to resume in July, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday that his government wishes to restart the industry this month. “We have to start hotels and other tourism activities in July,” he said. “What would we gain from keeping them closed?” Lobo, who represents Calangute constituency, the heart of North Goa’s tourist belt, said on Monday that for tourism activities in the state to restart in July, the Covid-19 situation would first have to improve in India’s economic centres that send a bulk of domestic tourists to Goa. “If the Covid situation doesn’t improve, we can’t get tourists,” said Lobo, who runs a hotel in North Goa. But the next day, tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar too conveyed the government’s intentions to restart tourism this month, but said that it has to balance lives (in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic) and livelihoods. He said that if the Centre gives the state a green signal, the government is ready to start tourism. Lobo suggested that bars in the state should reopen to promote tourism. “The Union ministry of home affairs’ (MHA) orders are for the whole country, but Goa is different,” he said. “If bars and restaurants are not open, who will visit?” asked Lobo. He even hinted that tourism won’t start with full force till a vaccine is found. “I cannot expect the tourism industry to start until there is a proper solution, and the only solution I see is a vaccine, which will take time.” He, however, said that the state is already getting bookings for later in the year, from tourists in Russia and the UK. Tourism is a major revenue earner for the Goa government. From 6.8 lakh domestic tourists in 1985 to over 70 lakh Indians marking their presence in the state in 2019, the arrival of domestic tourists has provided a more than satisfactory safety net for Goa’s tourism industry. With mining shut and revenues drying up, pressure is mounting on the state government to restart tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-lobos-no-cm-says-yes-to-tourism-restart/articleshow/76719811.cms||Murari Shetye
July 1, 2020||Salem||Third Covid-19 death in Salem district||SALEM: A 65-year-old woman who was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 passed away at Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital on late Monday night. With this, the number of Covid-19 casualties in Salem rose to three. “She came from Attur in the district on June 27 and was undergoing treatment,” said Dr R Balajinathan, dean of the SGMKMCH. He added that she was one of the contacts of a Covid-19 positive case who had come from Chennai a week ago. The dean further said that, she was having severe breathing issues after being admitted. “She also had hypertension earlier,” he said, adding that, doctors tried their best to save her. Following her death, the workers from the hospital and Salem municipal corporation took the body to the crematorium and cremated her as per government’s guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/third-covid-19-death-in-salem-district/articleshow/76719278.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||At Goa Medical College, doctors answer their MS, MD practical exams online||PANAJI: Even as many medical colleges around the country have deferred their exams till December in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Goa Medical College (GMC) last month became a rare exception to the rule. Almost 100 students pursuing their doctor of medicine (MD) and master of surgery (MS) courses answered their practical exams online. Dean Dr S M Bandekar said that the online practical exams concluded on Tuesday, while the written (theory) component was held earlier, with the students’ physical presence. Bandekar said that comducting practicals online involved a lot of planning as each department had different requirements, and plans had to be made accordingly. “We had special arrangements made to conduct practical exams online,” he said. “Special cameras were installed in laboratories and at bedside clinics. A similar arrangement was also made in the mortuary, to facilitate the practical component to be conducted online.” The results of the exams, which were completed for 20 specialties in consonance with established guidelines, will be declared within a month, he said. While these exams are normally held in April-May, they were delayed this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. He added that only two specialties — bio-chemistry and anatomy — saw no exams being conducted as there are no students for post-graduate courses in these disciplines. With the completion of the examination process, GMC will be set to appoint students on bond as junior residents (JRs) and in other capacities. As per the bond, successful students are required to serve at the institute for a period of one year after course completion. “Most importantly, students are no more in limbo about their exams,” the dean said. “It is a great relief to them. Ours is one of the few colleges in the country that has completed the examination process for MD/MS courses despite the Covid pandemic.” Meanwhile, the institute has started online lectures for other (MBBS) students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-gmc-doctors-answer-their-ms-md-practical-exams-online/articleshow/76719822.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 1, 2020||Bareilly||26 Congress workers booked for defying prohibitory orders during protest against fuel hike||Bareilly: A day after they held a protest against hike in fuel prices, Moradabad police booked as many as 26 Congress workers. On Monday, several party workers had staged a ‘dharna’, keeping aside Covid-19 guidelines and in violation of section 144 of CrPC imposed in the district. Moradabad police said that no prior permission was taken from the local administration and more than five people assembled at one place. FIR has been lodged against 26 Congress workers who were part of the agitation. The identified persons are Vinodh Kumar, Aslam Khursheed, Iqram Ali, Faizan Khan, Anurag Sharma, among others.Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Moradabad, Deepak Bhuker said, “Despite prohibitory orders imposed in the district due to Covid-19 pandemic, several party workers gathered at Collectrate here on Monday and staged a protest against the fuel rate hike. The act was illegal considering the current pandemic scenario. Also, physical distancing was not followed while many of them were also spotted without face masks, putting their own and other’s lives at risk.”ASP Bhuker added, “Of the 26 people, 11 are identified while 15 others will be identified from the video clippings that went viral on social media. FIR has been registered against all 26 party workers under section 147 (punishment for rioting), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/26-congress-workers-booked-for-defying-prohibitory-orders-during-protest-against-fuel-hike/articleshow/76717216.cms||Maria Khan
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Sufficient proof, not emotions will help win case in court||Chennai: Double death in custody? Yes. Due to injuries? Yes, again. But, are they murders?When the outrage over the deaths of P Jeyaraj and J Beniks dies down, and the stench of blood is long gone, this will be the only question dissected and argued by veteran defence lawyers representing the Sathankulam police. Evidence, not truth, alone will speak in courts.So, the abusive ‘you-can-do-nothing’ remark by constable Maharajan of the Sathankulam police station to the visiting judicial magistrate cannot be brushed aside. The abusive Tamil phrase hurled at the magistrate, who was at the police station on the orders of the Madras high court, and the deaths of Jeyaraj and Beniks, speak volume about the constable’s confidence in the ‘system’.The Sathankulam police have conceded that the father-son duo were injured in their custody. How the injuries were suffered is in dispute. While police say the two rolled on the ground during their arrest and sustained injuries, the victims’ kin and friends allege third-degree torture in lock-up. Now, where is proof of custodial torture, and who will tender evidence? The two were first at the police station, then taken to the Sathankulam government hospital for injury examination, then to the magistrate’s residence, before being taken to Kovilpatti sub-jail for a brief stay, after which they died.All these four locations are government facilities, and there is not a single ‘non-government’ witness. Friends of Beniks say they tailed the police to the magistrate’s residence and sub-jail, but they are interested parties and not witness to what happened inside the premises. Quality of their depositions will be attacked during trial.Between their arrest at 11.30pm in Sathankulam on June 19 and remand in Kovilpatti sub-jail 105km away at 2.30pm on June 20, Jeyaraj and Beniks were with police for 15 hours, including more than an hour at Sathankulam government hospital. During the entire period, no complaint of ill-treatment was raised by their family members, friends and neighbours. The lady doctor, who gave a fit-to-remand certificate, also reportedly said the two did not complain of any pain or injuries. No SOS or video recording about the alleged torture have surfaced so far. Beniks was rushed to the Kovilpatti hospital from the sub-jail at 7.45pm on June 22. But during their two-day jail stay there was nothing to indicate their poor health. Far too much time had gone without a complaint of either ill-treatment in custody or their deteriorating health condition.The prime scene of occurrence is the Sathankulam police station, where the alleged torture of the two took place. But, by the time the high court took suo motu note of the deaths and Kovilpatti judicial magistrate visited the station for inquest on June 28, at least 10 days had gone by. The station was under full control of police all those days and little ‘clue materials’ could be expected there.A lot hinges on the autopsy report that will have injury details besides chemical analysis, histopathological and microbiological examination. That they had injuries on their person is a given. But proving they were inflicted by police while the two were in custody could be a Herculean task.Government doctors, police and jail officials are all domain experts, handling criminal and medico-legal cases daily. Unless smashed by a determined prosecution, they will not falter during trial. On the other side will be prosecution witnesses who would be friends or kin of Jeyaraj and Beniks, who are, needless to say, unfamiliar with trial and cross-examination.The circumstantial evidence which looks strong now -- when the horrific deaths remain fresh in our memory -- may not be supported as strongly by medical records and witness depositions. Prosecution, no doubt, will need a little help from above to nail the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sufficient-proof-not-emotions-will-help-win-case-in-court/articleshow/76719282.cms||A Subramani
July 1, 2020||Pune||Experts urge Maharashtra officials to improve contact tracing||PUNE: Health experts have urged Maharashtra’s health officials to improve their Covid-19 contact tracing ability across districts. Ideally, health workers are supposed to track down at least 20 contacts of an infected patient — for testing or quarantining. But in many state districts with high number of Covid-19 cases, officials have been unable to trace more than 15 contacts. State officials said contact tracing has been better in rural areas than urban areas. They said all district collectors have now been asked to form a task force — comprising top doctors and experts — to boost Covid-19 contact tracing efforts. State health director Archana Patil told TOI that an assessment of contact tracing in the districts is being carried out. Patil said, “We are currently tracing 21 persons per case: 9 high-risk contacts; 12 low-risk. High-risk contacts are advised institutional quarantine while the others can self-isolate at home. These processes are being meticulously followed in the rural areas. But in the towns and cities, where cases are high, contact tracing has been low.” Widespread contact tracing has clear benefits during a pandemic such as the current one: It can help track developing Covid-19 cases and identify disease clusters. And early interventions can save lives. Chief Executive Officer of Pune Zilla Parishad, Ayush Prasad, said his team of health workers, police personnel and revenue authorities have been using a two-tier tracing method to track down close contacts. In the first level, a patient presents details of people he or she has met. The second level tracing involves tracking down those contacts to find other people the patient may have met. Every person in the recent orbit of the patient is considered a contact — workplaces and transport modes are marked as key search points. Health experts said there should not be any limits on the number of people to be traced. Giridhar Babu, a senior epidemiologist with the Bengaluru-based Public Health Foundation of India said Karnataka officials were tracing more than 45 contacts per patient during the early stages of the outbreak. He described it as a “phenomenal ground effort”. “Technology can help, but it cannot replace human resource,” Babu said. Public health expert R Jotkar said that even with assistance from apps such as Aarogya Setu, health officials should use personnel on the ground to improve physical contact tracing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-urge-state-officials-to-improve-contact-tracing/articleshow/76719284.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 1, 2020||Pune||Pune civic body’s survey traces over 1.3 lakh high-risk citizens in a month||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has traced over 1.30 lakh citizens, who face a high risk of testing positive for Covid-19. The citizens have been identified on the basis of comorbidity and age through a survey initiated a month ago. Citizens identified largely include senior citizens, pregnant women and people with serious medical ailments. The survey report was compiled by PMC and Pune Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (PSCDL). According to PMC officials, the civic administration had, in March, started a door-to-door survey to identify people likely to be infected by the coronavirus. The first round focused on contact tracing. Citizens, who had come in contact with positive patients, were traced. The other round focused on citizens showing symptoms akin to Covid-19. The civic body then decided to conduct other surveys dedicated to finding people, who have comorbidity issues. In total, the PMC has carried out 10 surveys. They include three rounds focused on high-risk citizens. Early rounds of the survey dealt with containment areas, later all municipal areas were covered by civic officials along with municipal teachers. “The PMC is working on a strategy to reduce deaths due to Covid-19. Finding out about the most critical patients and those likely to be affected is a key part of the strategy. So, the special survey of co-morbid citizens was initiated. Moreover, a constant follow-up is also undertaken,” said a senior PMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-civic-bodys-survey-traces-over-1-3-lakh-high-risk-citizens-in-a-month/articleshow/76719291.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Agra||ASI sprays insecticides on trees, plants near Taj, other monuments||Agra: To prevent damage to trees, shrubs and gardens from swarms of locusts that have arrived in Agra, the horticulture wing of Archeological Survey of India (ASI) has started spraying the required dose of insecticides to safeguard the protected properties like the Taj Mahal, Mehtab Bagh and Agra Fort. A senior official of the ASI's horticulture wing told TOI that around 1,000 trees and shrubs, including sandalwood (chandan) and Betula Utilis (bhojpatra), are inside the Taj Mahal complex and insecticide has been sprayed on them. Besides, two dozen other gardens that fall under Agra ASI's jurisdiction have also been covered. The officials said that as of now, no severe damage has been noticed and all precautions are being taken by the department after an advisory was issued by the higher authorities in this regard. Meanwhile, forest department officials also inspected their 23 nurseries across Agra district for assessing the damage caused by the locusts to the plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/asi-sprays-insecticides-on-trees-plants-near-taj-other-monuments/articleshow/76717220.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||Rapid antigen tests may drive up PCMC tally||Pimpri Chinchwad: The number of Covid-19 cases may increase in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits with the civic body planning to conduct one lakh rapid antigen tests in the coming days. Civic officials said 4,000 test kits had been ordered. Each kit is capable of doing 25 tests, results of which can be known in 10-15 minutes as against 1-2 days required for the current RT-PCR tests. Santosh Patil, additional municipal commissioner, told TOI that at current doubling rate, the number of positive cases may cross the 10,000 mark by end of July. “We are testing around 400-500 samples via the RT-PCR test every day, but once we start with the rapid antigen test, we would reach to one lakh citizens. It will save time to identify the positive patients,” he said. The officials said the health department currently had the capacity to test around 400-500 samples every day in different laboratories. It has over 1,000 pending samples for RT-PCR test. “The typical tests to diagnose the contagion involves testing the samples of the mucus and saliva in a laboratory to see if they contain the genomic sequence of the coronavirus. The test result can take 24-48 hours,” he said, adding that an antigen test looks for the presence of a virus through a blood test and can give results in 10-15 minutes. However, it is not a confirmatory test. “Hence, blood samples showing the presence of antibodies will have to once again undergo the RT-PCR test to confirm the presence of the contagion,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rapid-antigen-tests-may-drive-up-pcmc-tally/articleshow/76719305.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 1, 2020||Agra||Suspected rape-cum-murder: Victim found with crushed face & torn cloth||Agra: In a suspected case of rape-cum-murder, a 32-year-old woman’s body was found 50 metres away from her rented accommodation near a pond in Etah city.Mother of three, the victim had shifted back to Etah from Delhi on June 24 along with her husband, who worked as a cook. She had gone missing since Monday late night. Her husband, who had returned from a marriage ceremony where he was hired for preparing meals, didn’t find her at their rented room.DIG Aligarh range, Dr Preetinder Singh said, “At around 3 am, the victim was found missing and door of her house was found open. Her face was disfigured using heavy object to hide her identity. The object is yet to be recovered. We have detained few people of the house where the victim was the tenant. Our six teams are probing the matter and we will arrest the main culprit soon.”At the time of incident, the victim’s three children were sleeping in the room. There was a pre-wedding ceremony party at the victim’s landlord house on Monday night.According to police sources, before succumbing to injuries, the victim fought back to save herself from the accused. There were fresh injury marks on the landlord’s body and he was detained for questioning. SP crime, Rahul Kumar, said, “Prima facie it looks to be an attempt of rape-cum-murder. But we are waiting for her medical report. We are getting medical examination of few suspects to find out their involvement in the crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/suspected-rape-cum-murder-victim-found-with-crushed-face-torn-cloth/articleshow/76717243.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Trichy||Uncertainty over international flights forces airlines to shut down offices||TRICHY: The uncertainty over resuming international flight operations from Trichy international airport has forced a few foreign airlines to shut down their offices of general sales agents (GSA) functioning in Trichy. Two weeks ago, Air India shifted its booking office to Trichy airport from Karumandapam in the city as a cost-cutting measure. The office was functioning in a rented building for several years. Though Air India is not operating any flights from Trichy, the office was serving the customers of Air India Express. It may be noted that citing poor bookings, national carrier Air India has shifted its city booking office to the airport recently. Around 540 travel agents registered under the International Air Transport Association (IATA) are there across Tamil Nadu. These apart, around 1000 unregistered travel sub-agents with IATA are also functioning in the state. More than one lakh people are involved in travel agencies, G Ravichandran, treasurer of Travel Agents Associations of India (TAAI) said. A few GSAs of foreign airlines such as Oman Air and Saudi Arabian Airlines had a long wait during the lockdown period, expecting that the ban on international flight services would be lifted soon. However, the ministry of civil aviation extended the ban till July 15. Following this, Oman Air has directed its GSA functioning in Trichy to shut down the office from July 1, John from RL Aviation said. The GSA of Saudi Arabian Airlines has been closed. “More than 3,000 travel agents across India had been contributing to the tourism sector with an average turnover of Rs 4,000 crore a month,” Ravichandran added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/uncertainty-over-intl-flights-forces-airlines-to-shut-down-offices/articleshow/76719837.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 1, 2020||Delhi||11 rain centres to come up in Delhi during monsoon||NEW DELHI: The monsoon is here and along with it comes the opportunity of replenishing dwindling groundwater of the capital. Delhi Jal Board has issued orders for setting up 12 rain centres to facilitate adoption of rainwater harvesting systems in the monsoon season. While eleven of these units will be located at the district level to provide guidance and technical expertise on installation of such systems, five teams will work on the central level. A senior DJB official said that a central rain water harvesting cell has already been functional at Varunalaya, the Jal Board headquarters in Jhandewalan. “In order to educate and facilitate the public at large, district-level rain centres are being established in each revenue district. People from neighbouring areas can also seek guidance for installing RWH systems,” an official added. In August last year, DJB had tweaked the rules to make it mandatory for all properties, with an area of 100sq metres and above, to have functional rainwater harvesting systems, with strong penal provisions for defaulters. The compliance, however, has been way lower than expectations. While the initial deadline to create the RWH systems in houses was in March 2020, DJB officials said the Covid pandemic had forced them to consider a fresh deadline. “These eleven centres will be headed by an engineer with attending officials helping the residents with the technical know-how, information related to financial assistance and to provide details of executing agencies empaneled with the Jal Board,” an official explained. The city receives 617mm of annual average rain and this precious resource can be used to recharge the depleting water-levels in the capital, as highlighted in a recent report submitted by the Central Ground Water Board in the apex court. It is not that rain centres are a new concept in the city. Several years back, three centres were opened in RK Puram, Dwarka and Lajpat Nagar — which managed to do the job for a while but could not yield decent results. Experts point out that while the policy of providing incentives and penalties encourages people to fall in line, poor enforcement has failed in delivering the original intent of these centres. Waivers, amnesties and delays in deadline for compliance are rampant. DJB had already given relaxation of troublesome provisions like using activated charcoal as filtration medium and bore-well for making the water harvesting units. “Repeated postponement of deadlines and lax enforcement are to be blamed for the city performing poorly in ground water conservation,” an official point out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/11-rain-centres-to-come-up-in-the-city-during-monsoon/articleshow/76719295.cms||Paras Singh
July 1, 2020||Pune||Swab centre in Kelewadi||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has deployed a dedicate swab collection van and started door-to-door surveys in the Kelewadi area on Paud Road as Covid-19 active cases soar to 120 in the locality. The civic authorities said a van was deployed to collect the swabs and a sample collection centre would start functioning in the area in the next couple of days at a local PMC-run hospital. “We have prepared a list of senior citizens, pregnant women and co-morbid patients from the area. We are also urging people to wash hands and make use of masks,” Sandip Kadam, head of Kothrud-Bavdhan ward office, said. —Sarang Dastane||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/swab-centre-in-kelewadi/articleshow/76719294.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 1, 2020||Dehradun||Lit fest ‘Valley of Words’ to be held online||Mussoorie: Valley of Words (VoW), a major literature and arts festival of Dehradun, would be held online this year in order to ensure distancing and wider audience. Sanjeev Chopra, director of Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) and honourary curator of VoW, told TOI, “This year, the fourth edition of VoW will be conducted in a hybrid mode with limited audience while maintaining appropriate distancing. However, we will telecast the event to ensure the widest possible reach.” He added that the event will be held in an interactive manner and academic institutions, knowledge organisations, readers, reviewers, and critics will be roped in. On Monday, 36 books out of 400 nominated ones were shortlisted for PFC-VoW Book Awards of 2020. The shortlisting process was completed in over three months by a team of advisors and jury. The VoW advisors were led by English author Robin Gupta and Hindi poet LS Bajpai and the VoW Jury included eminent scholars like Satish Aikant, Jayawanti Dimri, and Divya Saksena. Initiated in 2017, VoW is an open access festival that features authors, poets, thespians, artists, photographers, philatelists, balladeers, puppeteers, policymakers, diplomats, academics, activists, parliamentarians, jurists, students, and teachers of leading schools, institutions, and academies of Dehradun. This year, it will be held from November 20 to November 22 in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lit-fest-valley-of-words-to-be-held-online/articleshow/76717252.cms||Anmol Jain
July 1, 2020||Meerut||Now, elevated four-lane road inrecently proposed tiger corridor||Meerut: Days after a proposal for setting up of a tiger corridor in the Shivalik range was sent to the Centre, officials started working on the proposed elevated road that would pass through the reserved forest of UP and Uttarakhand to connect Saharanpur with Dehradun.Authorities, however, claimed that the road would run along a rivulet and since it would be elevated it won’t require felling of trees in the reserve forest area. “The elevated nature of the road will also not hamper the free movement of animals in the proposed corridor,” they added. The elevated road is part of the Delhi-Dehradun four-lane project, which will be passing through Saharanpur. According to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) authorities, the 19.6-km project that would come up at an estimated cost of Rs 1,500 crore will take around three years in the completion. Saharanpur divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar said, “I made it clear during a meeting with Saharanpur forest department and NHAI officials, and have also written to the UP PWD department that the best way to construct a road is by not expanding the existing road, but take a detour into the Mohand Rau (a seasonal rivulet) and take an elevated road along the river. This shall save the cost of a tunnel and provide safe passage to wild animals between the contiguous forest of Rajaji Tiger Reserve in Uttrakhand and Shivalik Forest Division in Saharanpur, UP, thereby reducing man-animal conflict. Issue of roadblocks and conflicts with elephants can also be addressed. Also, an elevated road can be a boon for the free movement of tigers." Recently, a proposal was sent for declaration of the Sivalik Forest Division as a new tiger reserve of UP. According to project director, NHAI-Dehradun, Vibhav Mittal, “Out of the 19.6-km-long road, 12 km will be elevated, from Mohand till Dak Kali Temple near the tunnel. It will be built alongside the rivulet at a height that allows free movement of elephants. We are also coordinating with Wildlife Institute of India and will incorporate their suggestions during the construction so that wildlife is not disturbed in any way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-elevated-four-lane-road-inrecently-proposed-tiger-corridor/articleshow/76717249.cms||Sandeep Rai
July 1, 2020||Goa||Agro plan envisions boosting farm production by 25%||Panaji: E-sampark, an online interaction with farmers was recently held to discuss the way forward for agriculture in Goa. This is part of a project to revolutionise the agricultural sector in the state. “We are looking at self-sufficiency in the vegetable production of the state and potential for export in some of the surplus fruits that can be cultivated,” deputy director of agriculture, Chintamani Perni said. He cited the example of jackfruit – which is slowly emerging as a popular alternative for vegans – which can be processed to produce value addition products like chips, jams and other items. “The agriculture sector’s goals for the next five years is prepared in the agro-vision plan. For this, it was important to discuss with farmers so that a vision document can be prepared for 2020-25,” In this five-year goal plan, the aim is to increase the productivity of the farm produce by 20-25%. However, with the limitations of agricultural land in the state, the department is looking at ways to enhance the productivity of the existing lands by adopting scientific methods, using the right varieties, and increasing the area of irrigation. In addition to this, there are fallow lands spanning 14,000 hectres in the state which are going to be revived. Here, seeds will be identified for the cultivation of new crops that best suit the soil type. He further added that the objective is to increase the farmers’ income by drawing out a proper plan in this agro vision. “If the marketing chain is made stringent where the number of middlemen is reduced, farmers can get a decent income. Also, when we have proper storage facilities to store the increased production, there will be no scope for distress sale or discarded into compost; the surplus can be exported. These factors can double the farmers’ income if properly handled,” Perni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/agro-plan-envisions-boosting-farm-production-by-25/articleshow/76719309.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||Four individuals with no symptoms decide to stay in home isolation||Pimpri Chinchwad: Four asymptomatic Covid-19 patients have opted for home isolation in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. Additional municipal commissioner Santosh Patil said that at present the civic body has ample beds available hence home isolation has been made optional. “There are strict guidelines that need to be followed for home isolation. The patient needs a separate room with a separate washroom facility. Nobody from the family should mingle with the patient. He or she will also have to check their temperature twice a day and inform the health department’s monitoring team. The team members will be in touch with the patient,” he said.According to Patil, considering that most cases are asymptomatic in nature, the patients can be treated at the Covid Care Centre (CCC) as well. At present, around four-five such centres are operating and seven more have been identified across the municipal limits. As many as 3,000 beds are available currently, he said.Last week, municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar had urged citizens to cooperate with asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, who opt for home isolation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-individuals-with-no-symptoms-decide-to-stay-in-home-isolation/articleshow/76719310.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||Kyrgyz woman dies in accident at Arpora||Saligao: A 38-year-old woman from Kyrgyzstan, Aliana Abikiva, died on the spot after her car plunged into a river along the main road at Arpora, late Monday night. Sources at the Anjuna police station said that after being informed, a team led by a police sub-inspector rushed to the spot. Police sources said that the car crashed into a tree after the woman lost control of the vehicle and then fell into the river. The Kyrgyzstan embassy has been informed about the woman’s death The body of the woman was sent to Goa Medical College and Hospital, Bambolim, for post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kyrgyz-woman-dies-in-accident-at-arpora/articleshow/76719329.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 'Pay 9,000 teachers, not just Covid warriors’||NEW DELHI: A primary teachers’ association has objected to North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s decision to release one month’s salary only for 5,400 teachers on Covid-19 duties. At least 3,600 teachers have been taking online classes but haven’t also received their salaries for four months, the association alleged. “The decision is unjustified. In March, all teachers came to work and those who were not given Covid duty included those coming from far-flung areas, above 55 years of age or pregnant women. But everyone is contributing in this time of crisis and the corporation should consider all 9,000 teachers equally,” said Naveen Sangwan of Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh. The corporation on Monday decided to pay March’s salary to the teachers on Covid duties. “The corporation is just paying for March, not all four months, and even then it is discriminating,” said Seema Mathur, another member. The matter was raised on Tuesday in Delhi high court, which is hearing a petition filed by the association. Some teachers also claimed that some of them hadn’t got the salary despite being on Covid duties. “For example, 168 teachers in Rohini schools didn’t get anything. We took it up with the mayor on Tuesday,” said Kuldeep Khatri of Shikshak Nyaya Manch Nagar Nigam. On not paying all teachers, mayor Jai Prakash said some error might have happened at places but all teachers on Covid duties had been paid now. “The remaining teachers will also be paid as soon as we get funds from Delhi government,” he said. The corporation has accepted in the high court that no salary has been paid since April. “Delhi government clarified it had released the last instalment of Rs 49.2 crore on Monday,” said Shailendra Kumar, general secretary of the primary teachers’ association. The court has asked the corporation to pay the remaining teachers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pay-9k-teachers-not-just-covid-warriors/articleshow/76719321.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Ex-Union minister Beni Prasad Verma’s son dies in Delhi, Covid-19 relapse possible||LUCKNOW: Three months after Samajwadi Party founding member and former Union minister Beni Prasad Verma’s death, his son Dinesh, who was diagnosed with coronavirus last month, died at a private hospital in Delhi on Tuesday. Dinesh, 40, was suffering from chronic renal ailment for past few years. A government employee at State Warehousing Corporation, Dinesh Verma is survived by his wife and two children. Though there was no official confirmation, reports suggest Dinesh may have had a relapse of coronavirus, which led to his death. Spokesperson, district health officer, Yogesh Raghuvanshi, said Dinesh was diagnosed with Covid-19 three weeks ago. “He was admitted to King George’s Medical University and was discharged on June 25, after he recovered. We have no information about Covid relapse,” he said. Close family friend Mohd Sabah said: “Dinesh underwent a renal transplant in 2007. He had been undergoing treatment since then. During lockdown, he could not go for a follow-up. We believe prior to a follow-up procedure in Delhi, the hospital must have got him tested for coronavirus as per standard operating procedure. The possibility of Covid-19 relapse cannot be ruled out.” Meanwhile, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav extended condolences to the bereaved family. He also spoke to the kin of Dinesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/benis-son-dies-in-delhi-covid-19-relapse-possible/articleshow/76719843.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu count past 90,000; recovery rate also up||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 tally breached the 90,000-mark with 3,943 new infections reported on Tuesday. Sixty more deaths in the last 24 hours pushed the state’s toll to 1,201. On a positive note, the number of people discharged after treatment crossed 50,000, a recovery rate of 55%. Epidemologist P Kuganantham, Covid-19 expert committee member, said “Increase in recovery rate means we have improved our treatment system in government hospitals and monitoring has been better.” As per official data, percentage of patients who died within 24 hours of hospitalisation fell from 54% in May to 35% now. According to the epidemologist, “Patients, particularly those with comorbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and kidney ailments, were tested and taken early to hospitals with the help of field workers and so they recovered fast.” On Tuesday, only eight of the 60 deaths were reported within 24 hours of hospitalisation. And 65% of the deceased were aged above 60. Except for a 61-year-old man from Chengalpet, all the others had comorbidities. The state has so far tested more than 1.1 million people till date and is planning to continue the testing around 30,000 people daily, said a state health department official. Despite complete lockdown in place, Chennai and its three neighbouring districts reported around 2,800 new cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 69,553. This was 77% of the state’s case load. Madurai -- another district in which complete lockdown was imposed -- reported more than 200 new cases a day for fourth day in a row. The southern district so far recorded 2,557 cases till date. Other southern districts such ae Theni (75) and Sivagangai (50) too had more than 50 new cases on Tuesday. Northern districts such as Vellore (69), Kallakurichi (66) and Cuddalore (53) too fell in the same category. A total of 87 people who returned from other states and abroad countries by air, rail and road tested positive on Tuesday. Nearly 30 of them were from Chhattisgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-count-past-90k-recovery-rate-also-up/articleshow/76719307.cms||Ram Sundaram
July 1, 2020||Meerut||Three women drown in Ganga while trying to save 2 men of their family||MEERUT: Two sisters -- both in their 20s-- drowned while trying to save their husbands who had slipped into the Ganga during a ceremonial bathing after a wedding in the family in Bulandshahr district of UP. Another woman relative who had also taken the valiant plunge into the gushing river to save them met the watery grave. The two men were rescued with the help of locals and a little push from their wives, who disappeared within minutes on Monday evening. The bodies of Sunita (25) and her sister-in-law Meenakshi (28) were fished out later. But Sunita’s sister Kamini (22) was still untraceable till Tuesday evening. The tragedy struck the jubilant family when they went to a ‘ghat’ in Bulandshahr’s Anupshahr town for ceremonial bathing in the sacred river. “Suddenly, Sunita’s husband Bunty slipped and began drowning. It was then that Kamini’s husband Dinesh jumped to save him but he, too, lost the balance. Seeing this, all the three women entered into the river to save the two men. The men were saved but the three women drowned,” said Akhilesh Tripathi, station house officer of Anupshahr. “While the women with the help of onlookers managed to rescue the men, they themselves drowned in the river,” a local said. Additional deployment of PAC’s flood platoon was also made to aid the search operation by local authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/three-women-drown-in-ganga-while-trying-to-save-2-men-of-their-family/articleshow/76717248.cms||Piyush Rai
July 1, 2020||Meerut||BKU leader, 9 others booked for 'threatening' cop; farmers protest||BIJNOR: Farmers gathered at the tehsil premises here on Tuesday morning and staged a protest against police for booking state president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU)' youth wing Digambar Singh and nine others for allegedly threatening a sub-inspector on Monday night. The protesters claimed that the SI had asked for Rs 20,000 as bribe from a farmer and no one had misbehaved with policemen. Digambar Singh said a land dispute arose between three farmers and one of them called Kiratpur police. In the meantime, the matter was resolved. However, an SI insisted that the farmer who called police should lodge a complaint against the other two. The farmer refused and the SI allegedly thrashed him and demanded Rs 20,000 to stop further police action. Farmers contacted BKU, said Singh. The BKU leaders went to Kiratpur police station and asked why the farmer was thrashed. "We did not misbehave with the SI," Singh claimed. Lakshmi Nivas Mishra, superintendent of police (city), said, "Farners led by Digambar Singh misbehaved with a sub-inspector. A video of the act is doing the rounds on social media. We have set up an inquiry in this regard." A case has been registered against the accused under IPC section 147 (punishment for rioting) and other provisions for violating social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bku-leader-9-others-booked-for-threatening-cop-farmers-protest/articleshow/76717254.cms||Harveer Dabas
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘So what if there is pandemic, a doctor’s clinic cannot close’||Ahmedabad: For 46 years, rain or shine, riots or peacetime, there has hardly been a day that Dr Dinesh Shah, 71, did not turn up at his small dispensary at Raja Mehta ni Pol in Kalupur. The Covid-19 pandemic has not been any different. During the lockdown, Shah travelled from his home near Dharnidhar Derasar to see his patients in the walled city every day. “Why should any doctor be so scared of Covid. It’s a viral disease. Precaution is the key. Symptomatic treatment, prompt action is a must. I advise the same to my patients,” says Shah. When Shah saw that his patients were in panic about the pandemic, he stuck to his clinic schedule. “A doctor’s clinic can’t shut. There are people with co-morbid conditions, children who need vaccination, the elderly who need to be referred to specialists, how do we ignore them? You see fear and stigma kills more than a disease, and that’s when education is a must. A doctor should not hide in such times. We have all taken an oath,” says Shah. He told TOI that he made sure that people with fever, or symptoms like a runny nose or a cough were immediately referred for Covid testing. Shah used to live at the nearby Patasha ni Pol when he first opened the clinic in 1974. An MMBS from NHL Medical College, Shah remembers how he used to open his clinic during riots in the 1970s, the 1985 anti-reservation riots, the Navnirman movement and even during the 2002 post-Godhra riots. “I remember during curfew or riots, my clinic was where they brought patients. It’s hard for many families. Don’t you think we should be empathetic in such times,” says Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/so-what-if-there-is-pandemic-a-doctors-clinic-cannot-close/articleshow/76719304.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Meerut||No fresh entry in Muzaffarnagar district jail without Covid-19 negative report||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Muzaffarnagar’s district jail, which is already housing more inmates than the sanctioned strength, will not take any fresh prisoner in its barracks unless he is declared Covid-19 free. It comes days after three inmates were tested positive for the disease, putting to risk at least 2,000 others living in the prison. They were shifted to Muzaffarnagar medical college. The new prisoners will now be sent to a temporary jail, where they will stay till their Covid-19 report arrives. “Earlier, new prisoners were kept and tested in an isolation ward formed in the district jail. But starting June 27, we are not taking any new inmate before he is declared Covid-19 negative,” said jail superintendent AK Saxena. According to sources, a temporary jail has been set up in a college in Kawal village where offenders are being brought from across the district. Several other jails of the state are also following the same drill. According to officials, Muzaffarnagar district jail has at least 2,000 inmates against the capacity of 850.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-fresh-entry-in-muzaffarnagar-district-jail-without-covid-19-negative-report/articleshow/76717282.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Visually impaired man, wife who helped people fight pandemic die a day apart||All through April and May, when the city was in lockdown, AK Arunachalam, who was visually impaired, and his wife Geetha, would get into a van and head out to deliver rice, masks and essentials to the visually and physically challenged living in various parts of Chennai and its outskirts. They continued their service three times a week, and helped more than 300 daily wage earning families during the lockdown period. On Monday night, Geetha, 58, died of Covid19. Arunachalam, 60, who had tested negative for the virus, died of respiratory complications on Tuesday morning. Both had been admitted in the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital. “Geetha was taken to hospital on June 14, and Arunachalam on June 19,” says Geetha’s sister Padukkani. “They had diabetes and got very ill in the last couple of weeks,” says Geetha who takes care of the couple’s son Manigandan, 33, living with mental retardation. “I know I am among the vulnerable because of my age but how can I not help my own at a time when they need it the most,” Arunachalam had told TOI in April, when asked about why he risked infection to distribute food. The couple, who lived in the RA Puram area, would hire a van, a driver and an assistant at their own expense to help them with the supplies, using their savings as well as money received through donations. Arunachalam was also a member of TN transport monitoring committee and was vice president of the visually challenged persons wing of the Tamil Nadu Udavikkaram Association for the welfare of Differently abled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/visually-impaired-man-wife-who-helped-people-fight-pandemic-die-a-day-apart/articleshow/76719331.cms||Kamini Mathai
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Okhla landfill to churn out power, SDMC inks pact with NTPC, IOC||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation will use the Okhla landfill site’s garbage to produce syn gas—a hydrogen-based fuel— which will be later used to generate electricity. An MoU to set up a pilot project with a capacity to treat 50 tonnes of garbage per day was signed between the civic body, Indian Oil and NTPC on Tuesday. SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti said that the project will help in addressing the problem of garbage disposal. “The plant will process 50 tonnes per day of Refused Derived Fuel (RDF) segregated from municipal solid waste to produce syn gas which will be used to generate about 1 MW electricity,’ Bharti added. The municipal corporation will provide 1 acre of land at the Okhla site on lease to Indian Oil for setting up the processing plant. “SDMC will also purchase the power generated from the plant. We will be able to save Rs 2.6 crores due to the purchase of power from the plant,” he added. Union minister of petroleum and natural gas Dharmender Pradhan, LG Anil Baijal and SDMC functionaries participated in the MoU signing event through a video link. “Indian Oil and NTPC will make an investment of 50% each towards the capital cost involved in setting up the plant through a consortium. Indian Oil will facilitate the technology and handle the whole operation of the proposed plant, while NTPC will facilitate technology review for electricity generation and evacuation,” said a civic official. “This plant is an indigenous solution to solid waste problem and will help SDMC in achieving 100% waste processing. We will try to replicate the plan in other areas in future,” said Anamika, south Delhi mayor. Union minister Pradhan added that Delhi generates 10,000 tonnes of waste every day and it is a challenge to manage and process the entire quantity. “Such plants will go a long way in production of enriched organic manure, generation of electricity and treatment of effluent water,” he added. LG Anil Baijal said that “such innovative undertakings will definitely reduce accumulation of municipal solid waste at landfill sites and will pave way for remediation of legacy waste.” Power and renewable energy minister R K Singh said the proposed plant is an example of two ministries coming together for a “good public cause just the way the prime minister talks about breaking silos.” “Synthesised gas is a mixture of hydrogen and carbon monoxide which acts as a clean fuel. This project is based on clean technology and no pollution will be caused,” added the civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/okhla-landfill-to-churn-out-power-sdmc-inks-pact-with-ntpc-ioc/articleshow/76719354.cms||Paras Singh
July 1, 2020||Goa||New purchase rules puts MSMEs at disadvantage||Panaji: The adoption of General Financial Rules (GFR) 2017 by the state government is likely to place the medium and small-scale industries (MSME), which are already going through a rough phase due to the pandemic, at a disadvantage. On May 13, the state cabinet resolved to follow GFR 2017 and on June 5 an office memorandum was issued stating that the rules have become applicable with immediate effect. With the GFR 2017 being made applicable, the official said that all small vendors and companies will now face broader competition from vendors across the country as the government departments are now required to make their purchases though the suppliers listed on government e-marketplace (GEM) portal.  In this crisis period, when all enterprises are going through difficult times, broadened competition will put the survival of local MSMEs and companies here at stake, the official said. “They are looking to the government for help and this is what they get,” the official said. The official said that in the past too, an attempt was made to adopt GFR 2017, but after it was explained how it would be detrimental to the interest of local vendors and companies here, the plan was dropped. So, all requirements of government departments were procured through Goa Handicrafts Rural and Small Scale Industries Development Corporation (GHRSSIDC), which has certified small vendors and companies on board. The justification for sticking to the 2005 GFR was that in an event if a product procured locally was to develop any technical snag or operational problems, it could be dealt with immediately, the official said. Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) MSME council chairperson, Mangarish Pai Raikar said he was unaware of the latest development, but if true it is a hugely worrying thing for MSMEs of Goa. “Already, the government has not cleared dues of various MSMEs and now we have this. I will take this matter immediately with the director of industries,” Raikar said. The GHRSSIDC is also likely to take a hit and may have to wind up as its finances, like many other corporations, have been worrisome, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-purchase-rules-puts-msmes-at-disadvantage/articleshow/76719361.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||NCR developers get six more months to finish their projects||Lucknow: The state cabinet on Tuesday provided relief to builders in Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway by giving them six additional months to complete pending projects. The deadline has been extended from June 30, 2021 to December 31, 2021, with no additional charge on the builder for any delay. Besides, to make it easier to acquire land or change its land use, the cabinet also decided to delegate the responsibility to the collector or divisional commissioner. In a cabinet by circulation on Monday night, the cabinet approved of proposed changes to Section 219 of the UP Revenue Code 2006 to give the collector or divisional commissioner the power to change land use of the required land. This, an official explained, will help in faster acquisition of land for projects and provide a push to Purvanchal Expressway project, dedicated freight corridor, Bundelkhand Expressway, Eastern Peripheral Expressway and establishment of state medical colleges and degree colleges. The cabinet has also put its stamp on the proposal to allocate public distribution system ration shops to self-help groups. The CM had earlier announced that self-help groups will be allowed to apply for PDS shops in an effort to strengthen these groups financially and also bring greater transparency to the system. The cabinet has approved of a change in the definition of the ‘owner’ to allow self-help groups to also apply now. A committee will be set up under the commissioner of Varanasi division to take decisions at the local level for change in drawings and designs pertaining to the Kashi Vishwanath beautification and expansion project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ncr-developers-get-six-more-months-to-finish-their-projects/articleshow/76719852.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Vadodara||This warrior saw corona ‘up & close’||Vadodara: This 37-year-old doctor has been put through the Covid grind – both at SSG Hospital and GMERS Medical College and Hospital, Gotri – the two major Covid designated hospitals of Vadodara. After he was sent to Ahmedabad’s Civil Hospital on deputation last month, he even had a close brush with the dreaded contagion. But that helped Dr Suketu Dave, who was part of the first batch of 19 resident doctors who were on deputation at Ahmedabad, emerge even stronger. Donning his life-saving personal protection equipment (PPE) kit again, he jumped into the battle zone inside Ahmedabad civil hospital’s Covid ICU, treating all critically ill patients. “I have had a chance of working at all the major hospitals and I have seen all kinds of patients – from normal, asymptomatic to symptomatic and critically ill,” said Dave, who served at the isolation ward of civil hospital between May 6 and May 12. Two days after he returned to Vadodara, the resident doctor who finished his MBBS from Surat and is pursuing MD (medicine) from Baroda Medical College, started showing symptoms and tested positive of Covid-19. After finishing his home quarantine period Dave joined duty at SSG Hospital on June 16 where he was assigned duty at non-Covid ward. Since June 21, however, he has re-joined Covid duties at the 1,200-bedded civil hospital in Ahmedabad. “At times, it gets a little testing when a young patient you are hoping will recover, suddenly succumbs,” said Dave, whose Covid duty will end on Tuesday. On Wednesday, doctor’s day, Dave will return to quarantine firming his resolve to fight the virus even more vigorously.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/this-warrior-saw-corona-up-close/articleshow/76718026.cms||Prashant Rupera
July 1, 2020||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region records highest single-day Covid-19 toll as 31 die||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded its single-day highest 31 coronavirus casualties on Tuesday, taking the region’s toll to 763 so far. Besides, 739 people tested positive for the contagion in PMR on Tuesday, pushing Pune’s tally to 22,429. Among the fresh cases, 442 were recorded in Pune municipal limits, 173 in Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and 124 in rural and Cantonment areas. PMC health officials said the condition of 350 patients was critical and they were being treated at various hospitals. Of these, 59 were on ventilator support, the officials said, adding that 3,949 swabs were collected and sent for testing on Tuesday. “For the last one week, over 3,000 samples are being collected and sent for testing every day,’ a civic health official said. Among the 31 deaths, nine were recorded at the Sassoon General Hospital. These included a 70-year-old man from the Parvati area, a 69-year-old man from Yerawada, a 52-year-old man from Guruwar Peth, a 67-year-old man from Kharadi, a 60-year-old woman from the Shivajinagar area, a 48-year-old man from Mangalwar Peth, a 46-year-old man from Shukrawar Peth, a 74-year-man from Pune Camp, a 71-year-old woman from Khadki. A 55-year-old man from Haveli succumbed to the infection at Naidu hospital. The patients who succumbed to the infection at private hospitals include a 71-year-old man from Solapur, a 61-year-old man from Khadki, a 69-year-old woman from Kondhwa, a 54-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 73-year-old man from Katraj, a 63-year-old woman from Sinhagad Road, a 58-year-old woman from Wadgaonsheri, a 75-year-old man from Nana Peth, a 59-year-old woman from Hadapsar, a 57-year-old man from Phursungi, an 83-year-old man from Erandwane and a 64-year-old man from Bibvewadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-highest-single-day-toll-as-31-die/articleshow/76719328.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 1, 2020||Dehradun||PIL against Ramdev's drug: HC seeks Centre's response||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court on Tuesday issued a notice to assistant solicitor general Rakesh Thapliyal asking him to record his response as it heard a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking a ban on the latest drugs manufactured by Patanjali which are “touted to be Covid-19 cure”. A bench of Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganthan and Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe listed the case for further hearing on Wednesday stating that they need to hear the perspective of the Centre on the issue. Speaking to TOI, petitioner Mani Kumar, who appeared before the court through video-conferencing, said, “The bench heard the case and said that they need the response of the Union government on the allegations.” Kumar alleged that Ramdev has violated all protocols of drug production and certification by touting his drug to be a cure for Covid-19. “As media reports have revealed, there has been no scientific trial for the drug and neither has it been published in any medical journal for peer review. Even the Uttarakhand government officials have said that the application for approval sent to them did not mention coronavirus anywhere,” he added. Earlier, Patanjali CEO Acharya Balkrishna had told TOI that the firm had never claimed to have a medicine for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pil-against-ramdevs-drug-hc-seeks-centres-response/articleshow/76717330.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Record 54 cases in North West Zone||AHMEDABAD: The western part of Ahmedabad reported 139 fresh Covid-19 cases or 63% of the total 222 new cases reported on Monday. Sixty-three per cent was the highest share of the western part in the city’s new cases so far. The North West Zone comprising Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota reported 54 fresh cases, the highest among all the seven zones in the city on Monday evening. The West Zone of the city, which includes the wards of Sardar Patel Stadium, Naranpura, Navrangura, Ranip, Paldi, and Vasna, had recorded the second highest number of cases after North West Zone. The West Zone had 50 cases, while 35 cases were reported from the South West Zone, which includes Jodhpur, Vejalpur, Maktampura, and Sarkhej. The western part of the city has been recording a high number of cases for the past couple of weeks. Of the nine deaths in the city on Monday, five were from the western part — three from West Zone and two from North West Zone. Till Tuesday morning, the city had 2,999 active cases, of which 1,548 or 51% of the total active cases are from the western part. Of these, 1,548 cases, the West Zone has 652 active cases .15 new cases in rural AhmedabadThe district, excluding municipal areas, reported 15 fresh cases on Tuesday taking the total number of cases in rural Ahmedabad to 829. Of these 15 cases, six were from Parshwanath Society in Mandal. One case was reported from Padmavati Complex near Ghuma in the Manipur area, four from Sanand, two from Bavla and one each from Daskroi, Detroj and Viramgam. No Covid death was reported from rural Ahmedabad on Tuesday. Taluka-wise, of the 829 cases in the district, 246 are from Dholka, 177 from Daskroi, and 164 from Sanand, 87 are from Viramgam, 18 from Bavla, and 26 from Dhandhuka. Ahmedabad figure at 63-day lowFor the district, the 24 hours ending at 5pm on Tuesday was another great day on the Covid front with the fewest fresh cases reported, 197 (182 from AMC limits and 15 from rest of the district), since April 28, when 164 cases were reported. It was also the sixth straight day for the district with fewer than 15 Covid deaths. After 15 deaths on June 24, the district has recorded 12, 8, 12, 13, 9 and 9 deaths each day. It is notable that the district’s daily average of deaths in June was 20, with 599 Covid-19 patients dying in the entire month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/record-54-cases-in-north-west-zone/articleshow/76719356.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||Economy showing signs of revival, says UP chief secretary RK Tiwari||LUCKNOW: With Unlock-2 being rolled out from Wednesday, the Uttar Pradesh government is limping back to routine work which had been overshadowed by containment of Covid-19. In an exclusive interview to TOI, chief secretary RK Tiwari spoke about the government’s plans for revival of the economy, employment generation and how, with most activity now permitted, the government will manage the Covid-19 problem Revenue GenerationIn what the CS said has given the government great confidence that the economy is showing signs of revival, the state has managed to collect more than 60% of its revenue target for June. Out of this, he said, the mining department had collected more than 100% of its targeted revenue. “Commercial activity has started picking up in the state and there are several policy decisions in the pipeline that will boost that, for instance the freehold of nazul land. Several existing industrial policies are also being reworked to make them more investor friendly and we are expecting significant foreign and domestic investment in the state,” he said. The CS added that the government was also expected to invest heavily in infrastructure and other development projects that would further spur demand, like the Defence Corridor, expressways etc. EmploymentIn the government’s claim that 1 crore jobs have been created, 60 lakh are under MNREGA. Despite the economic slowdown over the past three months and an existing bank of 32 lakh unemployed persons before the lockdown was implemented, Tiwari said that the government had a clear vision for employment generation. “There are 90 lakh MSME units in the state and we initially provided loans of Rs 6,000 crore, followed by loans of Rs 3,200 crore on June 26. Just this should lead to employment generation for over 4 lakh persons. We believe that if MSMEs are encouraged, they will generate employment and if each unit employs even a single person, we would meet our target,” he said. He added that the government would be promoting self-help groups and farmers-producers groups to create employment in rural areas. Covid-19The CS strongly refutes charges that there is community spread in UP. He said that the health department carried out a random survey in 18 districts where the highest number of migrant workers had returned. “In the 72 villages that were surveyed, we collected 1,687 samples and all were negative. The government has, till now, been able to trace back each positive case to a source,” Tiwari said. As an intensive screening programme is being started in the Meerut division from July 1, Tiwari said that it would account for almost a third of the total tests being conducted in UP. “We have almost touched 25,000 tests per day and in Meerut division, we will carry out an additional 1,000 through antigen tests. If required, we could similarly carry out a drive in certain districts like Agra, Kanpur, Firozabad etc where the number of cases have been high,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/economy-showing-signs-of-revival-says-up-chief-secretary-rk-tiwari/articleshow/76719857.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 1, 2020||Meerut||Covid-19 tally in Meerut breaches 1000 mark, in Agra its 1227||MEERUT/BAREILLY/AGRA: At least 34 fresh cases of Covid-19 surfaced in Meerut on Tuesday. With this, Covid-19 tally in Meerut crossed the 1,000 mark. The district’s tally now is 1003. Meanwhile, one fresh death was reported in Meerut taking the toll to 70. The positive cases include health workers, civic body employees, students and housewives. While a 59-year-old man, who tested Covid-19 positive recently, died during treatment at Saifai medical college on Tuesday. According to the health department, the man was suffering severe acute respiratory syndrome and died due to comorbid condition. So far, 88 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. At least eight new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district on Tuesday, increasing the district tally to 1,227. These include four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and two from the severe acute respiratory syndrome and a diabetes patient. Out of the 1,227 cases reported in the district, 83.21% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 120 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “So far, 1021 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of the people in hotspot areas, and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab test.” Three positive cases were reported in Budaun district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-tally-in-meerut-breaches-1000-mark-in-agra-its-1227/articleshow/76717332.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||6 complexes off micro-containment list||Ahmedabad: The AMC on Tuesday removed Sthapatya Residency (Thaltej ward) and Satellite Centre (Bodakdev) from the list of micro-containment areas. The two complexes lie in the city’s North West Zone. Four other places removed from the list are Shukan City (Ranip ward), Keshavjunj (Sabarmati), Parnakunj Society (Asarwa), and Vishnukunj Society (Shahibaug). However, Sachin Tower (Jodhpur ward) and New Ashwamegh Bodakdev Cooperative Housing Society, also known as Galaxy Apartments, continue to be classified as micro-containment areas. The residents of Satellite Centre, Sachin Tower, and Galaxy Apartments had protested against the decision of the AMC to declare their societies as micro-containment areas. A resident of Satellite Centre had filed a petition in the high court challenging the decision. On Tuesday, a meeting was chaired by Rajiv Gupta, the additional chief secretary of the forests and environment department, who heads the mission to fight Covid in Ahmedabad. In the meeting, Gupta and municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar discussed the current Covid situation. After the meeting, the six societies were removed from the list of micro-containment areas. Of these, two each are from North West, Central, and West zones. One society from the North Zone and another from the South were added to the micro-containment areas’ list. Ashopalav Society, Gali No. A-71 to 78 in Vatva in the South Zone was added to the list. As was Rajavir Society in Thakkarbapanagar in the North zone. ‘We are not being allowed to step out even to buy essentials’ The office-bearers of Sachin Tower and Galaxy Apartments had earlier written to the municipal commissioner asking for the removal from the micro-containment areas’ list. Sachin Tower office-bearers had said that they had no objection to obeying guidelines, but the ‘wrong decision’ of the AMC had put the residents ‘in severe embarrassment’. They had said that as of June 20, there were only three active cases in the society. Meanwhile, the residents of D Block of Galaxy Apartments on Monday said that they were not allowed to go out even to get essentials. There is only one case in the block, which has been sealed by the AMC. Even doctors and those involved in essentials services are not allowed to leave the complex, said Ashok Galwani, the chairman of the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-complexes-off-micro-containment-list/articleshow/76719337.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Effective mgmt, increasing testing needed to tackle Covid-19: Fadnavis||Amravati: Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in the state assembly, on Monday said that effective management and increasing the number of swab sample tests are required to tackle coronavirus until a vaccine is developed. Talking to mediapersons here after paying visits to quarantine centres and Covid-19 hospitals, Fadnavis said there is a paucity of sanitary staff in Amravati. “The number of patients and deaths is high in Amravati and Akola, as is the percentage of infection. Instead of worrying about the number, it would be better if the number of tests is increased. This is the only remedy in such a situation,” he said. “An asymptomatic patient may not come face any difficulties but he may put the lives of many in jeopardy. Hence, there is a need to increase the number of tests,” the former CM said. Fadnavis said the fight against corona is not in its decisive stage. “The number of patients is increasing daily. Amravati reported 35 ces in a single ay. While Mumbai is doing 5,100 tests on an average per day, Delhi is doing 21,000. The strategy of less number of tests is wrong,” he said. “We are now heading towards Unlock 2.0. What’s in store is not yet clear. Leaving everything to local administration would not be proper,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/effective-mgmt-increasing-testing-needed-to-tackle-covid-19-fadnavis/articleshow/76711632.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||Defence minister Rajnath Singh lauds UP CM Yogi Adityanath’s Covid combat, to visit Lucknow soon||LUCKNOW: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday praised chief minister Yogi Adiyanath for his proactive moves to combat the coronavirus pandemic. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is doing well. Because of his efforts people of the state and Lucknow are safe. The situation is totally under control,” he told TOI on phone on Tuesday. Despite having a busy schedule due to mounting tensions along the China border in Ladakh, Rajnath, who is also a local MP, is keeping a close watch on developmental projects in his parliamentary constituency. Rajnath said that he had spoken to the CM for speeding up developmental projects in Lucknow. “I am sure after his intervention the projects would be finished on time,” he said. Last week, Rajnath had received complaints against district authorities who, according to him, were not taking a keen interest in his dream project of 100-km-long outer ring road encircling Lucknow. Mining mafia was also trying to create hurdles in the ongoing project. “I just want to offer a congestion-free city to people. The outer ring road would definitely be able to decongest the city traffic,” he said adding that though due to defence related matters he has not been able to pay a visit to Lucknow, he remains in regular touch with his friends who keep him updated about developments in the city. As soon as the CM was apprised of hurdles in the outer ring road project he asked additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi to immediately hold a meeting with district officials to ensure timely completion of the project. Rajnath said that he has asked his staff and supporters to ensure that free foodgrains and other essential commodities continue to reach the poor and vulnerable sections in the city. “As soon as the situation normalises I would pay a visit to Lucknow,” said Rajnath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rajnath-lauds-yogis-covid-combat-to-visit-city-soon/articleshow/76719868.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Four held for abducting cryptocurrency trader||NEW DELHI: A cryptocurrency trader was kidnapped by four criminals, including two juveniles, and forced to pay in Bitcoin for his release. The accused had interacted with the trader by posing as customers. The victim, Arpit, was made to sit in a car in east Delhi and taken to outer Delhi where he was forced to transfer cryptocurrency at gunpoint. The abductors also called his younger brother, Harshit, seeking ransom for his release. DCP (East) Jasmeet Singh said, “One of the accused, Vikram (32), is a graduate, while the other, Nitin Yadav (20), is in his second-year of graduation being done through correspondence. They had roped in the juveniles to identify Bitcoin traders. Vikram saw videos on YouTube to understand the trading system and decided to extort traders by posing as a buyer.” Last Friday, police got a call about the trader being kidnapped from Ganesh Nagar. Harshit told police that his brother had gone to collect cash from a buyer. Later, he got a call from the kidnappers demanding money for Arpit’s release. After checking CCTV footage, police zeroed in on an Innova that was used to kidnap the trader. A wireless message was flashed across the city and the victim was rescued from Auchandi border. The Innova was found robbed from a cab driver in Kanjhawala. The victim told police that the accused were conversing in Haryanvi and often called him a sadharan (simple) man. Hearing this, Harshit said that a Bitcoin buyer had spoken to him in the same manner two days ago. The buyer had met him twice, but refused the deal at the last moment. He had come in an Ertiga bearing a Haryana numberplate. “We scanned the records or criminals who had used similar modus operandi and got in touch with informers. On Sunday, we got a tip-off that the accused men were in outer Delhi. The four were apprehended from Kakrola, Rohini, Sultanpur Dabas and Harveli village,” said DCP Singh. Vikram told police that he earlier drove a cab, but didn’t earn enough to pay back his loans. He started watching videos online and decided to extort cryptocurrency traders. The accused booked the Innova from Gurgaon and then carjacked it. They forced the cab driver at gunpoint to stay in a farmhouse until they executed their plan. “One of the accused called both brothers separately telling them he wanted to purchase Bitcoin in cash. Both Harshit and his brother didn’t know they were talking to the same person. Arpit agreed to meet them near Ganesh Chowk from where they abducted him. They asked him to transfer two Bitcoins worth Rs 14 lakh. However, he could only transfer 0.75 Bitcoin worth Rs 5 lakh. He was then let go near the border,” said an investigating officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/four-held-for-abducting-cryptocurrency-trader/articleshow/76719375.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Prdaesh: Small steps led to Jalaun’s big turnaround||LUCKNOW: Little drops of water make the mighty ocean, goes the saying. And that’s the leitmotif of the water conservation initiative undertaken in parched Bundelkhand’s Jalaun district. With small, but impactful water conservation measures, the once scorched district has turned into a self-sustainable model. Known as Bhujal Kosh Sanchay Abhiyan, the initiative has also been lauded by the Union ministry for water conservation. The campaign was about simple measures like repairing existing check dams with modifications and proper use of panchayati raj department funds. However, public participation and effective monitoring bolstered its potential. Statistics with state panchayati raj department show more than 10,000 farmers have directly benefited from the campaign launched in the summer of 2017. The campaign is executed between April and June to achieve maximum recharge of water bodies during the rainy season. “Water crisis is the agony of Bundelkhand and ruins farmers and fuels migration. Water is also a currency in the region. So, we thought of creating a corpus to ease the lives of people,” said Mannan Akhtar, district magistrate Jalaun and the brain behind the initiative. The achievements of the initiative are inspiring. Within three months of the effort, the irrigation potential was raised from 1930 hectare to 3900 hectare, which is over 100% more than before. The number of effective check dams went up to 256 from 108 in 2019. Then, water recharge capacity of these structures has been increased from 99495.18 to 342331.02 cusec meters. Clearly, the increase of 242835 units is 243% capacity from last year. The surface water storage capacity rose dramatically and quadrupled from 458549 cusec meters to 18,78,275.25 units — a rise of 409% from last year. The effort also included silt removal from water bodies, which aided storage and availability of clean water. Mannan stated the effort helped in creating employment in the district, which countered the problem of migration and raised the quality of life. “The initiative provided employment to scores. As many as 1,46,880 man days were created providing employment during times of distress,” he said. Lauding the effort, the Union ministry of water conservation also posted a video on the campaign. Experts said, the campaign is a classic example to prove that mind-set plays an important role in movements. “Climate change is no longer a concept. It’s a reality, the human race is facing in the shape of problems like erratic rain patterns causing downpour in one place and droughts in other. The more recent example is that of the locust attack. Consciousness is therefore the first step towards action for saving the planet,” said a retired environmental scientist in Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/small-steps-led-to-jalauns-big-turnaround/articleshow/76719869.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 1, 2020||Madurai||Enough proof to try police for murder: Madras HC||MADURAI: There are sufficient materials to invoke murder charges against the entire Sathankulam police team, the Madras high court said on Tuesday, adding that alacrity in investigation is the need of the hour. Citing ante-mortem injuries found on the bodies of J Beniks and his father P Jeyaraj, the preliminary post-mortem report, the Kovilpatti judicial magistrate’s report and a damning deposition of a woman head constable, a division bench said they would prima facie be sufficient to alter the case under Section 302 IPC against the Sathankulam policemen. The bench of Justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi made the remarks after taking note of the state’s submission that the Tuticorin district superintendent of police had been transferred out and kept without posting, the additional superintendent and deputy superintendent of police too had been transferred, and that constable Maharajan who made disparaging remarks against the inquiring magistrate had been placed under suspension. Later in the evening, the government appointed ADSP D Kumar in the prohibition and enforcement wing in the Nilgiris, and posted DSP C Prathapn to anti-land grabbing cell in Pudukottai district.  It also said that as directed by the bench CB-CID DSP Anil Kumar had been put in charge of investigation and that the district collector had deputed two tahsildars to remain at Sathankulam police station round the clock. The judges said that from the report of the Kovilpatti JM, they are able to discern that the Sathankulam police are taking advantage of the fact that the investigation of the case is in limbo and are attempting to cause disappearance of evidence. "In fact, they were emboldened enough to even intimidate the judicial officer to put spokes in the wheel of his enquiry," said the judges. Directing Anil Kumar to immediately take charge and proceed with investigation without waiting for a formal order from the DGP, the judges said it is open to the state government to revisit the idea of entrusting the matter to the CBI, if they are satisfied that Anil Kumar is proceeding on the right lines. Adjourning the case to July 2, the judges all police and judicial officers concerned to hand over case diaries, inquest reports, preliminary post-mortem report and statement of the woman head constable to Anil Kumar. "We fervently hope that Anil Kumar will have before his mind's eye, the river of tears flowing from the eyes of the family of the two deceased and take up the investigation of the case in all earnestness for wiping their tears," they said. Though the judges have no authority to direct the manner in which the investigation should be done, they were constrained to step in and fill the vacuum to ensure that precious evidence does not get dissipated on account of the stalemate in the investigation, they said. One may wonder as to why it took this long for the court to make these observations, said the judges, adding: "Public indignation cannot be the barometer for judicial orders. Public memory is short, but judicial orders, especially those of the high court, which is a court of record, live forever." In this context they recalled a blunder committed by Roman Governor Pontius Pilate, who condemned Jesus Christ to death based on public outcry. As for the suo motu contempt proceedings against additional superintendent of police D Kumar, DSP C Prathapan and constable Maharajan, who all appeared before the bench in person on Tuesday, the judges took note of the apology tendered on behalf of them, and issued notices returnable by four weeks to them. Additional advocate-general K Chellapandian said the three behaved indecorously to magistrate Bharathidsan ‘out of stress’ and that they have apologised for their behaviour. He also submitted that all 24 personnel at Sathankulam police station had been shunted out to various places. The judges orally observed: “The report of the judicial magistrate shocked our consciousness. Though they were aware that the magistrate was conducting an inquiry, they had the audacity to behave in such an intimidatory manner. The behaviour of the police personnel clearly amounts to obstruction of justice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/enough-proof-to-try-police-for-murder-hc/articleshow/76719372.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 1, 2020||Meerut||Man's body found in business partner's washroom in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Body of a 28-year-old man bearing several injury marks was recovered from the washroom at the residence of his business partner under Nai Mandi police station limits here on Tuesday. Police are trying to trace the partner, who is at large. According to police, deceased Amit Kumar and his partner, Anuj, run a small finance business. Amit's body was found at the residence of Anuj by a common friend, Vinit Tyagi. The latter said he went Anuj's house as he was unable to reach Amit on the mobile on Monday night. To his surprise, the gate was locked and Anuj's phone was switched off. Sensing something amiss, Tyagi broke open the door and found Amit's body. Police were informed. Later, Tyagi filed a complaint against Anuj with police who are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mans-body-found-in-biz-partners-washroom-in-mngr/articleshow/76717337.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 1, 2020||Madurai||Tuticorin custodial deaths: Father, son beaten all night, says TN woman cop||MADURAI: In a damning indictment of the Sathankulam police, a woman constable attached to the station has deposed that P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks were assaulted by policemen with lathis for a whole night, after their arrest on June 19. Blows rained on the two till dawn had left blood stains on the batons and on a table at the station, she said. Apprehending destruction of the evidence, she requested the inquiring magistrate to take possession of the materials. She signed her statement only after the magistrate assured her of safety. As she feared of being targeted, and also because she is a star witness who was present at the station when the father-son duo was tortured, the Madras high court has ordered protection for the policewoman and her family members. The bench of Justice P N Prakash and Justice B Pugalendhi also said it would be in the interests of justice to have her statement recorded under Section 164 CrPC by a judicial magistrate other than the one from Kovilpatti or Sathankulam. The judge further said she could even be granted leave, as they fear there will be an attempt to intimidate her and make her resign from her version given to Kovilpatti judicial magistrate M S Bharathidasan. The statement had to be recorded under most intimidating circumstances at Sathankulam station on June 28, said the magistrate, adding that despite his instruction to wait outside police personnel were standing near a tree and were causing hindrance. Magistrate Bharathidasan had to endure muscle-flexing by additional superintendent of police D Kumar at the station, and abject refusal of constable Maharajan to hand over his lathi to him. Another policeman ran away from the inquiry. Indicating sabotage, the magistrate said that despite adequate storage space, the CCTV system at the station was programmed in such a way that the footage got erased every day. Since June 19, no footage was not available in the system, he said, adding, “it looked like they had been erased.” A panic situation was prevalent at the police station, Bharathidasan said in his report to the Madras high court. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-tortured-all-night-blood-on-lathis-is-proof/articleshow/76719358.cms||Kaushik Kannan
July 1, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government may hire 1,500 doctors, 6,000 nurses||BENGALURU: The government may hire 1,500 doctors and 6,000 nurses — 50 and 200 each respectively for every district — besides reserving one in four beds in every hospital that has a minimum 200 beds to treat the infected. These were moot points at a meeting experts had with chief minister BS Yediyurappa last week. While the government has already decided to implement some of the recommendations, the CM has sought a formal report from Dr Devi Shetty and Dr CN Manjunath, both of whom participated in the meeting, before taking a decision on hiring doctors and nurses. “Dr Shetty and Dr Manjunath are requested to provide a roadmap for the government on short-term and long-term strategies to ramp up infrastructure facilities and to ensure sufficient medical personnel are available,” Yediyurappa had said. Shetty had suggested the government “hire/recruit 50 doctors and 200 nurses for each district hospital,” and to identify doctors with a minimum two years of experience in handling ICU facilities. “...To use the services of MBBS doctors with fellowship in critical care medicine as a long-term strategy and to enforce a policy to reserve a minimum of 50 beds in hospitals with 200 beds or more,” Shetty said, according to the minutes of Friday’s meeting. While Karnataka has more than 1.2 lakh registered doctors, sources say not more than 5% are with the government. As per an earlier analysis by the Central Bureau of Health Intelligence (CBHI), of the more than 1 lakh doctors in Karnataka in 2018, only 5,047 or 4.8% were with the government. This trend, officials said, has continued. P Ravikumar, principal secretary, chief minister’s office (CMO), told TOI: “These are extraordinary times and the government will act on the suggestions immediately once the report comes in.” Further, more than one of the four experts present at the meeting recommended that the government set up tele-ICUs at each district. “Tele-ICU is the best model adopted in the state and action will be taken to ensure tele-ICU facilities in all the district hospitals, including Bengaluru,” chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said. Dr Giridhara Babu, professor, Indian Institute of Public Health, aside from recommending tele-ICUs, also said the government must keep at least 5,000 beds ready in the next two months, while Dr MK Sudharshan suggested that the government supply immunity boosters to patients and engage health workers or volunteers at the ward and booth level to tackle the pandemic in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-govt-may-hire-1-5k-doctors/articleshow/76718105.cms||Chethan Kumar
July 1, 2020||Meerut||Triple-T formula: MMC launches ‘Trace, Test, Treat’ awareness drive||Meerut: As Meerut gears up for door-to-door Covid-19 testing, the Meerut Municipal Corporation conducted awareness drive on the lines of ‘Trace, Test and Treat’ -- saying that triple T formula needs to be adopted to contain the disease. Pamphlets with awareness guidelines were distributed among the masses and pasted at public places to spread the word.“In order to spread awareness about coronavirus, a drive has been launched in the district around ‘Trace, Test and Treat’-- the Triple-T formula. While the health department is already working towards increasing the number of samples being taken for Covid-19, we have started spreading awareness on the lines of increasing the tests and get treatment. This will help in treatment and early containment of the disease,” said Arvind Chaurasiya, Meerut Municipal Commissioner.This comes at a time when six districts in Meerut division will be conducting door-to-door identification of the symptomatic cases and their sampling. “We also have antigen testing kits in the district now which will reduce the testing time and thus give us quick results,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer.Meanwhile, Covid-19 help desks have been set up in the district where locals can get their temperatures checked and see if they have any Covid-like symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/triple-t-formula-mmc-launches-trace-test-treat-awareness-drive/articleshow/76717362.cms||Ishita Bhatia
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||A day to celebrate White Coat Warriors||Ahmedabad: The city became a hotspot for Covid-19 infections by mid-April with cases mounting above 150 regularly. By the beginning of June, the number had touched 300. The death toll also kept rising. But amid the pandemic, doctors — both in public and private sector hospitals — gave the infection a tough fight.As India will celebrate the National Doctors’ Day on July 1 to mark the birth and death anniversary of former West Bengal chief minister Dr BC Roy, the focus is sharply on White Coat Warriors. Dr Roy also contributed to the foundation of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Medical Council of India (MCI).Various doctor organizations claim the figure of 100-plus doctors who have got infected in both public and private hospitals. The city IMA quotes the names of two members and one non-member who succumbed to the infection in the city.Dr M M Prabhakar, OSD at Medicity, said that it was not easy for doctors to don PPE kits and work for hours at a stretch when cases are spiking. “But the staff at Civil Hospital, led by superintendent Dr J P Modi, work round the clock, ensuring the implementation of the latest treatment protocols,” he said.The 100-plus days of Covid-19 also brought in radical changes in healthcare delivery, said Dr Jaswantsinh Darbar, vice-president, Ahmedabad zone of IMA. “Many doctors preferred to stay away from families to ensure their safety from infection,” he said. “You see plastic curtains, doctors in protective gear from head to toe, and the use of disinfectants as a routine. All that took a lot of time for doctors to get used to.”IMA to dedicate Day to Covid-19 warriors: Dr Chandresh Jardosh, president of the Gujarat chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), told TOI that on July 1, all IMA members across the state will observe two minutes of silence before starting work. "Across India, 57 members of IMA have lost their lives to Covid-19. We will pay homage to these Covid warriors," he said. To mark the day, Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) has organized a special webinar with infectious diseases specialist Dr Atul Patel on Wednesday evening. He lost 5kg: Dr Kartikeya Parmar, assistant professor in the department of medicine at BJ Medical College, holds the distinction of walking an average of 10km every day at the 1,200-bed Covid-19 hospital, and going from department to department of Civil Hospital. "I was appointed nodal officer for the hospital after there was a lot of to-and-fro involved. One day, I measured the distance and was surprised when I clocked 10km," says Dr Parmar, who has not taken a day off for 100-odd days. "The positive side effect is, I have lost 5kg."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/a-day-to-celebrate-white-coat-warriors/articleshow/76719380.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||Revise fare or let West Bengal govt run our buses: Private operators||KOLKATA: The public transport situation is unlikely to change on July 1 with private operators refusing to run buses till the fare structure is revised. The operators said they had stopped plying buses only after exhausting all their resources. Many of them said they will have no problem if the government runs buses with their workers. Significantly, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has issued ultimatum to the private bus operators against staying off the road even after offering them an bailout package of Rs 15,000 per bus per moth for three months. Banerjee said the government would wait and see till July 1. If buses remain off the road even on Wednesday, the government would take over the buses under the pandemic law to run them. With a sharp drop in private bus counts, travel trauma continued to plague commuters on Tuesday as well. Non-operation of Metro and suburban railway left the public transportation crippled. State transport undertakings (STUs) on Tuesday ran buses full throttle but the yawning demand-supply gap was evident during the peak hours. Long queues of passengers were spotted almost everywhere. The CM has instructed the transport department to keep a close watch on the public transport scenario. “We will check out the status and let you know about our decision on taking over the buses on July 3,” she said. Private bus operators, however, stuck to their demand for a fare revision even after the announcement of taking over buses. “In the current situation, our pockets don’t permit operation of buses. We have exhausted all our resources. We have reached to situation where many of us don’t even have money to buy diesel. If the government takes over our buses, we will have to hit the road with begging bowl,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. However, many bus operators have literally welcomed the decision. “If the government runs buses, we have no issue. The loss is mounting. Moreover, many of us have started defaulting bank EMIs. If the government runs buses, it will pay the EMI. We will be relieved off the burden. Moreover, the bus workers will earn,” said Pradip Nararayan Basu, general secretary of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners’ Association. Surojit Saha of Bengal Bus Syndicate said: “We have to see under what section buses will be taken over. We have no problem if the government runs our buses with our workers.” Many bus operators also told TOI that it would be easier for the government to assess the challenges to run buses first hand. It would also be clear to the government “how reasonable the demand for fare revision is”. Senior transport department officers could not throw light on the provisions under the pandemic law. “When the CM is saying it, there must be provisions in the law. However, we cannot elaborate much on this before going through the law. However, it will be a challenging task to take over the buses and run them on a regular basis. Private bus operators have a system to run buses seamlessly. It is a time-tested method and it is not easy to replicate their system overnight,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/revise-fare-or-let-govt-run-our-buses-pvt-operators/articleshow/76718677.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 1, 2020||Dehradun||Those visiting Haridwar for ashes immersion get nod to stay 24 hrs||Haridwar: As part of relaxation of restrictions in the wake of Covid-19, those visiting Haridwar for ashes immersion as part of post-cremation rituals can now stay in the town for 24 hours. The relaxation, allowed in the latest guidelines issued by the district administration, was welcomed by both hoteliers and the Ganga Sabha. According to priests’ body Ganga Sabha, around 500 urns are brought daily by families amid the Covid-induced lockdown. Authorities have also asked the hoteliers to maintain a record of the families visiting the town. Haridwar DM C Ravishankar said, “We have given permission to family members of the deceased to stay in the city for 24 hours and complete all important rituals. However, it is a conditional permission and all norms related to the pandemic should be followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/those-visiting-haridwar-for-ashes-immersion-get-nod-to-stay-24-hrs/articleshow/76717366.cms||MS Nawaz
July 1, 2020||Hyderabad||Siddipet: Unable to break it open, thieves carry away ATM||HYDERABAD: They came to steal money from the ATM but when they could not, they stole the ATM itself. The incident happened in Gajwel in Siddipet district. There was a cash of Rs 4,98,800 in the machine. The owner of the premises was shocked when he noticed the ATM stolen. The India1ATM machine is smaller in size compared to the ATMs that are installed by banks. “We have examined CCTV footage and have been able to make out the who is behind the theft. We should be able to crack the case in a day or two,” Gajwel inspector T Satish told TOI. The ATM was located on Hyderabad-Ramagundam Rajiv Rahadari near Pragnapur on the road leading to Jagdevpur in Siddipet. The theft of the ATM happened during the intervening night of June 29-29 and the police received a complaint around 12 noon on June 29. It is learnt that the culprits cut the wires of the CCTV cameras in the ATM premises so that their involvement is not recorded. Police, however, have examined CCTV footage on the roads in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/unable-to-break-it-open-thieves-carry-away-atm/articleshow/76719391.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP Speaker reserves verdict in Aditi Singh disqualification case||Lucknow: UP Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit has reserved judgment on the disqualification of rebel Congress leader AditiSingh from the Legislative Assembly. Cases of another Congress rebel Rakesh Singh and Nitin Agarwal, who has rebelled from theSamajwadi Party, would be reviewed next week. On Tuesday, the Speaker completed hearing in the case of Aditi Singh. While the Congress had engaged Supreme Court advocate KC Kaushik to pursue the disqualification petition, Aditi Singh was assisted by her local team of legal experts. Talking to TOI, principal secretary, Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly, Pradeep Dubey said that the Speaker had reserved his judgment in the case of Aditi Singh. “High court had directed to dispose of all the three petitions against the rebel MLAs by July 16,” Dubey added Aditi Singh, who has rebelled from the Congress, has been given graded security by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-speaker-reserves-verdict-in-aditi-singh-disqualification-case/articleshow/76719881.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Dehradun||Truck driver was killed by wife, paramour||Roorkee: The truck driver, who was found dead on June 26 in Laksar, was killed by his wife and her paramour, said local police. The accused 42-year-old wife and 24-year-old man have been arrested. According to SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh, victim Pradip Bhura (45), a resident of Jheinwerhedi village in Laksar, used to work as truck driver with a local cement company. The accused Aman, a resident of Haripur Behat village in Saharanpur, used to work with the victim as his co-driver. "Aman's visit to Pradip's house was frequent. One day, Pradip found out that his wife Mamta and Aman were in an illicit relationship and threatened him of dire consequences. Later, the two accused hatched a plan to eliminate Bhura from their way," added SP Singh. The official further informed that Pradip was killed in his sleep with a sharp-edged weapon at 3:30 am in his house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/truck-driver-was-killed-by-wife-paramour/articleshow/76717376.cms||Tapan Susheel
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata police clamp down on Salt Lake hospital parking after admission row||KOLKATA: A group of doctors attached with AMRI Hospital, Salt Lake, has lodged a complaint with the Bidhannagar police joint commissioner, alleging atrocity on part of the cops after a sub-inspector who had tested positive was allegedly denied a bed in the Covid unit of the hospital’s annexe wing on Monday. The doctors claimed cops had allegedly clamped their cars parked outside the hospital as a vendetta, forcing some of them to return home on app cabs. They added that the hospital had no vacant beds at that point of time, a fact which can be verified from the state health department. Multiple doctors posted the incident on the Facebook page of Bidhnangar City Police before lodging a formal complaint. The doctors on Tuesday met joint commissioner RN Banerjee and submitted their complaint. “We have been given verbal assurance that the matter will be looked into,” said oncologist Sharadwad Mukhopadhyay. Sources said a sub-inspector of Cyber Crime Police Station in Bidhannagar was brought to AMRI on Monday and was denied admission. There was a heated exchange of words between the cops and the hospital officials, after which the sub-inspector was taken out of the hospital and was admitted at Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute in New Town. His condition was stable till Tuesday, cops said. Five officers of the Cyber Crime Police Station had tested positive last week and a dozen of the department are currently in quarantine at different government facilities. The altercation had taken place around 11am and doctors said cops clamped the cars parked in the service lane soon after the policeman was taken elsewhere. “Only the cars with AMRI logo were clamped. We believe this was done as an act of vendetta after the cop failed to get admission in the Covid wing,” said a doctor. They claimed the cops refused to let off their cars even after paying the parking violation fine. The clamped car included that of a consultant microbiologist who is in charge of the lab that runs the 24X7 testing Covid samples. Since her work involves highly contagious swab samples, she had done away with the driver for the time being, driving the car herself. “I requested the traffic cops nearby to do something but they said they will need the OC’s order. As I was getting late for home, I got hold of the local police OC’s number and called him. But he was rude and told me it was the hospital’s issue and the hospital should solve it,” narrated the microbiologist. When no help came forward, she hired an app cab past 7pm to reach home. “Doctors are being hailed as Covid warriors but at the same time, why hold us at ransom for no fault of ours? This is a time when cops and doctors should be working hand in hand,” said the doctor. Bidhannagar cops, however, rubbished the claims and said all the cars were parked illegally at no-parking zones. A senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said Monday’s was a usual no-parking drive that the cops take on a regular basis. “Such drives were under check for a few weeks because of the lockdown but with more cars coming out on the road, we have resumed our drives against no parking and errant driving. The cars were clamped and prosecuted as they were parked at no-parking zones,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate. The officer rubbished the claims of personal vendetta behind the clamping and said: “Our officers hadn’t singled out anyone's car. The cars which were parked in no-parking zones were prosecuted as per law.” A senior officer of Bidhannagar Police's traffic department added that the service road as well as the empty stretch of land beside AMRI hospital in Salt Lake were no-parking zones and in the past, they had prosecuted cars owned by doctors and visitors alike on a number of occasions for illegal parking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-clamp-down-on-salt-lake-hosp-parking-after-admission-row/articleshow/76718683.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||SMS school cuts fees by 25%, first in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh Vidyalaya here has become the first elite school in the state to slash 25% fees of students in view of Covid. In a letter to parents, the school said the management took the decision to give the relief through a grant ‘COVID Scholarship 2020-21’ to all students at 25% of the fee for the current academic year. Sources said the scholarship would cost the school around Rs 5 crore. “As a true custodian of the rich legacy of the late Rajmata Gayatri Deviji known for her vision, modernization and concern for people, the management is doing a bit to maintain her values and virtues. The scholarship was considered after we took note of possible financial stress caused by the pandemic,” said Vikramaditya, the secretary of the managing committee of the school. The letter reads that those who have deposited the of the present quarter or the complete year will get the refund of the access amount. This decision is likely to fuel the ongoing series of protests by parents in different schools demanding either a complete waiver or slashed fees. Almost everyday, parents are protesting outside schools to press for their demands. The state has already maintained a distance from the issue by stating that both parents and schools should resolve the issue amicably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sms-school-cuts-fees-by-25-first-in-state/articleshow/76719393.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Waste management plan in place for all urban local bodies’||PANAJI: There is 100% door-to-door waste collection in all the urban local bodies (ULBs) with segregation at 86%, government has said. All 191 village panchayats in the state have prepared their waste management plans for scientific disposal of waste, a senior government officer said. The gap in wet waste treatment capacity is proposed to be covered through major plants being constructed through the Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC). “All urban local bodies have material recovery facility (MRF) cum sorting stations for segregating dry waste into recyclables and non-recyclables,” he said. Recyclables are sorted, baled and sold while non-recyclables are baled and transported to cement factories for co-incineration. “Upgradation of recovery facilities is proposed in local bodies namely at Mormugao, Ponda, Valpoi, Mapusa, Cuncolim, Bicholim, Sankhali and Margao. This will be completed by March 2021. There is a ban on plastics below 50 microns and enforcement is strict,” he said. “All panchayats collect door-to-door dry waste, store in sheds and send it to the waste management corporation for scientific disposal,” he said. As regards wet waste collection and disposal, the officer said that altogether 64 village panchayats which are in close proximity of municipalities, touristic places and semi-urban areas collect wet waste, out of which 37 panchayats do door-to-door collection. In all, 28 village panchayats sent waste to Saligao plant while remaining nine panchayats set up their own disposal facilities. With regards to the village waste management plans, all panchayats have prepared village waste management plan and submitted to the corporation. Village panchayats strictly execute the plan prepared for proper collections, transportation and scientific disposal of waste. The officer said that 264 bulk waste generators were identified by village panchayats, out of which 223 have been set up and the remaining 41 are in process to set up disposal facilities. All panchayats have taken decision to ban plastic of 50 microns and below thickness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/waste-mgmt-plan-in-place-for-all-urban-local-bodies/articleshow/76719424.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Dehradun||Three killed, one hurt as car plunges into gorge||Dehradun: Three persons were killed and another grievously injured when the car in which they were travelling plunged into a gorge on Boodhakedar-Kot Road in Tehri district on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Ramlal (48), Mohan Lal (62) and Sohan Lal (48), all residents of Kot village. The car driver Narendra Kumar, 32, sustained grievous injuries. The accident occurred when a car carrying a wedding party, on its way from Bheti village to Kot village for the ceremony, skidded off the road and fell 400 metres into Balganga river. On information, revenue police and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation with the help of locals. The bodies were later sent for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-killed-one-hurt-as-car-plunges-into-gorge/articleshow/76717371.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||HC issues contempt notice to CS, RBSE||Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday issued a contempt notice to chief secretary D B Gupta and RBSE secretary Arvind Trivedi following a petition by an NGO. Counsel for the petitioner T N Sharma said the NGO, Public Against Corruption, had filed a contempt petition in the court seeking to cancel Classes X and XII examinations. While hearing the petition on May 29, the court had directed the respondents to conduct the exam in full compliance with the guidelines of the Centre. Sharma told the court that as per the guidelines issued by the Union home ministry on May 20, the government had been ordered to run special buses for board exams, arrange thermal screening and make proper arrangements for masks and sanitisers. But, he pointed out only 4,000 buses were available with Rajasthan government while 70,000 buses were required for about 20 lakh students to travel. The government had neither bought thermal scanners nor sanitisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-issues-contempt-notice-to-cs-rbse/articleshow/76719401.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||Service resumption whiff in Kolkata Metro online smart card recharge scheme||KOLKATA: In an indication that it is not averse to the state government’s proposal to run limited services, Metro Railway on Tuesday launched a much-awaited scheme that would allow smart card users to recharge their accounts online. However, Metro is still awaiting a go-ahead from the Centre to resume services, albeit restricted, for smart card users only. A decision has already been taken that no tokens will be issued even if limited Metro services resume. On Monday, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) had issued a circular stating that Metro services should not resume till July 31. In response, state chief secretary Rajiva Sinha wrote to Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, seeking an exception for Kolkata for people engaged in emergency services as very few private buses are plying. “We are no averse to resuming limited services but will require instructions from the Ministry of Railways, MHA and Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. We have made it very clear to the state government that normal services can’t be resumed at the moment. However, we are ready to discuss the possibility of limited services for smart card holders who are engaged in emergency services with the state, once clearance arrives from the Centre. As of now, we have launched a scheme through which smart card users may top-up their cards,” Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee said. All that a smart card holder needs to do is log into the Metro Railway website that has a separate section for recharging. After completing what is very similar to an online transaction, an user would only have to flash the card before a balance checking machine installed at all stations for the top-up sum to be added to any residual balance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/service-resumption-whiff-in-metro-online-smart-card-recharge-scheme/articleshow/76718705.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 1, 2020||Trichy||11,000 beds, 895 buildings in Thanjavur for Covid patients||THANJAVUR: In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 positive cases in Thanjavur, the district administration has set up 11,000 beds in 222 government and private buildings. This apart, it has identified 895 buildings to isolate around 30,000 people. Health workers have so far visited 2.21 lakh houses in 14 blocks in the district and identified 2,535 people who had arrived in Thanjavur from Chennai. As many as 21 people have tested positive for Covid-19. The team tested 217 Chennai returnees after visiting 36,113 households in Thanjavur City Corporation limits. Among them, six tested positive, district collector M Govinda Rao said in a statement. In Pattukottai municipality area, two people have tested positive. This apart, 1,338 people have also been tested so far in Thanjavur city limit and municipalities of Kumbakonam, Pattukottai with the help of mobile testing labs, he said. Since the numbers are going up, the administration took a step further to set up required number of beds and buildings, the collector said. As of now, 22 areas have been brought under containment zones. So far, Covid-19 tests were done on 42,155 people. Of them, 40,990 turned negative, while 455 tested positive and the result for 745 people are awaited, Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/11k-beds-895-buildings-in-thanjavur-for-covid-patients/articleshow/76719403.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||Parsis okay shifting of gate at Marine Drive||Mumbai: Parsis and BMC officials inspected a site on Marine Drive on Tuesday where a structure of religious significance, Parsi Gate, will have to be shifted, for coastal road tunnel work. The gate was constructed over 100 years ago and Parsis used a narrow strip of beach to offer prayers to water there, opposite Taraporevala Aquarium. BMC wanted to reclaim part of seashore for the tunnel and decided to shift the two almost five-metre Malad stone pillars on concrete pedestals. Their style is based on ancient Persian architecture. The plan is to shift it around 1km away, towards the south of Marine Drive. BMC asked prominent members of the community if they had objections. Zoru Bhathena, who was part of the group, said, “Civic officials explained their plan and we had no objection to it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parsis-okay-shifting-of-gate-at-marine-drive/articleshow/76718952.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||HC paves way for declaring RAS Main 2018 exam results||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday lifted the stay on declaring results of RAS Main examination 2018. The single bench of Justice Ashok Gaur has given the order after hearing the arguments on the application submitted by the Rajasthan government and the RPSC. The HC order has now cleared the way for recruitment of RAS officers. The HC had stayed the release of the results of the main examination on December 1, 2018 while hearing the petitions filed by Surgyan Singh and others. The cut-off of general category was 76.06% and of OBC was 99.33% when the results of preliminary examination for 1,080 posts of RAS and subordinate service were announced. Despite the cut-off percentage of OBC was higher than general, the RPSC did not allow the petitioners from appearing in the Main examination citing a 15-time cap of candidates in each category. But when challenged in the high court, the court allowed the petitioners to appear in the Main examination but restrained the RPSC from declaring the results. Rajasthan government on May 20 amended the rules due to the stay in declaring the Main examination results of RAS recruitment 2018. Till now, reserved candidates have been considered eligible to call for the Main examination 15 times of the estimated vacant posts in each of the category. But as per the amendment instead of category wise total vacancies, 15 times the total number of estimated number of vacancies to be filled in the year, the candidates will be considered eligible to appear in the main examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-paves-way-for-declaring-ras-main-2018-exam-results/articleshow/76719404.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Councillors’ nod to releasing payment to Tata firm||Ludhiana: In an all-party meeting held here on Tuesday, councillors have given the sanction for releasing the payment to Tata company. While in the last meeting the councillors from all parties had showed dissatisfaction over the working of the company and had requested mayor Balkar Sandhu to terminate the contract with the firm, on Tuesday, they all showed satisfaction with the work and claimed that they should clear the payment to the firm. The mayor was heading the meeting and asked the councillors about the satisfaction over the working of company. The councillors claimed that there was improvement in the working of the company and if they terminated the contract at this moment then a legal battle would eat up the project and residents would suffer. Senior deputy mayor Shyam Sunder Malhotra while confirming the same said, “The councillors have shown satisfaction over the working of the company, so in the all-party meeting we decided to clear the payment.” The councillors also suggested that for non-functional streetlights penalty should be imposed. However, Congress councillor Mamta Ashu raised suspicion of a scam in this project. She said in one of the bills one ward, which actually falls under zone D has been shown in zone B. She said the officials had signed the bills without checking this and demanded action against the responsible officials. In the meeting the councillors requested the mayor to increase the councillor quota amount but he expressed helplessness. The councillors demanded that half amount of the MLA quota should be added to the councillors’ quota. To this the mayor said he would put up this matter in the MC general house meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/councillors-nod-to-releasing-payment-to-tata-firm/articleshow/76718704.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Trichy||80 cops from 5 districts taken off duty for violent behaviour||TRICHY: Deputy inspector general of police V Balakrishnan has removed 80 police personnel in the Trichy range from duty following reports of their violent and aggressive behaviour with the public. The action came in the wake of the custodial deaths of P Jayaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. In a Facebook post late on Monday night, the DIG stated, “We are removing 80 police personnel in Trichy police range who need behavioural correction to improve their interpersonal skills. They are taken off the duties involving direct public contact as their track record in that aspect is found wanting. They will be gradually reintegrated into regular duties only after completing a specially designed course with CBT (cognitive behavioural therapy) component to improve the way they deal with the public.” Trichy range comprises Trichy rural, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur. The removed policemen/women include 49 constables, 29 sub-inspectors and two inspectors from the five districts which have about 6,000 personnel. “They will be on duty but they will not be involved in any work interacting with the people until they complete the course,” DIG Balakrishnan told TOI. The DIG had kicked off the process a few months ago after 55-year-old R Murugan of EB road in Trichy died of heart attack during inquiry by a special team in connection with a theft case at Samayapuram in December 2019. He had suspended three policemen on the team and the case is under judicial inquiry. Balakrishnan handpicked the 80 personnel based on incidences of misbehaviour, inputs from special branch intelligence units and reports of DSPs in the range. Police sources pointed out some of the incidences of misbehaviour. A sub-inspector verbally abused a woman complainant who accused a man of cheating her on the promise of marriage while women police in all-women police stations (AWPS) mentally harassed the complainant by questioning her character, and a DSP addressed a woman doctor improperly during an investigation. The DIG also said that these cops had already been subjected to disciplinary action but that was not enough. They will be given training through the psychologists at the centre in the respective districts. In fact, around 160 personnel including DSPs were identified but the DIG preferred to focus on 80 personnel who needed urgent attention. The others will also be given counselling by the superintendent of police of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/80-cops-from-5-districts-taken-off-duty-for-violent-behaviour/articleshow/76719407.cms||Gokul Rajendran
July 1, 2020||Jaipur||Four held for trying to sell plot on fake papers||JAIPUR: City police arrested a gang of four persons for allegedly attempting to sell plots under Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) using fraudulent documents. On June 29, cops received a complaint from a professor of Rajasthan University who alleged that the accused were trying to sell her plot situated at Kalwar Road using fake documents following which a team was constituted to track down and arrest the gang. The persons arrested were identified as Babulal Nayak (50), Rajesh Kumawat (40), Rajkumar Kumawat (40) and Kaushal Sharma (51). They were arrested by personnel of various police stations in Jaipur. Kavendra Singh Sagar, DCP, Jaipur West said, “We received a complaint from the professor who claimed that through an acquaintance, she found that Babulal was trying to sell her 206 bigha plot under JDA scheme on Kalwar Road using fake documents. The accused had quoted a selling price of Rs 2.5 crore. After we started the probe, we found that Babulal was working with his co-accused to sell land in this fraudulent manner and all four were arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-held-for-trying-to-sell-plot-on-fake-papers/articleshow/76719409.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Arts colleges may have one stop online intake||CHENNAI: Taking a step closer towards a transparent admission system, the higher education department plans to introduce online single window admission for 109 government arts and science colleges across the state from 2020-21. A trial run will be held on Wednesday to test the software. Under the new system, students can in a single form apply to multiple colleges and courses that will be allotted based on their ranks and choices. During the trial, each college will be asked to register 20-25 applications. “It will help iron out various issues. Students need not go to colleges to apply,” an official said. The state government gave its approval to the proposal last year, but the many challenges, including a huge number of courses and lack of hostels in many colleges, led to the decision being put in cold storage. Now, the Covid-19 crisis has brought the proposal back to life. A team headed by the commissioner of directorate of technical education developed the software and a handbook for students to choose the colleges and courses. The handbook includes all details including the list of colleges, courses and course-wise intake for every college. It also has details of availability of hostels and medium of instruction. The officials also had meetings with college principals online on Monday. But it won’t be as easy as in engineering courses, given the huge number of courses involved. “There are less than 10 courses in engineering colleges. But, arts and science colleges have more than 120 courses and they have to come up with a roster system for all courses based on intake,” another principal said. Some professors said there was a need for clarity on the eligibility criteria for each course. “Students in the arts and vocational stream would get more marks than maths-biology students. So, it is necessary to fix the eligibility criteria for each course,” a professor said. The rank list for BA Tamil will be based on Class XII Tamil marks, while that for BA English Literature will be based on English marks. For the rest of BA, BSc and BCom programmes, the rank list will be based on marks scored in four subjects excluding languages. It is yet to be decided whether admissions will be zone wise or state wise. “We are testing the software. But we have not decided on introducing single window admissions. A final decision will be taken after consulting the government,” a higher education department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/arts-colleges-may-have-one-stop-online-intake/articleshow/76718714.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Lucknow||UP: We will free Bundelkhand from curse of drought, says CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: “We will free Bundelkhand from the curse of drought,” said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in Jhansi while laying the foundation for what is being touted as a life-changing scheme for the water-parched regions of Bundelkhand on Tuesday. Under the first phase of the mega piped-water project, ‘Jal Jivan Mission’ and ‘Har Ghar Jal’ scheme -- 12 rural piped water projects worth Rs 2,185 crore will be commissioned in 770 villages in the districts of Jhansi, Lalitpur and Mahoba. “In two years from now, every house in all revenue villages will get piped water. We will free Bundelkhand from the curse of drought. This region has everything but till now, there was no political will power to free it from drought, poverty or migration. The work of giving piped water to this area should have happened much earlier. Every year after January there is a shortage of water in Bundelkhand,” the chief minister said. Now the women will not have to travel far for water but will get it at home,” the CM said, adding that before BJP came to power, Bundelkhand used to be ruled by a mining mafia which had created anarchy. He also added that as water supply will start, it will become equally important to conserve water and said that rainwater harvesting on rooftops, in gardens and fields will become extremely important. In a programme where attendance was limited to about a 100 people to maintain social distancing due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the CM performed a bhoomi pujan in Jhansi’s Murata village. He was accompanied by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, state Jal Shakti minister Mahendra Singh and UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh. Thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for initiating the development projects in the region, the CM said that he laid the foundation for piped-water in Bundelkhand in 2019, after the previous Jhansi MP Uma Bharti, who also headed the water ministry in the Centre, proposed a water relief project. “We are committed to the overall growth of Bundelkhand. In February, PM Modi laid the foundation of the Bundelkhand Expressway in Chitrakoot which will prove to be the lifeline of this region,” the CM said, adding that 40% of the earth work had been completed. He added that two nodes of the important Defence Corridor were also located in Bundelkhand, which would bring development and industrialisation in the area. “The tanks that will be produced here will be used against the enemy at the border,” the CM said. There are 4,513 villages in the seven districts of Bundelkhand. Out of these, 891 already have access to potable water. The government will provide piped water in the remaining 3,622 villages through 479 projects. This will benefit an estimated population of 67 lakh. The cost of the projects has been estimated to Rs 10,131.92 crore. The CM said that in the first phase which was inaugurated on Tuesday, 345 villages in Jhansi district will get access to water through six projects at an estimated cost of Rs 964.47 crore. In Lalitpur district, 197 villages will be benefitted with piped potable water at a cost of Rs 543.51 crore. Similarly in Mahoba district, 228 villages will be benefitted projects which are being commissioned for Rs 676.65 crore. Hitting out at the opposition, he said that before his government came to power, mining mafia used to rule Bundelkhand, but now everything was in order. “We have also focused in opening up a number of cow sheds to check the growing menace of ‘Anna Pratha’ (stray cows)”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/we-will-free-bundelkhand-from-curse-of-drought-yogi/articleshow/76719894.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Long queues mark last day of paying property tax||Ludhiana: The last day of availing 10% rebate on property tax, water supply and sewerage dues attracted a large number of tax payers on Tuesday at the suvidha centres. The tax payers made a beeline at the tax collection windows for making the payment. However, it created difficulties in maintaining social distancing due to the rush till the last moment. At the entrance of the MC office in zone A one employee was deputed for monitoring the temperature of visitors to the office. On Monday, the second last day too there was extreme rush at the suvidha centres for the tax payment and officials had recovered Rs 2 crore in property tax and Rs 1 crore in water supply and sewerage dues. However, on Tuesday, the tax collection at the counters continued up to 5pm while online payment would be continuing till midnight. Most of the tax payers had come wearing masks but some had removed these later. It was getting difficult for people to stand in queues and some were unable to gather courage to enter the queues out of fear of coronavirus. Superintendent of MC Vivek Verma said there was rush on the last two days and they collected maximum revenue from the tax payers. He claimed that for financial years 2019-20 and 2020-21 people had the option to pay property tax online but for previous years people need to pay property tax at the suvidha centres. He claimed that with the rebate period ending, action against defaulters will take place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/long-queues-mark-last-day-of-paying-property-tax/articleshow/76718710.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||Pune experiences wettest June in past seven years||Pune: The 54.6mm of rain during a sharp spell on Monday made this June the wettest for the city in the past seven years since 2013. It pushed Pune’s monthly rain quota beyond 200mm for the month to 221.7mm — the highest June rain quantum for Shivajinagar since 2014. Lohegaon recorded 284.3mm rain this June and Pashan got 159.2mm. All three places recorded excess rain this month. A typical feature of June in 2019 and 2020 has been the sharp showers during the fag end of the month — not only filling Pune’s monthly rain quota but also taking it beyond the 200-plus mm mark. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “It all began with the severe cyclonic storm Nisarga even before monsoon arrived in the city. The rainfall during the first six days of June in Lohegaon was almost twice the normal volume for the entire month of June due to Nisarga, while that in Shivajinagar had then reached 71% of the total normal rain quantum for the entire month.” He said, “The normal date of monsoon onset in Pune is June 12, while the actual onset occurred around June 14 this time. This was a near-normal onset. This means that monsoon arrived in the city much before it did past few years in June, when it was characterised by delays. This helped Pune lap up a good volume of monsoon rain during the first fortnight of June.” Kashyapi said throughout the month, one or another system existed over Marathwada and Madhya Maharashtra with strong westerly winds flowing from the Arabian Sea. At the same time when the rain lessened on some days during the later part of the month, high day temperatures in the city with high relative humidity resulted in local convective activity and thundershowers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-experiences-wettest-june-in-past-seven-years/articleshow/76719413.cms||Neha Madaan
July 1, 2020||Trichy||Trichy CoP Varadharaju calls it a day||Trichy: Trichy city police commissioner V Varadharaju retired from service on Tuesday. He was a recipient of President’s Police Medal for meritorious service. Inspector general of police, central zone A Amalraj has taken over the additional charge as CoP. Varadharaju kicked off his career in Tamil Nadu police in 1991 as a deputy superintendent of police in Chidambaram sub-division. He scaled the heights in the department and was conferred with IPS in 1997. His career spanning 29 years brought him many laurels and awards for his exemplary work. The President’s Police Medal came for his effective handling of the Kudankulam protest, thereby maintaining law and order when he was serving as DIG of Tirunelveli range. He had also received the Uthamar Gandhi award for curtailing illicit liquor in Tuticorin district during his stint there in 2000. As SP of Thiruvallur district between 2003 and 2005, Varadharaju put an end to the Bawaria dacoits in the district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-cop-varadharaju-calls-it-a-day/articleshow/76719411.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||Man held, 54 cellphones worth Rs 5.47L seized||Pune: The Kondhwa police on Monday night arrested a 25-year-old man for possessing 54 stolen cellphones, collectively worth over Rs5.47 lakh, from Kamela Chowk. The suspect, Madhu Edappa Hirekaru from B T Kawade Road in Ghorpadi, was looking for prospective customers for selling the cellphones at a cheaper price when he was taken into custody on suspicion following a tip-off received by sub-inspector Santosh Shinde. “We have recovered a bag with 54 cellphones from Hirekaru’s possession. We initially detained him under Section 41 (1) (d) of the Criminal Procedure Code for conducting an inquiry. We later arrested him under Section 124 of the Maharashtra Police Act after the inquiry established that he was in the possession of the stolen cellphones,” Shinde said “We are conducting technical investigations to trace the owners of the cellphones to find out if their phones were stolen or they lost it. We are also checking the property missing complaints registered with the other police stations to place the cellphones in Hirekaru’s possession,” he said. The officer added Hirekaru can be arrested again if the investigations revealed he had stolen the cellphones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-54-cellphones-worth-rs-5-47l-seized/articleshow/76719418.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Trichy||Organisers struggle to get permission to host functions||Trichy: The district administration has instructed event organisers to get prior permission from the local bodies to organize functions. However, local people who host family events are groping in the dark as there is no information about how to approach the authorities for permissions. Even, several corporation officials are clueless about whom to approach for getting permissions.When a family that has scheduled a wedding in July has approached the zonal office of Trichy Corporation a couple of days ago, they were directed to visit the main office. Then, the applicant had to shuttle between senior officials. Finally, the applicant managed to get the permission only after the intervention of a senior official. However, people fail to secure permission often. Though the district administration had instructed the civic bodies to receive applications for hosting events, a section of corporation officials, is ill-informed about the development. “Permissions for wedding and engagements will be granted by the district collectorate,” said a senior corporation official. But sources in the district collectorate clarified that only civic bodies were instructed to receive the applications. “Such lack of clarity in applying for permission is forcing people to clandestinely host the event, which will defy the purpose of implementing such restrictions to control Covid-19 spread,” an event organiser said. The civic body was asked to disclose the details of the procedures for applying for permissions. Official sources said that bride and bridegroom should undergo mandatory Covid-19 tests before the conduct of the event. However, health authorities are not testing asymptomatic people.“Applicants can submit the details of the events including venue and number of attendees at the main office. We will scrutinise it,” commissioner of the Trichy Corporation, S Sivasubramanian told TOI. Applicants have also sought that the four zonal offices receive applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/organisers-struggle-to-get-permission-to-host-functions/articleshow/76719419.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Nigdi ATM robbery mastermind in cop net||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Tuesday arrested the mastermind behind the theft of a cash dispensing unit containing Rs 5.71 lakh from a kiosk at Thermax Chowk in Nigdi on June 8. Crime branch inspector Balkrishna Sawant said the suspect, Meherbansingh Tarasingh Dangi (25) of Nigdi, hatched the plot of stealing the cash dispensing unit along with his accomplices. “Dangi had also carried out the recce of several kiosks in Chinchwad and Nigdi,” Sawant said. He said Dangi and his accomplices stole a pickup truck from Lonikalbhor and reached Thermax Chowk. “Seeing a police vehicle near the kiosk, they dropped the idea. After sometime, they dragged out the cash dispensing unit from another kiosk in the same Chowk and fled,” he said. The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on June 18 had arrested two from the gang — Ajaysingh Dudhani and Shrikant Dhotre. “The police also had recovered the unit which the gang had dumped into Mula Mutha river,” Sawant said. Dudhani attempted suicide while in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nigdi-atm-robbery-mastermind-in-cop-net/articleshow/76719410.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Trichy||Policeman who slapped senior citizen shunted out||Trichy: A head constable attached to Woraiyur police station has been transferred to the armed reserve following a probe into him slapping an old man near MGR roundabout in the city on Monday. The cop has been identified as head constable Elango. A 45 second video clip shows a cop slapping the senior citizen holding his bicycle near MGR roundabout and then hopping on to his bike. The old man was seen gesturing and saying something towards the policeman. The policeman gets off his bike and slaps him again. The scene was shot by some unknown person from the top of a building in the area. Police sources said that the incident took place on Monday but the incident took place in a blind spot of surveillance cameras installed by the city police. Soon after the incident, head constable Elango lodged a complaint with the sessions court police alleging that an old man abused him. The police issued him a complaint receipt yesterday. However, the police were in the process of tracing the old man. Advocate T Ravichandran in Trichy said the transfer to was not a suitable punishment and would take it up with the state human rights commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/policeman-who-slapped-senior-citizen-shunted-out/articleshow/76719414.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||Five Vande Bharat flights to Kolkata cancelled||KOLKATA: Repatriation flights from Chicago, New Jersey, London and Dubai to Kolkata and other cities and towns in the region have been cancelled. Altogether, five special flights have been scrapped. Two of these were in the third phase of the Vande Bharat mission and the rest in the fourth phase. Sources said the Director General of Civil Aviation asked the airlines to pull out flights to Kolkata following a request from the West Bengal government. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Thursday demanded international flights to the city be stopped for a fortnight to arrest the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in Kolkata and rest of the state in recent weeks. The cancellations included two flights that IndiGo was scheduled to operate from Dubai on July 2 and 3 and three Air India flights that the carrier was to operate from Chicago and Newark on July 4 and London on July 12. Eight more flights that are scheduled to be operated by Kuwait Airways in the fourth phase remain unaffected as of now as they are between July 22 and 29. On Tuesday, five special flights operated to Kolkata, two from Doha and one each from London, Kuwait and Dhaka. Air India will operate a flight from Cairo on Wednesday morning, after which the embargo on special flights from abroad at Kolkata airport will kick in. Kolkata had not figured in the first phase of the 84 Vande Bharat flights. Flights were allocated in the second phase after Banerjee said the state was being discriminated upon despite being ready with adequate quarantine facilities to receive passengers. The city was thereafter included in the second and third phase of Vande Bharat mission. Around 5,500 passengers flew into the city in the 50-odd flights from abroad. The cancellation of international flights has led to anxiety among those who are scheduled to return after being stranded abroad for over three months. Adding to the confusion is the state chief secretary’s letter to the civil aviation secretary demanding an embargo on flights to Kolkata from eight cities with high Covid cases and each airline be allowed to operate from other cities to the city only once a week. Around 40% of the flights and nearly 50% of passengers are to the eight cities from where the state wants flights to be stopped for a fortnight. Travel agents have also raised concerns. “If 85% flights curtailed, fares that are already high will shoot up,” said a travel agent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-vande-bharat-flights-to-kolkata-cancelled/articleshow/76718713.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana recoveries near 10k as 338 test +ve, 470 are discharged||Chandigarh: Haryana’s Covid count on Tuesday reached 14,548 cases and 236 deaths as 338 more people were found infected with the virus and four died of it. As many as 470 patients were discharged after treatment, taking the number of recoveries from the virus to 9,972, near the milestone of 10,000. Two deaths were reported in Faridabad and one each in Gurgaon and Palwal districts. At the moment, 68 patients are in critical condition, with 53 of them on oxygen support. In all, 4,340 patients are still under treatment in the state. The state’s recovery rate is now 68.55%. Gurgaon and Faridabad are topping the table in recoveries too, with 63% of them, or 6,363, happening in the two NCR districts. Faridabad got 143 new cases and 298 patients were discharged in the district. Of the total 3,733 cases in the district, the number of patients who have recovered is 2,401. Gurgaon got 87 new cases and 79 patients were discharged from hospitals after recovery. This took the district’s tally to 5,347 cases and overall recoveries to 3,962. Among other districts, 28 new cases were reported in Rohtak, 20 in Karnal, 11 in Kaithal, eight each in Jhajjar and Kurukshetra, seven in Palwal, six in Jind, five in Panipat, four in Hisar, three each in Sirsa and Rewari, two in Mahendergarh, and one each in Yamunanagar, Panchkula and Nuh. The state’s testing rate continued to rise. According to the state’s Covid bulletin, 10,422 tests per million people have been conducted so far. A total of 2,64,203 persons have been tested so far. Of them, 2,44,000 tested negative. Karnal chief medical officer Ashwini Ahuja said the new patients included 12 people from Karnal city, seven from rural areas of the district, and one from Sonipat. They are aged between 16 and 43. Kurukshetra civil surgeon Dr Sukhbir Singh said a man from Ladwa town was among those who tested positive. (Inputs from Karnal and Kurukshetra)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-recoveries-near-10k-as-338-test-ve-470-are-discharged/articleshow/76719416.cms||Manvir Saini
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||4 ‘social workers’ held for cheating 14 farmers||Mumbai: Five men were arrested for allegedly cheating and extorting money from farmers who received compensation for land acquired for a Rs 1,500-crore gas pipeline project in Palghar. Fourteen farmers told police they were beaten up and forced to pay commission from money they got for land acquisition. Madhukar Kakra, Narayan Dable, Rupesh Patil, Doshiram Ghatal and Janu Mor, who claimed to be social workers, had approached the farmers to “help” them get a better deal for land. They are now in police custody They demanded 35% commission for being mediators. The farmers who were in touch with the company engaged in the project, got compensation for land in January. The money was credited to their accounts. When the accused learnt about it, they approached the farmers and demanded commission. The farmers refused to pay the commission as the accused played no role in getting them compensation. The accused assaulted the farmers at their homes, after which they approached Manor police. The case was handed over to Economic Offences Wing (EOW) who booked the accused under sections 420 (cheating), 384 (extortion) and 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) of the IPC. The project involves laying a 486-km gas pipeline from Dahej in Gujarat to Nagothane in Raigad district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-social-workers-held-for-cheating-14-farmers/articleshow/76718954.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: ICSE, ISC improvement test post July 15||KOLKATA: The CISCE after the declaration of the ICSE and ISC results within July 15 will give the option to candidates to write any or all of the remaining papers within one to two months from the date of the declaration of the results, subject to the situation. The option will be given only to those candidates, who are not satisfied with their scorecard and would like to improve their marks in one or more subjects for which the examination were not conducted. The Council has also asked the exam supervisors to keep the question papers in bank lockers, as the question papers, are likely to be used in the “improvement examinations” to be conducted later. “A student is allowed to appear in such improvement exams usually after one year of taking the ICSE or ISC exams to better their marks,” said a school principal. In addition, CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon has instructed the schools to send the attendance list, including the record of the absentees, unused and absentees’ answer booklets, along with the seating plan in the examination hall, inspection reports, etc. The marks obtained by the candidate in the improvement examinations will be considered as their final scores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/icse-isc-improvement-test-post-july-15/articleshow/76718746.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 1, 2020||Allahabad||AU extends last date for application of courses||Prayagraj: In view of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, authorities of Allahabad University have extended the last date for submitting the online application forms for admission in different courses at AU. The last date, which was ending on Tuesday has been extended to July 15. As per the decision of the admission committee, headed by the officiating Vice Chancellor Prof RR Tiwari and attended by several faculty members including the director admission Prof Prashant Agarwal, the interested students can now apply for different courses on the campus for academic session 2020-21 upto July 15. The process for applying for admission at various courses on the varsity campus began on March 25 but was discontinued as the pandemic started spreading. When the admission process was discontinued in the month of March, 29000 students had already registered themselves and 300 had deposited their fees too. The admission committee again held its meeting on May 4 on the campus following, which the admission process was started from May 10 onwards. The same was to end on Tuesday but has now stands at July 15. According to PRO Allahabad University, Shailendra Kumar Mishra, till Monday, a total of 157309 candidates had registered themselves online for various courses of AU and among these 76342 aspirants had completed process for online filling up of the application form. Director admission, Prof Prashant Agarwal said, “Because of pandemic, number of applicants is low and hence we have extended last date for applying at AU”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-extends-last-date-for-application-of-courses/articleshow/76716325.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||MSRTC puts e-bus project on priority||Pune: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has prioritised procurement of e-buses, for which 12 charging points are to be set up at the MSRTC’s head office at Shankarsheth Road in July. The move comes at a time when the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has decided to scrap its e-bus project. State transport minister Anil Parab said instructions were issued to MSRTC authorities to resume process. “We are looking for alternatives to diesel run buses and e-buses are need of the hour,” he said. As per the initial plan, 50 e-buses were to run on four routes from Pune to Solapur, Kolhapur, Nashik and Aurangabad from April-end. An official of the transport body said they were looking to set up charging stations in Pune from July. “The buses will be operating within a radius of around 250km and once fully charged, each bus can cover a distance of 300km,” the official said. “With e-buses, we expect that within a year, majority of our buses will be running on alternative fuel,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-puts-e-bus-project-on-priority/articleshow/76719422.cms||Joy Sengupta
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||6 more succumb to virus in Punjab, 150 +ve||Chandigarh: Covid-19 continued to spread its tentacles in Punjab on Tuesday as the state recorded 150 fresh cases of the virus and six deaths. The overall tally of positive cases rose to 5,568 and the casualty count reached 144. Also, 103 patients were discharged after they recovered. While three persons died of Covid-19 in Amritsar, a fatality each was recorded in Patiala, Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts. Of the total cases in the state so far, 3,867 patients have recovered from the virus and 1,557 are still under treatment. At 45, Ludhiana recorded the highest number of cases. New cases in the district included 30 contacts of positive cases and six cases in which health teams could not trace the source of infection. As many as 26 people were found to be infected with the virus in Jalandhar and 22 in Sangrur. In Mohali, 11 people tested positive for the virus and nine in Fatehgarh Sahib. Seven cases each were recorded in Amritsar and Moga, six in Kapurthala, five in Pathankot, four in Hoshiarpur, three in Patiala, two in Bathinda, and one each in Ropar, Nawanshahr and Gurdaspur. The number of cases in Sangur has risen to 497. In the district’s Malerkotla block, where a curfew has been imposed till Wednesday, only one case was reported. In Bhawanigarh block, a cop and his wife were among those who tested positive. Meanwhile, 48 patients were also discharged from hospitals after they recovered from the virus, said an official. In Patiala, the count of coronavirus infection cases has risen to 329, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/6-more-succumb-to-virus-in-punjab-150-ve/articleshow/76719421.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||Three-hour window for morning walkers in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Morning walkers can start their daily strolls at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar from Wednesday. KMDA, the keepers of both the lungs of south and east Kolkata respectively, will open the gates at 5.30am for three hours every day. Morning walkers and green activists have been seeking permission for the same since lockdown restrictions started easing in May. The authorities issued the order soon after chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the reopening of parks and gardens for morning walkers on Tuesday evening. Sudhin Nandy, executive engineer, KMDA, said, “Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar were closed on March 24. We are reopening the two waterbodies from tomorrow.” Environmentalist SM Ghosh told TOI: “We are grateful to the chief minister for understanding the need to maintain good health to combat the pandemic. I appeal to fellow morning walkers to wear masks and maintain physical distancing norms while strolling on the lakes’ premises.” Ghosh also requested KMDA to clean up the entire premises. “After Amphan, the authorities have been working hard to clear the lake complexes. While the paved roads have been cleared of debris, the banks of Rabindra Sarobar are still full of broken branches and dry leaves. Now that people will start walking, the areas should be returned to their beautiful state.” Rathin Das, a morning walker, said, “I read that the air quality index (AQI) around Rabindra Sarobar improved during the lockdown due to fewer vehicles. The rain has cleansed the air further. I am really looking forward to my daily strolls.” Ghosh said the PM 2.5 reading at Lake usually hovers around 18 to 22 ug/m3 these days. This has reduced considerably. Nandy said the number of tortoises seen at the Lake has gone up to 10-12 now from just two or three before lockdown. Number of birds, including those sighted rarely in past, has increased as well. (With inputs from Suman Chakraborti)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-hour-window-for-morning-walkers/articleshow/76718764.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||NGO protests against pet registration tax||Ludhiana: Members of NGO Yuva staged a protest outside zone A office of the MC against imposition of pet registration tax by the civic body, on Tuesday. Kumar Gaurav, an NGO member, posed as a sick person on oxygen support due to so many taxes sans any facility. He claimed that for lack of basic facilities the officials blamed poor financial condition despite the fact that so many taxes had already been imposed on the common man. He said, “Property, water supply and sewerage taxes all are fine because for development of a city the civic body needs funds. The income tax is also fine. But under the garb of pet registration the civic body has introduced cat and dog tax in the city.” He said they had been paying cow cess on various services but even after collecting a large amount of cow cess the civic body failed to solve the problem of stray cattle and many people are still becoming victims of accidents. He said they were not against imposition of taxes but the authorities need to understand whether at this time residents had the ability to pay the tax or not. He said due to coronavirus every business had got affected. He said now the civic body was asking people to pay Rs 400 every year for keeping pets at home and in case that pet bites anybody then the owner would face the consequences. Meanwhile, many people were gathering at the spot to see what was going one. They thought some person was actually in need of help but then moved back inside when they realised it was part of a protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ngo-protests-against-pet-registration-tax/articleshow/76718765.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray sets off for Lord Vitthal puja in Pandharpur||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has decided to perform the ceremonial puja of Lord Vitthal at Pandharpur temple on the occasion of Ashadhi Ekadashi early on Wednesday amid Covid-19. Uddhav, wife Rashmi and son Aditya left for Pandharpur in Solapur district by road on Tuesday, as the puja has been scheduled between 2.30am-3.30am at Vitthal Mandir. It is a time-honoured customary tradition where puja is performed at the temple every year on this auspicious day by the CM, on the state’s behalf, accompanied by his wife. Uddhav, in an address to the state last Sunday, had announced that he will visit Pandharpur to offer prayers at the annual traditional puja before Lord Vitthal to make Maharashtra and the universe free of Covid-19. Ashadhi Ekadashi marks the culmination of the annual pilgrimage by lakhs of warkaris, who walk from all corners of the state. Warkaris pay obeisance to Lord Pandurang and his consort Rakhumai at the temple. This year, breaking the age-old tradition of taking the palkhi with lakhs of warkaris to the temple, only few were allowed. In 2018, Devendra Fadnavis performed puja at the CM’s official residence Varsha after Maratha agitators threatened to oppose his visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uddhav-sets-off-for-lord-vitthal-puja-in-pandharpur/articleshow/76718957.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
July 1, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn faces flak for not testing enough||Trichy: In a week’s time, Trichy has recorded more than 100 Covid-19 cases, from 84 on June 13 to 200 on June 22, an almost 69% surge. Despite this, Trichy corporation has not yet scaled up testing in the city as only 350 tests are conducted daily and remains one of the low-tested cities in the state. There is widespread discontent among the city residents regarding the indifference shown by the corporation in testing people. A Covid-19 positive patient alleged that urban primary health centres (UPHC) are hesitant in conducting Covid tests. The 50-year-old man hailing from ward 27 said that a week ago he approached Irudhayapuram UPHC after he developed fever. He was given tablets but his swab sample was not collected. He gave his sample at a private lab on June 26 and the test result came back positive the next day. “The paramedics at the UPHC hesitated to take my sample. I was advised to take rest,” the man undergoing treatment at Trichy Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital told TOI. Corporation officials have rejected the allegation. Despite cases fast approaching the 500-mark, the hesitation in enhancing testing is a cause of worry. “300-350 tests per day is highly inadequate for the 10 lakh population in Trichy city. Even the expert medical team has mentioned on the need for increased Covid-19 testing in the city,” said K Shyam Sundar, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours said. In contrast, other major cities including Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem have intensified Covid-19 testing as fresh positive cases are being reported in the last two weeks. District collector S Sivarasu told TOI that the scale of testing will be enhanced. Meanwhile, Trichy MP Su Thirunavukkarasar said that the district administration will be urged to increase testing and conduct fever camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-faces-flak-for-not-testing-enough/articleshow/76719423.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 1, 2020||Pune||Doctor falls for ‘card block’ trick, loses Rs 81,000 to fraudsters in Pune||PUNE: A doctor from Chinchwad, fooled into believing her credit card got blocked, lost Rs 81,000 to cybercrooks. The fraud occurred on June 10, while she registered an FIR with the Chinchwad police on Monday. On June 10, The complainant received an SMS that read, “your credit card has been blocked. To renew it please contact the given number.” She immediately contacted the number and followed the instructions issued by the ‘bank executive’. “The fraudster told the medical practitioner to share the details of her credit card, which she said,” inspector Vishwajeet Khule said. After some time, she received an SMS stating an amount was debited from her card. Khule said the complainant again contacted the fraudster, who again sought details from her and cheated her the same way. “In total, she lost Rs81,000 from the card,” Khule said. Police issue advisoryFaced with an increasing number of such frauds, especially during lockdown when online financial transactions have increased, the Maharashtra Cybercrime Cell has issued an elaborate advisory. In Pune this year, the cybercrime cell registered 5,520 cases of fraud, of which more than 2,000 complaints pertained to card-cased fraud. The police stressed that banks will never ask their customers to divulge information. “The banks never ask for any details of your card. No one from bank call you to verify the one-time password (OTP),” inspector (cyber) Santosh Barge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctor-falls-for-card-block-trick-loses-rs-81k-to-fraudsters/articleshow/76719425.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||Unlock 2.0: No restriction on inter-state movement in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Tuesday issued guidelines for phased reopening for Unlock 2.0 for the July 1 to July 30 period by allowing activities in areas outside the containment zones. An official spokesperson said Punjab has allowed the district authorities to impose such restrictions as deemed necessary in areas outside the containment zones. However, there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. No separate permission or e-permit will be required for such movements, he added. He further informed that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. Online learning will continue to be permitted. Training institutions of the central and state governments would be allowed to function from July 15 for which standard operating procedures would be issued by the Centre. He added that activities will continue to be prohibited in cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places. He said international air travel of passengers would also be prohibited, except as permitted by the Union home affairs ministry. The lockdown will continue to remain in force in containment zones till July 31. Movement of individuals for all non-essential activities will remain prohibited between 10pm and 5am throughout the state. The number of guests is not to exceed 50 in marriage related gatherings and not more than 20 in funerals. Places of worship will remain open between 5am and 8pm. Restaurants are allowed to open till 9 pm with 50% occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less. Liquor can be served provided the restaurant has a valid permission from the excise department. However, bars will remain closed. Night curfew will strictly be enforced and movement of individuals will only be permissible from 5am to 10pm. The guests would be allowed to enter and leave the hotel premises between 10pm and 5am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unlock-2-0-no-restriction-on-inter-state-movement-in-punjab/articleshow/76719427.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Unlock 2.0: No restriction on inter-state movement in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Tuesday issued guidelines for phased reopening for Unlock 2.0 for the July 1 to July 30 period by allowing activities in areas outside the containment zones. An official spokesperson said Punjab has allowed the district authorities to impose such restrictions as deemed necessary in areas outside the containment zones. However, there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. No separate permission or e-permit will be required for such movements, he added. He further informed that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. Online learning will continue to be permitted. Training institutions of the central and state governments would be allowed to function from July 15 for which standard operating procedures would be issued by the Centre. He added that activities will continue to be prohibited in cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places. He said international air travel of passengers would also be prohibited, except as permitted by the Union home affairs ministry. The lockdown will continue to remain in force in containment zones till July 31. Movement of individuals for all non-essential activities will remain prohibited between 10pm and 5am throughout the state. The number of guests is not to exceed 50 in marriage related gatherings and not more than 20 in funerals. Places of worship will remain open between 5am and 8pm. Restaurants are allowed to open till 9 pm with 50% occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less. Liquor can be served provided the restaurant has a valid permission from the excise department. However, bars will remain closed. Night curfew will strictly be enforced and movement of individuals will only be permissible from 5am to 10pm. The guests would be allowed to enter and leave the hotel premises between 10pm and 5am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/unlock-2-0-no-restriction-on-inter-state-movement-in-punjab/articleshow/76724631.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||DGP orders Crime Branch probe into girl’s rape||Bhubaneswar/Rourkela: Director general of police (DGP) Abhay on Tuesday ordered a state Crime Branch probe into the alleged gang-rape of a minor girl in a police station in Sundargarh district. The DGP said the Crime Branch team will take over the investigation from local police. The Crime Branch inquiry follows public outcry over the gang-rape charge against the police and their subsequent attempt to hush up the matter. “Our team of four officers, headed by a lady deputy superintendent of police, who is the investigating officer, has already started the probe. A superintendent of police from the Crime Branch has also gone there to monitor the investigation,” additional director general of police (Crime Branch) Soumendra Priyadarshi said. Six persons, including two police personnel – Anand Chandra Majhi, the former inspector in-charge of Biramitrapur police station and his colleague – have been accused of raping a 13-year-old tribal girl inside the police station for several weeks and forcing her to go for abortion. The matter came to the light when the child, who was seen crying outside the police station a few days back, was rescued by a local NGO and handed over to the child welfare committee (CWC) in Sundargarh. The girl told the CWC that she had come to Biramitrapur to attend a local fair some days before the lockdown in March. While she was waiting to catch an auto-rickshaw to return home, a patrolling van belonging to Biramitrapur police spotted her and took her to the police station where Majhi allegedly raped her. She alleged that the local police dropped her in her village. But Majhi would often call her to the police station and sexually assault her. The girl said another policeman (whose identity is yet to be ascertained) assisted the former IIC in the alleged offence for several weeks. She also alleged that her step father, two other locals and a doctor forced her to go for abortion after she became pregnant. On Friday, Majhi was placed under suspension following a hue and cry. No arrest has been made so far in the case. Majhi was unavailable for comment. Police sources said three of the accused are on the run. Meanwhile, former Biramitrapur MLA and Congress leader George Tirkey has threatened a bandh on Thursday if the culprits are not arrested soon. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/dgp-orders-crime-branch-probe-into-girls-rape/articleshow/76718767.cms||Mihir Ray
July 1, 2020||Amritsar||Unlock 2.0: No restriction on inter-state movement in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Tuesday issued guidelines for phased reopening for Unlock 2.0 for the July 1 to July 30 period by allowing activities in areas outside the containment zones. An official spokesperson said Punjab has allowed the district authorities to impose such restrictions as deemed necessary in areas outside the containment zones. However, there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries. No separate permission or e-permit will be required for such movements, he added. He further informed that schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed till July 31. Online learning will continue to be permitted. Training institutions of the central and state governments would be allowed to function from July 15 for which standard operating procedures would be issued by the Centre. He added that activities will continue to be prohibited in cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places. He said international air travel of passengers would also be prohibited, except as permitted by the Union home affairs ministry. The lockdown will continue to remain in force in containment zones till July 31. Movement of individuals for all non-essential activities will remain prohibited between 10pm and 5am throughout the state. The number of guests is not to exceed 50 in marriage related gatherings and not more than 20 in funerals. Places of worship will remain open between 5am and 8pm. Restaurants are allowed to open till 9 pm with 50% occupancy or 50 guests, whichever is less. Liquor can be served provided the restaurant has a valid permission from the excise department. However, bars will remain closed. Night curfew will strictly be enforced and movement of individuals will only be permissible from 5am to 10pm. The guests would be allowed to enter and leave the hotel premises between 10pm and 5am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/unlock-2-0-no-restriction-on-inter-state-movement-in-punjab/articleshow/76724632.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19: 6 more test +ve, tally reaches 283||Prayagraj: A healthcare professional and a constable was among the six persons who tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday, taking Prayagraj district’s tally to 283. Of the six patients, a constable also tested positive for the Covid-19 infection. The patients have been admitted to Covid-19 Level One and Level Three Hospitals and are aged between 17 and 70 years. Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said that 35-year-old healthcare professional and resident of Mutthiganj and two of her contacts and residents of Phaphamau also tested positive for infection. While 205 Covid-19 patients have recovered and been discharged from hospitals, eight patients have died due to the disease in Prayagraj so far. A woman and resident of Noida also tested positive for Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-19-6-more-test-ve-tally-reaches-283/articleshow/76716355.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court: Let private school fees be paid online, in instalments||MUMBAI: Bombay high court, staying a decision of Maharashtra government to ban fee hikes by private schools for 2020-21, said “prima facie’’ the state lacked legal authority or jurisdiction to issue such a resolution under Fees Act, Epidemic Diseases Act or Disaster Management Act. The HC, however, noting difficulties parents would face, directed private aided and unaided schools to consider giving them an option to pay fees online in instalments. “We are mindful of difficulties faced by parents in these testing times,’’ said a bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Riyaz Chagla, following the stay pronounced on June 26. Managements of private unaided schools may consider an option for students or parents to pay fees in instalments as considered “reasonable” and to allow them to pay it online. The order followed a clutch of petitions filed by Association of Indian Schools and others who challenged legality and constitutional validity of the state GR which directed schools not to hike fees and followed it with requests to allow parents to pay in instalments. HC stayed subsequent communications sent by education department to schools too, till further orders. HC will hear the matter next on August 11 and sought the state’s reply by then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-let-private-school-fees-be-paid-online-in-instalments/articleshow/76718959.cms||Swati Deshpande
July 1, 2020||Pune||Pune: Citizens claim bills ‘hefty’, MSEDCL defends amounts||PUNE: Wanowrie resident Malav Parekh was in for a shock to learn that he has to pay Rs 12,000 towards the family’s power bill in June. “Our monthly bill is usually a little over Rs 3,000 during the summer months. I checked with other members of the housing society. They too complained about hefty bills,” Parekh said. Parekh is among hundreds of citizens across Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, who are complaining about “inflated” power bills and visiting the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited’s (MSEDCL) sub-divisional offices seeking corrections. MSEDCL officials said the bill amounts were accurate. “When I visited the MSEDCL’s local office, I saw many consumers waiting in a queue with the similar complaint. An MSEDCL staffer said the bills are correct and cannot be changed,” he said. Bhosari resident Kevin Patrick said, “Our entire society is facing the problem of inflated bills. When I approached the MSEDCL office near Bhosari, I was told that their employees have taken proper meter readings before issuing the bills. We do not know on what basis the MSEDCL has done the calculations.” MSEDCL official spokesperson Nishikant Raut said “not a single penny extra has been charged”. He said, “It was not possible to collect the meter readings after March. As a result, an average amount was charged in April and May. For this, the electricity bills are for the previous three months.” Raut added, “The bills were issued in accordance with the units consumed between March and June. The amount paid by consumers against the bills issued in April and May have been deducted before reaching a final amount.” He said, “The power tariff has also been increased since April 1. “The breakup of a bill and explanation of the charges levied can be viewed on https://bilcal.mahadiscom.in/consumerbill/.” Vivek Velankar of citizens’ group Sajag Nagrik Manch said the bills generated by the MSEDCL were accurate. “It could not collect meter readings in April and May because of the lockdown. It harged average bills for these two months, based on the consumption in the preceding months. But those were the winter months when power consumption remains low,” he said. “People were indoors during the lockdown and used various appliances and gadgets more frequently, utilizing more power,” Velankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-claim-bills-hefty-msedcl-defends-amounts/articleshow/76719436.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 1, 2020||Ludhiana||Stadium cleanliness work gets under way||Ludhiana: Following the demand of local athletes for maintenance as well sanitisation of Guru Nanak Dev Stadium, the local sports department has finally begun the work of cleanliness and santisation, so that local trainees can continue their daily practice. The district administration had been utilising the stadium for managing the work of medical screening and verification of migrants for their journey to their home. Due to excessive use of the stadium for the purpose ferrying, its condition had deteriorated as its bathrooms were also being used by migrants. The local sports officials had written letter to the higher authorities for taking best possible action to ensure proper sanitisation of the stadium, following which the development works started. District sports officer Ravinder Singh said, “For the convenience of local athletes, sports department has begun the work of maintaining cleanliness of the stadium. although, training sessions for local athlete player are already under way at government college ground, but due to better track facilities at the stadium, player had been raising the demand of restart of athletic practice sessions there.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/stadium-cleanliness-work-gets-under-way/articleshow/76718773.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Trichy||Disabled people yet to get promised aid||Trichy: The Rs 1,000 financial assistance announced by the state government for persons with disabilities (PwD) to tide over the Covid-19 lockdown has not reached many of the targeted beneficiaries. Besides the delay, PwDs who were assured of getting the assistance at their doorstep were instructed to visit VAO offices to submit the required documents. The government had on June 16 announced that 13 lakh PwDs will get Rs 1,000 assistance each and that those with identification cards of District Differently Abled Welfare department are eligible to avail it. Department sources said that 60,674 PwDs were issued identification cards in the district of which at least 10,000 reside in Trichy city. Two weeks since the announcement, PwDs say they are yet to get the sum. When they inquired, they were asked to visit the VAO offices for submitting documents including ID and Aadhaar cards. “A majority of us cannot visit the offices to submit the documents, we need another person’s support to travel. District administration should provide the assistance directly at our houses,” P Maarikannan, secretary, Trichy district differently-abled welfare association, said. “From July 1, we will start the distribution of financial assistance to PwDs with ID cards. VAOs will be instructed to disburse the cash by visiting their houses,” R Ravichandran, district differently-abled welfare officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/disabled-people-yet-to-get-promised-aid/articleshow/76719428.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Pune||App helps cops cuff externed criminal||Pune: A timely alert from the newly launched “ExTra” app enabled the police nab an externed criminal, Shankar alias Babu Kailash Pandhekar, from Bibvewadi on June 27, barely 10 days after he was externed for a year from the city and the district limits. A criminal on police records, Pandhekar has been sent to jail. A fresh case related to breach of externment order had been initiated against him, police said. “A person breaching an externment order is usually produced before a court, which either sends him/her to jail under magisterial custody or issues fresh externment order,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh told TOI. A case against such a person is filed under Section 142 of the CrPC, he said. A city-based private company helped the police in developing the “ExTra” (Externee Monitoring and Tracking System) app. It helps track the externee’s selfie, associated geo-location and time of attendance through artificial intelligence algorithms. The police receive real-time alerts if the uploaded selfie does not match with the registered face or if the geo-fence (around Pune city) is breached. The police also get an alert if the externed criminal deletes the application from the cellphone. The police had installed the app in Pandhekar’s smartphone as a mandatory step at the time of externing him on June 17. “Pandhekar is involved in many cases of body offences. A police team had dropped him at Barshi in Solapur district, where he was supposed to stay for one year,” Singh said. “For the first few days, Pandhekar uploaded his selfies and shared his location on the app on a daily basis. But later, he stopped doing it. On Saturday (June 27), Pandhekar reached the Pune city limits and the ExTra app in his cellphone immediately sent a signal to our police control room. A police team then traced him at Bibwevadi,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/app-helps-cops-cuff-externed-criminal/articleshow/76719439.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Puri under curfew for Bahuda Yatra||Bhubaneswar: Puri district came under curfew from Tuesday evening as the government fine-tuned arrangements for smooth conduct of the Bahuda Yatra, the return car festival, without devotees on Wednesday. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court earlier directed for imposition of curfew and zero congregation of devotees during the nine-day Rath Yatra festival, which started on June 23. Sibling deities Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra, who stayed for seven days in the Gundicha Temple (their birthplace) since the Rath Yatra, are scheduled to start their homebound journey aboard their chariots to Jagannath Temple around 12 pm on Wednesday. The deities, however, will be taken from the chariots into the Jagannath Temple on July 4, marking Niladri Bije. “All arrangements have been made to the tee. Just as we complied with the Supreme Courts order on Rath Yatra, we will repeat the same arrangements for Bahuda. Devotees will not be allowed to throng the Grand Road or anywhere in Puri. We request devotees to stay in their homes and watch the live telecast of Bahuda on television,” Puri district collector Balwant Singh said. A few days ago, chief minister Naveen Patnaik reviewed the Bahuda preparations and asked the Puri administration to pull out all stops for a hassle-free return car festival. Naveen also laid stress on compliance with the apex court’s directives and engagement of Covid-19 negative servitors and officials in Bahuda Yatra. “We have subjected over 5,500 persons, including servitors, police personnel, district and Jagannath temple officials to RT-PCR test. Only those, who have tested negative for the virus, will be allowed to discharge their duties. Only the Covid-negative servitors, who were allowed to perform the rituals and pull the chariots on Rath Yatra, will be permitted to participate in Bahuda,” Singh said. Police said around 70 platoons of force have been deployed to prevent congregation of people during Bahuda. “We have sealed all the entry points to Puri. Barricades have been installed in lanes and bylanes, connecting to the Grand Road to prevent people from thronging the Grand Road. Curfew will be in force till 10 pm of July 2,” additional director general of police (law and order) Soumendra Priyadarshi said. The temple administration said Bahuda rituals will start at around 4 am. At least 16 rituals will be performed on Bahuda. While 11 types of rituals will be performed inside the Gundicha Temple, five rituals will be conducted on the chariots. The deities will be taken out from the Gundicha Temple onto their chariots in ceremonial Pahandi procession between 8 am and 10 am. Puri king Gajapati Dibyasingha Singh Deb is scheduled to perform his hereditary “chhera pahanra” (sweeping of the chariot floors) ritual between 10.30 am and 11.30 am. The pulling of chariots is scheduled to start at 12 noon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/puri-under-curfew-for-bahuda-yatra/articleshow/76718784.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 1, 2020||Trichy||CUTN Tiruvarur signs MoU with IIHT to offer B Tech course||Trichy: Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN) Tiruvarur has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Indian Institute of Handloom Technology (IIHT), Salem, for academic collaboration. With this venture, the CUTN will be offering B Tech engineering degrees for the first time under its school of engineering and technology. Speaking to TOI, CUTN registrar S Bhuvaneswari said that the MoU was exchanged on Monday with the members of IIHT, Salem, which is under the ministry of textiles. “The agreement paves the way for CUTN to examine and award B Tech. (Handloom and Textile Technology) degree from the 2020-21 academic year for the IIHT,” she said.The MoU would pave way for research collaboration, said vice-chancellor A P Dash. “In the current phase of scholarly research, we are encouraging interdisciplinary research. This MoU is in line with this vision. It will help us expand our research scope and find ways for interdisciplinary research collaborations,” he added.IIHT is the fourth institution with which CUTN is going to have academic collaboration.Madras School of Economics, Chennai, Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT), Thanjavur, and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International School of Textiles and Management (SVPITM), Coimbatore, are the other institutes with which CUTN already has academic collaboration.The collaboration is academic where CUTN will support and streamline their vision and mission. The degree certificate would be issued in the name of CUTN, said the registrar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cutn-tiruvarur-signs-mou-with-iiht-to-offer-b-tech-course/articleshow/76719438.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||With IIM-B fee hike, flagship MBA at the top 3 costs Rs23L||Mumbai: With the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIM-B) hiking tuition fees for its flagship MBA programme, India’s top three B-schools are now charging at par. Whether a student gets into IIM-A (Ahmedabad), B or C (Calcutta), the charges remain the same — Rs 23 lakh. IIM Ahmedabad and IIM Calcutta have not hiked fees for the incoming batch in lieu of the Covid-19 pandemic. At a lower fee of Rs 19 lakh (not increased), IIM Kozhikode topped the charts with the highest number of full fee waivers last year. “The annual fee for PGP MBA and PGP MBA (FABM) is Rs 23 lakhs (batch 2020-22). The programme fee has not been increased this year, considering the Covid-19 situation,” said Shailesh Gandhi, dean, Programmes, IIM-A. During the academic year 2019-20, 93 first-year students at IIM-A received the institute’s need-based scholarships. The MBA fee was Rs 22.5 lakh for the MBA batch 2019-21 at IIM-C but after announcing a fee hike, the same was retracted. “IIM Calcutta revises the MBA program fee periodically, considering the current inflation and other economic factors. Although the revised fee for the MBA 2020-22 batch was proposed before Covid-19, the concerned authority took cognisance of the current economic situation due to the coronavirus pandemic and decided to scale it down by keeping a two-year MBA fee of Rs 23 lakhs,” said Sumanta Basu, admission chair, IIM Calcutta. At IIMB, the two-year PGP 2020 batch pays Rs 23 lakh whereas PGP 2019 batch fee was Rs 21 lakh. The number of students with 100% fee waiver last year was six and 48 students got a partial fee waiver. “After the three older IIMs opted for full autonomy from the government of India, this is probably the first time when their fees are the same. While the fee disparity has not been huge as the input costs are the same, IIM-A tends to have a higher fee than the rest,” said a former IIM director. Interestingly, IIM Kozhikode also did not hike tuition fees and was the institute that gave maximum full-fee waivers. “Last year’s fees of Rs 19 lakh remains, and 27 candidates have received full tuition fee waiver and 17 received partial fee waivers”, said Debashis Chatterjee, director IIM Kozhikode. Scholarships are also disbursed from the MHRD. In 2019, 17 candidates received complete fee waivers. IIM Indore fees also remained unchanged as the previous year at Rs 16.1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/with-iim-b-fee-hike-flagship-mba-at-the-top-3-costs-rs23l/articleshow/76719453.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Trichy||Railways shuts level crossing gate after keeper tests +ve||TRICHY: A manned level crossing at Manjathidal railway station in Trichy has been closed down after the gatekeeper tested Covid-19 positive a few days ago. This has forced several people residing nearby and around the station to take a detour to reach their destination. A railway flex banner at the gate on the Trichy-Thanjavur section near Thiruverumbur said it would remain closed till July 3. Thousands of residents from villages like Alathur, Keela Kalkandarkottai, Mela Kalkandarkottai and Keelakuruchi have been using the LC gate to the city. As the gate has been found shut for the last five days, motorists are forced to take a circuitous route by travelling 5 kms more to reach the city side. “If an employee is infected, it is the officials’ duty to depute another staffer so that the process is not interrupted,” said P Manickam, a villager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/railways-shuts-level-crossing-gate-after-keeper-tests-ve/articleshow/76719444.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||Bundhs in Quelossim surveyed for coastal plan||PANAJI: The network of bundhs and sluice gates in the extensive mangrove-fringed khazan land of Quelossim was surveyed recently by government officials to demarcate the high tide line for drawing up the coastal zone management plan. The survey was conducted last week over two days by officials from the water resources department, the department of survey and land records, Quelossim panchayat and local biodiversity management committees (BMC). “More than 20 bundhs along the periphery of the Zuari and its creeks, except internal ones, were surveyed. Quelossim has 12 notified bundhs,” Quelossim biodiversity management committee (QBMC) chairperson Lopinho Xavier said. Officials and team members were mostly taken around in a motor boat, but had a tough time walking through marshy conditions on muddy bundhs. A fisherman, Teodorio Fernandes, who is well acquainted with the boundaries of bundhs and sluice gates helped them conduct this ground-truthing exercise. It was noticed that some of the bundhs sought to be mapped out have almost been washed out or submerged. “Six notified bundhs are located inside the proposed mini India park project under survey number 170/0,” Xavier said. Quelossim sarpanch Maria D’Souza, deputy sarpanch, Sebastaio Serrao and BMC member Peter Fernandes also accompanied the officials for the survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bundhs-in-quelossim-surveyed-for-coastal-plan/articleshow/76719463.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Delhi||Three teams to inspect facilities at 30 Covid hospitals in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With the fight against the novel coronavirus intensifying owing to a surge in the number of cases, teams of experts have been tasked to scan the services of Covid-designated hospitals in the capital to further improve the facilities. Starting this week, three committees formed by the Union ministry of health and family welfare will start inspecting the healthcare facilities. The committees comprise domain knowledge experts, including doctors from AIIMS, Delhi government, Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), and the Union health ministry. They would be assisted by doctors from the three municipal corporations and New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC). During the inspection, there would be rapid assessment of the existing capacity, patient care amenities and other aspects of the Covid care facilities. “This will ultimately assist the government in making timely and effective decisions about Covid-19 management,” said an official. A team consisting of professor Anant Mohan of AIIMS, Dr R Verma of DGHS, Dr SK Sarin of Delhi government and Dr Ramesh Kumar of NDMC has been assigned nine key Covid hospitals. They would be visiting Lok Nayak, Fortis, Max Shalimar Bagh, Sir Ganga Ram City, Kolmet and Rajendra Nagar hospitals, Maha Durga Charitable Hospital in Model Town, BLK, and Primus Super Specialty in Chankyapuri to assess the existing facilities and suggest measures for capacity building. The second team has been allocated 10 hospitals, while the third 11 facilities for inspection. The three teams would together cover 30 hospitals, including Guru Teg Bahadur, Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra, Venkateswar (Dwarka), Deep Chand Bandhu, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty, Holy Family (Okhla), Indraprastha Apollo (Sarita Vihar) and Max Smart Super Specialty in Saket. A government official said that the inspection would motivate hospitals to fine-tune their existing Covid-related services, which would ultimately push the recovery curve upwards. “The teams will carry out the inspection on a weekly basis and also conduct surprise visits. They will suggest specific measures for betterment of the facilities and patient care services,” he added. A report of the preceding week would be submitted by the teams to the secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare, and chief secretary of Delhi every Tuesday by 5pm. The report would be used by the government to make necessary interventions to improve the facilities and services in government and private hospitals. Currently, there are more than 26,000 active Covid patients of which nearly 6,000 are admitted in different hospitals, about 1,600 in care centres and over 16,000 are in home isolation. The recovery rate has been fast growing over the past few weeks. Till date, over 56,000 people have recovered, including many who were admitted in a critical condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/three-teams-to-inspect-facilities-at-30-covid-hospitals-in-delhi/articleshow/76719443.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 1, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar backed fish trade mafia in police net in Kashi||Varanasi: In a drive against fish trade mafia elements patronised by jailed mafia don-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari, Varanasi police on Tuesday arrested four persons with 20 quintals of fish of banned species. Mau cops also arrested one person and announced cash rewards of Rs 25,000 on two others after booking them under Gangster Act. SSP Varanasi Prabhakar Chawdhary said, “The Mukhtar-backed fish trade mafia Mohd Salim, who was arrested with two others on Monday, had divulged the names of those supplying prohibited species of fish Thai Mangur. After it, the joint team of police, food safety and drug administration and fishery department raided their places in Varanasi and adjoining districts.” One joint team led by Lanka police succeeded in arresting Rambalak Sahani of Rohania, Gurucharan Singh of Lanka and Santosh Yadav of Chandauli, he said adding, another team under Shivpur cops arrested Viketar alias Viru of Undi area . But before the cops could raid the place of Maksood Alam in the Nadesar area, he managed to escape. At least 15 qt of Thai Mangur fish was recovered from the place of Viru while five quintal of fish of the same species was recovered from the place of Alam. The cost of recovered fish was over Rs 2.10 lakhs. Chawdhary said all these arrested persons were procuring Thai Mangur consignments from Kolkata to supply it to Salim, who is a close associate of Mukhtar and works to enhance the economic empire of the jailed don. Salim’s gang has a monopoly in fish trade in the district for almost two decades and also extorts money for all fish traders by utilising the terror of Mukhtar. He added, “This gang has not allowed the entry of others in this trade. They have all confessed to having met Mukhtar in the jail in the past.” On Monday, Salim was arrested with his two accomplices following a raid of a joint team of police and other departments at Bunglow-51 of Cantonment area, where a pond full of fishes with prohibited species were recovered. According to police, Salim had taken guarantee of Mukhtar to seek bail from court in a murder case 20 years ago while he had also contested on former political party of don’s family Qaumi Ekta Dal in 2012 assembly polls. Under their on-going drive against Mukhtar’s henchmen, the Mau cops initiated action against three fish trade mafia. SP Mau Anurag Arya said that one Mohd Ismail of Andhra Pradesh had been arrested while Parasnath Sonkar and Chhotai Sonkar of district were absconding. He said that all three had been booked under Gangster Act while cash rewards of Rs 25,000 had been announced on Parasnath and Chhotai each. For the past few months the henchmen and gangs of criminals enjoying backing of Mukhtar and increasing the wealth of his empire are in the line of fire with the intensifying drive against organised crime by police in Varanasi zone. On June 26, Mau police had booked one Ankur Rai and nine other members of his gang under Gangster Act as the cops found that he assisted Mukhtar gang in its operation. On May 31, Mau police announced cash rewards of Rs 25,000 on each of the 11 members of a gang involved in extorting money in the name of vehicle stands under Mukhtar’s patronage. Four of them were arrested on June 25. Besides, the cops also cracked down on the operations of illegal slaughter houses and fish trade by Mukhtar’s henchmen. Ghazipur police had also initiated action against Mukhtar’s henchmen, who had kept land of proposed airstrip at Andhau area for years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtar-backed-fish-trade-mafia-in-police-net-in-kashi/articleshow/76716413.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 1, 2020||Chandigarh||8th death in HP, cases rise to 953||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported its eighth Covid-19 death while 11 positive cases, including four each from Una and Kangra districts, two from Hamirpur and one from Solan were reported. An 80-year-old positive patient from Jungle Beri in Hamirpur district died on Tuesday. She had tested positive on June 20 and was admitted in the isolation ward of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk on June 23. The 19 patients who recovered included five from Kangra district, four each from Shimla and Solan and three each from Chamba and Una. The total number of positive cases has increased to 953, of which 357 are active. A total of 575 patients have recovered, 11 have migrated out of the state, eight have died of Covid-19 while two deaths of positive patients from Chamba and Shimla district occurred due to non-Covid reasons. In Kangra district, an eight-year-old boy and a seven-year-old boy from Rakkar village have tested positive. The boys, who are contacts of a patient admitted in Military Hospital, Yol are also being shifted to Yol. A 40-year-old man and his eight-year-old son from Sarimolag village of Jaisinghpur tehsil, with travel history from Delhi on June 18, have also been tested positive. They are being shifted to the dedicated Covid care centre in Baijnath. Positive patients who have recovered include a 34-year-old man from Lambagaon, a 38-year-old man from Baijnath, a one-year-old girl, a 24-year-old woman and a 22-year-old woman from Jaisinghpur. They were admitted in the dedicated Covid care centre, Dadh. After testing negative for Covid-19, they are being discharged with the advise of home isolation for the next seven days. In Hamirpur district, a 10-year-old boy from Teeda in Nadaun area, who is the primary contact of a Covid-19 patient and a 23-year-old woman from Kharingan, Bhoranj area have tested positive. The woman had returned from Kyrgyzstan via Delhi. Maximum of 272 positive cases have been reported from Kangra district, of which 112 are active. A total of 245 positive cases have been reported from Hamirpur district, of which 104 are active. As many as 57,858 persons were put under surveillance in the state till Tuesday. Of them, 38,944 have completed their 28-day surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/8th-death-in-hp-cases-rise-to-953/articleshow/76719455.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Trichy||Private arts colleges await govt’s nod to begin online admissions||TRICHY: While government arts colleges across Tamil Nadu gear up to invite online applications for admission for the first time this year, private arts and science colleges are waiting for the government’s nod to start the admission process. National College Trichy (NCT), being an exception, has started registration through online web-based application for admissions to various courses for the academic year 2020-21. According to the college, candidates can apply for under-graduate and post-graduate degree programs through the online applications link. One can pay the application fee and submit the applications form. The applications will be processed once the class XII state board results are released. While St Joseph’s College in Trichy says that it is awaiting the nod from the state government for starting the admission process, Jamal Mohamed College, Trichy too has kept its fingers crossed on releasing the online application once any communication from the higher education department arrives. Colleges say that there is an increase in the enquiries for admission after the state government announcement that results will be declared by first week of July. While private arts and science colleges started inviting applications through online mode two years ago, government arts colleges had been receiving the applications offline till last year. With the growing demand for single window system for admission in arts and science colleges alike admission to engineering courses in the state, the Tamil Nadu directorate of collegiate education has issued an admission manual this year. While single window system for admission in government arts colleges may take some more time to be implemented, receiving application through online mode is the first step towards it, says state vice president of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association (TNGCTA) G Ramesh. Unlike in the engineering colleges where most of the colleges have five to six branches, over 100 courses in arts college makes the single window system for admission complex, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/private-arts-colleges-await-govts-nod-to-begin-online-admissions/articleshow/76719451.cms||Sampath Kumar
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two anti-mosquito drives: Construction sites fined Rs 7 lakh||AHMEDABAD: The onset of monsoon has resulted in waterlogging at several places in the city, particularly construction sites.  The health department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has launched drives to check mosquito breeding in various parts of the city. Of the 348 construction sites inspected, the health department found waterlogging in 51% of the sites. The AMC collected fines amounting to Rs 3.77 lakh from these sites on Tuesday. If the fines collected on the June 27 drive are included, the AMC has collected Rs 6.72 lakh from construction sites in two inspections. Officials said that of the Rs 3.77 lakh collected, maximum of Rs 91,000 was recovered from the West Zone of the city where waterlogging and mosquito breeding were found in 40 sites. In the North West Zone, 42 such sites were issued notices and fines of Rs 90,000 were collected. The maximum fine of Rs 25,000 was collected from ITC Narmada Hotel construction site in Bodakdev. Visat Signature site owners in Chandkheda were fined Rs 20,000. A fine of Rs 15,000 was collected from Purple Patch construction (Gota), Indraprastha Green Construction (Vejalpur), P Das Infrastructure (Nava Vadaj), and Highland Residency, Sardarnagar. The health department also levied a fine of Rs 10,000 on the Inter Stellar Construction site and RK Sandipani Construction site (Thaltej) and Katira Construction site and DNC Construction site (Bodakdev). A similar fine was levied on The North Construction site and Ratanjali Square Construction site (Jodhpur), Malani Construction (Paldi), Ayman Residency Construction site (Sarkhej), Sumel-10 (Saraspur), Atithi Ashray Construction (Vatva) and Sai Prasad Estate (Ramol). Officials said that lift shafts were filled with water and no effort was being made to clean the areas. The officials said that in such areas, maximum mosquito breeding activity takes place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-anti-mosquito-drives-construction-sites-fined-rs-7l/articleshow/76719450.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||GCCI to defer election, new dates soon||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) is likely to defer its election and the new date will soon be announced. The decision will be taken by chamber’s executive committee as the election officer, PK Laheri, has recommended to change the date, said GCCI officials. “We have received a communication from our election officer to defer the dates of the upcoming elections which were scheduled on July 11. According to the constitution, once the EO recommends a change in the date, chamber’s executive committee takes a decision over the new dates. Based on EO suggestions, the executive committee will decide and announce the new dates,” said Durgesh Buch, president, GCCI. Members had raised concerns over social distancing norms and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic due to which the elections may have been deferred. A strong contest is expected for the top two posts at GCCI during the upcoming election. For the post of senior vice president wherein Jayendra Tanna, president of Gujarat Traders’ Federation (GTF), is in the fray against Hemant Shah, the chairman of Navin Group. Similarly, Bhavesh Lakhani, the convener of BJP’s Business Cell for Gujarat, along with KI Patel, the founder of Aries Color Chem Private Limited in Vatva and Ashok Patel of Masta Bearing Housing Private Limited, are in the fray for the post of vice president. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gcci-to-defer-election-new-dates-soon/articleshow/76719454.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Trichy||Portable dialysis on for Pudukottai man||TRICHY: Arun Kumar, 26, from Pudukottai, who was suffering from renal failure, had to visit the hospital thrice a week to undergo dialysis. However, he is currently able to undergo the process in the comfort of his home through continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD), with the help of the doctors in Pudukkottai Government Medical College. CAPD is a portable type of dialysis that uses manual bags containing peritoneal dialysis fluid. A team of doctors comprising nephrologist Dr Saravana Kumar, Urologist Dr Latha, and anesthesiologists Dr Saiprabha and Dr Balasubramaniam was constituted after Kumar was admitted on June 15. Dean of the hospital Dr A L Meenakshi Sundaram said this technique was done for the first time in Pudukkottai district. Under spinal anaesthesia, a tube was inserted and fixed in the peritoneal cavity of the patient's abdomen. This tube receives the dialysis fluid and retains it in the peritoneal cavity for six hours. During this process, the body waste enters the dialysis fluid by a process called osmosis. Following which, the fluid drains out through the same tube. The patient is advised to follow the procedure thrice daily. However, this does not stop him from participating in normal activities including office work. Kumar was discharged on Tuesday. “The patient need not visit the hospital frequently and this is very helpful during the pandemic. It may cost around Rs 1,000-1,200 per day. However, it was done free of cost for this patient under the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme,” added the dean. The department of nephrology has 30 dialysis machines working in three shifts. Soon, a separate dialysis unit would be installed in Government Ranees isolation hospital to help Covid-19 patients suffering from renal failure. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/portable-dialysis-on-for-pudukottai-man/articleshow/76719456.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt reappoints Himanshu Pandya as Gujarat University VC||AHMEDABAD: The state government today announced its decision to reappoint Himanshu Pandya, a professor at department of biochemistry and forensic science, as the vice-chancellor of Gujarat University. Pandya, who will be serving his second term at the top GU post, seem to have earlier fallen out with the BJP-backed Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) after the GU students’ union election, held after a gap of four years in March. ABVP faced a crushing defeat at the hands of Congress’ student political wing National Students’ Union of India (NSUI). Many of them had alleged that Pandya supported NSUI to win the elections. Pandya’s name was among the candidates shortlisted by the search committee headed by Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat. His first term ended on May 16 and the charge was temporarily given to Jagdish Bhavsar, pro VC of GU. The committee, formed in February to shortlist names for the post of VC, said it could not complete the task due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown situation.  What seems to have swung things into Pandya’s favour is the recent announcement of the all National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) Ranking 2020 by the Centre where Gujarat University made a surprise entry at number 60 in the list of higher education institutes in the overall category. Last year, when the varsity did not even figure in the top 100 names in overall rankings in the NIRF 2019 list, Pandya, the then VC, had started various initiatives to raise its quality and standards. “I want to take GU to newer heights. A research park that is currently being built will have far reaching benefits for the students, faculty members as well as the society,” said Pandya. He will take charge of the position in the next couple of days. The three-member search committee included Kamlesh Joshipura, former vice-chancellor of Saurashtra University whose nomination was chosen by GU. Parimal Vyas has been chosen by the Joint Board of Vice-Chancellors (JBVC) is the third member of the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-reappoints-pandya-as-gujarat-university-vc/articleshow/76719483.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||60 new cases, Seraikela records biggest spike||Ranchi: As many as 60 positive cases of Covid 19 infections were detected in 10 districts of Jharkhand on Tuesday. Along with the four cases detected late on Monday night, the state’s virus caseload rose to 2,490, of which 591 are active, 1,884 have recovered (including 35 on Tuesday) while 15 patients have died. With 25 new cases, Seraikela-Kharsawan district recorded its biggest single-day spike in new. Dhanbad recorded 14 cases, East Singhbhum 11, Sahibganj three, Deoghar two and Ranchi, Ramgarh and Dumka one each. Of the new infections detected, 24 are migrants. In all, 1,974 migrants have been tested positive so far in the state. East Singhbhum district, which was Covid-free till the second week of May, now has the most number of infections in Jharkhand (392). Of all the 566 active cases active statewide, the district also has the highest share of 175 cases. Dhanbad, East Singhbhum, Giridih, Gumla, Hazaribag, Koderma and Ranchi account for more than 70% of Jharkhand’s active case load. While Ranchi has 53 active cases, 165 patients have recovered so far. Pakur and Godda, which have one active case each, are headed towards becoming Covid-free again. While the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) put the Covid-19 tally in Ramgarh at one, the district administration said three CISF jawans, deployed at NTPC’s under-construction thermal power plant in Patratu, tested positive for the virus. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh said the personnel were at a government quarantine facility in Officers’ Club in Patratu. “Their samples were sent for tests on June 28,” Singh said. The jawans had arrived separately from Buxar (Bihar), Gorakhpur (UP) and Andhra Pradesh recently. With inputs from NK Agarwal in Ramgarh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/60-new-cases-seraikela-records-biggest-spike/articleshow/76718671.cms||Dhritiman Ray
July 1, 2020||Goa||Tourism dept awaiting nod for starting hotel biz||Panaji: The tourism department has moved a file to the government regarding new protocols for hotels to be implemented once operations resume. As of Tuesday, 257 hotels have submitted applications to the department expressing their willingness to restart business. A senior tourism official said that the department has completed its task in this aspect, and it is now for the government to take a final call. One of the criteria, he said, will be that hotels must accommodate guests with pre-bookings. Also, hotels should have a facility to isolate guests. “Applications given by hotels mention that rooms have been identified for isolating guests,” he said. Last week, the Travel and Tourism of Goa (TTAG) had appealed to the government to allow hotels to restart operations at the earliest, and assured that they will follow protocols finalised by the government. With the rising count of Covid-19 cases, there are apprehensions over whether tourists will visit the state. The trade body feels that many corporate guests during their visit to Goa require accommodation, and hence hotels must be permitted to operate. TTAG president Nilesh Shah has repeatedly stated that Goa has to make a start on the tourism front with protocols in place, even though certain segments are still apprehensive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-dept-awaiting-nod-for-starting-hotel-biz/articleshow/76718805.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||4L Goans to benefit from garib yojana||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that more than four lakh Goans would benefit from the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. “Eighty crore population of India will get continued support under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana till November 2020. The sincere efforts of our PM Narendra Modi are really commendable. I appreciate his commitment towards all sections of the society,” Sawant said welcoming the PM’s decision on behalf of Goans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4l-goans-to-benefit-from-garib-yojana/articleshow/76718863.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||Rape accused bludgeoned to death in Simdega||Gumla: A 20-year-old man accused of rape was beaten to death by eight persons in the Pandripani forest under Rengarih police station in Simdega on Monday night. Vinit Lakra was arrested in November 2019 along with his nephew for raping a minor girl. Lakra was currently out on bail. Police said, the eight accused of killing the youth were arrested and added that they are aged between 19 and 25 years. Officer in-charge of Rengarih police station Sachchitanand Tiwari said, “Lakra was an accused in a rape case of a minor along with his nephew. Both were sent to jail, but Lakra had come out of jail a month ago.” The villagers accused that Lakra demanded extortion from them and often used to threaten them, which police suspect could be the cause behind his murder. “On Monday night, eight youths caught him and took him to Pandripani forest where they beat him to death with sticks and stones,” Tiwari added. However, Simdega SP Sanjiv Kumar clarified that it is not a case of lynching. “Police have initiated an investigation and are working on further action. All the eight have been arrested,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rape-accused-bludgeoned-to-death-in-simdega/articleshow/76718614.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||Ban on apps too late: Hemant||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday said the Centre’s ban on 59 Chinese apps came very late and hoped that the decision helps the nation and its people. Hemant said, “The apps have already intruded into the lives of people like the coronavirus. Now, if the government has banned them, I only hope it helps. However, I believe the decision was taken too late.” Amid the growing chorus for a ban on Chinese products, the chief minister had told reporters a week ago that state governments have nothing to do with such decisions as they are under the jurisdiction of the Union government. Meanwhile, many state government departments seemed to continue using Cam Scanner, one of the banned apps, to dispatch online official releases and notifications. Of late, the state IPRD and other departments have been using it for issuing official notifications to media groups. On Tuesday, Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital released the district Covid bulletin to its official media group through the app. An official in the IPRD said, “The ban will take a few days to get fully implemented as the Union government is yet to officially notify it to the respective states, but we will soon switch to other options.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ban-on-apps-too-late-hemant/articleshow/76718586.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||‘Submit PM’s fin scheme usage details’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday sought to know from government departments the implementation status of various components of the Rs 20 lakh crore Atma Nirbahar Bharat package announced by the Centre. Departments have been given two days to furnish the information. The Prime Minister had announced a special economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore to recover from the financial crisis triggered by the pandemic. “The chief minister of Goa desires to know the status of implementation of various components of this package in Goa and the information may be furnished by July,” secretary to chief minister, J Ashok Kumar, stated in a circular to all government departments. In case the department concerned mentioned against each component does not have the desired information, the same needs to be obtained from the relevant agency of the government of India or banks within the state of Goa, as the case may be, Kumar stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/submit-pms-fin-scheme-usage-details/articleshow/76718844.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||All seafarers sent home after testing negative||PANAJI: In the second largest sign off of stranded Goan seafarers, 473 of them were sent home from MPT on Tuesday. The seafarers stranded in Europe were tested at MPT on Monday after their arrival from Italy on the cruise liner Norwegian Escape. With a capacity of 3,900 passengers, officials say it is the largest vessel to berth at MPT. On testing negative for Covid-19, all the crew members were sent on home quarantine in batches. They were dropped at five different places from where their family members picked them up. Nodal officer for stranded seafarers and ports secretary P S Reddy said that as per the new protocol, the seafarers on testing negative were sent on 14 days home quarantine and that no seafarer opted for institutional quarantine. Goa was the first port of call for the vessel that arrived on Monday from Italy. It left Goa for Mumbai on Tuesday evening after signing off the Goan seafarers. The cruise liner will sign off around 500-odd seafarers in Mumbai before proceeding to the Philippines. Only two vessels have brought seafarers directly to MPT in Goa during the lockdown period. The first vessel Celebrity Infinity brought 1,450 Goan seafarers to MPT on June 18. All the other 4,000-odd stranded seafarers arrived in Goa on flights chartered by cruise companies. The seafarers who arrived initially during the lockdown had to spend 14 days in institutional paid quarantine according to the earlier SOPs. This was later reduced to seven days. The government has stated that almost 99% of the seafarers stranded in various parts of the country have been brought home. A group of 100 seafarers stranded in the UK are expected to be brought back by a chartered flight in the first week of July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-seafarers-sent-home-after-testing-negative/articleshow/76718776.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||Nurse found hanging in nursing home||Ranchi: The spurt of suicides in the state capital continued with a nurse employed at a private nursing home located under Bedo area found hanging by the ceiling fan in her room on Tuesday. In datat releases last week, police had said that the state recorded seven suicdes a day on average during the lockdown. Geeta Kumari (25) apparently committed suicide at her quarters inside the nursing home, which is run by a senior doctor. She was employed at the nursing home for the last eight years. Sources said Kumari had gone to her room after finishing her work on Monday evening. Finding the doors of her room bolted till late in the morning, her colleagues looked from the window an saw her hanging. Rural SP Naushad Alam said, “A suicide note has been found from the room. Her relatives have raised suspicion over the circumstances of her death.” Alam said police have started investigating the case, adding several nurses who worked with the deceased have been questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nurse-found-hanging-in-nursing-home/articleshow/76718642.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||Tiktok stars rue loss their creative platform||Ranchi: The ban on 59 Chinese apps announced by the Centre on June 29 came as a surprise for many, but users of entertainment platform TikTok seem to be the worst affected of the lot. While opinions are varied, and hopes of the app returning in some form run high, most users of this platform are confused about what happens to all the content that they created and posed on the app in the past, especially amid the lockdown when it proved to be a creative outlet for many. Hailing from the small village of Kushmatand in Dhanbad, TikTok sensation Sanatan Kumar Mahato, who shot into limelight for his old school Bollywood dance choreographies, said he invested more than 18 months to the platform. His TikTok handle @DancerSanatan has around 27 lakh followers and was set to hit the 30 lakh. Mahato said, “My journey with TikTok is a testimony to the fact that such platforms can do wonders for artists like us. My YouTube channel has 2.2 lakh subscribers, but my popularity on TikTok is significantly higher. It is because of this app that O could make videos in collaboration with stalwarts like Ganesh Acharya. I was eagerly looking at dance as a fulltime career option. Adding that his father, a folk Jhumar dancer, never had the ooportunity to make use of platforms like this, the 25-year-old Mahato said, “I upset many people around me by encouraging my younger sister to dance with me. It is still a taboo in the village I come from. All of it has come to a screeching halt for me.” The million-hit internet star might be just one of the bigger victims of the ban, but regular users also said they will miss the platform. Anamika Paswan, a nursing graduate from Ranchi’s Chutia locality, said the app helped her reconnect with her artistic. “I don’t want to comment on whether it (the decision to ban the app) is right or wrong. The only thing I am concerned about is how dependent I am on the platform for my daily fix of entertainment,” she said. A regular TikTok user with a modest count of 9,500 followers, Paswan said she hopes the ban is temporary like the last time. “But if it continues, I might have to find a new platform to keep myself engaged,” she added. Since its launch, TikTok has been embroiled in controversies regarding content and security concerns. However, the ByteDance-owned app emerged as one of the most popular in the country, especially among non-English speaking creators and audiences. After drawing flak, the app even partnered with academicians, NGOs and even law enforcement agencies. Although the app has been pulled from Google’s Play store and Apple’s App Store in India, the users who already have it on their phones could use it as of Tuesday evening. Meanwhile, there are many who supported the Centre’s decision to ban the app with 58 others. Mass communication post-graduate Nidhi Kumari was addicted to TikTok until a few days ago, but she moved to Roposo, a similar short video sharing app with Indian roots, after the people’s sentiments against Chinese products started making headlines in the aftermath of the martyrdom of 20 soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan valley. A Ranchi University graduate, Nidhi said, “I loved TikTok, but my nation’s integrity is far more important for me than my personal entertainment. Although I am fairly new to Roposo, I believe making a small change for a greater cause is the need of the hour.” Following the ban, the app was removed from Google Play store and Apple App store. However, for users who already have the app, its content is still available and videos can still be posted. In response to the government decision, TikTok said it has been invited to meet with government stakeholders for an opportunity to respond and submit clarifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tiktok-stars-rue-loss-their-creative-platform/articleshow/76718536.cms||Debjani Chakraborty
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||Police recover Deepika mom’s gold chain||Ranchi: In a double bonanza for ace archer Deepika Kumari, police on Tuesday recovered her mother’s stolen necklace from a jeweller on the day she is getting married to her beau, Atanu Das, another Tokyo Olympics-qualified archer. The necklace was snatched by two bike-born criminals from Deepika’s mother Geeta Kumari on June 13. She was returning along with her husband Shiv Narayan Mahto on a motorcycle after shopping for their daughter’s marriage. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said the gold chain worth about Rs 1 lakh was recovered in two molten pieces from the jeweller identified as Mukesh Kumar Soni. Earlier, two criminals, identified as Sheikh Jabir and Sheikh Saif who were believed to be the snatchers, were arrested. Based on their statements, the chain was recovered from Soni’s shop at Gobar Hoppa here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-recover-deepika-moms-gold-chain/articleshow/76718623.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Goa||Day 1 at Zuarinagar zone, 123 swabs sent for testing||VASCO: A medical team from the Cortalim primary health centre, led by health officer Dr Succour Quadros, conducted an OPD at the government high school in the Zuarinagar containment area, on Tuesday. The team collected 123 swab samples of relatives of those who had tested positive last week. Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said, “Declaring the Zuarinagar slum a containment zone was the need of the hour, as the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases needs to be immediately controlled.” Deputy sarpanch of Sancoale panchayat, Kavita Kamal, said, “We had demanded had an ambulance be stationed 24x7 at the containment area and had also asked for mobile toilets, which have not yet been arranged. We hope by Wednesday the ambulance and mobile toilets are brought.” Kamal said thousands of residents did not have toilets inside their dwellings and most of them would cross the highway and defecate in the open. “We have asked for mobile toilets at the earliest.” She said she had a meeting with the talathi and mamlatdar where it was decided that 10 volunteers from each ward would be selected to deliver groceries to residents on order basis. Their contact numbers will be shared, Kamal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/day-1-at-zuarinagar-zone-123-swabs-sent-for-testing/articleshow/76718874.cms||Ruvina Khan
July 1, 2020||Goa||Goa: Archbishop’s House to remain closed for public||PANAJI: The offices at the Archbishop’s House at Altinho, Panaji, will continue to be closed for the public till July 20, the director of diocesan centre for social communications media, Fr Barry Cardozo has stated. These offices were closed for the public around mid-June in wake of the rapid spread of Covid-19 cases in different parts of the state. In its notice on June 12, the archdiocese had stated that the offices would remain closed for the public till June 30. In its latest communication on Tuesday, it stated that the offices would continue to be closed till July 20. For urgent matters, people have been asked to contact the chancery on 2223353, 2225291 and 2433600. The Archdiocese on June 24 had issued guidelines to priests for the gradual reopening of churches, chapels and shrines. Archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao directed priests in charge of each place of worship to open places of worship only after putting all necessary protocol in place in accordance with the government and diocesan guidelines and only after getting due permission from him. Once priests put protocol in place, they must ask for due permission from the archbishop who will send his delegate to verify that all conditions are fulfilled in each place of worship. Only after receiving written permission on the basis of the recommendation of the delegate, will churches be permitted to open for the public, he had said. He cautioned priests to assess the seriousness of the situation in their areas and proceed with prudence and discernment before deciding to reopen. He has stated that it is finally the responsibility of each individual when to attend religious services in the current situation and discouraged vulnerable from going to church.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/archbishops-house-to-remain-closed-for-public/articleshow/76718759.cms||---
July 1, 2020||World||Gas explosion at clinic in Iranian capital kills 19||TEHRAN: An explosion from a gas leak in a medical clinic in northern Tehran killed 19 people, Iranian state TV reported on Tuesday. Authorities initially said 13 people were dead, but Jalal Maleki, spokesperson for the Tehran Fire Department, later told state TV that the toll had risen to 19. State-run IRNA news agency also quoted Maleki as saying the dead included 15 women and four men. Maleki added that firefighters had rescued 20 people. Video posted online appeared to show more than one explosion and thick black smoke rising from the flames. Hamidreza Goudarzi, deputy Tehran governor, told state TV that a leak from medical gas tanks in the building was the cause of the explosion and fire. People in nearby Tajrish Bazaar rushed to the scene, impeding a rescue operation, authorities said. Videos on social media showed people gathered outside of the building. State TV said there could be more explosions because there were a number of oxygen tanks remaining in the medical centre. Witness Marjan Haghighi told The Associated Press that police blocked roads to the neighbourhood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/gas-explosion-at-clinic-in-iranian-capital-kills-19/articleshow/76720673.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Chennai||NEET quota for Tamil Nadu govt students: Governor to consult experts||CHENNAI: A fortnight ago the Tamil Nadu cabinet cleared a proposal to provide horizontal reservation for government school students from this academic year. It is now learnt that governor Banwarilal Purohit has been consulting legal experts on the constitutional validity of the scheme. The ordinance is pending before the governor. The cabinet passed the ordinance after Justice P Kalaiyarasan committee in its report submitted recently pointed to the huge disparities in the socio-economic status of the students of government and private schools. Only four students from government schools got admitted under government quota during 2018-19 and five during 2019-20, while there was nil in 2017-18 when the NEET was first introduced. Only five students were admitted under management quota in the last three years. If 40% students passed out every year had come from government schools, only 0.1% of the total seats in medical institutions were available to them. Purohit will ascertain the constitutional propriety of the ordinance before giving his assent. "The state government has passed the ordinance based on sound logic and the governor is critically examining it. The state has requested for an early decision so that students of the current year get the benefit," government sources told TOI. The new academic year will begin soon. The government also presented to the governor the committee's report favouring quota for the students. While 10% horizontal quota was planned initially, the government settled for 7.5% before reaching out to the governor for clearance. The quota is being considered in the private medical colleges too. The horizontal reservations cut across the vertical reservation granted for SC/ST/OBC and general category students. The EPS government is facing flak for not getting clearance for two bills passed unanimously in the state assembly - the Tamil Nadu Admission to MBBS and BDS Courses Bill, 2017 and the Tamil Nadu Admission to Post Graduate Courses in Medicine and Dentistry, seeking exemption from the national competitive examinations for medical admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/neet-quota-for-tamil-nadu-govt-students-governor-to-consult-experts/articleshow/76721236.cms||Julie Mariappan
July 1, 2020||Vijayawada||In Andhra Pradesh, unlock 1.0 sees 300% rise in Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh has seen a 300% rise in Covid-19 cases in ‘Unlock 1.0’. The state, which had 3,571 cases by the end of May, now has 14,595 cases. Nearly 11,000 cases were detected in the month of June. Within this one month, the state conducted 5.17 lakh tests, where 11,024 cases were detected with a positivity rate of 2.13%. From the beginning of the outbreak to the end of May, the state had conducted 3.72 lakh tests, with 3,571 cases being recorded at a positivity rate of 0.96%. It took the state nearly 90 days to reach the first 5,000 cases (June 9), while the next 5,000 cases were reported within a fortnight, on June 24. In the last six days, the state has seen nearly 4,000 more cases. Increase in public movement, resumption of commercial activity, arrival of people from other states, local outbreaks in some areas are some of the reasons being attributed to for the rise in caseload. Restrictions in movement were eased since the first week of May, which opened the doors of the state for return of migrants from other states and countries. Of the 14,595 cases recorded in the state so far, nearly 2,500 infected people are among those who returned either from other countries. For the first one lakh tests, the positivity rate stood at 1.42%. Then, the positivity rate saw a downward trend and reached 1.06% by the time the state crossed the two lakh tests-landmark. Positivity rate declined further, to 0.90%, by the time the state conducted three lakh tests. However, after that the positivity rate saw upward movement reaching 0.98% by the time four lakh tests were conducted and the overall positivity rate is currently hovering around 1.63% after over 8.9 lakh tests have been conducted in the state. Speaking to the media on Tuesday, state health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) said that leasing of lockdown curbs doesn't mean that Covid-19 has been eradicated. “We need to be more alert during these times. I request the public to practice social distancing, personal hygiene and all other Covid-19-related precautions,” the health minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/unlock-1-0-sees-300-rise-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76721407.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||In Andhra Pradesh, unlock 1.0 sees 300% rise in Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh has seen a 300% rise in Covid-19 cases in ‘Unlock 1.0’. The state, which had 3,571 cases by the end of May, now has 14,595 cases. Nearly 11,000 cases were detected in the month of June. Within this one month, the state conducted 5.17 lakh tests, where 11,024 cases were detected with a positivity rate of 2.13%. From the beginning of the outbreak to the end of May, the state had conducted 3.72 lakh tests, with 3,571 cases being recorded at a positivity rate of 0.96%. It took the state nearly 90 days to reach the first 5,000 cases (June 9), while the next 5,000 cases were reported within a fortnight, on June 24. In the last six days, the state has seen nearly 4,000 more cases. Increase in public movement, resumption of commercial activity, arrival of people from other states, local outbreaks in some areas are some of the reasons being attributed to for the rise in caseload. Restrictions in movement were eased since the first week of May, which opened the doors of the state for return of migrants from other states and countries. Of the 14,595 cases recorded in the state so far, nearly 2,500 infected people are among those who returned either from other countries. For the first one lakh tests, the positivity rate stood at 1.42%. Then, the positivity rate saw a downward trend and reached 1.06% by the time the state crossed the two lakh tests-landmark. Positivity rate declined further, to 0.90%, by the time the state conducted three lakh tests. However, after that the positivity rate saw upward movement reaching 0.98% by the time four lakh tests were conducted and the overall positivity rate is currently hovering around 1.63% after over 8.9 lakh tests have been conducted in the state. Speaking to the media on Tuesday, state health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) said that leasing of lockdown curbs doesn't mean that Covid-19 has been eradicated. “We need to be more alert during these times. I request the public to practice social distancing, personal hygiene and all other Covid-19-related precautions,” the health minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/unlock-1-0-sees-300-rise-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76717598.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 1, 2020||Amaravati||In Andhra Pradesh, unlock 1.0 sees 300% rise in Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh has seen a 300% rise in Covid-19 cases in ‘Unlock 1.0’. The state, which had 3,571 cases by the end of May, now has 14,595 cases. Nearly 11,000 cases were detected in the month of June. Within this one month, the state conducted 5.17 lakh tests, where 11,024 cases were detected with a positivity rate of 2.13%. From the beginning of the outbreak to the end of May, the state had conducted 3.72 lakh tests, with 3,571 cases being recorded at a positivity rate of 0.96%. It took the state nearly 90 days to reach the first 5,000 cases (June 9), while the next 5,000 cases were reported within a fortnight, on June 24. In the last six days, the state has seen nearly 4,000 more cases. Increase in public movement, resumption of commercial activity, arrival of people from other states, local outbreaks in some areas are some of the reasons being attributed to for the rise in caseload. Restrictions in movement were eased since the first week of May, which opened the doors of the state for return of migrants from other states and countries. Of the 14,595 cases recorded in the state so far, nearly 2,500 infected people are among those who returned either from other countries. For the first one lakh tests, the positivity rate stood at 1.42%. Then, the positivity rate saw a downward trend and reached 1.06% by the time the state crossed the two lakh tests-landmark. Positivity rate declined further, to 0.90%, by the time the state conducted three lakh tests. However, after that the positivity rate saw upward movement reaching 0.98% by the time four lakh tests were conducted and the overall positivity rate is currently hovering around 1.63% after over 8.9 lakh tests have been conducted in the state. Speaking to the media on Tuesday, state health minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) said that leasing of lockdown curbs doesn't mean that Covid-19 has been eradicated. “We need to be more alert during these times. I request the public to practice social distancing, personal hygiene and all other Covid-19-related precautions,” the health minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/unlock-1-0-sees-300-rise-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76721406.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Guntur lets its guard down even as infections continue to increase||GUNTUR: Nallacheruvu colony, which reported 37 Covid-19 cases two days ago and was declared a containment zone, has not been barricaded yet. The picture is the same in many other areas in Guntur city where Covid-19 cases have been reported. This steady slackening of guard is turning several containment zones into hotbeds of infection. Other indications of the creeping neglect is the reappearance of local vendors in containment zones, while many shops are staying open throughout the day. The incautious behaviour is only matched by the misplaced enthusiasm of buyers who continue to throng the shops and makeshift stalls. As per the rules, no business outlet except medical shops should be allowed to open in containment areas. Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) commissioner C Anuradha, who inspected several containment areas on Tuesday, was shocked by the callous attitude of both civic officials and general public. She immediately directed officials to barricade the containment zones and take immediate measures to prevent traffic of people and vehicles in lanes where positive cases have been identified. She also asked them to ensure that no business outlets, except medical shops, are open in the containment areas. “The officials seem to have suddenly forgot their responsibilities. They barricaded off nearly the entire city when the virus was just starting to spread and patients were being shifted to hospitals. But now, when cases are rising and so many patients are being quarantined at home, they have let their guard down,” fumed SVS Lakshminarayana, a social activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/guntur-lets-its-guard-down-even-as-infections-continue-to-increase/articleshow/76717616.cms||Samdani MN
July 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Partial lockdown in Chittoor district from today||TIRUPATI: With increasing number of Covid-19 cases, the Chittoor district administration has decided to enforce partial lockdown from July 1. Chittoor DSP K Eswar Reddy said police will enforce a strict lockdown at the district headquarters from July 1 between 3 pm and 6 am. The decision was arrived at after the police held talks with shopkeepers and local people. ‘’Businesses can operate only from 6 am till 3 pm every day. The busy bazaar street and Church street would be no vehicle zones. People and shopkeepers should cooperate with the police to enforce the lockdown,” said Reddy. Meanwhile, Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar inspected several red zone areas at the district headquarters and appealed to people not to venture outside unless it is really essential.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/partial-lockdown-in-chittoor-dist-from-today/articleshow/76717637.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 1, 2020||Vijayawada||Drones helping Andhra Pradesh government fight Covid-19 pandemic||VISAKHAPATNAM: Drones have seen an increase in usage in course of the Covid-19 pandemic. Considering the heavy use of drones in the state, the Andhra Pradesh Drone Corporation has had to augment its facilities. Experts claim that drone technology can play a crucial role in security, survey work and awareness programmes with reduced human interference in the times of social distancing. Ajay Babusekhar, senior manager of AP Drones Corporation said, “We have empanelled drone companies who we usually allocate work. By the end of this year, seven or eight more companies will be empanelled. We are doing this because we feel that the use of drone technology will increase considerably because of the pandemic.” During the lockdown, the SP of Nellore had approached the corporation seeking services for an awareness programme. For this project, surveillance cameras were used to spread awareness. Officials did not have to come in contact with the public as they could operate the devices from the control room. Besides reducing human interference, drones have also helped the state government cut down on expenditure. “One of the most ambitious projects that we launched was the aerial survey for the ministry of rural development. We carried out a survey across 2,100 sites across 13 districts in the state. The department saved over Rs200 crore by using the technology,” Babusekhar added. Along with government departments, the AP Drone Corporation is also looking to share its expertise with private players. In such an attempt, the corporation has decided to set up skill development centres at the upcoming ‘drone city’ in Anantapur as well as in some other places. Shuddho Ghosh, the unit head of Tech24 Aviation, a drone technology company in partnership with Israeli company SIMLAT, said, “We have recently approached the corporation to set up drone assembling and skill development centres in Andhra Pradesh. The government has given us three sites as options— two in Anantapur and one in Kurnool. We are hopeful of starting the project soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/drones-helping-govt-fight-pandemic/articleshow/76721432.cms||Arpit Basu
July 1, 2020||Amaravati||Drones helping Andhra Pradesh government fight Covid-19 pandemic||VISAKHAPATNAM: Drones have seen an increase in usage in course of the Covid-19 pandemic. Considering the heavy use of drones in the state, the Andhra Pradesh Drone Corporation has had to augment its facilities. Experts claim that drone technology can play a crucial role in security, survey work and awareness programmes with reduced human interference in the times of social distancing. Ajay Babusekhar, senior manager of AP Drones Corporation said, “We have empanelled drone companies who we usually allocate work. By the end of this year, seven or eight more companies will be empanelled. We are doing this because we feel that the use of drone technology will increase considerably because of the pandemic.” During the lockdown, the SP of Nellore had approached the corporation seeking services for an awareness programme. For this project, surveillance cameras were used to spread awareness. Officials did not have to come in contact with the public as they could operate the devices from the control room. Besides reducing human interference, drones have also helped the state government cut down on expenditure. “One of the most ambitious projects that we launched was the aerial survey for the ministry of rural development. We carried out a survey across 2,100 sites across 13 districts in the state. The department saved over Rs200 crore by using the technology,” Babusekhar added. Along with government departments, the AP Drone Corporation is also looking to share its expertise with private players. In such an attempt, the corporation has decided to set up skill development centres at the upcoming ‘drone city’ in Anantapur as well as in some other places. Shuddho Ghosh, the unit head of Tech24 Aviation, a drone technology company in partnership with Israeli company SIMLAT, said, “We have recently approached the corporation to set up drone assembling and skill development centres in Andhra Pradesh. The government has given us three sites as options— two in Anantapur and one in Kurnool. We are hopeful of starting the project soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/drones-helping-govt-fight-pandemic/articleshow/76721431.cms||Arpit Basu
July 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Drones helping Andhra Pradesh government fight Covid-19 pandemic||VISAKHAPATNAM: Drones have seen an increase in usage in course of the Covid-19 pandemic. Considering the heavy use of drones in the state, the Andhra Pradesh Drone Corporation has had to augment its facilities. Experts claim that drone technology can play a crucial role in security, survey work and awareness programmes with reduced human interference in the times of social distancing. Ajay Babusekhar, senior manager of AP Drones Corporation said, “We have empanelled drone companies who we usually allocate work. By the end of this year, seven or eight more companies will be empanelled. We are doing this because we feel that the use of drone technology will increase considerably because of the pandemic.” During the lockdown, the SP of Nellore had approached the corporation seeking services for an awareness programme. For this project, surveillance cameras were used to spread awareness. Officials did not have to come in contact with the public as they could operate the devices from the control room. Besides reducing human interference, drones have also helped the state government cut down on expenditure. “One of the most ambitious projects that we launched was the aerial survey for the ministry of rural development. We carried out a survey across 2,100 sites across 13 districts in the state. The department saved over Rs200 crore by using the technology,” Babusekhar added. Along with government departments, the AP Drone Corporation is also looking to share its expertise with private players. In such an attempt, the corporation has decided to set up skill development centres at the upcoming ‘drone city’ in Anantapur as well as in some other places. Shuddho Ghosh, the unit head of Tech24 Aviation, a drone technology company in partnership with Israeli company SIMLAT, said, “We have recently approached the corporation to set up drone assembling and skill development centres in Andhra Pradesh. The government has given us three sites as options— two in Anantapur and one in Kurnool. We are hopeful of starting the project soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/drones-helping-govt-fight-pandemic/articleshow/76717652.cms||Arpit Basu
July 1, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu to take call on EWS quota by July 13||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government's stand on providing 10% reservation for economically weaker section (EWS) candidates among forward communities, will be known in two weeks. Noting that the government has referred the matter to a group of senior ministers for a policy decision, the state's advocate-general Vijay Narayan told Madras high court on Tuesday, "We can inform the decision of the group of ministers to the court by July 13." When a division bench of Justice R Subbiah and Justice Krishnan Ramaswamy took up PILs on the issue, the advocate-general said, "The erstwhile commissioner of revenue administration, without consultation with the government, independently issued a circular to issue certificate for EWS." Later, on June 4, the present commissioner, after consulting with the government, withdrew the earlier circular. Now, the entire issue has been referred to a group of senior ministers to take a policy decision on the issue, Narayan added. Recording the submission, the bench adjourned the plea to July 13 for the government to report its decision. He was making the submissions while responding to the pleas moved by Akhila Bharatha Brahmin Association, TN, Kerala & Puducherry Reddy Nala Sangam and another challenging the decision of the government to stop issuing income/ property certificates to avail EWS reservation. According to the petitioners, 10% reservation has been provided to the economically weaker section by the parliament considering the plight of such segments. "To apply for the reservation, it is mandatory to obtain an income or asset certificate from the tahsildar concerned. While the constitutionally validated reservation is yet to be implemented in Tamil Nadu, the state government on June 4, issued a communication to all the district collectors to instruct tahsildars not to issue such certificates, either manually or online," advocate V Suresh said representing the petitioners. The petitioner alleged that the action of the state in issuing the communication constitutes a failure to carry out the directions of the Union government and contradictory to the established rules of relationship between the Union and the states enshrined in the Constitution and amounts to violation of the principle of constitutionalism. Adding that the while the whole of India is caught in the cobweb of Corona virus and when all the sections of society and all citizens are in constant grip of fear of the attack of Coronavirus, there was no immediate urgency to issue the illegal circular at this juncture, the petitioners alleged the circular is nothing but politically motivated. "The decision has been taken to secure electoral mandate from those community people who form a major group in the bracket of caste reservation in Tamil Nadu," the petitioners said. Therefore, the petitioners wanted the court to strike down the communication as illegal, arbitrary and wholly unconstitutional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-to-take-call-on-ews-quota-by-july-13/articleshow/76720678.cms||Suresh Kumar
July 1, 2020||Vijayawada||5 more succumb to Covid-19 in Kurnool||Tirupati: Five more people succumbed to Covid-19 in Kurnool district on Monday, taking the district’s death toll to 63. Six people had died of the disease on Sunday. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the district is now surging closer to the 2,000-mark after 86 people tested positive on Monday. A total of 965 patients have been discharged so far and 845 patients are currently undergoing treatment. Ajay Jain, state Covid-19 special officer reviewed the measures being taken in the district with nodal officers on Monday. He urged officials to scale up capacity so as to be able to conduct 5,000 tests every day. He said that this must be done on war-footing as early detection can save lives. District collector G Veerapandian said that 3,500 tests are being carried out in the district currently and listed out the measures being taken to scale up testing. Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Anantapur district, the district with the second-highest number of cases till date. With 96 new cases reported in Anantapur on Monday, the cumulative total reached 1,467. 622 patients are currently undergoing treatment in the district. Chittoor district registered 56 new cases while Kadapa saw 71 new cases being reported on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/5-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-kurnool/articleshow/76698436.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 1, 2020||India||Party rivals mount fresh pressure on Nepal PM Oli to quit||NEW DELHI: Nepal’s hardline communist PM K P Sharma Oli has come under immense pressure to resign from within the ruling Nepal Communist Party, including from former PM Prachanda. According to Nepal media reports, Prachanda, Madhav Kumar Nepal, Jhalanath Khanal and Bamdev Gautam demanded that Oli quit at a meeting on Tuesday. Oli has tried to make the rebellion from within his party about India and has gone on record to say that India has been behind the effort to unseat him. At a meeting of the standing committee of the party, Pushpa Kamal Dahal or Prachanda openly called for Oli’s resignation over issues of misgovernance. Meanwhile foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali told Nepal’s parliament that the boundary issue should not impact the larger relationship with India. “All the stakeholders should make contributions in building a positive tone in (bilateral) relations. No one should spread bitterness in the relationship,” he said. “I urge all to make positive contributions.” However, the Indian government is taking a tough line here — India has refused to talk to Nepal about boundary issues particularly after the constitution amendment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/party-rivals-mount-fresh-pressure-on-oli-to-quit/articleshow/76720659.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Eluru cop, his two kids test positive||Eluru: A police circle inspector and his two children tested positive for Covid-19 in Eluru on Monday. Officials of the medical and health department have conducted Covid-19 tests on nearly 50 police personnel in the police station limits. The circle inspector reportedly travelled to Hyderabad by train recently along with his family because his mother-in-law had to undergo a surgery. The circle inspector’s wife and mother-in-law have however tested negative.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/eluru-cop-his-two-kids-test-positive/articleshow/76698455.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: No business for months, travel agencies in doldrums||VISAKHAPATNAM: Nearly 80% travel agencies in the state have shut shop over the last two months. Even popular tour operators have closed down as business remains scarce. While the lockdown was eased, Covid-19 cases have kept escalating. There is almost zero demand among customers for leisure travel bookings, for both domestic and international tours. Travel companies point out that the possibility of resurgence in tourism this year seems bleak. People seem to have postponed all travel plans, unless on urgent business. There are over 320 private travel agencies registered in the state. Further, there are 300 more that are unregistered. Around 3,000 people depend of these agencies for their livelihood. According to Tours and Travels Association of Andhra Pradesh (TTAA), of the 3,000 people employed in various travel bureaus across the state, nearly 2,500 have already lost their jobs. Meanwhile, losses made by these companies have run into several crores of rupees. A person who used to work as deputy sales manager at SOTC Travel Limited said, “We have all lost our jobs as offices have shut down both in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada. Even though I have many years of experience of working in travel companies in AP and Singapore, I cannot find a job now. Almost all companies in the tours and travels sector have winded up.” Speaking to TOI, K Vijay Mohan, president of TTAA and CEO of Travel World, said, “In the last four months, the 320 registered companies have made a loss of around Rs 30 crore. These losses have been made towards fixed costs such as office space rentals and employees’ salaries without any income.” “Altogether, with smaller and unregistered companies combined, the loss can be pegged at Rs 60 crore. Now, companies can no longer afford to pay their staff. Nor is there any work for tour operators. We have no option but to close down most branches and ask employees to leave,” Mohan added. The job losses in the industry have affected the families of 2,500 employees, roughly around 10,000 people. Consequently, tour operators and travel agents are now appealing for financial assistance from central and state governments so as to cover even partial salaries. Vijay Mohan said, “We have already written to the Union tourism ministry in April to bail us out by giving the staff a part of their salary, say Rs 10,000 per month as stipend or minimum wage allowance. So far, it hasn’t yielded any result. The entire tourism sector is in urgent need of government support in order to survive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-biz-for-months-travel-agencies-in-doldrums/articleshow/76698490.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 1, 2020||Surat||In a first, Surat records more cases than Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In a first, Surat city and district overtook Ahmedabad city and district in terms of Covid-19 daily cases. Against 197 of Ahmedabad, Surat district recorded 199 cases on Tuesday. Of this, 183 cases were in Surat city while 16 were recorded in the district. Gujarat recorded 620 cases in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Tuesday, taking the state’s total to 32,643. The state also recorded 20 deaths taking the toll to 1,842 while 422 patients were discharged taking the total number of discharged patients to 23,670. — including nine from Ahmedabad, four from Surat, two each from Vadodara and Gandhinagar and one each from Junagadh, Patan and Navsari. Ahmedabad reported the highest discharges at 164, followed by 130 from Surat and 54 from Vadodara. The new cases include 52 from Vadodara, 20 from Valsad and 18 from Jamnagar. With the update on Tuesday, the state has 6,928 (21.3%) active cases whereas the discharged and dead patients are now at 73% and 5.7%. Gujarat carried out 5924 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 3.73 lakh. Watch Gujarat: Surat records more Covid-19 cases than Ahmedabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-a-first-surat-records-more-cases-than-ahmedabad/articleshow/76720701.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||In a first, Surat records more cases than Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: In a first, Surat city and district overtook Ahmedabad city and district in terms of Covid-19 daily cases. Against 197 of Ahmedabad, Surat district recorded 199 cases on Tuesday. Of this, 183 cases were in Surat city while 16 were recorded in the district. Gujarat recorded 620 cases in 24 hours ending 5 pm on Tuesday, taking the state’s total to 32,643. The state also recorded 20 deaths taking the toll to 1,842 while 422 patients were discharged taking the total number of discharged patients to 23,670. — including nine from Ahmedabad, four from Surat, two each from Vadodara and Gandhinagar and one each from Junagadh, Patan and Navsari. Ahmedabad reported the highest discharges at 164, followed by 130 from Surat and 54 from Vadodara. The new cases include 52 from Vadodara, 20 from Valsad and 18 from Jamnagar. With the update on Tuesday, the state has 6,928 (21.3%) active cases whereas the discharged and dead patients are now at 73% and 5.7%. Gujarat carried out 5924 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 3.73 lakh. Watch Gujarat: Surat records more Covid-19 cases than Ahmedabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-a-first-surat-records-more-cases-than-ahmedabad/articleshow/76720680.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Covid delays production of Dhanush guns||Nagpur: Covid outbreak has hit the supply of Dhanush 155x45mm artillery guns, the Indian version of Bofors, to the army. The weapon systems are being made at the Gun Carriage Factory (GCF), Jabalpur, in MP. The first batch of six guns was issued from the GCF in April 2019. This year the factory was supposed to supply another six to eight guns. However, no dispatch could happen as the Covid lockdown hampered operations at the factory. It is learnt four guns are ready for issue after trials, but could not be delivered to the army due to logistics hurdles. Another batch has been built, but the trials could not happen on account of lockdown. The total supply of the Dhanush guns would still be short of equipping one full artillery regiment this year. Sources said after building the entire gun, each piece has to be proven fit for use after trials. The ranges are in other states and access to the area was not possible due to the lockdown. The ranges are located in two different corners of the country, they said. After the factory reopened in June, the production process remains slow as workers have to follow Covid prevention standard operating procedure (SOP), a source said. This coupled with procedural hurdles is expected to delay completion of entire project by one year. After the project was initiated in 2010 , Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) got a bulk production clearance to make the guns in 2019. The army has placed an indent for 114 Dhanush guns. The order is supposed to be completed in four years but it may now take five, said sources. It is expected the current year’s batch may be delivered in a couple of months with delivery of the guns that have already been proven to happen before that. GCF will have to scale up its production to 50 guns a year from 2021 to meet targets. At present, the factory is operating at its optimum capacity. Much of the new machines have been procured and the process continues. Though based on Swedish Bofors, Dhanush is an advanced weapon system with higher range and accuracy. It took a series of trials for the army to finally place an order for 114. The guns have fired 5,000 rounds during trials to get the final clearance. This was a record on its own. The ordnance factories are also upgunning the existing 130 mm guns with the army to 155mm. This will help increasing their range. Named Sharang, the factory is supposed to deliver 300 guns. This project is also expected to be delayed by a year, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-delays-production-of-dhanush-guns/articleshow/76718995.cms||Shishir Arya
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Food deliveries hit as Covid curbs bite||AHMEDABAD: Even as restaurants and eateries have resumed operations-- most them for takeaways alone - for more than three weeks now, they are showing no signs of revival in business. The food deliveries in major cities across Gujarat have plummeted to less than 10% of the pre-Covid period. Before the lockdown, 75,000 food deliveries took place in Ahmedabad every day; which is now reduced to barely 4,000, suggest estimates by Food Entrepreneurs' Alliance (FEA). Cities like Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara are facing the same. Restaurateurs attribute the decline in food orders to a widespread reluctance among people to eat outside food, especially during the time of pandemic. "People are reluctant in eating out and as a result, the proportion of orders has gone down significantly. Takeaways account for a significant business and revenue for the restaurant industry. Just before the lockdown, takeaways comprised 20-40% of total order volume for a restaurant and remaining came from dine-in services. The same for cloud kitchens is of course, 100%," said Rohit Khanna, co-founder, FEA. ‘Cloud kitchen-based restaurants staring at a bleak future’Rohit Khanna, co-founder, FEA, said, “At this point, most restaurants have not resumed dine-in services anticipating lower footfalls. However, with takeaway business too not picking up, restaurateurs are reeling under a severe revenue shortfall.” Industry estimates suggest that after the app-based food delivery platforms came in, the takeaway business grew multi-folds for restaurants across the state and also led to the starting of various cloud kitchens which operated on takeaway-only business model. “Several cloud kitchen-based restaurants which had started out are staring at a bleak future amid limited takeaway orders,” said an industry player without willing to be named. In case of Vadodara, takeaway orders have come down by 70%. "People are avoiding dine-in and thus, restaurants are trying to revive their business through takeaway food, but that too is suffering," said Nitin Nanavaty, president of Vadodara Food Entrepreneurs, who owns four restaurants in the city. Most restaurateurs attribute the losses incurred in takeaway business to the restriction in timings imposed on operational hours of restaurants. In Rajkot, delivery business has come down from 50,000 deliveries in a day to barely 5,000. “Majority of the business takes place during the evening however due to restriction in operational hours, we were forced to close restaurants by 7pm. Initially, the business resumed at 60% in terms of order volumes however, as Covid-19 cases began to increase, orders went down drastically in the last one week,” said Shekhar Mehta, president, Rajkot Food & Beverage Association. Paresh Patel, owner of a Surat-based restaurant said, “During pre-Covid period, our takeaway business was doing well with more than 200 parcels of Chinese, south Indian and Gujarati thali every day. The same has now reduced to barely 30 parcels in a day. People fear that they may contract coronavirus infection by ordering food from the restaurants.” ( With inputs from Nimesh Khakhariya in Rajkot, Melvyn Thomas in Surat & Tushar Tere in Vadodara)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-food-deliveries-hit-as-covid-curbs-bite/articleshow/76720704.cms||Niyati Parikh
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur received 135% more rainfall than June last year||Nagpur: This June, the city received 135% more rainfall than it did the same month last year. Data from the Regional Meteorological Centre, Nagpur, said the total rainfall that the city received in June this year is 187.1 millimetres as against the normal of 166.3mm. Last year, a total of 79.8mm rain was recorded in the same month. In 2018 and 2017, the city had received 242 and 140.3mm rains respectively in the month of June. This June, heavy rains were witnessed all across Vidarbha, which also led to a drop in maximum and minimum temperatures. Till now, most of the districts in the region have received normal rainfall. Only Akola and Yavatmal have a 31% deficit. According to met officials, normal rainfall is expected in July too. In the first week of the month, almost all districts are expected to receive light to moderate rains. On July 3, heavy rainfall is expected to occur in Gondia, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli while on July 4, Wardha, Bhandara and Gondia will witness heavy rains. Overall seasonal rainfall is likely to be 103% over Central India. In Nagpur, thunder and lightning along with drizzle is forecast between July 1-3. The maximum mercury levels will stay between 37-40 degree Celsius while the minimum temperatures will be between 26-29 degree Celsius. Box JUNE SHOWERS Rainfall ——— Actual ———- Normal ——- Departure 2020————-187.1———166.3 ———- 13 2019————79.8———— 166.3 ——- -52 2018————-242———— 158 —— 53 2017————140.3———— 158 — -11 (Actual and normal rainfall in millimetres, departure in %)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-received-135-more-rainfall-than-june-last-year/articleshow/76719010.cms||Manka Behl
July 1, 2020||Nagpur||HC: Complete devpt works at KP by Oct||Nagpur: Expressing concern over delay in various developmental and beautification works at Kasturchand Park, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the respondents to complete the same by October. While hearing a suo motu PIL (No. 45/2017) on encroachments and neglect of the historic place, division bench of Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Amit Borkar asked the respondents to fill in all the pits, level the ground and also remove encroachment, if any. “This work is to be done within two weeks from today and file compliance report,” the bench said before adjourning the hearing. Earlier, amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar pointed out to the court that pits have been dug up in the Kasturchand Park, which is classified as a heritage structure. He also highlighted that encroachments have still not been removed and the ground is in poor condition as it wasn’t levelled till date. Referring to the NMC’s affidavit of June 27, the bench pointed out that recreational facilities like beautification, compound wall, gates, parking bay, toilet blocks, electrification, ground levelling and flag mast area among others were planned to be developed at the place. Collector Ravindra Thakare had also filed an affidavit informing that MahaMetro was granted permission for station construction by dismantling the protection wall of 23 metres from LIC Square to RBI Square. A public toilet was being constructed by NMC in south-east direction. For constructing walking, jogging, cycling tracks and plantation, collector said he had granted permission to Solar Industries’s Shyam Mundada. The HC had taken suo motu cognisance of a media report on encroachments for second time regarding non-compliance of its directives of April 27, 2017, to stop any illegal activity on the ground. “The media report presents a disturbing and dismal picture of KP ground and old structure. It indicates that the pavilion there is under illegal occupation of squatters and major portion of the ground is in a shambles. The HC can’t remain silent spectator to this brazen misuse,” the judges had warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-complete-devpt-works-at-kp-by-oct/articleshow/76719042.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 1, 2020||World||Judge temporarily blocks tell-all book by Trump's niece||NEW YORK: A tell-all book by President Donald Trump's niece cannot be published until a judge decides the merits of claims by the president's brother that its publication would violate a pact among family members, a judge has said. New York state Supreme Court Judge Hal B Greenwald in Poughkeepsie, New York, issued an order on Tuesday requiring the niece, Mary Trump, and her publisher to explain why they should not be blocked from publishing the book: 'Too Much and Never Enough: How My Family Created the World's Most Dangerous Man.' A hearing was set for July 10. The book, scheduled to be published July 28, was written by Mary Trump, the daughter of Fred Trump Jr, the president's elder brother, who died in 1981. An online description of it says it reveals "a nightmare of traumas, destructive relationships, and a tragic combination of neglect and abuse." The judge banned "publishing, printing or distributing any book or any portions thereof" before he decides the validity of Robert S. Trump's claims. Robert Trump argues Mary Trump must comply with a written agreement among family members who settled a dispute over Fred Trump's will that a book about them cannot be published without their permission. Mary Trump's lawyer, Theodore J. Boutrous Jr., and her publisher, Simon & Schuster, promised an immediate appeal. "The trial court's temporary restraining order is only temporary but it still is a prior restraint on core political speech that flatly violates the First Amendment," Boutrous said. "This book, which addresses matters of great public concern and importance about a sitting president in an election year, should not be suppressed even for one day," Boutrous said in a statement. Adam Rothberg, a Simon & Schuster spokesperson, said the publisher was disappointed but looks forward "to prevailing in this case based on well-established precedents regarding prior restraint." Charles Harder, an attorney for Robert Trump, said his client was "very pleased". He said in a statement that the actions by Mary Trump and her publisher were "truly reprehensible". "We look forward to vigorously litigating this case, and will seek the maximum remedies available by law for the enormous damages," he said. "Short of corrective action to immediately cease their egregious conduct, we will pursue this case to the very end." In court papers, Robert Trump maintained Mary Trump was part of a settlement nearly two decades ago that included a confidentiality clause explicitly saying they would not "publish any account concerning the litigation or their relationship", unless they all agreed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/judge-temporarily-blocks-tell-all-book-by-trumps-niece/articleshow/76720700.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amid Covid, Dubai NRG helps airlift 700 Gujaratis||AHMEDABAD: A Gujarati businessman in the UAE has so far helped more than 700 compatriots return to Gujarat during the Covid pandemic. The efforts o f Bharat Joshi, who settled in Dubai 16 years ago, have complemented the government of India's Vande Bharat programme. The programme facilitates the homecoming of Indians stranded abroad because of the pandemic. Joshi, 44, has till date arranged four chartered flights to ferry people back to Gujarat. He and his friends - Kunjan Pansuriya, Dharamdev Thakore and Pratap Kuchhadiya - are also helping people register with Indian embassies in the UAE for Vande Bharat flights. Using a travel agency, Joshi booked four chartered flights to Ahmedabad from the UAE. Two flights - on June 18 and 23 - brought back 175 passengers each from Ras Al Khaimah. Then flights on June 24 and 25 brought back 180 passengers each from Dubai. NRG to send two more batches in JulyThe government is operating flights for stranded persons, but more flights are needed,” said Bharat Joshi. “Hundreds of passengers were waiting for bookings on Vande Bharat flights. That is why I thought of this idea.” Joshi and his friends have been spending several hours every day coordinating with various agencies to help people return home. Joshi hails from Chobari village of Bhachau taluka in Kutch district. He said that the plan is to send two more batches of Gujaratis back on July 3 and 6 on chartered flights. “We will need at least ten more flights to ensure that all stranded Indians in the UAE return home,” he said. The chartered flights of SpiceJet and GoAir have been charging 900-1,150 dirhams (roughly Rs 18,500 to Rs 23,650) per passenger. The price includes the cost of Covid tests. “Barring two or three persons whose airfares we bore, others paid for themselves,” Joshi said. Gujaratis who have returned are grateful to Joshi and his friends. “For two months, I desperately tried to get on a Vande Bharat flight,” said Nilam Patel, who returned on the June 25 flight. “When Bharatbhai and others learnt of this, they arranged my travel. I have seen them working tirelessly to get Gujaratis back home.” Nita Thadani, who also returned on the June 25 flight, said: “Bharatbhai and his team are doing a fantastic job. They are working round the clock.” Joshi arrived in Dubai in 2004 and began working for a salary of 1,150 dirhams (a little over Rs 23,000) a month. Watch Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Dubai NRG helps airlift 700 Gujaratis||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amid-covid-dubai-nrg-helps-airlift-700-gujaratis/articleshow/76720721.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
July 1, 2020||India||India gets its wettest June in 7 years||NEW DELHI: India experienced its wettest month of June in seven years with 18% above-normal rainfall on the back of timely monsoon onset and its swift advance across the country. While all four regions have recorded surplus rains, central India as well as east and northeast have received the heaviest showers. Early figures for kharif season sowing reflects the good rainfall so far, with 315.6 lakh hectare already under cultivation, which is 68% higher than the normal for the week, as per agriculture ministry data from June 26. While the area under rice was 5.7 lakh hectare higher than normal, significantly higher sowing was also recorded in pulses, course cereals, oilseeds and cotton. India received 196.2mm of rain during the month, highest since 2008, when 202mm was recorded during the month, as per India Meteorological Department records. June’s normal rainfall is currently pegged at 166.9mm. June is the first of the four monsoon months and rainfall during this month often sets the tone for kharif sowing in the country. This year’s June rainfall was in sharp contrast to June last year, which had ended with a massive 33% rain deficit and was the driest June in the previous five years. Despite that, the 2019 monsoon had turned out to be the wettest since 1994, with 10% higher rainfall than the long period average. “India received good and uniformly distributed rainfall this June. Out of the 36 meteorological subdivisions, only six have recorded deficient rains,” said Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, head of IMD. The monsoon covered the country on June 26, 12 days ahead of the normal date of July 8. Mohapatra said three weather systems aided the monsoon’s swift progress. “The first was the low pressure system in Arabian Sea in the end of May, which later intensified into Cyclone Nisarga. It aided the monsoon’s onset over Kerala and, because it moved north towards the Maharashtra-Gujarat coast, it helped monsoon’s further progress as well. Then, two low-pressure systems, one coming from the Bay of Bengal around June 12 and the other in the third week of the month, pushed the monsoon into the rest of the country,” Mohapatra said. However, while central India, with nearly 31% above-normal rainfall, and east and northeast (16% above normal) have received the maximum rainfall bounty so far, the plains of northwest India are yet to see significant monsoon activity. “The monsoon’s onset over northwest India was weak. Immediately thereafter, the monsoon trough —along which major rainfall activity takes place — moved close to the Himalayan foothills. We expect the northern plains to get rainfall only after July 4,” the IMD chief said. The good rainfall so far has also resulted in adequate water storage across the country. The average water level in 123 important reservoirs was nearly 194% of last year’s level and 171% of the 10-year average, as per government data released on June 26. Watch India gets its wettest June in 12 years||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-gets-its-wettest-june-in-7-years/articleshow/76720694.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
July 1, 2020||Delhi||We worked in healthcare, and it shows: Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia||Deputy CM Manish Sisodia says the number of positive Covid cases in Delhi only reflect how testing has been ramped up. The number of people recovering has gone up and a large number of beds were vacant. This, he told Atul Mathur, was a sign of the government's preparedness. He said the Centre was extending all cooperation in this battle which has to be fought jointly Do you think Delhi is well on its way to checking the spread of coronavirus, now that there is a lot of coordination between all agencies? Yes, I can say today that the situation in Delhi is stable. Don't look at the number of positive cases as it will only reflect the number of tests that we are doing now. And we should also not assess the situation in Delhi vis-a-vis other states by comparing the number of positive cases. If the number of tests increase, the number of positive cases will also go up. We should look at the ratio of people who are recovering every day and the percentage of positive as per the tests done. There is stability in both numbers. More than 52,000 people have recovered in home isolation so far. At one time, 6,200 beds were occupied. Today, the number is less than 6,000. The number of deaths has also come down. All these factors indicate that we are moving towards stability. Are you getting cooperation from the Central Government and are there any areas where things could be better? Our CM has a policy - do whatever it takes to benefit the people of Delhi. If it requires making requests to the Centre or the corporations with folded hands for their cooperation in the battle against corona, we will do that. And the good thing is that following our requests, all agencies have stepped forward and are cooperating with us. However, the Centre takes a lot of decisions on the advice of its expert panel without knowing the situation on the ground. We also have a lot of experts and they advise us on several issues but their suggestions need to be cross-checked with the ground realities. The Centre took some decisions in the past few weeks, which probably required more deliberation before being implemented. It would have saved a lot of time and energy of all stakeholders. We would also have put in more efforts in doing other work than getting those decisions reversed. Having said that, the Centre has given us PPE kits, ventilators, masks and ITBP staff (to run the Covid Care centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur). Its contribution is visible. The number of beds and tests have been ramped up, but by the government's own admission, there is a manpower shortage as far as healthcare workers and doctors are concerned. How do you plan to address this? In certain areas, we now have advanced technology available and we are leveraging that. Manpower shortage has been an issue and that's why the help from the Centre is important. We have taken all possible measures to deal with this crisis. We formed a committee under Dr Mahesh Verma on the challenges we face to get additional staff, senior resident doctors and nursing officials. The good thing is that Delhi had a ready medical infrastructure. The work done in the health sector in the past five years, when we had no idea that this kind of situation may arise, has come handy. If that work had not been done, we would not have that kind of manpower and infrastructure available to us. In the past five years, the Delhi government spent a lot of money on health. It was a focus area like education.We have given powers to the hospitals to hire staff. They are conducting walk-in interviews. They don't have to look up to the government for administrative sanction. We have told the hospitals to hire people from the open market and it's being done. If the government had to do the hiring, it would have to follow the regular process of giving advertisements and conducting exams and interviews. We don't have time for that. Another good thing is that lot of people and groups, such as 'Doctors for U', are coming forward to help. They get money through CSR and establish the system. We are setting up a 600-bed medical facility at Commonwealth Games Village. It was not possible for the government to run it. The organisation will get the nursing, medical and technical staff while the government will provide beds and other essentials. No agency has the wherewithal to fight the battle against corona alone. When all stakeholders come together, things become easier. We cannot be lax in our preparations because we don't know when the number will spike again. We are not under any kind of illusion. Amit Shah said that your projection of 5.5 lakh cases by July 31 created panic. It was not my number. It was not fictitious. It was based on the projections given on the Government of India website. We just brought them into the public domain. The benefit was that people understood the gravity of the situation and become more cautious. There was no panic. The social sector, Centre and Delhi government joined hands and worked together to improve the situation. Our doctors and healthcare workers are most vulnerable. How is the government addressing the situation? There is no denying the fact that this battle is being fought on the frontlines by our doctors and medical teams. We can make policies, coordinate and develop facilities, but in such a situation, there is risk to their lives. The government is supporting them to keep them motivated. I am going to the hospitals regularly and so is the chief minister. We are speaking to them regularly, discussing issues over a cup of tea and motivating them. We have also promised to give Rs 1 crore to the family of any Covid warrior losing his or her life in this battle. A conventional monitoring system requires more manpower which is fine when things are normal. But with advanced technology, more beds can be monitored with a lesser number of medical staff. We are working on it. Our doctors are bringing this new technology. The CM is himself in touch with the heads of all hospitals on daily basis. This gives doctors the confidence that they have a government and a CM ready to invest in such advanced technologies. The serological survey apart, are you confident of carrying out the house-to-house survey in a comprehensive manner which will give us a correct picture of the situation in Delhi? Sources in your government have been complaining about the fact that the Centre has not given them any plan or resources. At one of the expert committee meetings of the Centre, this survey was discussed and they asked our officers to initiate it. But the Centre must have realised later that it was not practical and they had a rethinking. If they still want to get it done, they will have to give us a protocol and tell us what details they want us to collect, the kind of manpower required etc. I don't know, though, what purpose it will serve. We are increasing the number of containment zones. The hundred per cent survey in containment zones will help. There is surveillance too. The serological test is also important as it will help us know how many people have antibodies. But the door-to-door survey is time-consuming. If the Centre really wants us to get it done, we will sit with them and discuss the modalities only after they provide us with all the details. Testing and contact tracing are the biggest tools to prevent spreading of the virus. What is your government’s strategy for testing? Among the five principles, the CM has mentioned in the fight against Corona, testing is at the top. Delhi is conducting the highest number of tests in the country now. We have bought six lakh kits recently and have placed orders for another five lakhs. We don’t have to stop testing people. It will continue. The ICMR has also allowed private laboratories to start random testing. The focus areas are the containment zones and testing the direct contacts of positive patients. We have focussed extensively on increasing testing. We have tested more than 5 lakh people in Delhi which works out to over 26,000 tests per million, highest in the country. The average for the country is less than 7,000. Delhi is the only state where its CM has launched a dedicated app – Delhi Corona app – to give real-time data of bed and ventilator status. We are in the process of launching a plasma bank which is the first in the country. We are making a 10,000-bed Covid Care centre in Chhatarpur which is the biggest in the country. Our home isolation programme has proven to be very successful and is liked by the people of Delhi. Delhi has the second highest number of positive cases in the country. Why do you think the situation deteriorated?Just counting the number of positive cases to ascertain the situation is wrong. If a state government does not get tests done and has fewer cases, you will think the situation is good. Both Delhi and Mumbai played an important role in hosting foreign travellers. Delhi hosted 35,000 people, which was a big number, and its cascading impact and spreading of corona was expected. Also, we have conducted the highest number of tests. But Delhi has prepared for much more than the projections. I had said that there are likely to be 1,00,000 patients by June 30 and the number has touched 85,000. Since we have increased the number of tests, this number was expected. But there are only 26,000 active patients. I had said 15,000 beds would be required, today less than 6,000 beds are occupied. We have a capacity for 8,500 patients at the isolation centres and only 1,800 are there. Delhi is much ahead of the need and this happened because we probably were extra cautious or concerned. It’s also because of the stability in Delhi. Do you think the LG has played a positive role in this time of crisis?LG does what the Centre wants. He is a good person. We are actually fighting a huge battle and should not be bothered by small skirmishes. If we are four steps ahead of the projections, I think that is because of good governance. I am confident that we are doing well. There seems to be a general perception that the Centre has taken over control of the situation with Amit Shah personally monitoring everything?Amit Shah has contributed by giving ventilators, PPE kits and ITBP staff and we acknowledge that. The Delhi government is doing its job, and as I said earlier, the CM is working on the principle of making requests to all agencies and stakeholders with folded hands for their cooperation and we are getting it. There is a view that the opportunity provided by two months of lockdown was squandered. We didn’t marshal our resources and, even now, contact tracing is lax. This is absolutely incorrect. If today we are much ahead in terms of number of beds in hospitals and Covid Care centres and if we have oximeters and other equipment in more than the needed quantity, then it is evident that the time of the lockdown was used very wisely. We had formed an expert committee of doctors under Dr Sareen during Lockdown 1 which was asked to come up with different scenarios and a corresponding plan for the same – say if the number of corona cases increased by 100 per day, there was Plan A; if the cases increased by 500 per day, we had Plan B; if the figure was 1,000, then Plan C would be implemented, and so on. Based on this, the CM had launched a five “T” plan – testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork, tracking and monitoring. Special emphasis was laid on increasing our testing capacity. Simultaneously we started working on improving the healthcare infrastructure of the capital. We declared three big hospitals, including LNJP, as Covid hospitals. Several areas with multiple cases were declared as containment zones, and a special initiative under Operation SHIELD was launched to ensure a coordinated strategy of sealing, home quarantine, isolation and tracking, supply of essential supplies, ensuring local sanitisation and carrying out door-to-door checking in these zones. Does Delhi’s financial condition worry you? Has revenue increased over the past one month? Is your government in a situation to pay salaries and also take care of Covid expenses on its own?It is very poor. I am quite optimistic that the Central Government will do the needful. They are helping us in all aspects and I hope they will help us with this too. In 2019-20, our collection of GST and VAT in first quarter was Rs 7,275 crore but this time it is just about Rs 2,500 crore. Collection of stamp duty and vehicle registration fee is negligible. I hope the Centre will help us.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/we-worked-in-healthcare-and-it-shows-delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia/articleshow/76720751.cms||Atul Mathur
July 1, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Covid-19 strains ties between doctors and their stethoscopes!||AHMEDABAD: Doctors and stethoscopes are joined at the neck literally. Rarely would you see a doctor without one dangling from the neck, it’s earpiece quickly pulled into the ears to listen intently to the chest and heart sounds of the patient, and offer a clinical diagnosis of what ails the patient. Alas, corona pandemic might be breaking this centuries-old relationship between a physician and his medical device. In Ahmedabad, one of the five worst Covid-19 affected cities in India, many doctors have bid adieu to their stethoscopes to make way for social distancing which mandates six feet distance between the patient and the healer. For some it was a logical thing to do as using a stethoscope needs doctor to get up-close with patient, some quit the hard way after falling prey to corona. Doctors now maintaining six feet distance with patientsDr Pranav Shah, general physician practicing in Vejalpur, says he ditched his beloved stethoscope only after he got critically ill with Covid. “Most of my doctor friends had stopped using stethoscope following six feet distance norm between patient and themselves but I continued as I thought I was protected wearing a PPE kit. But Covid-19 got me and got me bad,” says Dr Shah, who battled for life and death in ICU for days in May before he recovered. “Now, I have ditched the stethoscope as I do not want to risk getting Covid again. I take detailed history of patients and if their cough or breathing issues do not improve in two-three days, I order a CT for better diagnosis and an X-ray chest if the patient is not affording,” says Dr Shah. Cardiologist Dr Joyal Shah says corona pandemic has prompted him to ditch the stethoscope and rely more on diagnostic tests such as Echo-2D and chest CTs. “We have trained to diagnose what's wrong with the heart using stethoscope. Most cardiologists get a high to clinically diagnose the patient by just listening to the heart and later only confirming it using advance diagnostics. But during corona epidemic, we have severely limited it's use only in immobile or very ill patients in the ward,” says the cardiologist. He adds that hopes his break-up with stethoscope is temporary as he would like to use it extensively again when Corona is controlled. General physician Dr Dhiren Parikh says that use of same stethoscope is not possible on all patients during Corona. "Mostly we do not use it. When we do, there is a ritual of sanitizing it thoroughly,” says Dr Parikh. In fact, such is the wariness that not using stethoscopes and blood pressure monitors on patients was a precondition laid down by Jamalpur Doctor's Association in May when the Ahmedabad Muncipal Corporation officials egged them to open their clinics for treating patients in the red zone for Covid. “After a month, some doctors have picked up the stethoscopes as it is the cheapest tool for diagnosis as compared to CT, X-rays and Echo-2Ds but many are still wary," said Dr Mubassir Saiyed. Dr Pragnesh Vachharajani, secretary of Ahmedabad Family Physicians Association (AFPA), says stethoscope is an integral part of diagnostics and not easily replaceable. “To reduce chances of infection spread, several members have installed plastic curtains which are used as abarrier between the patient and doctor's stethoscope to examine heart and lungs function,” he said. Dr JP Modi, superintendent of Civil Hospital, said stethoscopes are not allowed to be taken outside specific area and are disinfected regularly to ensure that they don't turn carriers of virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-covid-19-strains-ties-between-doctors-and-their-stethoscopes/articleshow/76720753.cms||Parth Shastri
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai has best air day in at least five years||MUMBAI: Take a deep breath. Mumbai has not experienced such pristine air quality in more than nine months. With a score of 12, the city, on Tuesday, equalled its record for the best air quality index (AQI) level since the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) began monitoring in June 2015. Mumbai’s AQI was 12 on September 4 last year. It is measured by the level of the main pollutant in the air—particulate material 2.5 or PM2.5, particles that measure less than 2.5 microns. An AQI under 50 is considered to be good as it does not pose any health risks. The AQI on Tuesday morning was 13 which further improved to 12 during the day. Among 10 locations monitored, the best AQI was 2 at Colaba. The lowest was at Navi Mumbai with 26, though it was in the ‘good’ category. SAFAR has forecast AQI to touch 10 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-has-best-air-day-in-at-least-five-years/articleshow/76720726.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
July 1, 2020||India||48% of people got medical care before death in 2018: Report||NEW DELHI: More people received medical care before death in 2018 as compared to five years ago, the Sample Registration System Statistical Report 2018 said. The data, from the report released on Friday, showed there was an increase of about 8.6 percentage points where the deceased had received medical attention before death in hospitals during 2013-2018. In 2018, in nearly 48% deaths, the deceased had received medical attention either at a government hospital or a private hospital. While nearly 50% of them got institutional care, around 20% were attended by untrained functionaries. In rural areas, while more than 23% were attended to by untrained functionaries, in urban settings, this was much lower at 8.7%, the data released by the Registrar General of India showed. In 2018, more such people were received at government hospitals than private ones. Government hospitals got 29.4% of such cases, wile 18.5% deaths where deceased got medical care were in private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/48-of-people-got-medical-care-before-death-in-2018-report/articleshow/76720757.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||Bad weather nets Maharashtra’s worst fish haul in 45 years||MUMBAI: Last year, Maharashtra saw its lowest fish catch since 1974 due to bad weather, including unusual cyclones in the Arabian Sea that kept boats ashore, as well as generally lower stocks. Fish landings in Maharashtra declined 32% between 2018 and 2019, falling from 2.9 lakh tonnes to 2 lakh tonnes, shows data released on Tuesday by the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). This is the second continuous year of decline as 2018 also saw a 22.5% decline. While fish catch usually fluctuates year to year due to oceanic conditions, experts say that with climate change bringing extreme weather, more action is needed to make fishing sustainable. Long monsoon, cyclone alerts in ’19 saw 36% shrinkage in fishing days in Maharashtra Bad weather saw 36% dip in the number of fishing days in the state in 2019 from the previous year, said Anulekshmi Chellapan, scientist in charge of CMFRI’s Mumbai centre. The community lost an estimated 50 days of fishing between August and December, said Chellapan, as prolonged monsoon and several depression and cyclone alerts kept fishermen at home in the usually productive post-rain period. Low catch even on good weather days led to fewer trawlers going out, reflecting in the relatively low trawl catch. Fishing effort in the state shrank 48% in 2019, according to CMFRI measures. Cyclonic activity hit the catch along most of the west coast in 2019, with Maharashtra and Goa the worst affected. The latter saw a 44% fall in fish catch with Mumbai district contributing 40% to the catch followed by Raigad and Ratnagiri. The Arabian Sea usually gets far fewer cyclones than the Bay of Bengal, but a 2015 Princeton study found a rise in cyclonic activity in the region due to warming waters. A historic five of eight cyclones in the Indian Ocean formed in Arabian Sea last year. Among the most important catch declines was the high export-value penaeid prawns, which fell 46.2%. Among other declines, croakers or dhoma fell 45%, lobster 70%, crabs 40%, sardines or taarla 79%, mackerel or bangda 34%, and threadfin large quantity of juvenile catch in recent years, which can’t be sold at full price, indicates fishermen are catching more than is sustainable, said K V Akhilesh, a scientist at CMFRI. State regulations on fishing through monsoon bans, net size limits, and tracking devices are breams or rani fish 52%. The popular Bombay Duck and silver pomfret saw only small decline in catch of less than 1% and 3%, respectively. Catch of lower value non-penaeid prawns saw an increase of 13%. Extreme weather is not the only factor in the decline. The not always implemented well, he added. “Monitoring needs to improve both at sea and ports. Improving the quality of fish with better storage is needed.” Fish catch in India rose 2.1% in 2019 with 3.56 million tonne. Tamil Nadu displaced Gujarat from the top spot in catch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bad-weather-nets-maharashtras-worst-fish-haul-in-45-years/articleshow/76720777.cms||Vaishnavi Chandrashekhar
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||Backache, nausea, rashes among new red flags for Covid-19 in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Cough, cold or fever are no longer the only warning signs of Covid. Severe backache, abdominal pain, rashes or aching calves could also be the calling card of the virus, which has killed 4,556 Mumbaikars and affected almost 80,000 people in the past three months. Doctors treating Covid cases in the city say diarrhoea may be more common than previously thought. Patients with no history of diabetes brought to hospital with sugar levels of 400-plus dl/gm is also a red flag. “Doctors are seeing patients with uncommon symptoms such as bodyache; some have no complaint apart from pain round the knees and below,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state government task force on Covid-19. A senior doctor, Jalil Parkar, who treated over 200 Covid patients before testing positive for the virus, said backache was the first symptom he had experienced. Seven months into the pandemic, doctors and researchers are still adding new symptoms. On Monday, the American Centers for Disease Control added three symptoms to its list of nine Covid warning signs: congestion or runny nose, nausea or vomiting, and diarrhoea. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had a fortnight ago added loss of smell (anosmia) or loss of taste (ageusia) as probable symptoms. It also added that while fever, tiredness and dry cough are the most common symptoms, “some patients may have aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhoea”. Infectious diseases specialist Dr Om Srivastava, who is also a task force member, said nausea is emerging as a common symptom. “We have found Covid in people coming with abdominal pain and loose motions with bodyache. Even simple fever is turning out to be Covid. However, we try and rule out dengue, malaria, etc before asking for a Covid test,” said Dr Hemant Gupta, professor of medicine at Grant Medical College (JJ Hospital). “Sugar level going haywire has also become a parameter for us. Not only do sugar levels shoot up in those with Covid, it’s also difficult to control the spike and patients need high insulin doses,” he added. Dr Behram Pardiwala, internal medicine expert, at Wockhardt Hospital said sometimes patients have no other symptom but weakness and lethargy or lethargy and loose motions. “Some younger patients and adults are coming with complaints of itching and rashes. We have seen this in at least three adults two weeks ago,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/backache-nausea-rashes-among-new-red-flags-for-covid-19-in-mumbai/articleshow/76720812.cms||Malathy Iyer
July 1, 2020||India||Better education of women helped push total fertility rate down||NEW DELHI: As the total fertility rate (TFR) reflects a decline from 5.2 in 1971 to 2.2 in 2018, the Sample Registration System Statistical Report 2018 among various factors highlights how not just age but education levels of women has had a direct impact on fertility. At the national level, TFR for the women having educational status 'illiterate' in 2018 was 3. This is much higher than the 'literate' group which has a TFR of 2.1 and has registered a gradual decline of TFR with the increase in the level of education. TFR indicates the average number of children expected to be born per woman during her entire span of reproductive period. Going by the data a rural woman (having a TFR of 2.4) at the national level would have about one child more than an urban woman (having a TFR of 1.7) on an average. During 2018, Bihar reported the highest TFR (3.2) while Delhi and West Bengal have reported the lowest TFR (1.5). While TFR has seen a significant shift from 1971 to 2018, during 2013-2018, there has been a decline of 0.1 point in TFR at the national level. Age of women is an extremely important factor affecting fertility levels. It is reported that fertility in all the age groups (reproductive age group of 15-49 years) is higher in rural areas than in urban areas. The fertility reaches the peak in the age group 25-29 and declines thereafter. During the last decade, the fertility declined in the older age groups in rural areas while it increased for the corresponding age groups in urban areas. The decline in fertility is slower in the middle age groups 20-34 for both the areas. At the national level, fertility has declined in all age-groups except in the age-group 30-34. Drawing a connection between education and TFR, the data shows that among women who were graduates and above, the average TFR was 1.7. For those educated up to class 12 the TFR was 1.8, it was 1.9 for those up to class 10, 2.2 for those who had studied up to middle school and 2.5 for those with primary school level education. The TFR was 2.9 for women who reported below primary level education and 2.5 for those without any formal education. Given that education has a role to play in empowering women to take decisions, the SRS report draws attention to the fact that at the national level, 13.0% of the female population reported 'illiterate' as against 87% in the 'literate' category. About 18.9% had studied up to class X, 12.5% up to class XII, and only 9.8% reported education level of graduate and above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/better-education-of-women-helped-push-total-fertility-rate-down/articleshow/76720789.cms||Ambika Pandit
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Two senior health officials test Covid-19 positive||KOLKATA: Two senior health officials — a scientist-administrator attached with a central government health institute and a departmental head at the state-run Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education & Research (IPGMER), SSKM Hospital — have tested positive to Covid-19 infection. While one is in home isolation with advice from doctors since her symptoms are mild, the other is in the ICU of a private hospital. The duo is among the 300 odd healthcare workers who have been infected during the pandemic. The scientist is associated with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED), which has its office at Beliaghata. The ICMR-NICED lab is the one that has been testing Covid samples right from the beginning. The senior scientist has been at the forefront during this pandemic as the institute is in charge distributing testing kits from ICMR to other government labs that are conducting Covid tests across the state. NICED is also responsible for validating labs before they are allowed to start Covid testing. “The NICED official is in good health. Her condition has been assessed by our doctors after which she was told that she could stay in home isolation according to home isolation guidelines that she is well aware of,” said Anima Haldar, principal of Beliaghata ID Hospital. ICMR-NICED office is located inside the ID Hospital but the lab is located adjacent to the hospital campus. The scientist visited the hospital on Tuesday after getting the Covid positive report. A team of doctors, including chest physicians, examined and assessed her condition. The doctors handling Covid patients gave a nod for home isolation but asked her to visit the hospital if she felt the symptoms were getting bad. She has also been suggested to get her swab samples tested after 10 days. Sources said the official was not physically involved in running the lab. TOI is refraining from naming the senior officials since Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. The senior professor of the surgery department of IPGMER, who has also tested positive, is admitted to a nursing home on AJC Bose Road. The doctor, in addition to hospital work, has been active during the lockdown and in the aftermath of Amphan in relief work. He also plays a crucial role in running the trauma care centre at SSKM. “I tested positive on Thursday and got myself admitted in the hospital on Friday,” the doctor told TOI. Sources in the private hospital where the doctors is admitted said he was admitted in the ICU as he had co-morbities, including diabetes and high blood pressure, and he needed oxygen support. Earlier, another senior doctor of SSKM had tested positive. The senior ENT doctor is now back home, cured of the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/west-bengal-two-senior-health-officials-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/76720825.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 1, 2020||Thane||Thane, KDMC & MBMC areas declare 10-day total lockdown||MUMBAI/THANE/KALYAN: Amid spikes in Covid-19 cases, the civic administrations in Mira-Bhayander, Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli announced 10-day total lockdowns. While the lockdown in Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) areas is from July 1-10 and kicks in at 5 pm on Wednesday, the other two civic bodies have declared a shutdown from July 2-12. In MBMC areas, all market places and shops selling essentials as well as non-essentials will remain shut. Milk and dairy products will be available between 5 am and 10 am, while medical shops will be open between 9 am and 5 pm. This is in addition to the 24-hour medical shops that will remain open. Home delivery of liquor has been allowed. Weddings with a maximum of 50 people can be held, but with prior permission. Petrol pumps and banks will function. Mira Bhayander has witnessed a massive spike in cases in a month. From 699 cases and 13 deaths on June 1, the region has 2,466 new cases and a death toll of 142 on June 29. The soaring tally has been blamed on inadequate testing and low contact tracing. Meanwhile, the lockdown in Thane comes a day after a flipflop on the decision which plunged the city into chaos. The city reported 266 new cases on Tuesday taking the virus tally to 8,772. For a second day in a row, there were 15 deaths, putting the toll at 307. During the lockdown starting 7am Thursday, all commercial establishments will be shut. Liquor can be home delivered. Dairies and grocery shops will operate at specific timings. Essential services staff, however, can go to work. Marriage ceremonies have been exempted, though there is a cap of 50 people. Public transport will be prohibited. No pillion riders will be allowed on bikes, while cars can have two occupants, including the driver. In Kalyan-Dombivli, which has turned into a hotbed of the virus, the administration has permitted only home delivery of essential items between 7 am and 5 pm, while medical shops can remain open throughout day. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Tuesday recorded the single day highest tally in Thane district with 462 cases. Seven patients have died in the last 24 hours. The total case count is 6,575, including 120 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-kdmc-mbmc-areas-declare-10-day-total-lockdown/articleshow/76720855.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 1, 2020||Mumbai||Thane, KDMC & MBMC areas declare 10-day total lockdown||MUMBAI/THANE/KALYAN: Amid spikes in Covid-19 cases, the civic administrations in Mira-Bhayander, Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli announced 10-day total lockdowns. While the lockdown in Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) areas is from July 1-10 and kicks in at 5 pm on Wednesday, the other two civic bodies have declared a shutdown from July 2-12. In MBMC areas, all market places and shops selling essentials as well as non-essentials will remain shut. Milk and dairy products will be available between 5 am and 10 am, while medical shops will be open between 9 am and 5 pm. This is in addition to the 24-hour medical shops that will remain open. Home delivery of liquor has been allowed. Weddings with a maximum of 50 people can be held, but with prior permission. Petrol pumps and banks will function. Mira Bhayander has witnessed a massive spike in cases in a month. From 699 cases and 13 deaths on June 1, the region has 2,466 new cases and a death toll of 142 on June 29. The soaring tally has been blamed on inadequate testing and low contact tracing. Meanwhile, the lockdown in Thane comes a day after a flipflop on the decision which plunged the city into chaos. The city reported 266 new cases on Tuesday taking the virus tally to 8,772. For a second day in a row, there were 15 deaths, putting the toll at 307. During the lockdown starting 7am Thursday, all commercial establishments will be shut. Liquor can be home delivered. Dairies and grocery shops will operate at specific timings. Essential services staff, however, can go to work. Marriage ceremonies have been exempted, though there is a cap of 50 people. Public transport will be prohibited. No pillion riders will be allowed on bikes, while cars can have two occupants, including the driver. In Kalyan-Dombivli, which has turned into a hotbed of the virus, the administration has permitted only home delivery of essential items between 7 am and 5 pm, while medical shops can remain open throughout day. The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Tuesday recorded the single day highest tally in Thane district with 462 cases. Seven patients have died in the last 24 hours. The total case count is 6,575, including 120 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/thane-kdmc-mbmc-areas-declare-10-day-total-lockdown/articleshow/76720835.cms||Sandhya Nair
July 1, 2020||India||France voices its support for India in ‘difficult’ times||NEW DELHI: French defence minister Florence Parly wrote to her Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh on Monday expressing solidarity and steadfast support for Indian armed forces and condoling the death of Indian soldiers in Galwan Valley in clashes with Chinese troops. “This was a hard blow against the soldiers, their families, and the nation. In these difficult circumstances, I wish to express my steadfast and friendly support, along with that of the French armed forces. I request you to kindly convey my heartfelt condolences to the entire Indian armed forces as well as to the grieving families,” she wrote to Singh, reiterating that India was France’s strategic partner in the region. “The minister also expressed her readiness to meet Singh in India, at his invitation, to follow up on their ongoing discussions,” the French embassy here said. Meanwhile, foreign minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday held discussions with his French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian on security and political issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/france-voices-its-support-for-india-in-difficult-times/articleshow/76720853.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||State ‘reluctant’ to hold Shrawani Mela, HC verdict on Friday||Ranchi: Citing the threat of community spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the state government on Tuesday expressed its “reluctance” to organize the famous Shrawani Mela in Deoghar before the Jharkhand high court. Advocate general Rajiv Ranjan said the risk of the virus spreading among devotees is very high and the government is not keen to take any risk in this regard. The month-long Shrawani Mela is scheduled to begin on July 6. Every year, more than 50 lakh devotees visit the Babadham temple in Deoghar to offer their prayers and pour water over the one of the 12 Jyotirlingas in the country. A division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujit Narayan Prasad were hearing a public interest litigation filed by Godda MP Nishikant Dubey for allowing the Shrawani Mela with some restrictions and guidelines. The court has reserved its order and will deliver a verdict on July 3. Ranjan informed the court through video conferencing that a detailed meeting has been held by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh with secretaries and officials of other departments and Deoghar deputy commissioner Nancy Sahay to review the situation. He said the officials have confirmed that holding a large gathering with devotees coming from outside the state will pose a great threat for everyone involved. Moreover, the lockdown in the state has also been increased to July 31, Ranjan said. Dubey’s counsel Ravi Prakash Mishra informed the court that the government could frame some guidelines and allow devotees in small numbers to offer prayers to Lord Shiva. The Shrawani Mela is an age old tradition and part of the culture, Mishra said. Mishra suggested that online e-passes could be issued to devotees who apply for registration. A date and time for their visit could be fixed and specific passes for individuals can be issued to avoid crowding and congestion on the temple premises throughout the mela. Thermal scanning of devotees can also be done before they enter the sanctum sanctorum, the counsel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-reluctant-to-hold-shrawani-mela-hc-verdict-on-friday/articleshow/76718030.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||XLRI develops app for surveillance of people in home quarantine||Jamshedpur: Professors and students of the XLRI-Xavier School of Management have developed an app-based checklist for ease of surveillance of people in home quarantine. The checklist contains instructions and procedures a person and his or her family members, who were advised home quarantine, need to follow to keep themselves and others safe from Covid-19. The business school said district officials conducting the surveillance can take care of the checklist easily during their home visits. XLRI professor (marketing area) Giridhar Ramachandran said, “Nothing would be more satisfying for us as academics than bringing our knowledge to use for the larger good of the people. We are happy to facilitate the local administration in an emergency which touches people’s lives.” The B-school also extended support to the district administration in developing a real-time dashboard that displayed key information and charts, which has come handy for the officials while discharging their Covid-19 duty. Besides, the faculty members and the students also developed an integrated web-based data capture and management system for integration of information from all collection and monitoring centres, including on people’s movement. The integrated system is crucial in minimising repetition, standardising input data and helpful in automated report creation, thereby validating data integrity. The institute has also initiated work on building a dynamic model for simulating the impact of the lockdown and the unlock processes on the district health infrastructure. Faculty members Munish Thakur and Alok Raj adapted the model from the one built by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), US, and worked extensively to show the impact of different scenarios when hospitals and their capacity were put under maximum strain. “We have already implemented some of the tasks and will roll out more in the weeks,” Ramachandran added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/xlri-develops-app-for-surveillance-of-people-in-home-quarantine/articleshow/76717757.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||Construction cos request for workers from H’bag: DC||Hazaribag: District authorities on Tuesday said they are working on setting up a proper mechanism for workers to get fair treatment after getting requests from many construction companies based in Telangana, Hyderabad and other places to send back Hazaribag labourers, who had returned during the lockdown. Deputy commissioner Bhuvanesh Pratap Singh said, “Most of the requests sought workers from the Bishungarh block for laying of transmission lines, building roads and other jobs. It is because people from this block have good expertise in such works.” He added, “We are trying to work out a proper mechanism to ensure fair wages and other facilities before sending people from our district. ” Notably, the state government had signed an MoU with Border Roads Organisation recently before agreeing to send workers from Santhal Pargana division to build roads along the China borders. Singh said, “After the mechanism is set, we will not stop those who want to leave but at the same time, we are also providing jobs to the workers who have returned.” An official survey has found that 20,000 migrants have returned during the lockdown from different places. Hazaribag is one of the three districts in the state which has been chosen for the PM Garib Kalyan Rozgar Yojana and the administration has given jobs cards under MNREGA to 5,000 people so far. “We are trying to absorb the rest after completion of their quarantine period,” Singh said, adding that many job card holders are also busy with their agricultural work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/construction-cos-request-for-workers-from-hbag-dc/articleshow/76718157.cms||Abhijit Sen
July 1, 2020||Patna||Distribute all new ration cards by July 15: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday asked chief secretary Deepak Kumar to ensure the distribution of all new ration cards among the eligible families latest by July 15. While reviewing the work of issuance of new ration cards and their distribution, Nitish told the chief secretary to maintain complete transparency in the distribution so that all the poor families left out get the benefits of government schemes. “It should be ensured that all eligible families across the state get a ration card at any cost. Each eligible family should have a ration card so that it continues to get the benefits of schemes under the public distribution system,” Nitish said. The chief secretary informed the chief minister that altogether 22.79 lakh new ration cards have so far been made for those eligible families who did not have any earlier. Out of the 22.79 lakh new ration cards, 3.69 lakh have been distributed. The CM asked the officials to maintain social distancing norms while distributing the new ration cards. He further asked the officials to also dispose of the ration card applications received from all those families who have applied through the Right to Public Service (RTPS) centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/distribute-all-new-ration-cards-by-july-15-nitish/articleshow/76717687.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||Parents protest against pvt school demanding fees despite govt order||Ranchi: Parents of students of Crown Public School (CPS) on the Harmu Bypass Road on Tuesday staged a protest against levying of charges in contravention of the state government order. On June 25, the state government had issued an order stating schools will not charge any other expenses apart from the tuition fees till normal classes resume. The parents alleged that the school was charging students under various heads, including development and re-admission fees. One of the protesters, Ajay Dutt Pandey, alleged that school had called up and threatened that his daughter will be barred from taking examinations if the fee is not paid. Another parent said the school applied pressure for payment of fees at a time when they are facing financial difficulties. President of Jharkhand Abhibhawak Sangh, Ajay Rai, who visited CPS said, “The school is blatantly violating the government orders. When questioned, the management termed it as a mistake and promised that charges already taken from students will be reimbursed later. Despite the school’s assurance, I will take up the issue with state education department seeking action against them.” Meanwhile, the school management in a statement denied to have resorted to harsh measures. It also assured that the school will sort out the problems soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/parents-protest-against-pvt-school-demanding-fees-despite-govt-order/articleshow/76718051.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s ultimatum to bus owners: Run or govt takes over||KOLKATA: Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday served an ultimatum to private bus owners, asking them to ret-urn to the streets on Wednesday or face government take-over and operation of their buses. Private buses in the city have largely stayed away despite the government offering them a Rs-27 crore package — or a monthly subsidy of Rs 15,000 for each bus — over the next three months. The stand-off has resulted in immense commuter pain after resumption of offices and businesses, prompting the government to take a strong view of the bus owners’ “adamant” attitude. The CM’s stern message to 6,000 private bus operators came after their representatives failed to turn up for a meeting with state transport minister Subhendu Adhikari on Tuesday. “The transport minister, the chief secretary, the home secretary, the transport secretary have met them. Even I have spoken with them. The government then decided to give them a Rs-27 crore subsidy for three months despite severe financial constraints because I did not want to burden commuters during the pandemic (by hiking bus fares). They gave us their word. But now they are adamant,” Banerjee said, making it clear that she had taken exception to the bus operators reneging on their promise. “Governments sometimes have to take unpleasant decisions; both shock and talk are part of our job,” she said, adding that the government would monitor the situation on Wednesday. “But, if private buses do not resume service, the government has to do something. We will acquire off-road private buses and run them. Drivers and conductors of these buses can work and the government will pay their wages,” Banerjee said. The time was not right for private bus operators to bargain hard when people were suffering, she said. “People are suffering. Individuals are not above people. It is true that fuel prices have been spiralling and transport operators have cited that to seek a fare revision. But what happens when diesel prices go down? Do they adjust fares then?” she asked. Banerjee made it clear that the government had no problem with restricted movement of people and vehicles within the state but did not want thousands coming to the state by train and flight, particularly from hotspots across the country, to add to the state’s Covid burden. State chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, in accordance with this two-pronged strategy, wrote to union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, seeking a relaxation of the union home ministry’s lockdown guidelines for the city’s Metro that carries 6 lakh-7 lakh passengers (in normal times); the appeal sought resumption of service for people engaged in essential services as a “special case”. But he also urged the civil aviation ministry to suspend flights from hotspots across the country for two weeks, starting from July 6, and regulate flights from other cities. Kolkata, anyway, is not getting any international flight till July 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamatas-ultimatum-to-bus-owners-run-or-govt-takes-over/articleshow/76720038.cms||---
July 1, 2020||Kolkata||Cruelty to wife for dark skin punishable under 498A: Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: Cruelty to wife for her dark complexion is a penal offence, punishable under Section 498A of the IPC, the Calcutta High Court has said in a recent judgment. The judgment was passed in a case of alleged marital torture and death of a woman in Cooch Behar in 1998. “Causing cruelty to the deceased victim for her black complexion (sic) even after her marriage by the in-laws would definitely attract Section 498A/34 IPC against the in-laws, including the accused husband,” a division bench of justices Sahidullah Munshi and Subhasis Dasgupta remarked in a 31-page order on June 25. Recounting the woman’s ordeal, additional public prosecutor Arun Kumar Maity said: “Three days into her arranged marriage in October 1997, the woman was made to even stay in a cowshed. The high court has made it clear that mental harassment by the husband and in-laws for a woman’s dark complexion is an offence under Section 498A IPC.” “I completely agree with this,” said defence lawyer Arindam Jana. “All dreams a woman can have about marriage are shattered if, from the very next day, the in-laws, including her husband, start taunting her by calling her ugly because of her dark complexion. There cannot be greater mental torture, harassment or cruelty to any bride. This should be mental cruelty, which is engraved in the first limb of Section 498A IPC.” In this particular case, the accused husband, Maziul Miah, and his family had been paid Rs 11,000, three silver ornaments and a bicycle, among other things. But the woman was oppressed and ill-treated, later even assaulted with a cycle chain. She was constantly threatened that her husband would annul their marriage and re-marry. Three days into marriage, she was forced to stay in a cowshed. Four days before she was found dead by han-ging, her father had asked her to return to her marital home, as he was poor. The autopsy report first hinted that she could have been murdered. A trial court had indicated Maziul and his parents for murder and mental torture and sentenced them to a life behind bars. His father died in custody in 2013. The HC, however, said Maziul’s mother, though convicted of mental cruelty, could not be held responsible for the death only because the incident took place in her home. “We hope this judgement will embolden many women, who are suffering in silence due to their complexion, to speak out,” said Leena Gangopadhyay, the state women’ commission chairperson. “In many cases, this does not come to the fore. We are counselling a government hospital doctor, who is being repeatedly taunted by her unemployed husband for her dark skin.... In arranged marriages, financial demands are often cloaked in such harassment over complexion.” Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cruelty-to-wife-for-dark-skin-punishable-under-498a-hc/articleshow/76720041.cms||Saibal Sen
July 1, 2020||Ranchi||Tata Motors Hospital plans to seek nod for RT-PCR tests||Jamshedpur: The Tata Motors Hospital (TMH) in Jamshedpur is planning to seek an Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) certification for RT-PCR tests for Covid-19. The authorities said deliberations on the matter is at a nascent stage and refrained from revealing much. “Talks are on at a preliminary stage,” said the head of medical services, Sanjay Kumar. Kumar informed that currently the hospital is helping the local administration with the collection of samples for Covid-19 tests that are done at MGM Hospital and Tata Main Hospital. “On an average, 25 samples are being collected every day for testing,” Kumar said. Kumar also informed that in the last two months, a dedicated Covid-19 ward with 20 beds has been opened at Tata Motors Hospital. Till date, the hospital has treated 31 infected patients of which 20 have been discharged. The official also informed that the hospital management put in a robust regulatory mechanism to minimise the risk of doctors and other staff members from getting infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tata-motors-hospital-plans-to-seek-nod-for-rt-pcr-tests/articleshow/76717775.cms||---
