July 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Tourists head to Karnataka’s hill stations; avoid heritage hotspots||Quite evidently, the pandemic has thrown global tourism into chaos, and the situation in Karnataka – which is well-known for its architectural wonders and scenic natural hotspots – is no different from the rest of the world. Even as India enters Unlock 2.0, the fear of contracting the virus has kept people away from most tourist destinations. MYSURU CONTINUES TO SEE FEWER FOOTFALLSVisited by millions of tourists from across the country and abroad every year, the heritage city of Mysuru has taken a toll. There has been a drastic drop in footfall in all its major attractions. And this is happening despite precautionary measures being strictly maintained at all these tourism hotspots in the city. Mysore Palace is witnessing about 100 to 150 tourists daily. Right now, children below the age of 10 years and adults above 65 years are not allowed inside the palace. According to HP Janardhan – Deputy Director of Department of Tourism – the situation is not yet ideal to introduce any tourism packages to attract visitors. “We were supposed to launch double-decker buses in Mysuru to give people a tour of palaces and the zoo among other places, but the plan is put on hold due to the Covid-19 outbreak,” he adds. TS Subramanya, Deputy Director of Mysore Palace Board, says, “We usually record large numbers of tourists from Tamil Naidu, Kerala, Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. But the surge in positive cases has reduced the count.” Adding to that, Ajith M Kulkarni – Director of Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens ( Mysuru Zoo) – says, “Over the past few weeks, several safety and hygiene measures have been taken, so that visitors start visiting the zoo again. But given the fear psychosis, nothing seems to be working in our favour at the moment. In fact, instead of Tuesdays, we now keep the zoo closed on Sundays, when there is a complete lockdown in the city. Even this has not helped much, though.” WEEKEND RUSH IN CHIKKAMAGALURU AND KODAGUThe situation doesn’t seem to be so bleak in the hill stations of Karnataka. Located in Chikkamagaluru, Mullayanagiri – which is the highest peak in the state – saw traffic snarls last weekend. This, however, created quite a stir among the local people, who protested against the tourist inflow, and demanded that authorities maintain strict vigil to keep the spread of the virus under check. Meanwhile, many people turned up in Kodagu, too – from corporate employees to celebrities. Actors Diganth, Aindrita Ray, Ekta Rathod and Nikhil Kumaraswamy were spotted there, while cinematographer Bhuvan Gowda and musician-actor All.OK shared pictures of their Coorg vacation on social media. TOURISM DESTINATIONS IN NORTH KARNATAKA ARE YET TO OPENPlaces located in North Karnataka – like Gol Gumbaz, Hampi, Badami, Aihole and Pattadakal – remain shut for tourists. TOUR OPERATORS STRUGGLE TO SUSTAINThere were high hopes among stakeholders in tourism that there would be a revival once the lockdown was lifted, but the recent spike in Coronavirus cases in the state has dampened all the spirit. “With bookings still being meagre, we are finding it difficult to pay salaries to our staff. If the situation doesn’t improve at least during the festive season, our existence will be under threat,” says Sachin Kumar, a tour operator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/tourists-head-to-karnatakas-hill-stations-avoid-heritage-hotspots/articleshow/76734316.cms||Vinay Lokesh
July 2, 2020||India||India uses Hong Kong to land diplomatic punch on China||NEW DELHI: After its ban on 59 Chinese apps, the government Wednesday seemed to launch a fresh diplomatic offensive against China by breaking its silence on China's new security law for Hong Kong. At the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, the government said Wednesday that given the large Indian community that makes the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China its home, India has been keeping "a close watch on recent developments". India-China LAC stand-off: Complete coverage"We have heard several statements expressing concern on these developments. We hope the relevant parties will take into account these views and address them properly, seriously and objectively," said India's permanent representative to UN in Geneva Rajiv Chander. He didn't name China though. Read AlsoLAC face-off: High-speed interceptor boats being sent to Pangong lakeSources said the Indian Army does have 17 QRT (quick-reaction team) boats for patrolling the lake located an altitude of 13,900-feet since 2012-2013, but the need has been felt to further augment the force’s capabilities to match PLA's heavier Type-928B patrol boats. The 134-km-long Pangong lake,The remark was made during an interactive dialogue on the human rights situation worldwide. This is the first time that India has spoken out on the Hong Kong issue and, perhaps not surprisingly, it comes in the middle of aggressive Chinese behaviour at the LAC that saw a violent scuffle last month in the Galwan valley resulting in casualties on both sides. Read AlsoLittle FDI from China since last yearAmid apprehensions of a fall in Chinese investment in India, overall flows added up to just $163 million in 2019-20 and no proposal has been filed since the government decided last April to scan all foreign direct investments (FDIs) from countries with which India shares a border. Official dataThe remarks came on a day US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo endorsed India's decision to ban Chinese apps saying India's "clean app approach will boost India's sovereignty and boost integrity and national security." Read AlsoGermany, US block China’s anti-India move at UNSCChina is livid after the US stepped in on Wednesday evening to delay a draft press statement condemning the terrorist attack at the Karachi Stock Exchange at the UNSC. The US was the second country after Germany to delay the statement, both silent expressions of solidarity with New Delhi, after ShahAccording to sources, the US was keen that Indian speak up on Hong Kong where China's new law is said to undermine freedom and have implications for human rights. Twenty-seven countries came together at the Council Tuesday to demand that China reconsider the "sweeping" new security law. Read AlsoLadakh standoff: India, China agree to restart Galwan, Hot Springs pullbackIndia and China have broadly agreed to restart the gradual troop disengagement from ‘friction points’ in Galwan Valley and Gogra-Hot Springs in eastern Ladakh, which got derailed the last time after Chinese soldiers reneged on the pullback agreement, leading to the bloody clashes on June 15.India was also the only Quad nation to have not spoken up on Hong Kong until now. Australia joined the US, UK and Canada earlier in condemning China's law. With Japan also having spoken up in favour of a free and open Hong Kong, India was is the only Quad nation to have not made any public statement on the issue. "India mum as China effects a political sea change in Hong Kong by violating a UN-registered treaty. No word from India over China's Muslim gulag, teeming with over a million inmates. India stayed mum as China changed SCS's geopolitical map. China, however, took J&K issue to UNSC," strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney tweeted Wednesday. Many saw India's silence as a manifestation of the fact that India was encumbered by its border dispute with China. The June 15 clash at Galwan and subsequent Chinese behavior seems to have changed it though. Watch India uses Hong Kong to land diplomatic punch on China||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-a-first-india-speaks-up-on-hong-kong/articleshow/76737816.cms||Sachin Parashar
July 2, 2020||Kochi||Fees for online classes: Kerala HC dismisses students' plea||KOCHI: The Kerala high court has dismissed a petition challenging levying of tuition fees by a CBSE school during Covid-19 lockdown period. A division bench comprising chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly considered a petition (WP-C No. 10867/2020) filed by two students of Sree Budha Central School at Karunagapally. It was contended by the petitioners that online classes now being conducted are not virtual or online classes in its real meaning and yet unreasonable fees are being charged under the heads of smart classroom facilities and computer charges. The online class is being conducted at the school by sending voice messages of teachers through WhatsApp to the parents, who are to download them and teach the children below 6th standard, the petition had said. The school had contended that it had given training by IT experts to teachers prior to beginning the online classes. Same fees as has been charged the previous year are being charged this year too. Regular salaries are being paid to teachers, the school management contended. In the judgment, the court said, “The main contention of the petitioners is that no fee should be collected during the lock down period. As rightly contended by the learned counsel for the respondents 6 and 7 (CBSE and school management), whether there is lock down or not, monthly salaries for the teaching and non-teaching staff have to be paid. Though not contended, judicial notice can be taken that maintenance expenditure is a factor to be considered. Considering the fact that there is no change in the fees for the last year and the current year, and for other reasons stated supra, the demand of the petitioners that no fees can be collected during the lock down period cannot be accepted. There is no irregularity or illegality in the action of respondents 6 and 7.” The petitioners have not made out a case for issuance of a writ, the court said while dismissing the petition. However, the court said CBSE and the school management can consider the request of the parents for making monthly payments.KOCHI: The Kerala High Court has dismissed a petition challenging levying of tuition fees by a CBSE school during Covid-19 lockdown period. A division bench comprising chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly considered a petition (WP-C No. 10867/2020) filed by two students of Sree Budha Central School at Karunagapally. It was contended by the petitioners that online classes now being conducted are not virtual or online classes in its real meaning and yet unreasonable fees are being charged under the heads of smart classroom facilities and computer charges. The online class is being conducted at the school by sending voice messages of teachers through WhatsApp to the parents, who are to download them and teach the children below 6th standard, the petition had said. The school had contended that it had given training by IT experts to teachers prior to beginning the online classes. Same fees as has been charged the previous year are being charged this year too. Regular salaries are being paid to teachers, the school management contended. In the judgment, the court said, “The main contention of the petitioners is that no fee should be collected during the lock down period. As rightly contended by the learned counsel for the respondents 6 and 7 (CBSE and school management), whether there is lock down or not, monthly salaries for the teaching and non-teaching staff have to be paid. Though not contended, judicial notice can be taken that maintenance expenditure is a factor to be considered. Considering the fact that there is no change in the fees for the last year and the current year, and for other reasons stated supra, the demand of the petitioners that no fees can be collected during the lock down period cannot be accepted. There is no irregularity or illegality in the action of respondents 6 and 7.” The petitioners have not made out a case for issuance of a writ, the court said while dismissing the petition. However, the court said CBSE and the school management can consider the request of the parents for making monthly payments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fees-for-online-classes-kerala-hc-dismisses-students-plea/articleshow/76738079.cms||Mahir Haneef
July 2, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Police arrest two red sanders smugglers||TIRUPATI: Piler rural police arrested two red sanders smugglers and seized logs worth Rs. 50 lakh during a crackdown on Wednesday. Acting on the instructions of Chittoor SP S Senthil Kumar, Piler rural CI Murali Krishna and his team conducted vehicular checks following a tip off at Rompicherla near Bhakrapet along the Anantapur-Tirupati highway on Wednesday morning. Upon noticing police checks, a truck driver abandoned his vehicle at a distance and fled away from the spot. Police who inspected the truck recovered 22 red sanders logs weighing around half a ton and worth approximately Rs. 50 lakh in the international markets. Police took two persons who tried to follow the truck on grounds of suspicion, while the truck was being shifted to the local police station. The arrested were identified as Mallikarjuna Reddy and Mallela Chandra. Police have registered a case and are further investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-pradesh-police-arrest-two-red-sanders-smugglers/articleshow/76738121.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 2, 2020||Patna||Covid threat: Patna civil courts to remain shut today||PATNA: The Patna civil court would remain shut on Thursday for sanitization of entire premises after a lawyer tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday night. The court also remained closed even on Wednesday, except the hearing of only urgent matters through videoconferencing by the judicial officers from their residences. It would function the same way on Thursday. District and sessions judge Rudra Prakash Mishra had passed an order late Tuesday night for suspending physical appearance in court till Thursday. Physical functioning in subdivisional courts at Danapur and Patna City would also remained suspended till Thursday. Civil court public prosecutor Vijay Sinha said the lawyer who tested positive is a state government special public prosecutor. “He visited a doctor for treatment of his wife and felt unwell thereafter. He got himself tested and was found positive Tuesday night,” he said. Sinha said sanitization would be carried out at Danapur and Patna City courts as well. “The samples of lawyers, court staff and judges must be taken for test as they remain in touch on the court premises,” he said. The physical function of the Kishanganj civil court was also suspended on Tuesday for sanitization after two of the court staff tested Covid-19 positive. Subordinate courts in Bihar had started physical and virtual functioning on roster basis from first week of June after virtually remaining non-functional during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civil-courts-to-remain-shut-today/articleshow/76736607.cms||Debashish Karmakar
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Food enthusiasts turn home chefs as city gets a taste of exotic dishes||For the past six years, Madhushree Basu Roy, a food and travel blogger, participated in several food pop-ups and festivals across cities. However, early this year, she decided to cook for her neighbours and close friends out of sheer love for the culinary art. Little did she know that her passion for cooking will turn her into a full-time home chef. "During the lockdown, many of us had no choice but to cook at home. Some people even quit their regular 9 to 5 jobs to put on the chef's hat. My forte has always been Bengali cuisine, but I love to cook dishes from different parts of the country. So, I started my new venture during lockdown. Every week, I prepare a menu based on a particular state or region. I get the orders delivered with the help of online delivery services or customers collect the food themselves" said Madhushree, a mother of two kids. How to juggle WFH and passion for cooking  76742513No doubt it's a challenge when you have to juggle a full-time job and your passion. For 26-year-old Rohitashwa Guha, a software engineer, it was his family members, who inspired him to take up cooking seriously. He said, "In 2017, I started off with a small batch of takeaways. I also put up makeshift food stalls at various city events. But sustaining financially was becoming an issue. After I got a job in Bangalore. I continued to cook and post recipes on social media. Now that I am back home due to the lockdown, I decided to become a professional home chef. Though I am busy with my work from home on weekdays, I take orders over the phone. I cook and get them delivered on alternate Sundays." Sustainability is the key in every business  76742527For every business venture, there are some initial roadblocks but one should know how to overcome them. Home chef Debjani Chatterjee Alam, a banker by profession, feels that to start any business, gaining trust of your patrons is a must. "I have always been passionate about cooking. During the lockdown, my friends started enquiring if I would like to deliver food to their places. Thus, I started my venture with the help of online delivery services. The response was overwhelming. Everything I cook is pre-ordered. I have a menu of five items every week (comprising a starter, main course and sweet dish) and I don't take more than 20 orders," said Debjani. People not ready to order food from restaurants yet 76743165 Though Bengalis are known to be die-hard foodies, people are still sceptical about ordering food from restaurants. Also, price is an issue here. "Kolkata is a price-sensitive city. For instance, I price my signature kankra (crab) biryani for Rs 275 a plate. If I sold the same dish in Mumbai, people would’ve bought it for Rs 1,000 per plate. So, keeping the Kolkata market in mind, we maintain a balance in pricing the dishes, no matter how much we invest. Presently, the profit margin is not very impressive, but I am ready to hang in there," added Debjani. Entrepreneur overnight, considerable profit 76742596The prices of cooking ingredients are sky high. “That is one of the reasons why home chefs are not earning much,” reasons Paushali Bhattacharya Sen Barat, a salon owner and a home chef from Salt Lake. "The prices of vegetables, chicken, fish and mutton are increasing by the day. But we always try to keep the cost flexible without compromising on quality and quantity. I started off two months back by delivering basic home-style thalis. Slowly, I introduced other fancy items. My mother, who helps me with the cooking, takes a lot of pride in being an entrepreneur overnight," she adds. On the other hand, Rohitashwa shared that since the last few weeks that he has started the home delivery service, a minimum profit of Rs 2,000 is guaranteed per week,” he mentioned. Curating the menuThe basic difference between dishes made by a home chef and a regular restaurant is the uniqueness of food. Home chefs do a lot of research before curating the menu. Madhushree said, "In many of my dishes, there is an influence of Malabari or coastal flavours, since I have lived in Goa for many years. Recently I made Sri Lankan chicken, which was lapped up by my customers." Another home chef, Debjani Guha Biswas, a school teacher, loves to give a quirky twist to all traditional Bengali recipes. "Whipping up a dish with a seasonal fruit or a vegetable is a must for me. Given the season of mangoes now, I prepared a mango paneer curry, and it was an instant hit with my customers," she said. Most ordered items by home chefs· Sri Lankan chicken curry · Mango paneer · Mocha chingri pulao · Kankara (crab) biryani · Kolkata style mutton biryani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/food-enthusiasts-turn-home-chefs-as-city-gets-a-taste-of-unusual-dishes/articleshow/76732900.cms||Srishti Dasgupta
July 2, 2020||Business||Higher economic activity will help increase revenue flow: Finance secretary||On the third anniversary of the launch of GST on Wednesday, the latest collection numbers indicated that economic activity was slowing getting back to normal after the lockdown. In an interview, finance secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey tells TOI about how the government is looking to the make the system more robust. Excerpts: GST collections in June are over Rs 90,000 crore. How do you look at the numbers? Do you see it as a sign of recovery?The numbers are nearly 90% of the average monthly collection of the last year and it is because the domestic collections have done well. Against collections of Rs 76,000 crore in June 2019, we have managed around Rs 74,500 crore. On the import side, at Rs 16,500 crore, it is almost 30% lower than the corresponding period last year. Although things seem to be looking better in terms of the economic activity, the collections in June also reflect a part of the payments for previous months as we had given an extended deadline for those months on account of COVID-19. The overall trends are encouraging because we had lockdown in a large part of May and in June there was higher activity, which will show in next month’s collections. What do you expect in the remaining part of the year?People are learning to live with Covid after the economy was unlocked. There is an increase in economic activity and revenue is expected also grow proportionately. If you look at last year, nominal GDP growth was around 7.5%, while domestic GST collections grew by around 9%, despite some slowdown in the economy and mid-year reduction in tax rates. It shows that the system is working; people were able to file their returns and pay taxes despite the lockdown. In the coming months, we need to continue this trend. It’s been three years since the launch of GST, how do you see the impact on taxpayers and the overall system and are you satisfied with the progress?Before GST, there were a plethora of taxes, from excise and VAT to entertainment tax, service tax, octroi and many other cesses being levied by multiple governments at multiple layers. All those taxes were merged into one GST. Futher, there was a cascading effect of these taxes as there was no credit available for excise or service tax or octroi that was being paid. It made things more expensive for consumers, although it did not reflect in the bill, where it was VAT which usually showed. In pre-GST era, the average tax rate was around 31% on most items, while in GST we have several items in the zero or 5% bracket with some in the 12% and 18% slab and a small number in 28%. An average household is saving 4-5% per month on basic items. For trade and industry, the merger of the different taxes in one GST has meant that they don’t have to file multiple returns and their interface with various agencies has come down. Besides, the current system is completely digital with no manual interface in registration or filing. Inspectors don’t visit to check the stock or stop a truck at the octroi naka. Even during the lockdown people kept filing returns and paid taxes without seeing any tax officer. If you look at the scale of GST it is massive. Against 60 lakh entities registered under VAT and service tax and other taxes in pre-GST regime, we have now 1.2 crore tax payers with almost 90 lakh filing GSTR 3B (final returns) every month. In the last three years, 46 crore returns have been filed and Rs 25 lakh crore has come as taxes. We have built the capacity to receive 22 lakh returns in a day and some 15-20 lakh e-way bills are being issued every day. We must understand that this kind of magnitude and scale is not there is any taxation system in any other country. Am I satisfied? While we have achieved a lot, we need to constantly improve things in terms of giving better experience to taxpayers. The initial glitches have been resolved but some issues come up intermittently and both the Centre and states are working to resolve them along with our implementation partner Infosys. In fact, Infosys chairman Nanadan Nilekani is personally looking into all the issues. This was the first year when there was some friction between the Centre and the states over GST compensation? Is it also time to rationalize the rates and reduce slabs as was said when GST was launched?I will not describe it as friction. GST Council is a true living example of co-operative federalism, where there is a frank discussion among the states and center and where they express their views, which may not always be the same. But all decisions so far, barring one, have been taken based on complete consensus. Compensation cess and GST collection are reflective of the economic activities in country. Last year, there was some slowdown and the rates were also changed so collections did not match the requirement. If collections are impacted and 14% growth in collection is not achieved, the GST compensation law itself provides for dealing with the situation and that is what being discussed in the Council. There is discussion around how we can increase collections, whether it can through a correction of inverted duty structure, rationalization of rates or other steps. There are suggestions that the 14% assured return should be reviewed and linked to economic growth and some incentives should be built in for states to improve collections. Do you agree to this?Various suggestions are being made, both internally and from the respective stakeholders for revenue augmentation, simplification, correction of inverted duty structure etc. The Council has constituted a Group of Minister to look into these issues. In March 2020, there was a decision by Council to correct the inverted duty structure on one product. Ultimately, all the suggestions and options will be discussed in the GST Council and appropriate decisions will be taken. What is the overall picture on the revenue side given that customs will be impacted due to imports and advance tax collections have been lower?The collection of income tax in the first quarter in this financial year is not as lower as it was initially made out in certain section of media. We need to look at the whole picture. In the first quarter, the revenue from income tax and corporation tax are 77% of the last year level on a gross basis, which includes advance tax and TDS. While we compare the tax collection with that of the last year, we also need to consider that the corporate tax rate was higher at the rate of around 35% when the first installment of advance tax was paid last year, and it came down subsequently to about 25 %. Plus, in this quarter we had COVID situation and lockdowns in most parts of the country, which also impacted the profitability of the companies. Yet, in such adverse circumstances we ended up collecting 77 % of last year level on gross basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/higher-economic-activity-will-help-increase-revenue-flow-finance-secretary/articleshow/76738037.cms||Sidhartha
July 2, 2020||Mumbai||Sanitisation, masks and minimal contact... Mumbai’s beauty parlours & salons get a makeover||A trip to the neighbourhood beauty parlour topped many Mumbaikars’ wish-list in the last three months, which they are finally able to fulfil now. Reason: Salons that were shut as a safety measure due to COVID-19 reopened on June 28, and they will continue to remain operational even during the lockdown extension that was announced recently. However, they no longer look the way they used to in the pre-coronavirus days. Customers are now put through sanitisation procedures and thermal checks by staff dressed in personal protective equipment (PPE). Sharmila Arya, a stock market analyst residing in Charni Road, was among the first to head to her parlour. She says, “I was waiting to get my eyebrows done, but due to social distancing, they did a peel-off wax treatment instead. I also missed seeing my usual beauty therapist as the staff had been reduced. The parlour seemed so different; its vibe was missing. You usually get to see everyone relaxed, having a fun time chatting, but it was quiet this time.” Salon owners also noted the difference. Says Shivarama Bhandary of a salon chain, “Most of the customers had come in for a haircut. We had made provisions for face masks and sanitisers, but some of them brought their own.” What’s out: Walk-ins, cloth towels, facials and massages 76771164While salons and beauty parlours welcomed the reopening as an end of a financially-bleak period, they have also got a safety strategy in place. Informs Pramod Chandrakant Pawar, owner of a salon at Parel, “Besides a sanitising stand at the entrance, each person’s temperature is also checked via a thermal scanner. The staff have been provided PPE kits. We’ve begun using disposable capes instead of cloth towels. There is also a gun machine to ensure the place is sanitised after every client leaves.” Adds Rohan Pagar from a salon at Pali Hill, “With safety being a top priority, we are not taking more than two clients at a time in the premises. Walk-ins are not accepted, and even kids below 10 years of age aren’t allowed in the premises.” The services being provided by the beauty industry have been brought down. Says Shazia Sama, owner of a salon at Versova, “We’ve begun operating with hair treatments and are not doing facials or body massages. Instead, we give facial packs that clients can take home.” Rearranging the interiors to ensure social distancingHair stylist Sapna Bhavnani rearranged the interiors of her salon in Bandra, keeping social distancing in mind. She informs, “Ours is a small space with six stations. Since we are using only three stylists now, each chair will have a gap of one chair in between to maintain social distancing. Earlier, hair appointments used to be by the hour, but are staggered now. Also, the two-km radius rule is really killing our business. It’s going to be a loss, but we strongly believe in following safety precautions.” Salon owners take steps to protect their staffThe employees working at salons and beauty parlours have been reduced. However, in some cases, the owners are also ensuring that their staff avoid the risk of travelling via public transport. Says Mamtaa Joshi, owner of a salon chain in the city, “I have arranged a pickup-and-drop service for my staff of three. It’s mandatory for them to take a bath when they get here and change their clothes before they begin their work. People will be a little apprehensive, but all safety precautions are being taken.” Shazia, on her part, has ensured that her staff has the Aarogya Setu app installed on their phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sanitisation-masks-and-minimal-contact-mumbais-beauty-parlours-salons-get-a-makeover/articleshow/76738276.cms||Ismat Tahseen
July 2, 2020||India||Paswan slams opposition for criticising PM||Lashing out at opposition leaders for their critical comments on Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi’s announcement, Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan said, “They should first welcome the decision as it’s about the poor and needy. They can get enough opportunity to do politics, raise issues; but they must not criticise decision on such an issue. They were concerned why PM did not talk about China and Ladakh. If a bedbug bites you, do you kill the lion?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/paswan-slams-opposition-for-criticising-pm/articleshow/76738908.cms||---
July 2, 2020||India||Govt budgeted free grains for 8cr migrants but only 2.1cr benefited||NEW DELHI: Only 2.14 crore of migrant workers who returned to their home states picked up the 5 kg free foodgrain (wheat or rice) in May and June each, though the government had estimated nearly eight crore would take the benefit. This was due to less demand in several states while in Goa and Telangana, no foodgrain was distributed under this scheme as there was no demand. The Centre had announced 5kg free foodgrain to each migrant worker and those who do not have a ration card and 1kg chana per family per month for May and June under the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme in its bid to ensure that everyone had access to food during the lockdown. The scheme ended on Tuesday. In 10 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Jharkhand and Gujarat, not even 1% of the allocated foodgrain could be distributed, official data show. Even UP, which saw maximum return of migrants post lockdown, only 3,324 tonnes of foodgrains were distributed against the allocation of 1.42 lakh tonnes. Even in Bihar, only 1,842 tonnes of grains were distributed against the allocation of 86,450 tonnes for these two months. Union food minister Ram Vilas Paswan said many of the states had said they don’t have huge number of migrants who were not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and ration cards. The ministry had asked states to keep the record of beneficiaries and only those who have no ration card were entitled to get free grain and chana. Food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said the estimate of eight crore migrant workers was arrived at based on data on construction workers from the labour ministry and the 2011 census. “There is no data of registered migrants. The target was flexible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-budgeted-free-grain-for-8cr-migrants-but-only-2-1cr-benefited/articleshow/76738840.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 2, 2020||India||Chinese delay as PM quits social media site Weibo||NEW DELHI: After blocking 59 Chinese apps, Prime Minister Narendra Modi left microblogging site Weibo on Wednesday. Government sources, however, said that the PM had decided to delete his account on Monday — the same day that the apps were banned — but there was a “substantial delay in getting permission to remove the account.” The process for deleting VIP accounts on Weibo — Chinese version of Twitter — is complex. Only the platform can remove the accounts. So 115 posts on Modi’s Weibo account which had 244,000 followers since he joined in 2015 were manually deleted. Barring this year, Modi had used Weibo to wish Chinese president Xi Jinping ahead of his birthday on June 15. “As soon as the decision to ban Chinese apps in India was taken, PM Modi decided that he would be quitting Weibo, which he had joined a few years ago. For VIP accounts, Weibo has a more complex procedure to quit which is why the official process was initiated. For reasons best known to the Chinese, there was great delay in granting this basic permission,” said a government official. Initially, 113 posts were removed but two posts could still not be deleted since they featured PM Modi's photos with the Chinese president. “It is not easy for the Chinese app to delete photos of the President,” said the official. All posts have been deleted now, he added. Earlier, on June 18, Indian embassy officials in China had alleged that official statements — Modi’s speech to chief ministers as well as comments by the spokesperson of the ministry of foreign affairs —were deleted from two Chinese social media accounts including Weibo. Later, transcripts of remarks of MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava too were found to have been removed from Weibo. Watch PM Narendra Modi quits Chinese social media platform||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinese-delay-as-pm-quits-social-media-site-weibo/articleshow/76739079.cms||Rohan Dua
July 2, 2020||India||India’s Covid tally past 6L as 19k more test positive||Covid cases in India crossed the six-lakh mark on Wednesday, just five days after the country had breached the half-million mark, even as the growth rate of fresh cases as well as fatalities in the last one lakh cases dropped marginally compared to the corresponding figures in the preceding one lakh cases. The growth rate of 3.6% for one lakh cases on June 26 — when India breached the half-million mark — fell to 3.5% on Wednesday. Similarly, the growth rate of fatalities dropped from 2.9% to 2.6% in the same period. After a gap of two days, fresh cases breached the 19,000-mark once again with 19,684 patients testing positive for the virus, taking the country’s caseload to 6,05,068. However, daily fatalities on Wednesday dropped to 434 from the second-highest peak of 510 recorded the previous day. India’s cumulative death toll has risen to 17,837. On the positive side, 3,59,671 people have recovered from the virus. Maharashtra saw the second-highest surge in daily cases with 5,537 patients testing positive for the virus, taking the state’s caseload to 1,80,298. The highest single-day peak was recorded on June 27 with 6,328 cases. The state breached the 8,000-mark with 198 fresh deaths, pushing the cumulative toll to 8,053. Though there was a significant jump in new cases in Mumbai with 1,487 patients testing positive, at 75 deaths, the city recorded the lowest toll in the last seven days. Delhi recorded a marginal increase with 2,442 patients testing positive, compared to 2,199 on Tuesday, taking the state’s caseload to 89,802. With 61 more people succumbing to the virus, the state’s toll rose to 2,803. Tamil Nadu recorded 3,882 fresh cases and 63 fatalities, taking the cumulative death toll to 1,264. While the state’s hotspot, Chennai, recorded 2,182 new cases, epidemiologists said the growth of the contagion in other districts is increasing even more rapidly. Of the total 94,049 cases in the state, only 39,856 people are still under treatment. Gujarat added 675 fresh cases on Wednesday — which saw its fifth daily peak in the last six days — taking the caseload beyond the 33,000-mark to 33,318. With 21 more deaths, the toll rose to 1,869. A whopping 88.4% of the total deaths were recorded in May and June. Telangana recorded its second-highest daily peak with 1,018 cases, taking the state’s caseload to 17,357. The highest peak was witnessed on June 27 with 1,087 cases. With seven more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 267. Neighbouring Andhra Pradesh crossed the 15,000-mark with 657 more cases, taking the state’s caseload to 15,252. With six more deaths, the toll rose to 193. The last 5,000 cases were detected in last one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-tally-past-6l-as-19k-more-test-positive/articleshow/76739172.cms||---
July 2, 2020||India||LAC face-off: High-speed interceptor boats being sent to Pangong lake||NEW DELHI: The country’s defence establishment is finalising a plan to send a dozen new high-speed interceptor boats armed with the latest surveillance gear to Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, where Indian and Chinese soldiers have been locked in a fierce confrontation since early May. Sources said the Indian Army does have 17 QRT (quick-reaction team) boats for patrolling the lake located an altitude of 13,900-feet since 2012-2013, but the need has been felt to further augment the force’s capabilities to match the heavier Type-928B patrol boats being used by the People’s Liberation Army there. Read AlsoIndia uses Hong Kong to land diplomatic punch on ChinaThe govt Wednesday seemed to launch a fresh diplomatic offensive against China by breaking its silence on China's new security law for Hong Kong. At the UNHRC in Geneva, the govt said Wednesday that given the large Indian community that makes the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China its“But the plan will face a huge logistical challenge because it will be extremely tough to transport the new boats or fast-interceptor crafts to the high-altitude region. The boats may have to be dismantled and airlifted by C-17 Globemaster-III aircraft to Leh and then taken forward from there to reach the lake. It will take time,” said a source. The 134-km-long Pangong lake, two-thirds of which is controlled by China as it extends from Tibet to India, has been a major flashpoint between the two countries over the years. Read AlsoLittle FDI from China since last yearAmid apprehensions of a fall in Chinese investment in India, overall flows added up to just $163 million in 2019-20 and no proposal has been filed since the government decided last April to scan all foreign direct investments (FDIs) from countries with which India shares a border. Official dataBefore the Army got the QRT boats around eight years ago, it used to be quite hamstrung by its then outdated slow-moving boats. The PLA had often even disabled the Indian boats by ramming into them with its heavier boats. Read AlsoGermany, US block China’s anti-India move at UNSCChina is livid after the US stepped in on Wednesday evening to delay a draft press statement condemning the terrorist attack at the Karachi Stock Exchange at the UNSC. The US was the second country after Germany to delay the statement, both silent expressions of solidarity with New Delhi, after ShahSince the rival troops clashed on its north bank on May 5-6 this year, the PLA has physically occupied the entire 8-km stretch from `Finger-4 to Finger-8’ (mountainous spurs), taken control of the dominating heights and built dozens of new fortifications, bunkers and pill-boxes in the area. Read AlsoAggressive stance against India, other countries confirms true nature of Chinese Communist Party: White HouseAgainst the backdrop of the standoff between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany said that according to President Trump the aggressive stance of Beijing against India and other countries in the region confirms the "true nature" of the ChineseAll Indian patrols have since been blocked going from west to east till the Finger-8 area, where the Line of Actual Control runs north to south. The PLA has even created a massive signage in the area to claim it as Chinese territory. Read AlsoLadakh standoff: India, China agree to restart Galwan, Hot Springs pullbackIndia and China have broadly agreed to restart the gradual troop disengagement from ‘friction points’ in Galwan Valley and Gogra-Hot Springs in eastern Ladakh, which got derailed the last time after Chinese soldiers reneged on the pullback agreement, leading to the bloody clashes on June 15.Watch LAC standoff: India to deploy more high-speed interceptor boats at Pangong Tso||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/high-speed-interceptor-boats-being-sent-to-pangong-lake/articleshow/76739598.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Business||No Chinese company to be allowed to bid for any highway project: Nitin Gadkari||NEW DELHI: No Chinese company will be allowed to participate in any future highway project and companies entering into joint venture (JV) with any firm from China will also be banned from bidding for projects, road transport and MSME minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday. Talking to TOI, the minister said he has approved the policy and also asked highway secretary Girdhar Aramane to revise the bidding norms for projects to enable more Indian companies to participate in the tender process. “Our focus is to encourage Indian companies to take up more work. However, foreign companies can also participate for technology and consultancy-related works. But there also, we won’t entertain any Chinese player directly or indirectly,” Gadkari said. The minister, who had first talked about growing discontent among global investors against China due to the coronavirus pandemic, said his ministry is not touching already awarded projects and other works to avoid “litigations”. “If we revisit old contracts, there will be litigation. So, the decision will be applicable for all future tenders. I have instructed officials to take necessary steps,” he said. Sources said the tender norms have to be tweaked to bar any Chinese player or investment. It’s not yet clear whether any of the active tenders will also be scrapped where Chinese companies are bidding in any form. Meanwhile, NHAI has put the bid of a Chinese firm on hold in one of the stretches of Delhi-Mumbai corridor. Sources said there is every probability of the bid by the Chinese company being nixed. “Since the work has not been awarded. It won’t be a problem,” said a source. The move comes in the wake of the government’s decision to ban 59 Chinese Apps amid heightened tensions between India and China as troops of the two countries remain locked in a stand-off in Ladakh and last month’s violent clashes at the border. Gadkari said even in the MSME sector, Chinese investors won’t be entertained. “We will work on alternative technology to bring down the cost to be competitive so there is no need to import Chinese products. The government decision to increase duty on incence stick (agarbatti) has created lakhs of new jobs. Earlier, Chinese imports dominated this market. We have also ramped up production of PPE kits for which we were dependent on China earlier,” he said. Watch India to ban Chinese companies from highway projects: Gadkari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-chinese-company-to-be-allowed-to-bid-for-any-highway-project-nitin-gadkari/articleshow/76739635.cms||Dipak K Dash
July 2, 2020||Business||Golden chance to build desi apps: Ravi Shankar Prasad||BENGALURU: Communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has told the country’s top unicorn founders, such as Paytm’s Vijay Shekhar Sharma, Udaan’s Sujeet Kumar and InMobi’s Naveen Tewari, that Indian entrepreneurs should build more apps or platforms as this is a golden opportunity for the country. "India mein apps download bahut hota hai, India mein apps upload nahi hota hai (India sees a lot of downloads but not as many uploads) ,” he said at an event. While the comments were cheered by top businessmen at the event, he did not make any direct reference to the ban on 59 Chinese apps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/golden-chance-to-build-desi-apps-prasad/articleshow/76739767.cms||---
July 2, 2020||India||Germany, US block China’s anti-India move at UNSC||NEW DELHI: China is livid after the US stepped in on Wednesday evening to delay a draft press statement condemning the terrorist attack at the Karachi Stock Exchange at the UN Security Council. The US was the second country after Germany to delay the statement, both silent expressions of solidarity with New Delhi, after the Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi and later PM Imran Khan blamed India for the attack. The press statement, drafted by China, in addition to expressing condolence and solidarity with Pakistan government, said, “The members of the Security Council underlined the need to bring perpetrators, organisers, financiers and sponsors of these reprehensible acts of terrorism to justice and urged all States, in accordance with their obligations under international law and relevant Security Council resolutions, to cooperate actively with the Government of Pakistan and all other relevant authorities in this regard.” China introduced the statement on Tuesday, and under a UNSC procedure, put it under “silence” until 4 pm New York time. The statement is a routine condemnation of a terror attack that is issued often by the UNSC. Under the silence procedure, if there is no objection until the deadline, it is deemed to be passed. But Germany stepped in at 4 pm to put a delay in issuing the statement. Diplomats said Pakistan foreign minister, S M Qureshi’s statement blaming India for the attack was deemed unacceptable. The Chinese UN delegation protested vehemently, saying the clock had actually moved past 4 pm when Germany intervened. The deadline was extended until 10 am July 1. But as the new hour approached, the US intervened also at the last moment, to stymie the issuance, calling for yet another delay. Diplomats said the statement may finally get issued, but pushing back against China and Pakistan in the UNSC is being seen as a larger signal of global displeasure. Watch China’s anti-India move blocked by Germany, US at UNSC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/germany-us-block-chinas-anti-india-move-at-unsc/articleshow/76739789.cms||Indrani Bagchi
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Kaithal bans social media news channels||Kaithal: The Kaithal district administration has banned social media-based news channels following allegations that they were spreading fake news about the Covid-19 outbreak, which led to panic in the area. Kaithal has become the fourth district after Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat and Bhiwani to ban social media-based reporting. Citing the fake news as more dangerous than pandemic, DC Sujan Singh issued an order to ban Facebook, Youtube, Instagram, public app, Whatsapp, Twitter, telegram, LinkedIn and any other social media platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kaithal-bans-social-media-news-channels/articleshow/76737829.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||Cases in Warje-Karvenagar ward double in just 5 days||Pune: The Covid-19 cases in Warje-Karvenagar ward limits have doubled in five days, prompting the authorities to initiate quick and strict measures to arrest the infection spread.The ward office covering Kothrud, Erandawane and Shivane had 212 Covid-19 cases on June 24, which shot up to 476 on June 29. Since then, localities such as Gosavi vasti, Khilarewadi, Bhalekar chawl and Sanjay Gandhi Vasahat are under close watch for rapid rise in cases from these areas.The administration has sealed the lanes of Gosavi vasti, which has reported over 100 cases so far. A swab collection centre has also been set up within the area and steps are on to declare the locality as a micro containment zone. Incidentally, the Warje-Karvenagar had the lowest positive and active cases among the 15 civic wards on June 24. In fact, it always featured among the bottom three wards with lowest Covid-19 cases. However, by June 29, the rise in cases in the ward limits shot it up to 10th position in terms of active cases among all the 15 wards. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said the Gosavi vasti area was almost free from Covid-19 till the middle of June. “It has now reported over 105 cases. We have mobilized all the required infrastructure and medical teams in this area, which has a population of over 5,000. The homes here are located close to each other. The dense population led to faster spread of the infection,” a civic health official said. Santosh Warule, the head of Warje-Karvenagar ward office, said, “We have set up swab collection unit at the local PMC hospital. We are planning to collect swabs of maximum people showing symptoms akin to Covid-19 and those with co-morbidity issues. A proposal has been sent to the civic chief to declare Gosavi vasti a micro-containment zone. Similar containment measures are planned in Khilarewadi, which has a population of 1,500. We have told residents to avoid unnecessary gatherings within the localities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-in-warje-karvenagar-ward-double-in-just-5-days/articleshow/76738676.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 2, 2020||Business||At 1.34 billion, UPI transactions in June beat February’s||BENGALURU: The Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platform recorded its highest ever monthly transaction volumes of 1.34 billion in June, jumping back to pre-Covid-19 levels. This is a result of higher economic activity and a focus on digital payments. UPI had seen 1.32 billion transactions in February before the virus outbreak in India. UPI transactions had dipped to under a billion in April — the first time since October 2019 — due to the lockdown, and later started growing in May, signalling recovery. By value, these transitions were to the tune of Rs 2.61 lakh crore, compared to Rs 2.22 lakh crore in February, according to data from the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), which manages UPI. The recovery in June was led by increased payments for essentials, medicines and grocery shopping along with bill payments through Bharat Bill Pay, which saw over 17 million transactions worth almost Rs 2,970 crore. “We are close to February numbers. However, we have missed four months of growth. We hope that the economic activity in the country and top cities shall continue, which may help to drive the growth in digital payments in coming months. We are also working with the government to review the zero merchant rate discount, or MDR, on UPI and RuPay, and a reasonable charge will drive ecosystem investments into these homegrown payment systems,” NPCI MD & CEO Dilip Asbe told TOI. The government made MDR, a fee to facilitate the payments, zero earlier this year, upsetting most in the ecosystem. Transactions through IMPS have also seen a recovery, though they are not back at pre-Covid-19 levels. June saw almost 199 million transactions worth Rs 2.06 lakh crore, compared to nearly 248 million transactions worth Rs 2.14 lakh crore in February. “Transaction volumes in most categories and for most use-cases on the PhonePe app are back to pre-lockdown levels. This is driven both, by the fact that offline & online merchants across most parts of the country have now opened up, as well as the record number of recharges and bill payments driven by the increase in new users we have seen over the last three months,” said PhonePe co-founder and CEO Sameer Nigam. His firm is one of the top players on the network, with rivals like Google Pay, Paytm and Amazon Pay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-1-34bn-upi-transactions-in-june-beat-febs/articleshow/76738239.cms||Digbijay Mishra
July 2, 2020||Surat||Renowned Bharuch paediatrician succumbs to Covid-19||Surat: On National Doctor’s day, a pall of gloom descended upon the medical fraternity in Bharuch as a renowned paediatrician succumbed to Covid-19 infection at a private hospital in Vadodara on Wednesday. Dr Mayank Pittaliya, 62, who was running a private children’s hospital in Bharuch’s Panch Batti since 1983, had tested positive for the deadly virus on June 10 and was admitted to the Jayaben Modi hospital in Ankleshwar. Incidentally, Dr Pittaliya was born on July 1, 1958. After undergoing treatment for a few days, Dr Pittaliya complained of breathlessness and was shifted to the Vadodara-based Tricolor Hospital on June 16. On June 19, Dr Pittaliya’s wife Meera also tested positive. There were rumours on June 16 that Dr Pittaliya had succumbed to the Covid-19 infection in Vadodara. However, to put the rumours to rest, Dr Pittaliya shot a video from the hospital and sent it across social media platforms informing that he was fine and also appreciated the treatment at the Jayaben Modi hospital in Ankleshwar. He also stated in the video that he was recuperating and will soon return to Bharuch. Every year on his birthday, Dr Pittaliya used to celebrate the day as National Doctor’s Day in Bharuch with his patients and the doctors’ fraternity. Sources said that the Dr Pittaliya’s wife is also fighting for her life in the same hospital and is on oxygen support. Their son Riddish Pittaliya is settled in Perth, Australia. The hospital sources in Vadodara confirmed that Dr Pittaliya died at about 12.30 pm on Wednesday. He was suffering from co-morbid conditions including diabetes and hypertension. Due to the Covid-19 infection, his kidneys were also badly affected. Dr Nilesh Patel, Epidemic Medical Officer (EMO) said, “After Dr Pittaliya had tested positive of the virus, about 87 of his patients including their parents were screened. Fortunately, all the reports turned negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/renowned-bharuch-paediatrician-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/76739252.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Surat||Four more doctors test positive in city||Surat: Surat city recorded 180 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Wednesday.Four more doctors including two from SMIMER Hospital tested positive as also a wardbody and a lab technician of Yash Lab tested posotive.Highest number of new cases (53) were reported from diamond polishing hub Katargam followed by 25 in Rander, 24 in Athwa, 19 each in Varachha (A) and central zone .With four more succumbing to Covid-19 the death toll in Surat rose to 182 on Wednesday. Two of the deceased were from Varachha (A) zone and one each from Katargam and Central zone.Meanwhile, 124 Covid-19 patients who recovered from the infection were discharged from hospitals. With regard to spread of the virus in other parts of the district, Surat rural reported the highest single spike with 40 cases and three deaths on Wednesday. This took the case tally to 587 in the district. Three people succumbed to the virus on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 19 in the district. “About 20 patients recovered and were discharged on Wednesday. Total 307 patients have been discharged till Wednesday evening,” said a district official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/four-more-doctors-test-positive-in-city/articleshow/76739341.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Business||NBFC bad loans set to double on Covid: Study||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Finance companies lending to commercial vehicles, corporates and microfinance had the lowest liquidity coverage ratio, according to ICRA. The rating agency has forecast that the bad loans — non-performing assets, or NPAs — of the non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) sector could double in March 2020 on account of the Covid-19 crisis. Housing finance companies (HFCs) are doing better with a shorter moratorium, which is helping their cash flows. What is impacting the cashflows of the non-banks is the moratorium, which has resulted in a drop in liquidity. Around 52% of the portfolio of NBFCs is under a moratorium, while in the case of HFCs, it is only 28%. Assuming a slippage of 5-10% of the asset under management (AUM) while in moratorium, non-bank NPAs could increase to 5-7% by March 2021 from 3.3-3.4% in March 2020. NBFC asset quality is likely to be more impacted than HFCs, with the segmental NPA touching 7-9.5% by March 2021. HFCs, on the other hand, could witness NPAs of 3.4-4.8%. “Portfolio under moratorium for some large NBFCs is as high as 70-80%, with the sectoral average of about 52%, while for HFCs the average is about 28%. The additional Covid-19-related provision carried by NBFCs is about 0.7% (of the AUM), while for HFCs it is about 0.2%. The envisaged sharp increase in the stage-3 assets post-moratorium window and weak economic indicators would warrant entities to further revise their expected credit loss models and increase provisions, thus impacting their earnings,” said ICRA VP and sector head (financial sector ratings) A M Karthik. At the current juncture, funding via the banking channel is the prime source, with the share of banks’ direct lending increasing to about 31% in the overall non-bank borrowings in March 2020 from about 28% in March 2019. Increased bank borrowings by larger entities (direct/indirect) could impact the funding flow to the mid- and small-scale entities, ICRA said. While the targeted funding initiatives of the RBI and government is positive, sustained funding to these entities remain to be seen, the rating agency said, pointing out that higher NPAs would make it difficult to raise funds from banks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfc-bad-loans-set-to-double-on-covid-study/articleshow/76737961.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Now PPE mask manufacturers seek permission to export||Ludhiana: Two days after the central government allowed PPE (personal protective equipment) suit manufacturers to export PPE under quota system, the mask manufacturers too are demanding lifting of ban on the surgical masks, specially the three-ply masks. According to the businessmen, due to entry of large number of manufacturers, they have a huge number of unsold masks lying with them now and like PPE suit manufacturers they too are facing the problem of huge fall in the rates of masks. Dinesh Kalra, president of Ludhiana Business Forums, said. “With no scope left in garment business, in the wake of lockdowns, most of the garment manufacturers started to make three-ply masks as an alternative to survive these turbulent times. But entry of too many players made this item uncompetitive and, due to over supply, rates have fallen drastically. Now, we are facing another big problem of unsold stock worth several lakhs lying with each manufacturer. The only solution to our problem is allowing export of the surplus. The government should promptly take a decision. There is no harm in allowing export of the mask at least three-ply masks under quota system.” Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club and manufacturer of masks and PPE suits said, “There is a ban on export of surgical masks and as of now only cloth mask is allowed to be exported from India. If government does not want to lift ban on export of surgical masks, at least the three-ply masks should be exempted from the ban as there is a huge oversupply. In the last one month, hundreds of new businessmen entered this field. The three-ply masks, which were earlier sold to wholesalers for Rs 6 now got no buyers even at half their rate” Kairpal also added, "The fall in rates has resulted in dozens of manufacturers calling it quits already, but they too have huge quantity of unsold stock lying with them. Considering the situation, there is no other alternative than to export these to other countries. We already are getting offers at better rates outside India.” According to Ashwani Garg, a N95 mask manufacturer from the city, “If export of PPE suit can be allowed, then surgical masks too should be allowed to be exported. We do not have any problems if the government puts any kind of restrictions or guidelines for systematic export of masks. The position of mask manufacturers, specially the three-ply mask makers, is very critical now and allowing them to export their products would ease pressure on them and allow them to avert the danger of incurring huge losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/now-ppe-mask-manufacturers-seek-permission-to-export/articleshow/76737832.cms||Mohit Behl
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||Covid patient made to run around in KGMU, told no bed free||LUCKNOW: In an alleged case of gross neglect and violation of Covid protocol, a 30-year-old novel coronavirus patient was made to run around for hours in King George’s Medical University (KGMU) for admission on Wednesday — exposing many people to the risk of catching infection in the process — before being told that there was no bed in the isolation ward. The man, who works in Kanpur, was suffering from fever for past five days. He came to Lucknow on Tuesday and got himself tested for Covid-19 at a private lab. When the report came positive, he went to KGMU on Wednesday morning to get himself admitted. “I first went to the triage area where staff told me to go to isolation ward. On reaching there, I was told to report to fever clinic from where I was directed to go back to isolation ward. When I reached isolation ward again, the staff told me there was no vacant bed,” he told TOI. “At around 3pm, I dialled the helpline of chief medical officer (CMO) and was assured that an ambulance is being sent to get me admitted to a government hospital. It came at 8pm and took me to RSM Hospital,” he said. KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh said a probe will be conducted to verify the claims of the patient. CMO Dr Narendra Agarwal said the ambulance was sent as soon as one was free. “We will ask KGMU to update us when their beds are full so that alternate arrangements can be made for new patients,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-patient-made-to-run-around-in-kgmu-told-no-bed-free/articleshow/76738851.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Surat||Surat to get more ventilators||Surat: State’s principal health secretary Jayanti Ravi has said that 83% of Covid-19 patients who died had co-morbid conditions.Ravi, who was camping in the city since Tuesday evening, also said that government had no intention of hiding data of Covid-19 mortality.“The state government will soon send more ventilators to Surat,” she said, while addressing the media later in the day.The health secretary, along with Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani, visited the Covid-19 hotspot Katargam zone on Wednesday. “Diamond units have been shut for seven days as it was found social distancing was not being followed by the unit owners and there was absence of proper ventilation for workers in the units,” said Ravi.Pani said community halls will be converted into Covid care centres city and meetings are on with the community leaders. “Community halls in Varachha and central zone will be utilized,’‘ said Pani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-to-get-more-ventilators/articleshow/76739319.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Business||Govt-guaranteed SPV to help NBFCs repay debt||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The RBI has notified a scheme whereby a government-guaranteed special purpose vehicle (SPV) will raise funds from the central bank and use it to buy bonds with maturity up to three months issued by investment-grade finance companies. In the notification, the RBI said that the SPV will be floated by SBI Capital Markets and the money it provides to NBFCs must be used by them to repay existing debt. The scheme was announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat announcements on May 13. The scheme was approved by the Union Cabinet on May 20. “The government has approved a scheme to improve the liquidity position of NBFCs/HFCs through a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to avoid any potential systemic risks to the financial sector,” the RBI said. “NBFCs have commercial paper repayments of close to Rs 65,000 crore between July and September of this year. These NBFCs could benefit considerably from this special liquidity window. While clear norms have been identified to assess NBFCs/HFCs that will be eligible for this scheme, to what extent each of the entities will be eligible is unclear as of now,” Motilal Oswal Real Estate Fund CEO Sharad Mittal said . To be eligible under the scheme, the NBFC should have capital adequacy in line with what is prescribed by RBI rules and the net non-performing assets must be below 6%. The NBFC should have made profit in at least one of the preceding two years and should not have been reported as a stressed borrower by any bank. SBI Capital Markets (SBI Cap is a subsidiary of State Bank of India) will set up the Special Liquidity Scheme Trust (SLS Trust). The SLS Trust will purchase the short-term papers from eligible NBFCs/HFCs, which shall utilise the proceeds under this scheme “solely for the purpose of extinguishing existing liabilities”. The instruments will be CPs and NCDs with a residual maturity of not more than three months and rated as investment grade. The facility will not be available for any paper issued after September 30, 2020 and the SPV would cease to make fresh purchases after that date and would recover all dues by December 31, 2020, or as may be modified subsequently under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-guaranteed-spv-to-help-nbfcs-repay-debt/articleshow/76737940.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 2, 2020||Business||Flinto raises $ 7.2 million for preschool solution expansion||Chennai: Led by Lightbox Ventures, the education startup Flinto Learning Solutions has raised $7.2 million in Pre-Series B funding to expand its newly-launched preschool solution Flintoclass@HOME, amid rising enrollments in the lockdown period. Its CEO and co-founder Arunprasad Durairaj said, “We will be using the funds to create, expand and distribute this product across the world so that no child’s learning stops due to Covid-19.” Prashant Mehta, partner at Lightbox explains, “We are excited to see that Flinto is becoming more relevant especially during the Covid-19 crisis when the primary place of learning and development is turning out to be home.” Flintoclass has expanded with over 700 preschools across eight countries, in the last two years of operations. It was founded by Arunprasad Durairaj, Vijay Babu Gandhi and Shreenidhi Srirangam in September 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flinto-raises-7-2-million-for-preschool-solution-expansion/articleshow/76737991.cms||Mamtha Asokan
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 95-year-old goes home from hospital||KOLKATA: A 95-year-old Covid survivor went back home from the hospital on Wednesday. The nonagenarian, who was admitted to Sanjiban Hospital in Howrah, is the oldest Covid-19 survivor in the state so far. A few days ago, another man in his 90s was cured of the infection and sent home from Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata. Salkia resident Govida Haldar was admitted two weeks ago. Though he had a Covid-positive report, doctors found no significant co-morbidities and his symptoms were not severe — just mild cough and fever. “Even though his symptoms were mild, we kept him under intense monitoring considering his age. Fortunately, he did not need any intensive-care support. His symptoms started improving fast and we decided to send him home as he has shown no symptoms for four to five days,” said Subhasis Mitra, director of Sanjiban Hospital. Haldar had required oxygen support, albeit in minimum quantity, for a few days. Doctors said he must have led a disciplined life till now, due to which he did not have any significant underlying conditions apart from age-related issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/95-year-old-goes-home-from-hosp/articleshow/76737881.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Survivors come together to launch support group for Corona patients||KOLKATA: Covid survivors, their family members and healthcare professionals came together on Doctors’ Day to launch the Covid Care Network (CCN), a support group that will cater to the needs of Covid-infected patients and their families. The group aims to eliminate stigma, improve access to healthcare and provide psycho-social support to the patients and their families. “When I got infected, my family and I underwent an ordeal due to the stigma. I wanted to help those facing similar trauma,” said Sayantan Chakraborty, a doctor who is part CCN. In addition to allaying fear and stigma, CCN will also give medical advice during home isolation and help patients get hospital admission if necessary. The organization will use social media, dashboards and 24x7 helpline numbers where experts and volunteers will provide guidance and counselling on social, as well as medical, issues. “If all goes well, the helpline number will become operational from Monday. We have started with our social media account,” said cardiologist Arijit Ghosh, CCN president. Other club members include Arindam Das, an advocate, Amrita Panda, a survivor who did not need hospital admission, and family members of Covid patients. The organisation will also have a number of intern doctors along with senior health professionals as volunteers. Most of the interaction between group members and the public will be virtual, but, if required, team members will visit those in distress. “If the need arises we will be physically present to help with the situation. We are also trying to work with like-minded people from other states so that the network is replicated there,” said SSKM hepatology head Abhjit Chowdhury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/survivors-come-together-to-launch-support-group-for-corona-patients/articleshow/76737889.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 2, 2020||Business||Banks will need $15bn in fresh capital: Fitch||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Fitch Ratings has said Indian banks could require at least $15 billion (Rs 1.13 lakh crore) in fresh capital to meet a 10% weighted-average common equity tier-1 ratio under a moderate stress scenario. The capital requirement could jump to $58 billion (Rs 4.3 lakh crore) in a high-stress situation, where the domestic economy fails to recover from the pandemic-related disruption. State-owned banks will need most of the recapitalisation, as the risk of capital erosion at public sector lenders is much higher than their private counterparts. “We expect the majority of the injection to come through in FY22, as bad loan recognition has been pushed back by a 180-day regulatory moratorium. However, a clearer picture should start to emerge from December 2020, unless the central bank agrees to a one-time loan restructuring, which would affect the timely recognition and resolution of bad loans,” the rating agency said. In the February 2020 Union Budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman did not provide any additional capital infusion into public sector banks, pointing out that the government had already infused Rs 3.5 lakh crore over the last few years. In FY20, the government infused almost the entire budgeted amount of Rs 70,000 crore to complete a mega-merger among public sector banks, resulting in 10 lenders shrinking to four. “We do not believe the reported performance of Indian banks for the financial year ending March 2020 (FY20) adequately reflects the incipient stress caused by the pandemic,” the rating agency said. It added that while the results were broadly in line with Fitch’s expectations, bank balance sheets are yet to feel the impact of India’s strict lockdown measures that were implemented by the government from March 25, 2020. According to Fitch, core capitalisation improved by about 90 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point), mainly due to the government’s capital infusion coupled with lower growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-will-need-15bn-in-fresh-capital-fitch/articleshow/76737996.cms||Mayur Shetty
July 2, 2020||Surat||Strict implementation of lockdown in 220 clusters||Surat:Surat city police commissioner R B Brahmbhatt issued fresh prohibitory orders on Wednesday for stricter implementation of lockdown until July 31 in 220 cluster containment zones of the city.All commercial activities have been prohibited in these areas and only essential services like grocery, milk, vegetables and medical stores will be allowed to operate from 7 am to 7 pm. Residents of these areas will also not be allowed to go out to their work. The civic body has barricaded some of the areas where the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases have been reported to restrict movement of citizens.Police estimate that around 12 lakh people are under cluster containment zones currently.“Cluster areas declared by SMC are already under lockdown and police will strictly enforce lockdown rules. Only essential services will be allowed to operate and those caught violating will be punished,” Brahmbhatt told TOI. Additional police bandobust has been provided to each cluster area for stricter implementation of lockdown.Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) commissioner declares zones under cluster containment after reviewing cases from the area. As per the guidelines, an area is declared non-cluster only if no cases are reported within 21 days from the last reported case, informed an officer.Considering the spike in cases, the number of cluster areas have also been increased since the unlock phase started. Locals in different areas have, however, demanded to reduce the size of cluster areas so that a larger population doesn’t get affected by lockdown.The area under the containment zone in Athwa zone includes Tajnagar, Azadnagar, Bhatar Road, Rasulabad, Tadkeshwar Society, Mochi Mahollo, Mahavednagar and Somnath society area.In the west zone, there are three containment areas which include Garden Society, Shalimar Society, Abrar Tower, Dattatrey Nagar Society and White Stone Residency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/strict-implementation-of-lockdown-in-220-clusters/articleshow/76739282.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Police to audit bank branches to ensure security||KOLKATA: Lalbazar has asked police stations to carry out basic security audits at various banks and come up with possible methods to ensure greater security at these locations. The process will include an audit of security measures, like CCTV cameras, alarms and other anti-burglary installations. This is the fallout of an attempted burglary at a public sector bank branch in New Market area last weekend. “The security audit has been launched 48 hours ago,” said an officer, adding that in case certain common lacunae are found, they will be discussed by Lalbazar with the branches. “The focus is on ensuring that all entries and exits are secured, along with the lockers,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-to-audit-bank-branches-to-ensure-security/articleshow/76737911.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Surat||Tapi art teacher’s house tells Covid tales with warli paintings||Surat: While the unprecedented times have unleashed copious amounts of creativity in people, a drawing teacher in a remote tribal hamlet of Tapi district found his own domain to be a perfect medium to tell the tale of Covid-19 for generations to come.Inspired by the changes in the world after the pandemic outbreak, the 47-year-old teacher Tulsi Patel, who works in a Surat school, chose his native house in Pathakwadi village as the landscape to describe the corona story and life after it using the tribal art form - warli.Patel first applied ‘lipan’ — a mixture of dung, red soil and dried peel of food grains - on the walls for a bright red base on which he painted the Covid tales in Varli form with natural white clay paint.The elements include names of doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, police, armed forces, fire fighters, teachers and security personnel, families locked in homes, empty roads and closed industrial units. Patel has depicted 108 ambulances as angels, online meetings over mobile phones, social distancing, migrant workers undertaking arduous journeys on foot carrying kids on shoulder etc.“I utilized objects that are normally used in the traditional art form. This amount of painting normally requires two days to be complete, but my elaborate design took me 20 days — from conceptualizing to execution,” Patel said, adding that after completion he made a video of his house and shared it on social media.His efforts turned monumental with the painted walls attracting a huge number of visitors to his home, art aficionados or otherwise.“Though locked up inside our homes, I understood the magnitude of the historic times and so decided to document it through painting,” Patel, who teaches art at Jivan Bharti School in Nanpura area, told TOI.“After watching the video, I decided to visit Patel’s unique art house and liked it very much. It is truly an unusual work,” said Bharat Vyas, a resident of Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/tapi-art-teachers-house-tells-covid-tales-with-warli-paintings/articleshow/76739424.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
July 2, 2020||Surat||Youth Cong leaders lock DEO office||Surat: A group of youth Congress members staged dharna and locked the office of the district education officer (DEO) on Wednesday . The members alleged that despite multiple representations over the issue of online education and collection of high fees by schools, the DEO had not taken any action. Arriving at the office, they shouted slogans with a demand to take actions against the schools that are charging huge fees for starting online education.“We have made multiple representations at the DEO office but no action has been taken against the schools that were pressurizing parents to pay, even when the schools were not functioning properly,” said Pradeep Sindhav, a leader of the youth Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/youth-cong-leaders-lock-deo-office/articleshow/76739312.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Surat||Cases double in a fortnight to 250||Surat: Bharuch district recorded 18 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of active cases to 250 on Wednesday. Health officials said that Bharuch town recorded 11 cases followed by two cases in Jambusar and five cases in Ankleshwar. Dr Nilesh Patel, Epidemic Medical Officer (EMO) told TOI, “In the last fortnight, the Covid-19 cases have more than doubled from 100 cases on June 16 to 250 cases on July 1.” Bharuch has been witnessing spike in cases during the unlock phase after movement across district and state borders were relaxed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cases-double-in-a-fortnight-to-250/articleshow/76739257.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Drones to find stagnant water on Salt Lake roofs||KOLKATA: Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has started using drones to check if water is accumulating on terraces or around buildings in Salt Lake as part of dengue-prevention steps taken by the authorities. “We have started using drones with support from Bidhannagar police to detect if dengue larvae are breeding in water on roof tops. We started with Ward 29 and residents have been urged to see there is no water accumulation on their terraces,” said mayor Krishna Chakraborty. The authorities have been discussing with the State Urban Development Agency how to prevent water accumulation on terraces of locked buildings. Civic teams will also make inspections across all 41 wards. “We will intensify spraying larvicide as well,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/drones-to-find-stagnant-water-on-salt-lake-roofs/articleshow/76737899.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||No going back: Covid warriors renew pledge on Doctors’ Day||KOLKATA: The pandemic may have changed their lives, but it hasn’t broken their spirits. Several doctors who had been infected in the line of duty are back at work, tending to patients and going out of their way to be part of social causes, like donating plasma or joining support groups to stand by Covid patients and their families. After serving a month at the emergency of Peerless Hospital since the Covid cases started getting reported in Kolkata, consultant Anisur Haq had tested positive on April 22. He got admitted to the hospital and spent 17 days in an isolated cabin. “It was scary. Till I tested positive, I had been treating those who were either infected or suspects. Suddenly, I had been converted into one of them. What was, however, both disturbing and reassuring was that several of my colleagues, too, had tested positive and were housed in adjoining rooms. Even though we could not see each other, I drew courage and inspiration from them. I told myself that if they could fight it, so could I,” said Haq who rejoined duties on June 3. AMRI cardiologist Arijit Ghosh had tested positive on April 26 while in home quarantine after serving at the Covid unit for a week. He was back at work after a fortnight and is among those who donated plasma for the clinical trial on convalescent plasma therapy. As the city observed Doctors’ Day on Wednesday, Ghosh attended to his OPD patients before heading to his alma mater SSKM Hospital to join the launch of Covid Care Network (CCN) launch, a support group, and then headed back to the hospital. “Covid is not going to leave us any time soon. Therefore, we cannot stay away from treating patients. The OPD footfall is slowly picking up,” said the doctor. Calcutta Medical College and Hospital intern Arijit Bhattacharyya was posted in the orthopaedic ward till he was sent into isolation after a patient tested positive. Bhattacharyya, too, tested positive and was treated at ID Hospital before being discharged on May 1. He has also donated plasma for the clinical trial. “I have applied for house staff-ship at the CCU of my college in the hope that I would be able to serve Covid patients,” he said. Sayantan Chakraborty, a resident doctor at Tata Medical Centre, is back to treating patients at the hospital after serving the compulsory home quarantine period after discharge from ID Hospital on April 1. The doctor has been dividing his time between attending to cancer patients and his social commitments. A part of CCN, Chakaborty is mobilizing other Covid survivors for the donation. “As doctors, we also have a social responsibility, both inside and outside the hospital. I am only trying to do my bit,” he said. Did he ever consider staying away from work? “Never,” said Haq, adding, “I realized that each doctor was needed at the frontline and my presence could make a difference. The fact that I was infected is not present even at the back of my mind. Yes, I do take the necessary protection, but that’s all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-going-back-covid-warriors-renew-pledge-on-doctors-day/articleshow/76737869.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 2, 2020||Surat||Diamond firms develops ventilator operable from 10m distance||Surat: After adorning the women across the world with the sparkling diamonds, diamantaires in the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre in Surat will now save the lives of the critical Covid-19 patients.One of the world’s leading diamond companies, Dharmanandan Diamonds Private Limited through its research and development (R&D) companies—DRC Techno and InnovSeed— has invented turbine technology-based compact ventilator with features at par with global specifications under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The ventilator has been certified by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) and it will be supplied to the hospitals in Gujarat, Kerala, Maharashtra and Delhi starting August. Vipul Sutariya, director of Dharmanandan Diamonds said, “It took five months for us to develop the low-cost ventilator with all advance features available in any imported ventilators. This ventilator has been developed under the supervision of medical experts.”About the key features, Sutariya said that the 8.1 inch monitor on the ventilator is detachable and the doctors can operate the ventilator from a distance of 10 meters. Also, it has a mobile application that can sent data on patient’s vitals to the doctor’s phone in real time.Sutariya added, “We are getting inquiries from Kerala government, Pune and many private hospitals for the supply of the ventilators. Five units have been given in government hospitals in Gujarat for final review of the doctors over its functioning.” The company has the capacity to manufacture 500 units per day which can be scaled to 2,000 units per day if required.According to the company, the compact ventilator weighs about 3kg and costs Rs 2.50 lakh. Key featuresDetachable screen to operate the ventilator from a distance of 10m from the patientMobile application provides real-time data of patient on doctor’s mobile phone Mechanical safety for lung protectionTurbine technology to provide high flow deliveryNo need for central gas for 21% oxygen supply Three hours battery backupPortability for using in ICU as well as ambulances||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-firms-develops-ventilator-operable-from-10m-distance/articleshow/76739326.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||PMR records highest single-day tally of 1,251, death toll nears 800||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded its single-day highest tally of 1,251 on Wednesday, pushing the total cases in the region to 23,680. Besides, 25 more casualties pushed the death tally in PMR up to 788. It is for the first time that PMR recorded more than 1,000 cases in a day. Previously, the record rise of 996 cases was recorded on June 27. Of the total fresh cases, 860 were reported from the Pune municipal limits, 282 from Pimpri Chinchwad areas and 109 from rural and Cantonment areas. PMC health officials said increased swab collection and testing was the primary reason for the rise in cases, besides people’s callous attitude towards their own safety. “Swab collection facilities had been started near to many micro containment zones. Over 4,000 swabs were collected in the last 24 hours,” an official said, adding that since the relaxations in the lockdown, more people are venturing out and not all of them are adhering to safety guidelines like wearing masks and washing hands regularly. This sentiment was also reflected in PM Narendra Modi’s address to the nation where he raised concerns over rising negligence in personal and social behaviour after ‘Unlock 1’ on June 1. The PMC has been reporting over 500 positive cases, while PCMC over 150 cases on daily basis since the last few days. A PMC health official said over 589 patients were discharged on Wednesday after they were declared cured. “ As many as 347 critical patients were being treated at various hospitals, of whom 55 were on ventilator support,” he said. Six patients succumbed to the contagion at the Sassoon hospital. These included a 68-year-old man from the Mundhwa area, an 85-year-old woman from Kasba Peth, a 70-year-old man from Katraj, a 64-year-old man from Keshavnagar, a 70 -year-old man from Kasba Peth and a 40-year-old man from Kondhwa. The patients who died at private hospitals included a 56-year-old man from Rahatani, an 82-year-old man from Dattawadi, a 70-year-old woman from Kothurd, a 44-year-old man from the Mundhwa area, a 68-year-old man from Wadgaonsheri, a 72-year-old man from Navi Peth, a 78-year-old man from Dattawadi, a 72-year-old man from Bhavani Peth, a 75-year-old man from the Shastrinagar area, a 66-year-old man from Kondhwa, a 77-year-old woman from Shivajinagar, a 70-year-old man Wadgaon Budruk, a 59-year-old woman from Warje and a 45-year-old man from Talegaon Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-records-highest-single-day-tally-of-1251-death-toll-nears-800/articleshow/76738668.cms||Sarang Dastane
July 2, 2020||Business||Retail gold prices go past Rs 50k/10gm mark||MUMBAI: A strong global demand for gold, along with a depreciating rupee, helped the yellow metal to breach the Rs 50,000-per-10gm mark in Mumbai’s retail market on Wednesday. This is the first time the price of the precious metal, with which Indians associate sentimentally, crossed the psychologically important level. At the same time, on leading commodities bourse MCX, the price was hovering just below the Rs 49,000 mark for contracts that will expire in August’s first week. According to data analysed by TOI, gold started moving up only after mid-2018, till when its price was range-bound at Rs 30,000-32,000 for several years. In the last two years, the return from the precious metal has been a staggering 57%. In the process, it has outperformed all other asset classes. The 10-year gilts — with nearly 17% returns — are the next best asset class. On Tuesday night on the Nymex in New York, gold prices neared an eight-year high at just above the $1,800-per-ounce mark. This helped domestic prices shoot up during the day, market players said. According to Motilal Oswal Financial Services VP (commodities research) Navneet Damani, gold surged to its highest in nearly eight years as mounting fears of a resurgence of new coronavirus cases kept safe-haven demand for the yellow metal alive. This set the precious metal on the path to its biggest quarterly gain since March 2016. With stocks and bonds as investments not showing much hope for good returns in the next few years, gold stands out as the asset class that could give strong returns, a recent research report by Bank of America Securities said. The report had predicted that by end-2021, the price of gold could rally up to $3,000 per ounce which, when translated into Indian rates, could be upwards of Rs 82,000/10gm at current exchange rates. The factors that are aiding the gold-price rally are the uncertainties regarding the Hong Kong issue, fears about a second wave of Covid-19 infections slowing global economic growth further and the promise of central banks to infuse money into the financial system to fight the virus infection with a “whatever-it-takes” approach, industry players said. “US treasury secretary Steven Mnuchin and Fed governor Jerome Powell pledged to do more for the US economy as it battles the enormous fallout from the virus outbreak,” Damani wrote in a note. Watch Retail gold prices go past Rs 50k/10gm mark||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retail-gold-prices-go-past-rs-50k/10gm-mark/articleshow/76738269.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Aurangabad||2,741 treated, active cases stand at 2,753||Aurangabad: As many as 2,741 Covid-19 positive patients have so far been treated and discharged from different Covid treatment facilities across the district. Also, Wednesday witnessed addition of 192 positive cases taking the district’s tally of active cases to 2,753. According to a health official, 866 throat swab samples were sent for testing of which 674 tested negative. “So far, 263 Covid positive patients have died at different hospitals, including the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). Aurangabad city continues to report maximum number of cases as of the 192 patients reported on Wednesday, 116 were from the city while the remaining 76 were from rural parts of the district,” the official said. Meanwhile, Aurangabad rural police have also launched various initiatives to check the spread of the contagion. As part of the initiatives, the police have roped in many pilgrims (Warkaris), who usually travelled to Pandharpur, asking them to spend their travel money on tree plantation in Kuber Georai and Pimpalkhuta villages. t “The villagers with the help of gram suraksha dal have planted 200 trees of different varieties from the money they wanted to spend on their travel to Pandharpur. They had to abandon the plan due to prevailing pandemic situation. The plantation was also meant to pay homage to the martyrs who recently laid their lives on the China border,” a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2741-treated-active-cases-stand-at-2753/articleshow/76736708.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Man shot in Y’nagar||Yamunanagar: A man was shot by three men on bike at Mandhar village on Tuesday evening. Gurwinder Singh (47) of Mandhar village was allegedly shot three-four times in his head and chest. He was rushed to a private hospital in Jagadhri where doctors declared him brought dead. Acting on the complaint of Gurwinder’s brother-in-law Jaswinder Singh, a case has been registered against three unidentified accused at Chhappar police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-shot-in-ynagar/articleshow/76737834.cms||Jaskaran Singh
July 2, 2020||Madurai||Waste collection dips by 1,000t in Madurai city||Madurai: Garbage collection in Madurai has come down by 1,000 tonnes in the last week of June due to intensive lockdown in place. While around 4,100 tonnes was collected in the first week of June, only 3,110 tonnes was collected in the last week as the commercial establishments, marriage halls and hotels are closed. A week-long intense lockdown was imposed in the city starting from June 24 in order to bring Covid-19 infection under control. It has now been extended till July 5. With all the commercial establishments and shops, other than essential ones, being shut, the city generates only around 450 tonnes of garbage a day on an average. An official from the Madurai Corporation said, “The city’s daily collection of garbage was 650 tonnes on an average. Due to lockdown it has come down to 580 -600 tonnes a day. Intensive lockdown has further brought it down to 450 tonnes. Lesser garbage means lesser stress on health workers, who are extensively used for Covid-19 prevention works also.” Around 16,000 tonnes of garbage was collected in the month of June. “Large quantity of waste is also collected through public dumper bins. The absence of floating population due to lockdown restrictions and absence of roadside vendors has resulted in lesser quantity of garbage,” a health official from the corporation said. Workers involved in door to door collection of waste have been instructed to collect mask waste separately. They are collected and disposed safety. Quantity of used masks collected by them has increased in the last few weeks, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/waste-collection-dips-by-1000t-in-madurai-city/articleshow/76738675.cms||V Devanathan
July 2, 2020||Surat||Special clause leaves 10L PPE kits useless in Sueat||Surat: Lakhs of personal protection equipment (PPE) kits that could have shielded thousands of frontline health workers from Covid-19 infections are gathering dust in godowns of textile manufacturing units in Surat.Reason: The online tenders on the government e-marketplace (GeM) by various government departments, organizations and PSUs now has a special clause of ‘experience criteria’ ranging from 1-3 years for the suppliers of PPE kits. Sensing a business opportunity after directives from the Union textile ministry, at least 15 textile companies in the city diversified into manufacturing PPE coveralls using the non-woven fabric. However, two months after making lakhs of PPEs, these units have suddenly become ineligible to sell the kits to the government, which is the biggest buyer, as they don’t have the mandatory ‘one-three years experience.’After research and development during April, the actual production of PPE kits started in the first week of May. In Surat alone, about 50,000 PPE suits were manufactured per day, which included coated and laminated suits with 100% breathable technology. Shalin Vaidya, director of Sachin GIDC-based Rudra Digital Solution, a garment manufacturing company, told TOI: “We made a significant investment in manufacturing 10,000 PPE kits per day. However, except for a few private orders, we haven’t been able to make a bulk deal with the government agencies due to the experience criteria in the online tenders.”Sanjay Saraogi, managing director of Laxmipati textile group, which has the capacity of making 5,000 PPE kits per day, said, “In GeM tenders, it is stated that the bidder should have supplied same or similar category products in at least one of the last three years before the bid opening date to any central government, state government, PSU or public company.”“Except for a handfulof private orders, we have not sold a single PPE kit to the government institutions. Due to the experience criteria, we have now stopped manufacturing the kits,” said Saraogi.Pramod Chaudhary, chairman of Pratibha Group, said, “Our PPE kits are approved by South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) and they are made out of laminated non-woven fabrics. In the government tenders, apart from the experience criteria, there is no mention of the laminated PPE kits. We are unable to make the PPE kits due to utter confusion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/special-clause-leaves-10l-ppe-kits-useless-in-sueat/articleshow/76739409.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Surat||Navsari collector’s PA tests positive for Covid-19||Surat: Panic struck Navsari district administration after the personal assistant of district collector Ardra Agarwal tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The PA’s wife was also found infected with the virus.This happened on the day when Navsari district recorded its highest single day spike with 26 cases, taking the tally to 131.Official sources said that about five staff, including peon and another personal assistant of the district collector, have been placed under isolation as they had come in the direct the infected personal assistant Divakar Bhadeka (44). Wife of Divakar, Varsha Bhadeka (39) also tested positive on Wednesday.Sources added that Divakar’s relatives had come from Vapi a few days ago and the husband-wife duo may have got the infection from them.However, the district collector Arda Agarwal has not come in the contact with her PA since she had gone to Gandhinagar to attend the meeting on Monday and was away from office since Friday last.Talking with TOI, Agarwal said, “I was not in office since Friday as I had gone to attend meeting in Gandhinagar and returned on Tuesday. My PA developed symptoms on Monday and he did not report to duty on Tuesday. Since I was not in contact with the PA since Saturday, I have not been advised self isolation.”Meanwhile, Union Territory of Daman, Dadra and Nagar Haveli reported 13 new Covid-19 cases on WednesdayIn Valsad district, 15 more people were infected with the virus on Wednesday. Out of the 15 cases, 12 were from Vapi and three from Valsad town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/navsari-collectors-pa-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/76739308.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||MC identifies 700 points prone to waterlogging, opens 24/7 flood control room||Ludhiana: The civic body has identified 700 points that are prone to waterlogging during rainy season. The civic officials have been asked to be prepared to tackle waterlogging in these areas and also arrange for sand bags to be kept around Buddha Nullah where breaches can take place. For monitoring, 242 employees are deputed by the civic body this monsoon. Apart from this, the municipal corporation (MC) flood control room has been made operational round the clock from Wednesday onwards. The officials will be available 24/7 over phone and in case of any laxity, there will be action against the officer concerned. The officials claimed that there will be lesser problem this time as the sewage system were cleaned under the strict supervision of the councillors. At present, Buddha Nullah is being cleaned with the help of poclaine machines, which have made it possible for deep cleaning. One of the Congress councillors, Jai Parkash, whose ward is also on the banks of Buddha Nullah, claimed that he monitored the cleaning of drain personally and till Tuesday at least 1,300 to 1,400 trolleys of silt were taken out from the drain. Big stones were also removed from under the bridges. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We have identified 700 sensitive points where waterlogging is a major problem and officials concerned are told to find a solution to these areas.” He also said flood control room is operational now and employees will be deputed round the clock and contact numbers of officials concerned will also be provided for emergencies. He claimed that he had also instructed the officials to start chlorination of tube wells to avoid water contamination. Fogging will also start shortly, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-identifies-700-points-prone-to-waterlogging-opens-24/7-flood-control-room/articleshow/76737828.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||Of 3,189 patients, over 2,600 infected in Pimpri Chinchwad in June alone||Pimpri Chinchwad: The highest number of Covid-19 cases in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits was reported in June. The health department’s data stated that as many as 2,604 cases were registered in June, which constitutes around 81% of the total Covid-19 cases identified in Pimpri Chinchwad, so far. As per the records available on the PCMC’s live dashboard data, till June 1 as many as 585 cases reported. On June 30, the number stood at 3,189. Pavan Salve, additional medical officer, on Wednesday via a social media interaction, said the number of cases rose substantially after the lockdown was eased in the latter half of May. “I am proud of all the medical fraternity, whether full time or on contract, who have done a superb job. However, the fight with the contagion is far from over and we have a long way to go,” he said. Santosh Patil, PCMC’s additional municipal commissioner, said they have ample bed availability and with new guidelines on home isolation, it won’t pose a problem. But, citizens should be responsible too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/of-3189-patients-over-2600-infected-in-pimpri-chinchwad-in-june-alone/articleshow/76738692.cms||Piyush Bhusari
July 2, 2020||Madurai||23 years on, cop in soup for false certificate of community||Madurai: Ramanathapuram district police have booked a head constable serving in Madurai district police unit under various sections of IPC for cheating as he submitted a false community certificate to get benefits meant for Most Backward Class, though he belongs to Backward Class. M Murugan, 44, a native of E Nedungulam village in Ramanathapuram district, joined the police force under MBC category 23 years ago. The cheating came to light now based on a tip received by the district police recently on 9489919722, the number popularized by district SP V Varun Kumar. Deputy superintendent of police Kamuthi Prasanna conducted an inquiry on his instruction. Based on a complaint from him, Ramanathapuram Town police registered a case under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using a forged document as genuine). Police said that Murugan belongs to agamudaiyar community, a backward community, but obtained certificate as Maravar, which is an MBC community. Earlier, the police received a report from the respective tahsildar and school where Murugan studied up to Class XII. Murugan had served in Abiramam police station in Ramanathapuram district before he got transferred to Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/23-years-on-cop-in-soup-for-false-certificate-of-community/articleshow/76738696.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Panel seeks report on ban of widow’s entry in village||Chandigarh: Taking cognizance of the diktat issued by a village panchayat in Fatehabad district of Haryana, imposing a ban on the entry of a widow for 15 years, the Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) has sought a reply from the deputy commissioner (DC) Fatehabad in the matter.The woman, a resident of Dhani Bhojraj village in Fatehabad district, was allegedly restrained by the village panchayat from visiting her in-laws’ house in the village for 15 years.Taking suo motu cognizance of the issue, the commission headed by its chairperson Justice S K Mittal has observed that if such an order has been passed by the village panchayat, then such a decision is not only illegal and unconstitutional in the eye of law, but also a violation of the human rights of the woman as no panchayat can deny the entry of a citizen in the village in a unilateral manner. Such type of illegal act and conduct of the gram panchayat is inhuman in nature and therefore, the DC Fatehabad is competent to take a suitable action against the panchayat of Dhani Bhojraj under the Panchayati Raj Act, observed the commission.“Let report be requisitioned from the DC Fatehabad within a period of four weeks, explaining that as to whether such a resolution has been passed by the Panchayat banning the entry of a widow for 15-years and if the said resolution is in contravention of the relevant rules, then what action has been taken by the district administration against the panchayat and other persons,” ordered the commission while fixing the matter for August 17 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/panel-seeks-report-on-ban-of-widows-entry-in-village/articleshow/76737851.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Allahabad||Man, son held for beating daughter to death||Prayagraj: A man and his son were arrested for allegedly killing his 18-year-old daughter as they objected to her relationship with a local youth in Pratapragarh, under limits of Kandhai police station, late Tuesday night. The accused Suryamani and his son Dhananjaya Maurya are residents of Chaupai village of the district. Station house officer (Kandhai) Bipin Kumar Singh said the girl had recently returned home from Kansapur, where she had been studying. On Monday evening, she left home without informing any one and returned on Tuesday morning. When her family came to know about her affair with a local youth, they thrashed started thrashing her. The SHO said that the girl’s father and brother also shot a video of the girl while thrashing her on their mobile phone. “They forced her to name the youth and say that he had raped her thrice, so that they could get a case registered against him. Suryamani and his son beat her with sticks and a belt,” said Singh. As the girl cried for help, other villagers asked Suryamani to stop, but he continued the assualt. When the girl fell unconscious, her family took her to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared her brought dead.“Suryamani tired to misguide the police, but postmortem report showed that cause of death was throttling,” said police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-son-held-for-beating-daughter-to-death/articleshow/76736728.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||50 villagers booked for assaulting officials||Jind: Sadar police station here has booked several villagers for assaulting police personnel and pelting them with stones on Wednesday. Julana block development and project officer (BDPO) Dharmvir Kharb had gone to Gulkani village, along with some other officials, over the issue of flow of water into the village pond. When the team finished the work and started heading back to the city, some villagers allegedly got into heated arguments and started stone-pelting, The villagers allegedly attacked the team members, injuring seven policemen. Even the officials’ vehicles were damaged. Three of the injured have been discharged while the rest are under treatment. After the incident the Sadar police booked around 50 persons, including 21 by name, of the village under various sections of IPC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/50-villagers-booked-for-assaulting-officials/articleshow/76737842.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||15 cops turn +ve, 6 were on duty in Alandi||Pune: Fifteen personnel from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police, including six deployed on duty in Alandi, have tested positive for Covid-19. The new infections took total case count among Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad police personnel to 162. Of them, three were from Pune police succumbed to the contagion. A total of 105 were discharged after treatment and 54 are under treatment. Pune police quarantined 38 personnel on Wednesday as a precautionary measure after eight from different police stations tested positive on Wednesday. “The quarantined personnel do not have symptoms. The personnel who tested positive are also healthy and have been sent to institutional quarantine facilities,” a senior officer said. In Pimpri Chinchwad, seven tested positive and six of them were posted on duty at Alandi, said a Pimpri Chinchwad police officer. “So far 24 personnel from Pimpri Chinchwad police tested positive and 15 of them were discharged,” said assistant commissioner of police R Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-cops-turn-ve-6-were-on-duty-in-alandi/articleshow/76738682.cms||Gitesh Shelke
July 2, 2020||Mumbai||Estate agent gets 200 phone calls a day for minister on number he gave up 12 years back||Mumbai: For six months, Kabir & Amreen Shaikh have been receiving at least 200 calls daily, mostly from Latur. Ever since lockdown on March 24, these are distress calls for help to pay rent, seeking medical help, about admissions and examinations. Each time they have to tell people it is not the number of their MLA and minister Amit Deshmukh. But this is the number being circulated by state government. Deshmukh gave up the number 12 years ago. Kabir said he got the number from a BPL gallery when he took a connection and then switched over to Airtel. The number, he said, has been lucky. “I am very happy receiving calls from celebrities. On Thursday, I got a call from Sharmila Thackeray (wife of MNS chief Raj Thackeray). Smita Thackeray too called. Celebrities like Abhishek Bachchan, Rohit Shetty and Vivek Oberoi called, and some of them are now WhatsApp friends,” he said. Shaikh, a real estate agent, has converted some of these celebrities into clients. He said earlier too he got calls from Latur, more so on Deshmukh’s birthday, but since he became a minister the calls have increased. Amreen said she answers as many calls as possible, but it is exhausting. She has even blocked SMSes. “There are so many calls for help, but I feel helpless. I feel very bad to tell them it is not the minister’s number. I don’t even have any number to help them,” she said. Two months back, when they got a call from home minister Anil Deshmukh’s office, they requested his personal assistant to ensure their number is deleted from Deshmukh’s contact details. The number is on the official list of numbers issued by state government. TOI received the list with Deshmukh’s “mobile number” from Chief Minister’s Office. Deshmukh was amused to learn about celebrities calling that number. He promised TOI he will replace it with his current official number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/estate-agent-gets-200-phone-calls-a-day-for-minister-on-number-he-gave-up-12-years-back/articleshow/76758531.cms||Clara Lewis
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Auto manufacturers demand reduction in GST from 28 to 18%||Ludhiana: Worried over huge losses due to Covid-19, auto parts manufacturers in Ludhiana are demanding that Goods and Services Tax (GST) be reduced from 28% to 18% at least. City has a big chunk of auto part manufacturers who not only supply their products to the original equipment manufacturers (OEM) but also the wholesalers and traders in India and abroad. According to the businessmen, if the GST on the auto parts industry is reduced, it will not only reduce the cost of their products, but will also do away with the problem of their money getting stuck in GST refunds. Speaking to TOI, Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers’ Association and auto parts manufacturer said, “Our industry is facing huge problems due to the ongoing coronavirus situation. We are the worst sufferers when compared with other sectors — already for the last more than a year, there has been a huge fall in the demand for auto parts as the overall demand of automotive has fallen drastically. Now with lockdown, our entire supply chain has been disrupted as earlier everything, including factories, shops and OEMs were closed. Later on, factories started but our buyers remained shut due to lockdown in their states. Even now the situation has not come to normal and due to this, no sales could take place. It’s high time government takes some steps and provides relief to the auto parts manufacturers. One major step in this direction could be lowering the GST from 28% to 18%.” Thukral also added, “As the rate of GST on our raw material is also 18% if the rate of GST on our finished product is lowered to 18%, it will do away with the problem of seeking GST refund as the GST on purchase and sale would be equal. Therefore, it is our humble request to the central government to consider lowering the GST immediately.” According to Nitin Sharma, member of Auto Parts Manufacturers’ Association, “The rate of 28% GST on auto parts is very very high and perhaps ours is the only sector where this high slab of GST is still applicable. In other trades, the GST is in the range of 5% to 12% or 18% in some cases. Moreover, the high rate of GST makes our products expensive and we are now forced to invest more money into our business as compared with earlier times. The issue of pendency of GST refunds is also a big problem and getting refunds from the department is tough. Therefore, the GST on auto parts should be brought down to at least 18%.” Sachin Gupta, another auto parts manufacturer, said, the industry is struggling for its survival post Covid-19 lockdowns. “The government needs to take serious view of the problem of auto parts industry that has suffered the biggest blow,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/auto-manufacturers-demand-reduction-in-gst-from-28-to-18/articleshow/76737844.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Allahabad||HC quashes NBWs against Jaya Prada||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has quashed the non-bailable warrants (NBWs) issued against film actress and ex-MP Jaya Prada in two separate cases related to making indecent remarks against her political opponents during the Lok Sabha elections of 2019. Allowing the petition filed by Jaya Prada, Justice Om Prakash, however, directed the subordinate court to move afresh in accordance with law. Noted film actress and former MP from Rampur, Jaya Prada, had challenged the NBW issued against her on February 13, 2020, by the additional district and sessions judge (court number six) of Rampur in a case which had taken place during the last parliamentary elections. In April 2019, a criminal case was registered against Jaya Prada in which it was alleged that she had made indecent remarks against her political opponents. In the present case, she had taken the plea that the offence was a non- cognizable one. Therefore, as per law, an NBW could not be issued in such cases. Therefore, proceeding initiated against her in trial court is not in accordance with the procedure prescribed in Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). “NBW and other proceedings against the petitioner must be quashed. Proceedings on the basis of the charge sheet could only continue as a complaint case. The trial court did not consider the legal position and wrongly issued NBW against Jaya Prada,” argued the counsel for the petitioner. The court, after hearing both counsel for the petitioner and the prosecution side, allowed the petition of Jaya Prada and quashed the NBW issued against her, while directing the trial court to proceed afresh in accordance with law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-quashes-nbws-against-jaya-prada/articleshow/76736759.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
July 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Highway robbers steal truck on Mumbai-Agra highway||Nashik: A gang of highway robbers stole a truck along with cash other valuables worth Rs 30,000 from a driver near Rahud Ghat on Mumbai-Agra highway in the wee hours of Tuesday. According to police, the truck driver was forced to sit in a multi-utility vehicle (MUV) by the robbers and was taken around 90-km away from the spot where he was tied to a tree. “The robbers then drove towards Malegaon. The truck, however, was recovered on the the highway on Tuesday evening. The goods in the truck were also present as they were of no use to the criminals,” a police officer said. “At 1 am on Tuesday, the truck driver, Prakashchand Mistry, was was intercepted by the robbers on the highway at Rahud Ghat. After the truck stopped, four people, who had their faces covered, forcefully dragged Mistry out of the vehicle. While one of the robbers took away the truck the other three pushed Mistry into the MUV and took him to Pimpalner,” he added. The driver was assaulted by the robbers before being tied to a tree at 4.30 am. Couple of hours later some local villagers spotted Mistry and rescued him. Later, Mistry was taken to Pimpalner police station from where he was brought to Deola police station. Deola police have registered a robbery offence against the robbers and are investigating the case. “The truck was found abandoned 15-km away from Malegaon. The robbers checked the goods inside the truck but found it of no use to them. The truck had 126 rolls of non-woollen fabric,” an officer from Deola police station said. “Still, the robbers had managed to take Rs 11,000 from the truck driver along with his cellphone worth Rs 20,000, debit card and its PIN,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/highway-robbers-steal-truck-on-mumbai-agra-highway/articleshow/76736760.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||9 designated as terrorists for pushing Khalistan movement||New Delhi: The Indian government on Wednesday declared nine individuals as designated terrorists for attempting to revive militancy in Punjab through their anti national activities and involvement in the Khalistan movement.The ministry of home affairs (MHA) declared these foreign-based individuals as designated terrorists under new provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for their involvement in various acts of terrorism from across the border, reinforcing its commitment to strengthening national security and the Modi government’s policy of zero tolerance to terrorism.US-based key member of unlawful association Sikhs for Justice, Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, UK-based chief of terrorist organisation Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), Paramjit Singh and Canada-based chief of Khalistan Tiger Force Hardeep Singh Nijjar are among the nine designated terrorists.Others designated as terrorists are Germany-based key members of terrorist organisation Khalistan Zindabad Force, Bhupinder Singh Bhinda and Gurmeet Singh Bagga, and Pakistan-based BKI terrorist group chief Wadhawa Singh Babbar, International Sikh Youth Federation chief Lakhbir Singh, Khalistan Zindabad Force chief Ranjeet Singh and Khalistan Commando Force chief Paramjit Singh. IANS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9-designated-as-terrorists-for-pushing-khalistan-movement/articleshow/76737867.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Lack of business force veggie vendors at main mkt to shut stalls||Ludhiana: Due to lack of customers, the vegetable vendors of the main market of the city are refusing to open all 596 stalls inside the market even after getting permission from the marketing committee members. According to information available with TOI, only 50 small vendors have opened their stalls in the main vegetable market of the city in the last three days after getting permission from marketing committee members. Even they claim that business had been extremely dull. One of the vegetable stall owner, Bablu, said “Although, all 596 small vegetable vendors have appreciated the efforts of the marketing committee to give us permission to resume work after four months, the ground reality is preventing us to come out in full force. People are not coming here, fearing the spread of virus.” President of New Sabzi Mandi Arhtiyas Association Ludhiana, Gurkamal Singh, said, “We are trying to help small vendors sustain their livelihood by giving them access to vegetables at low prices.” But according to him, visitors are not coming to the market after hearing reports about rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the city, forcing small vendors to close their stalls. To discuss solution to the problem, the district vegetable market committee will soon hold a high-level meeting with senior officials of administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lack-of-business-force-veggie-vendors-at-main-mkt-to-shut-stalls/articleshow/76737854.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 2, 2020||Pune||Scores of frontline PMC workers set to undergo ‘30-minute’ infection checks||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will conduct rapid antigen tests on the municipal staff, including doctors, paramedical workers and people working at quarantine facilities, who are on the frontline of the battle against Covid-19. The first batch of the tests was conducted on Wednesday.As many as 20,000 people, including the conservancy staff, are involved in enforcing measures to contain the spread of the coronavirus and they will be tested on a priority basis.Citizens with co-morbidity issues will be tested in the second phase and the PMC will conduct around 1 lakh rapid antigen tests.PMC officials said the antigen test kits arrived at the PMC earlier this week and the civic body has started using them. "The Indian Council of Medical Research has given green signal to use this kits. This kit can be used for emgergancy screening. It can also be used in containment zones," said mayor Murulidhar Mohol, who inaugurated the service on Wednesday at the Naidu hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/scores-of-frontline-pmc-workers-set-to-undergo-30-minute-infection-checks/articleshow/76738700.cms||---
July 2, 2020||India||Indra Mani Pandey to be India’s next ambassador to UN, WHO||NEW DELHI: Indra Mani Pandey, an IFS officer of 1990 batch and presently additional secretary in the MEA, will be the next ambassador/permanent representative of India to the UN and other international organisations in Geneva, including WHO and UN Human Rights Council where Pakistan has sought to target India for the reorganisation of J&K. In his nearly three-decade career, Pandey has served in Indian missions in Damascus, Cairo, Islamabad, Kabul, Muscat and Geneva. He has also served as joint secretary in the Disarmament and International Security Affairs division of the MEA in Delhi. Pandey will lead India’s efforts to blunt Pakistan’s campaign to vilify India for alleged human rights abuses in J&K.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indra-mani-pandey-to-be-indias-next-ambassador-to-un-who/articleshow/76739891.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Goa||Goa opens for tourism, hotels to accept guests with bookings||PANAJI: The Goa government said on Wednesday that the state will be open for tourists from Thursday, and that around 250 hotels will be permitted to start operations. These establishments, which had applied to the government signalling their readiness to start, will only be allowed to accept guests with prior bookings. “Hotels will be allowed to take bookings from Thursday,” said tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar. “Let’s see how many bookings are received. People are fed up sitting at home. There is a demand to restart tourism.” Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that social distancing and strict standard operating procedures (SOPs) will be enforced in the tourism sector, and that action will be taken against violators. Guests have two options once they reach Goa — produce a Covid-negative certificate from an ICMR-approved lab issued less than 48 hours prior to arrival, or pay Rs 2,000 and get a test done in Goa. Hotels permitted to operate will have an isolation facility where guests can wait till the rest result is declared. The issue of opening hotels in Goa has been contentious even within the state cabinet as Covid cases continue to rise in Goa and the state reported its fourth death on Wednesday. While ports minister Michael Lobo, who represents the Calangute consituency and has interests in the sector, said on Monday that tourism can’t resume till the Covid situation improves, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that it can and will. Rane, meanwhile, said that revival of the economy is the need of the hour. “People are losing jobs,” he said. “So we had to consider all sides and thus allowed hotels to operate.” Tourism is a major revenue earner for the Goa government. From 6.8 lakh domestic tourists in 1985 to over 70 lakh Indians marking their presence in the state in 2019, the arrival of domestic tourists has provided a more than satisfactory safety net for Goa’s tourism industry. However, even as hotels reopen, restaurants will only be open for takeaways. Bars will continue to remain shut. Some, like Lobo, have called for their reopening. Ajgaonkar said that Sawant will soon take a call on this. He also said that it won’t be possible for illegal operators to start operations. “Only hotels registered with the tourism department will be allowed to start,” he said. Not everybody is convinced about this. A senior official said that hotels are required to self-declare that they will abide by regulations laid down by the government, and only then will they be given permission. However, physical verification of whether these conditions are actually met will be carried out later, he said. Welcoming the government’s decision, Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) president Nilesh Shah said that though bookings will be low in the beginning, the sector will improve with time. He said that some hotels have been receiving queries from corporate clients and others who want to come to Goa and stay here for a month or more. “Hotels will benefit from such plans,” he said. Watch Unlock 2: Goa opens for tourism, hotels to accept guests with bookings||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-opens-for-tourism-hotels-to-accept-guests-with-bookings/articleshow/76738710.cms||Bindiya Chari
July 2, 2020||Goa||Panaji corp gets approval for setting up 12 bio-digestor units||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has received clearance from the state government to set up 12 bio-methanation units to treat organic waste. The state cabinet relaxed the financial rules as it permitted CCP to tie up with Gujarat-based Flycatchers Technology LLP for the operation and maintenance of the bio-digestor units at a cost of Rs 2.9 crore. The cabinet decided to ignore the concerns raised by the finance department regarding the selection of the Gujarat firm. “The cost would be met from the Finance Commission grants and as such, there will not be any impact on state exchequer. However, it would be pertinent to mention here that the department (CCP) has chosen Flycatcher (selected by Department of Biotechnology’s Council) without following codal formalities tendering on their own. The finance department is of opinion that necessary codal formalities be followed,” the finance department’s comments said. The 12 bio-methanation units will be set up through the Innovation Clean Technologies programme initiated by the Centre’s department of biotechnology and will have the capacity to process a total of five tonnes of organic waste per day. This project has already been cleared by the CCP council in March where it was also decided that funds for the project would be sanctioned from the grants received by the corporation from the 14th Finance Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-corp-gets-approval-for-setting-up-12-bio-digestor-units/articleshow/76738708.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Mysuru||Dusk-dawn curfew in Mysuru from Friday||MYSURU: Revising curfew timings in Mysuru, district minister S T Somashekar on Wednesday announced that it would be a dusk-dawn curfew in Mysuru from Friday. City police had imposed a curfew between 8 pm and 5 am starting from Monday, while the minister, after holding a review meeting with the authorities, at his new office here, disclosed that it has been decided to advance the curfew timings from 6 pm to 6 am starting July 3. The new regulation will be implemented strictly, and those in violation will be penalised. This is aimed at preventing the spread of the novel coronavirus, as the number of positive cases is increasing day by day. Individuals with influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness (SARI), too are testing positive. Traders at the agriculture produce market committee and vegetable and fruit vendors too will be screened regularly, because of the large gatherings at the venue every day. Police personnel aged 55 and above, having any symptoms of the illness, too will be subjected to screening, and if necessary, tested for the novel coronavirus. People not wearing masks in Mysuru city will be fined Rs 200 and Rs 100 in rural Mysuru, the minister said. If necessary, fines will be imposed on those not maintaining social distancing. Curfew on SundayCity police have announced that there will be a lockdown clamped on every Sunday, starting from July 5 to August 2. Except for emergency services, no business or shops are allowed to open, and the movement of the public is restricted throughout the day. ASHA workers to get assistance in a fortnightCooperation minister S T Somashekar on Wednesday said all ASHA workers will get financial assistance within 15 days. Even workers in rural areas will receive benefits. The minister refuted the allegation that rural ASHA workers have been counted out, and said that within a fortnight, all 42,685 ASHA workers will get financial help .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dusk-dawn-curfew-in-mysuru-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76736778.cms||Lawrence Milton
July 2, 2020||Allahabad||UP Board: Compartment exams for class 12 students||Prayagraj: Over 35,000 class 12 students of UP Board who couldn’t score well in their examinations have a chance to make amends. UP Board will allow students who couldn’t score passing marks in a subject to appear for a compartment examination. The move has been introduced for the first time for class 12 students. The board would soon be announcing the dates for the compartment exams and a proposed scheme has been sent to the state government.  The schedule would be announced as soon as the government approves the scheme. “The move is in the interest of students who had to repeat a class just because they couldn’t score passing marks in a single subject,” said UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla. Shukla took charge after former secretary Neena Srivastava retired on June 30. The board would also not mention that an examinee appeared for the compartment exam in the marksheet-cum-pass certificate it issues to students who pass class 12. “Till last year, UP Board offered students the option of appearing in an improvement exam only if they failed to score passing marks in two subjects. The option to appear in a compartment examination was only available to high school students who failed in a single subject,” said an official. “Some students who couldn’t pass in a subject, did apply for scrutiny. However, their number was quite low,” the official added. UP Board felt the need to introduce compartment examinations after it implemented the ‘one paper per subject’ rule in 2019. After studying for two papers in each subject for years, in 2019 students were made to appear for one exam in each of the 39 subjects UP Board offered. “The decision reduced the burden on students, but it also made it tougher to clear the exams. Earlier, if a student failed to perform well in an one of the papers of the subject, there was always another exam to make up. However, they no longer had that option in 2019,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/up-board-compartment-exams-for-class-12-students/articleshow/76736785.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Lack of sign boards, faulty design of speed breakers cause accidents too||Ludhiana: It is true that rash driving claims the lives of many, especially youngsters. People have lost their lives and also put other people’s lives in danger due to speed. But experts also said lack of sign boards ahead of speed breakers have cost many lives. In a tragic incident reported on March 8, 2019 four young people, all aged between 14 to 20 years, Kashish Arora of Model Town, Devesh Chandra of Lucknow, siblings Bhavneet Juneja and Sanya Juneja of Phase-II, Dugri died after their speeding car fell into BRS Nagar bridge of Sidhwan Canal near municipal corporation (MC) Zone-D office. The incident occurred around 11pm. All four had died on the way to the hospital, turning their joy ride into a nightmare for their family. National road safety expert, Kamaljit Soi said, “In this particular case, many things contributed to the tragedy. One is the speed breaker, the car lost balance on it as it was not made according to the specifications of Indian road congress. I have been to the spot and the verified that the speed breaker was not as per the ideal dimensions. There were no caution board warning a vehicle driver about the speed breaker. Ideally, there has to be caution board at 50 meters ahead of the speed breaker, on either sides. The speed breaker has to be painted well to be visible. The rumble strips speed breaker are less damaging, so those should be preferred. I would also hold MC accountable for the ill design of speed breaker.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lack-of-sign-boards-faulty-design-of-speed-breakers-cause-accidents-too/articleshow/76737880.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 2, 2020||Amritsar||1 injured in low-intensity blast in Bagha Purana||Bathinda: Forensic experts and a bomb disposal squad visited the site at Bagha Purana town of Moga district on Wednesday where a low-intensity blast had occurred on Tuesday. The forensic team collected samples from the site. A low-intensity blast, reportedly from a crude bomb-like object made apparently with explosive material stuffed in a pipe, had taken place outside a photocopy shop in the market at Bagha Purana after a person sat on it. The arm of the man, identified as courier delivery person Chhotu Ram, was injured in the blast. No other loss was reported. Bagha Purana DSP Jasbinder Singh said, “A desi bomb-like object had exploded in the market. Some iron nails, plastic objects and sharp pins were found at the explosion site. These seemed to have been put in a pipe and then packed with construction material. Forensic and bomb disposal teams visited the place and anything about the blast can be said only after they submit their report.” A case under the Explosives Act and other relevant sections has been registered at Bagha Purana police station against unknown persons on the statement of Chhotu Ram, who was injured, said the DSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/1-injured-in-low-intensity-blast-in-bagha-purana/articleshow/76737876.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kanpur||Man axes uncle to death, injures daughters over family dispute||Kanpur: A man allegedly axed his uncle to death and injured his two minor daughters, mother and brother before setting the house on fire following a family dispute in Rendhar village of Jalaun district on Tuesday night. The injured were rushed to the district hospital where doctors stated the condition of his brother to be critical and referred him to Jhansi Medical College. On being alerted, senior police officers and Rendhar SHO rushed to the spot and sent the body of the deceased, identified as Brijmohan, for postmortem. According to the police, the accused identified as Ved Prakash, had been living along with his uncle Brijmohan, mother Mulah Devi, brother Sangam and two minor daughters Shalu and Nandini in Rendhar village. He was married to one Reena for 15 years, but she had gone back to her parents’ home following a family dispute around three years ago. On late Tuesday night, he was lying on a cot in the verandah after taking dinner when an argument began among family members over some issue. Thereafter, in a fit of rage, Ved attacked his uncle, mother, brother and his two minor daughters with an axe before they could run for cover. He then set the house on fire. On seeing the blaze and hearing shrieks, locals rushed to the spot and took out all the injured from the house before alerting the police. The police, along with fire department tenders, rushed to the spot. By then, Brijmohan had succumbed to his injuries. Jalaun SP Dr Satish Kumar said that the incident was a fallout of some family dispute which is yet to ascertained. “We have lodged an FIR under section 302 (murder) and taken the accused Ved Prakash into custody. His interrogation is underway. We have also recovered an axe with blood stain marks on it, which he used to attack the family members. Ved’s brother Sangam has been referred to Jhansi Medical College. Further investigations continue,” informed the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-axes-uncle-to-death-injures-daughters-over-family-dispute/articleshow/76737879.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to appeal against HC order on school fees: Vijay Inder Singla||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has decided to challenge the order of the Punjab and Haryana high court allowing private schools to charge tuition fees from students for the lockdown/curfew period even if they don’t conduct online classes Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the government respects the decision of the court but in view of the adverse impact on the people due to the economic distress because of lockdown/curfew, the state government will appeal to the double bench of the court to reconsider its decision. The minister said that the high court in its judgment accepted five arguments of the Punjab government and those which were not accepted would be submitted again for reconsideration. He said that in the interest of all parties involved in the case, such as parents, teachers, staff, school administrators and others, the state government would move the court within next two or three days. Singla said the Punjab government’s decisions regarding private schools, like ensuring 100% salary to the teaching and non-teaching staff during the lockdown, not to lay off staff, not to increase the fees for the 2020-21 academic session, make arrangements for monthly or quarterly payment of fees, waiving fees or considering concession to children of financially distressed parents, not depriving children from online or regular education for non-payment of fees, have been upheld by the court. The government’s direction that schools should charge only tuition fee was not upheld by the court, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-appeal-against-hc-order-on-school-fees-min/articleshow/76737883.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Police book 48 errant citizens||Aurangabad: City police on Wednesday booked as many as 48 people, including grocery shop owners, auto drivers and tea stall owner, for not following the norms that have been enforced for Mission Begin Again. Police have started patrolling to keep a check on people who are roaming out on the streets without any valid reasons. Strict vigil is also being maintained at shops and business establishments. Of the 48 people, 12 were booked by Cidco police for reasons like driving two-wheeler with a pillion rider and running business beyond permissible hours. Three people were booked by Osmanpura police for not wearing masks and riding two-wheelers without relevant papers. Based on complaints filed by civic officials, Kranti Chowk police booked five people — a tea stall owner and four youths. City Chowk, Satara, Daulatabad and Jawaharnagar police stations also took action against errant citizens in areas falling under their jurisdictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-book-48-errant-citizens/articleshow/76736787.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bhopal||MP: ‘Drinking poison’, remarks CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, as cards fall into place for cabinet expansion||BHOPAL: “Whenever there is a churn, Amrit is produced, but Shiv has to drink the poison,” Shivraj Singh Chouhan made this cryptic remark on the ongoing tussle over cabinet expansion, where the list he had prepared was apparently not accepted by the central high command. BJP leader in charge of MP, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, was sent to Bhopal with the central leadership’s ‘advice’, and green light for the cabinet expansion scheduled at 11am on Thursday. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, who had put off plans to visit Bhopal, is arriving on Thursday, his office said. It’s been 101 days since Chouhan took oath for a fourth term as CM, and 71 days since a mini-cabinet of five was inducted. Sources say 10 of Scindia’s aides -- who followed him out of Congress and toppled the Kamal Nath government -- are among 26 new ministers to be inducted. Fifteen of them will be cabinet ministers and 11 MoS. The party hasn’t given any hint on the proposal for two deputy CMs – Narottam Mishra and Scindia aide Tulsiram Silawat being the expected ones. Sources say the high command appears to have changed its mind about having two deputies, which may lead to more friction with the Scindia camp and other factions in the party. Chouhan who returned to Bhopal on Tuesday after spending two days in Delhi to finalise the names, confirmed that his cabinet will be expanded on Thursday. “Governor Anandiben Patel will take oath of office today (July 1). The cabinet expansion will be held tomorrow (July 2),” replied Chouhan to queries from reporters. Asked about the prolonged deliberations and whether the talks in Delhi left him at the receiving end, Chouhan made his cryptic comment: “Manthan se Amrit hi nikalta hai. Vish to Shiv pi jaate hain (A churning produces nectar but Lord Shiva drinks the poison).” It’s believed the central leadership wants a dozen or so of the old guard – who were in the Shivraj cabinet earlier – to step aside in favour of young blood. Sahasrabuddhe, who arrived in Bhopal with green signal from party president JP Nadda on the names to be included, denied that some senior leaders are upset at being left out. “No one is upset or unhappy. Everybody will be adjusted. The list will be made public tomorrow. There is no problem in the process and everything will be alright,” he said, when asked about Chouhan’s reaction. Sources said Scindia had insisted on including more than 12 of his supporters in the cabinet, while state BJP leaders wanted it whittled to accommodate more seniors. This was one of the pressure points that delayed the expansion. Also, several senior BJP leaders were upset with reports of plans to keep them out of cabinet and shift them to the organisation. Leaders like Gopal Bhargav had expressed their resentment openly, cautioning the party that ignoring senior leaders during cabinet expansion won’t be a good idea. “Don’t repeat Congress’s mistake,” he warned. According to sources, the names okayed by the central leadership as cabinet ministers are Gopal Bhargava, Bisahulal Singh, Yashodhara Raje Scindia, Prabhuram Chaudhary, Aidal Singh Kansana, Bhupendra Singh, Harishankar Khatik, Ramkishore Kavre, Arvind Bhadoria, Sanjay Pathak, Kedar Shukla, Pradyumn Singh Tomar, Mahendra Singh Sisodia, Imarti Devi and Vishwas Sarang. Ramesh Mendola, Usha Thakur, Rajyavardhan Singh Dattigaon, Hardeep Singh Dang, Mohan Yadav, Chetanya Kashyap, Vishnu Khatri, Prem Singh Patel, Girish Gautam, Nagendra Singh Gud and Anil Jain may be made MoS. Sources in the party didn’t rule out last-minute changes as some heavyweights in the party keep up the pressure. The party held a crucial meeting at the chief minister’s residence on Wednesday evening to try to persuade those left out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/drinking-poison-remarks-shivraj-as-cards-fall-into-place-for-cabinet-expansion/articleshow/76737886.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP allows mixed land use for industrial plots||LUCKNOW: In a move that will allow industries to optimize space and construct more on a given plot of land, an in-principle go-ahead has been given to a proposal to increase the floor area ratio (FAR) and allow mixed land use in industrial areas. In a letter to industrial development authorities in the state, additional chief secretary, industries, Alok Kumar has said that FAR for those areas which have already been developed will be increased to 2.5 with 1.5 as common FAR and 1 as purchasable FAR. For areas yet to be developed, an FAR of 3.5 will be offered, including 2.5 as common FAR and 1 as purchasable FAR. This will be permissible subject to any other condition which restricts height, for instance the upcoming Jewar Airport in Greater Noida. “This had been a long pending demand of the industry which we are trying to address. The matter has been discussed and an in-principle approval has been given by industries minister, Satish Mahana. Now it will go to the cabinet for final clearance,” said an official. The move will make UP a highly attractive place for investments, said the official, as most other states offered an FAR of just 2-2.5. Till now, an official said, UP has a general FAR of 1.5-1.75, while purchasable is 0.75 to 1 with the maximum being 2.75. As per the proposal, its application will differ from area to area depending on specific conditions. For instance, since Noida is already largely developed the rule will apply to only select areas or, as in the case of the Jewar Airport, where height restrictions will be imposed. In developed areas where allocation of plots will be done on a later date, the government is proposing an FAR of 2.5, which includes a general FAR of 1.5 and a purchasable FAR of 1. In areas which will be developed in future, the permitted FAR will be 3.5, which is 2.5 of a general FAR and 1 purchasable. This will be permitted, however, if the road is at least 24 m. The FAR under Greater Noida Development Authority and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority for plots to be allocated in the future will also be allowed at 3.5, unless there are restrictions on height. Where such restrictions due to the upcoming airport are in place, the permissible FAR will be 3, including a purchasable FAR of 1, given that the road along the plot is more than 24 m. Greater Noida Authority can also allow an FAR of 3 in those sectors where the nature of the industry is such that it will not require an FAR of more than 3. Another major change in the existing policy will be the permission for mixed land use on an industrial plot with minimum area of 25 acre. This will allow developers to carry out commercial activity and create residential space on the same plot. Under this, 75% land will be reserved for core equity, 12% for group housing societies and 8% for commercial use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-allows-mixed-land-use-for-industrial-plots/articleshow/76738919.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||LMC fails tax collection deadline, has no phone number of 2 lakh property owners||LUCKNOW: Struggling due to losses during the lockdown, Lucknow Municipal Corporation has not been able to meet 50% of its tax collection target from April 1 to June 15. The reason is that LMC does not have the contact numbers of around 2 lakh property owners in the city under its jurisdiction. This was revealed when the corporation was sending links for payment of property tax on phone numbers of the owners via text messages. The process started in mid-March and ended in June first week. Officers found that the phone numbers of about 2 lakh owners of 2 lakh properties, out of 6 lakh in the city, were either missing or have been changed. The decision to send the links was taken so that people can pay tax online instead of visiting zonal offices in times of corona. Now, the task remains incomplete three months after the launch, which in turn has hit tax collection. As per LMC records, Lucknow has around 5.48 lakh households and around 64,000 commercial properties which are liable to pay tax. The tax collection target for 2020-2021 is Rs 410 crore The civic body had to collect around Rs 69 crore from April 1 to June 15, but only Rs 30 crore has been collected so far. This has aggravated financial crisis in LMC which is already reeling under Rs 50 crore loss because of loss of revenue through advertisements, sale of parking lot contracts, ticketing of parks and rent of community/marriage halls during the lockdown period. Confirming that LMC does not have numbers of 2 lakh property owners, chief tax in charge Ashok Singh said that while updating phone numbers they came to know that many residents had changed their contact numbers. Subsequently, he added, a door-to-door survey to update records began, but LMC could not contact around 2 lakh property owners for one reason or the other. Municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi said that the revenue department has been directed to collect contact numbers of these property owners by visiting them individually and serving a notice if they are not found at the given address. The notice will put the onus on the owner to update her/his phone number in LMC records, he said. “The exercise is for the convenience of the people. Those who will not update phone numbers will have to visit LMC zonal offices for payment of taxes,” he added. Info Losses due to lockdown: Rs 50 crore Tax collection target from April 1 to June 15: Rs 69 crore Tax realised for April to June 15 period: Rs 30 crore Tax to be collected from: 6 lakh properties 5.48 lakh households 64,000 commercial properties||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-fails-tax-collection-deadline-has-no-phone-number-of-2-lakh-property-owners/articleshow/76738855.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
July 2, 2020||Allahabad||Permit staff to work from home till July 31: MHRD to varsities||Prayagraj: Ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) has instructed varsities to allow their faculty members and other employees to work from home till July 31 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, even as a large number of teaching and non-teaching employees of Allahabad University continue to report for work at the campus. The ministry’s instructions were addressed to UGC chairman, AICTE’s director general and other autonomous organizations under MHRD. According to the letter, colleges and educational institutions will remain closed till July 31 due to the Covid-19 outbreak. It has also been stated that online/distance learning shall continue. Signed by MHRD secretary Amit Khare on June 30, the letter mentions the precautions universities are required to take to ensuring the safety of their teachers, staff members and students. “In order to ensure the safety of faculty members/ teachers/ researchers/ non-teaching staff of higher educational institutions, they should be permitted and advised to work from home till July 31. Moreover, they should utilise this period for various academic activities, as already communicated in a letter dated March 21,” reads the letter. The said period will be counted as ‘on duty’ for all employees, including those appointed on an ad hoc basis and contractual ones whose agreements are valid up to July 31. The institutions have also been asked to ensure that their students and teachers install the Aarogya Setu app. “In case of an exigency, any faculty member/ teacher/ researcher/ non-teaching staff may attend or be asked to attend the educational institution while observing safety measures as mentioned in the guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs,” the letter added. AU’s public relations officer Shailendra Mishra said, “As of now, we have not been given any instructions by the varsity. However, AU would soon be taking a decision in concurrence with the letter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/permit-staff-to-work-from-home-till-july-31-mhrd-to-varsities/articleshow/76736816.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||‘Library Khidki’ to help kids restart learning||LUCKNOW: Gungun Kewat, a student of class III in a government primary school in Narhi, can now learn something till her school reopens. The basic education department, in a joint collaboration with Tata Trust, has come up with the concept of an e-magazine. UP is the second state to take up this alternative innovative solution after Rajasthan, with an aim to ensure all-round development of children. It is not Gungun alone. Millions of children enrolled in primary and upper primary government schools in Uttar Pradeh can engage in creative activities in the lockdown, when teaching-learning has been badly affected. Divided into four parts—three for children and one for teachers—the e-magazine’s first edition was released on June 30. The e-magazine will reach students and teachers twice a week. Named ‘Library Khidki’, the e-magazine will have e-material such as poetry and stories for children aged between 3 and 14 years. The e-learning material available in the form of text, audio and video will be made accessible to children, parents and teachers mostly through social media platforms and Diksha app. According to Tata Trust’s education officer Vishambhar, who is overseeing the e-magazine project in UP, the idea of this innovation is to ensure all-round development of children of government schools using ICT platforms. “Through this innovation, e-material for subjects like library, arts, life skills education will be shared for children. For teachers’ capacity building, useful e-material and academic papers too will be put online,” Vishambhar told TOI. Additional director (education) Lalita Pradeep said, “It’s a very innovative concept to reach out to children and their environment with such rich material. This will engage them in age appropriate stories and content. Teachers and parents both will have something very handy to interact with their children.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/library-khidki-to-help-kids-restart-learning/articleshow/76738903.cms||Isha Jain
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya’s grand temple to match ‘Smart’ makeover||Ayodhya: With a magnificent Ram temple coming up in Ayodhya soon, the Yogi Adityanath government is busy re-modelling the ancient pilgrimage town’s infrastructure around a smart city. From civic makeovers like laying underground power lines, constructing a modern sewage system to widening roads to constructing an international airport, the government is determined to catapult the temple town on the global tourism map, while retaining its intrinsic religious character. TOI has accessed the power-point presentation shown to the chief minister during his Ayodhya visit two days ago to review development projects. Besides the micro makeover like concretization of roads, lanes and drains, at least 50 big-ticket projects are in the pipeline. These include a modern bus station with a sprawling parking space, an international airport with direct flights to Europe and the US, eye theme park based on the life of Lord Ram and an international Ramayana Museum. A government inter college is also scheduled to come up. The power-point presentation to the chief minister at the Faizabad Circuit House was made in the presence of district officials and senior BJP leaders. Talking to TOI, Ayodhya MLA Ved Gupta said, “Ayodhya is being developed as India’s Vatican. To link the world with the temple town, an international airport is being developed at Dharmapur Sahadant village near the four-lane highway connecting Faizabad and Ayodhya. The blueprint has been hammered out and Rs 400crore has been approved for land acquisition. And the process has begun,” said Gupta. The Eye Theme Park to come up on a sprawling 50acre plot will be based on the life of Ram and will recreate the Lord’s journey from birth to exile to his return to Ayodhya. The project’s eye-catcher will be the symbolic ‘Ram Setu’ — the Adam’s bridge connecting Lanka to India through a chain of shoals that winds its way to ‘Shabri Garden' and finally Ashok Vatika in a make-believe ambience of Ravana’s capital. Adjacent to the Theme Park will be an International Ramayana Museum which will recreate the characters of Ramayana. A 251m-tall statue of Lord Rama is proposed to be erected beside the park. These constructions will be restricted to the 5km periphery of Ramjanmabhoomi, said Gupta, one of the brains behind the project. “The Saryu river, which finds mention in the scriptures, will be cleaned under the Namami Gange project and Rs 38 crore has been allocated for this mission,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhyas-grand-temple-to-match-smart-makeover/articleshow/76738937.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||Agencies generating faulty power bills to be booked||LUCKNOW: UP Power minister Shrikant Sharma on Wednesday ordered registration of FIRs against agencies engaged in generation of faulty bills. Presiding over a review meeting at UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL), Sharma directed corporation chairman Arvind Kumar to initiate vigilance inquiries against agencies which produce faulty electricity bills. Sharma also directed all managing directors of distribution companies to set accountability of the employees responsible for generation of faulty bills. He further directed the officials to ensure that fresh electricity connections is provided within seven days. The minister also ordered inquiry into incidents of burning of transformers following overload. Sharma asked the officials to prepare the data of the transformers which have burned twice in quick succession. He said UPPCL was still receiving complaints of power supply getting interrupted because of thunderstorms. EMI scheme to clear dues extendedMeanwhile, to provide relief to farmers hit by the Corona pandemic, the state power department extended the easy instalment scheme till July 31. The scheme ended on June 30. The scheme, started in February this year, allows farmers to pay power dues till the month of January in six instalments. Sharma said the scheme has been extended in the interest of farmers who could not avail it till now. Sharma said that four lakh farmers, mainly those with tubewell connections, have benefited from the scheme so far. He said farmers would, however, be required to pay their bills regularly from July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agencies-generating-faulty-power-bills-to-be-booked/articleshow/76738928.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||One out of every five MNREGA workers in country from state||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh has maintained its first position in providing employment under MNREGA, currently employing 40,27,392 people in 51,280 schemes. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that one of every five persons employed under MNREGA in the country was from UP. “Currently, there are more than 51,000 projects which are being implemented across 58,906 gram panchayats. There are 40,27,392 people working in these projects under MNREGA as on Wednesday. This is 21% of the total labour employed under MNREGA projects across the country,” he said. He added that UP had reached 12% employment provided against the national total and on Tuesday, had disbursed Rs 71.32 crore as wages. Since the implementation of lockdown till now, Awasthi said, Rs 2,594.82 crore has been given as wages. UP has also generated 13.06 crore man days as employment under MNREGA. “UP is the first in employment generation under MNREGA, having provided 74.69 lakh jobs till now. In terms of wage distribution, we have distributed Rs 530 crore more than Rajasthan, which is second to us,” he said. On Wednesday, while reviewing the status of Unlock 2 which began form July 1, chief minister Yogi Adityanath issued directions to carry out a special drive in big cities like Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Noida, Agra, Bareilly, Meerut, Prayagraj and Gorakhpur to strictly enforce night curfew, social distancing and wearing of masks. As per the new government guidelines, night curfew will be implemented from 10pm to 5am except in Meerut division where the curfew will extend from 8pm to 6am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/one-out-of-every-five-mnrega-workers-in-country-from-state/articleshow/76738910.cms||Neha Lalchandani
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Karan Avtar not first bureaucrat to be accommodated post-retirement||Chandigarh: The appointment of former chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh on Tuesday as chairman of the Punjab Water Regulatory and Development Authority ahead of his retirement on August 31 is not the first of a former bureaucrat being accommodated as head or member of a state body. During the present Congress regime, many IAS and IPS officers have been given plum positions after their superannuation during the last three years. In a few instances, there were allegations that rules were amended to suit the officer or an altogether new body was created.“It is ironic that while party leaders who contributed to its win in the electoral battle are appointed as heads of boards and corporations that are in the red and some don’t even have a proper office, the retired bureaucrats and police officers are picked for plum postings post-retirement,” rued a Congress leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/karan-avtar-not-first-bureaucrat-to-be-accommodated-post-retirement/articleshow/76737890.cms||Vibhor Mohan
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Advocates not happy with online election for DBA||Ludhiana: A group of advocates have written to Bar Council of India (BCI), Bar Council Association against online elections of the office bearers even as elections were postponed indefinitely in April. The resolution is signed by 15 candidates for District Bar Association (DBA) elections. The elections of office bearers of DBA, including president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary, finance secretary and executive members were to be held on April 3 but were postponed to April 17 due to Covid-19 related curfew and locked down. However, the elections were later indefinitely postponed. Harjot Singh Harikay, who has been vice-president twice and is now in race for president post, said 90% contesting candidates of Ludhiana DBA oppose online voting system of Bar Council Chandigarh and Resolution send to Returning Officer by Whatsapp and to Bar council Chandigarh and Bar Council of India by emails. He added that the bar council has overlapped the working RO and ARO team chosen by general house by single stoke of pen without any authority. The contestant said DBA Ludhiana is an independent body and they will fight for its independence. He alleged that BCI has done this unilaterally without consulting its stakeholders. Meanwhile, election authorities said they received the resolution. ARO Lalita Jain, said after receiving the resolution, they have sent the same to BCI and it is to be seen what decision they take. She added that BCI had also asked for complete list of the voters with phone numbers, which they have compiled and sent to it. ARO said there is no information on when the elections will be held. An advocate asking not to be named said maybe candidate/s might file election petition in the Punjab and Haryana high court if the BCI doesn’t take decision on the resolution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/advocates-not-happy-with-online-election-for-dba/articleshow/76737888.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Doctor under lens for fake report to help attempt-to-murder accused in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A doctor working with a private hospital in Dwarka has come under the scanner of Delhi high court after he allegedly issued a fake medical certificate to help a man accused in an attempt to murder case. The accused had approached the court for bail, claiming his wife had to undergo an immediate surgery. However, when police traced the doctor, it came to fore that the license of the doctor had been cancelled by Delhi Medical Council till November, 2020. The court then asked Delhi Police to file a status report by July 16. Last August, police had arrested five men, identified as Noor Jamal, Abdul Rehman, Aasif Dhillu, Mohhmad Asif and Manish Bhati, in an attempt to murder case. Police also seized five pistols and ten live cartridges from them. The main conspirator in the case Taslim was absconding and was declared a proclaimed offender. The accused men have been lodged in jail since October 2019. They had applied for bail several times before the session courts as well as Delhi high court but the applications were dismissed. In May, Abdul Rehman approached the high court for interim bail claiming that his wife, Rukhsar, had to undergo an immediate surgery. The accused produced medical certificates undersigned by Dr Gajendra Nayyar who worked at a hospital in Dwarka as well as a clinic in Noida. When the documents reached sub-inspector (SI) Rohit Chahar the name of the doctor sounded familiar as in his previous posting as well he had seen a bail document with certificates issued by the same doctor. The doctor’s previous work places were then examined. “It came to fore that Dr Nayyar had deliberately misled the court on the aspect of surgery of the family member of criminals. When police contacted Delhi Medical Council, the council said that it had held the practice of the doctor to be highly unbecoming of a medical practitioner and revoked his name from the state medical register for a year. The doctor had issued a medical certificate to help criminals earlier as well,” said a senior police officer. Police then informed the court that the doctor had issued fake medical certificates in the name of Rukhsar to ensure he is granted bail. The court has asked the deputy commissioner of police, crime to conduct an inquiry and file a status report before July 16, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/doc-under-lens-for-fake-report-to-help-attempt-to-murder-accused/articleshow/76738758.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bhopal||MP fares poorly in childcare indices, worst in infant mortality||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh has the highest Infant mortality rate (IMR) and continues to fare poorly on all the indices of child healthcare -- coming last in death of children aged below five, neonatal mortality rate and early neonatal mortality rate. The shocking findings are part of the sample registration system (SRS) statistical report of 2018, released last month. This survey was based on three years of data, from 2016 to 2018. MP’s IMR (infant deaths per thousand live births) is an alarming 48, compared to the national average of 32 during this period. Kerala topped the chart with an IMR of 7. The only redeeming feature is that MP improved from an IMR of 67 in 2009 to 48 in 2018, but going by nationwide standards, clearly, much more needs to be done. Interestingly, this time, male infants have died in more numbers than girls in Madhya Pradesh. This is a trend seen in Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Kerala, Odisha, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Uttarakhand as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-fares-poorly-in-childcare-indices-worst-in-infant-mortality/articleshow/76737900.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Jalopies in sectt shifted to Nizam College||Hyderabad: Paving the way for demolition of the existing secretariat complex, the government on Wednesday shifted condemned vehicles from the helipad area on the premises of the old secretariat complex. Over 300 vehicles — 100 two-wheelers and 200 three- and four- wheelers — have been lying in the helipad area for several years. On the directions of the government, Saifabad police shifted the condemned vehicles to the Nizam College grounds. The government would auction these vehicles along with other vehicles. “The general administration and R&B departments will decide the rates for the condemned vehicles before auctioning them,” sources said. With the high court order paving the way for demolition of the old secretariat complex, the government is set to begin the exercise of pulling down the structures in a month. Sources said CM K Chandrasekhar Rao would soon take a decision on the date for demolition of the old secretariat buildings. The CM will also finalise the design and model of the new secretariat complex soon. Nearly half-a-dozen designs and models have already been submitted to him, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jalopies-in-sectt-shifted-to-nizam-college/articleshow/76737915.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt should pay pvt schools: SAD||Amritsar/Chandigarh: SAD on Wednesday asked the Punjab government to pay six-month tuition and admission fees of private school students whose parents’ financial status was adversely affected by Covid-19 lockdown. Reacting to school education minister Vijay Inder Singla’s statement that the government will challenge the single judge’s order allowing private schools to collect tuition fee before a division bench of the high court, Majithia alleged that state government had surrendered before the private school managements. The government should pay six month (April to September) tuition and admission fee of all children whose parents’ financial status had been adversely hit by lockdown to private school managements, he added. Meanwhile, in Chandigarh, SAD trade and industry wing president N K Sharma said the party would hold statewide protests in front of Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited (PSPCL) offices to demand withdrawal of bills sent to traders and industrialists for the lockdown period. He described the power discom’s move to send bills to traders by taking out an average of previous bills as “most shameful”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-should-pay-pvt-schools-sad/articleshow/76737898.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: At Hospicio, ‘Decovid Hub’ to let stressed doctors, nurses unwind||MARGAO: In a first for a government-run hospital in the state, Margao’s Hospicio on Wednesday launched a break room to enable its staff to de-stress. Now, overworked doctors and other healthcare workers can keep their stethoscopes and scrubs aside and socialise, relax and unwind over a game of carrom or badminton in the hospital premises itself. The hospital’s medical superintendent, Dr Ira Almeida, said that Wednesday was doctor’s day, and the break room was a gift the doctors gave themselves. “To celebrate doctor’s day during the Covid pandemic is difficult,” said Almeida, who is also deputy director of health services. “But at Hospicio, we celebrated it in a unique way by inaugurating this facility which allows all levels of staff to de-stress.” Christened as the ‘Decovid Hub’, the break room occupies the space created in the hospital after Hospicio’s medicine ward was shifted last month to the new South Goa district hospital. It now has a badminton court for those who want physical activity. There’s also a carrom board for those who prefer something more leisurely. Plans are also afoot to set up a table tennis facility there soon. Explaining the objective of the Decovid Hub, Almeida said, “We came to realise that because of the Covid-19 pandemic, doctors at Hospicio were working under high levels of stress and anxiety. As this facility is aimed at allowing them to de-stress after long working hours, we named it the Decovid Hub”. “Please ensure social distancing to keep yourselves safe,” Almeida appealed to the public. “Wear a mask to keep others safe, and stay home as much as you can. In the absence of a vaccine, social distancing should be used as a vaccine.” Meanwhile, the Goa branch of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) presented the hospital PPE suits, masks, and pulse oximeters for frontline health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-hospicio-decovid-hub-to-let-stressed-docs-nurses-unwind/articleshow/76738768.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
July 2, 2020||Goa||IPB gets consultant to streamline ease of biz||Panaji: The state government cleared the decks for the appointment of consulting firm Ernst & Young (EY) as the satellite consultant for the Goa Investment Promotion Board (IPB). EY will assist the state in screening investment proposals and keep track of cleared projects as the satellite consultant, the state cabinet said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that over a period of two years, the consultant will streamline the functioning of Goa IPB while also suggesting policy changes to improve the ease of doing business situation in Goa. “Ernst & Young has been taken as the consultant to streamline the ease of doing business,” said Sawant. “We have taken the consultant for IPB for two years on fixed charges.” Strangely, the cabinet note said that the consultant will be appointed for a year at a cost of Rs 96.5 lakh. The government has appointed EY as the satellite consultant on a nomination basis even though the finance department raised concerns about the appointment process. “The proposal was sent to the finance department for concurrence before submitting to the cabinet, which opined that the appointment of consultants should be done by competitive bidding,” the cabinet note said. On June 6, 2019, then CEO of the Goa Investment Promotion and Facilitation Board (IPB), Vishal Prakash, had moved a proposal to the chief minister’s office seeking financial approval to appoint a consultant to help streamline the single window process. Following a bidding process, in which E&Y and KPMG participated, KPMG was selected as the consultant. This time around EY has been appointed on nomination basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ipb-gets-consultant-to-streamline-ease-of-biz/articleshow/76738740.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||Covid spell on marriage: Eight kin of newlywed test positive||LUCKNOW: Barely a fortnight back a flat in an apartment on Meera Bai Marg was echoing with post-wedding celebrations, but on Wednesday it was sealed and all occupants were shifted to a hospital. As many as eight family members of a newly wed couple who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday were also found to be suffering from the same disease. The bride had come from Delhi along with her family and the couple got married on June 18.  The apartment was declared a containment zone soon after the newly wed had tested positive. “Now all the remaining family members have tested positive for the infection and have been admitted to Lok Bandhu hospital. Other residents of the apartment and those who participated in the wedding are being tested,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Narendra Agarwal. These patients were among 35 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, pushing the city’s tally since the outbreak on March 11 to 1,110. Of them 746 have been discharged so far, while 20 could not survive. Eleven more places were notified to be turned into containment zones, taking the number to 113. A technical employee of UP112 police emergency helpline was also tested positive, taking the number of cases linked to the call centre to 24. Other cases included five members of a family from Chandganj and three family members of a lawyer from New Hyderabad Fresh cases were also reported fromNiralanagar, Daliganj, Indiranagar, Arjunganj, Rajajipuram, Narahi, Vinay Khand, Vijanyan Khand, Thakurganj, Sector 6 Gomtinagar, Chowk and Alarmbagh among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-spell-on-marriage-8-kin-of-newlywed-test-ve/articleshow/76739047.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
July 2, 2020||Kanpur||6 of a family hospitalised after eating dish made of ‘ganja’ in Kannauj||Kanpur: As many as six members of a family in Miyaganj village of Kannauj were hospitalised after they unknowingly consumed a dish made of weed on Tuesday. Police said it was a prank played by one Nawal Kishore. Nawal went to the shop of his neighbour Nitesh, and gave weed to him claiming it to be ‘soya methi’ (soya fenugreek). Nitesh reached home and gave the weed to his sister-in-law Pinki, who then cooked a curry with weed and potato. She consumed it herself and also served it to other family members. After a while, condition of six members of the family—Nitesh, his father Om Prakash, siblings Manoj, Kamlesh and Aarti, sister-in-law Pinki—deteriorated. They managed to communicate this to their neighbours, who alerted other villagers. Later, the entire family was knocked out of their senses. Villagers informed Sadar Kotwali police, following which, all six members of the family were admitted to the district hospital. “We have seized the weed, besides the curry from the house of Om Prakash and sent samples of the same for laboratory test. During interrogation, the accused Nawal Kishore confessed that it was a prank he played on Nitesh, but it led to a grave situation unfortunately,” said Kotwali inspector Nagendra Kumar Pathak. “The family is out of danger and further investigations are underway,” added Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/6-of-a-family-hospitalised-after-eating-dish-made-of-ganja-in-kannauj/articleshow/76737895.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee extends West Bengal’s free ration scheme till June 2021||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is not in a mood to let Prime Minister Narendra Modi win brownie points in West Bengal, whether it is over public welfare or the Centre’s banning 50 Chinese apps following the recent border skirmish in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. Minutes after Modi, during his address to the nation on Tuesday, announced extension of Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana during tyohar (festival) months from July-November, Banerjee extended her free state ration project up to June next year. The poor in Bengal will get the twin benefits up to November and the state benefit up to June till the 2021 assembly elections. Banerjee also outpaced the PM over her nationalist position on China, leaving no scope for BJP to target her after she had raised some questions on India’s Balakot air strike following the terror attack in Kashmir ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. While pledging support to the Centre’s response to China’s border aggression, the CM said: “Banning some apps won’t give results. We want to give China a befitting reply. The Government of India has to decide how we do that. Else, people of the country might question the government’s stand.” Iterating her party’s stance on going along with the Centre on international issues, Banerjee said: “We never interfere in external affairs issue. Our party’s stand is clear — we fully support the government’s stand regarding this.” But the CM used her prerogative when it came to public welfare. Responding to the PM extending free 5kg rice/wheat and 1kg chana to each of the 80 crore people across the country up to November, Banerjee said: “I have not heard what the PM has said. I was busy in a Cabinet meeting.” “We have decided to extend free rations to our people up to June next year,” she continued. “Our rice is of better quality. We procure them directly from farmers. The Centre releases foodgrain from FCI stocks.” Banerjee then turned to the chief secretary and said: “Only 6.01 crore people of the roughly 10 crore population in Bengal get the Centre’s rations.” The CM also flagged the “deprivation” issue while responding to the PM’s Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan for migrant workers. “I don’t know about the scheme because Bengal has not been included in it,” she said. Banejee also reserved comment on the ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme, saying she needed to know more about it. “I have been hearing one nation, one election; one nation, one leader, and one nation, one ration card for quite some time. Our ration cards have changed from white to blue and has now gone digital. I need to know further,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-extends-states-free-ration-scheme-till-june-2021/articleshow/76726136.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kanpur||Abducted boy rescued within 48 hrs, six arrested in Etawah||Kanpur: Six men were arrested for kidnapping a six-year-old boy in Etawah district on Wednesday. The abducted child was rescued within 48 hours. The police have identified the arrested kidnappers as Oswal, Kalyan and Monu of Jaswantnagar in Etawah and Ravindra, Vishnu and Jaikishan of Agra. According to the police, the child’s father, Ramveer Singh of Phulrai village in Jaswantnagar area of Etawah had registered a complaint at the local police station on June 27 stating that some kidnappers had abducted his six-year-old son Happy and had contacted him on his phone through VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol technique) asking him to pay a ransom of Rs 10 lakh for his son’s life. The police subsequently registered an FIR under relevant sections of IPC and swung into action. “During investigation, the police, on June 30 night, received information that the kidnappers would be coming to the district in a car from Agra to collect the ransom. A trap was laid near the Lakhera Quan crossing and the six miscreants —Oswal, Kalyan, Monu, Ravindra, Vishnu and Jaikishan were arrested after a brief encounter. Their interrogation led to the recovery of boy a few hours later,” said a police official privy to the investigation. According to SSP Etawah Akash Tomar, Oswal, who was the master-mind behind the crime, hails from the same village where boy lives, wanted to make easy money. “Oswal had roped in his brother Kalyan and five others for the task,” the SSP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/abducted-boy-rescued-within-48-hrs-six-arrested-in-etawah/articleshow/76737914.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Madurai||Protest against opening Tasmac shop||Madurai: Over 50 people in a village near Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district protested against the opening of a Tasmac shop in their region on Wednesday. People of the village noticed workers bringing crates of liquor bottles a new shop situated near a government girls higher secondary school in Asilapuram village in Cholapuram panchayat and made enquiries. They were told that a tasmac shop is being established there. On Wednesday about 50 villagers, predominantly women, wearing masks, came and sat in front of the shop demanding its closure and refused to move from the place. After assurance from panchayat president Mareeswari Velmurugan and Sattur MLA Rajavarman that the shop will not be opened, they gave up the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/protest-against-opening-tasmac-shop/articleshow/76738762.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||AAP protests hike in fuel prices, seeks rollback||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday held a protest against the increasing fuel prices and demanded the rollback of the fuel prices for the relief of the common man. The functionaries gathered at the ITO headquarters of the party and walked towards the BJP headquarters, however, they were detained by Delhi Police before they could reach. Similar protests by AAP workers took place all over the country. AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai demanded that the BJP-led central government should immediately roll back the increased price of the fuel. “This continuous increase in fuel price is also hiking the price of essential commodities. The BJP government is benefitting from the price rise, but the people are suffering,” Rai said. He also questioned why the peaceful protesters were detained by the cops. The party functionaries claimed that the price of the crude oil in the international market has come down to around $40 a barrel, but the Narendra Modi government has not reduced the fuel prices, which could have been a big relief for the citizens and the industries who are already suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-protests-hike-in-fuel-prices-seeks-rollback/articleshow/76738766.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||Airport security: UP for Gorakhpur model||LUCKNOW: The Gorakhpur model of airport security can be adopted by other airports of the state by gradually withdrawing the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and deploying the recently announced UP Special Security Force (UPSSF). Giving this information to TOI here on Wednesday, additional chief secretary, home, AwanishAwasthi said, “Yes we are considering to have the state’s own security force at all the vital installations, including airports. It would also reduce financial burden on airports.” Awasthi said that the civil aviation part of the Gorakhpur airport is manned by the UP police and not by the CISF as has been done at other airports. “This is also one of the reasons why theGorakhpur airport is in profit, while earnings of other airports are on the negative side. The CISFsecurity is expensive and it causes additional burden on airports,” he claimed. The ACS further said that the state can experiment with the Gorakhpur model as it would reduce financial burden on airports. The UPSSF might also have a different uniform, Awasthi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/airport-security-up-for-gorakhpur-model/articleshow/76738943.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi calls Akhilesh to wish him on birthday||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav’s 47th birthday celebrations on Wednesday remained a low-key affair following strict instructions from the former chief minister to all partymen not to indulge in any festivity at a time when the country was battling with Coronavirus. The highlight of the day, however, was a call from CM Yogi Adityanath to wish him on his birthday. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla along with a host of parliamentarians and senior leaders from across the country also called the SP chief to wish him. Special birthday wishes came from Akhilesh’s wife Dimple Yadav. The former SP MP took to twitter to wish the SP national president and appeal to the partymen on his behalf not to indulge in any celebrations but instead reach out to the needy and help them. At the party office, senior leaders including party national secretary and former minister Rajendra Chaudhary, party veteran SRS Yadav and SP state president Naresh Uttam Patel presented a bouquet of flowers to Akhilesh who later planted a Parijat tree in the party lawn. In Varanasi, SP workers organised a puja to wish their party president good health, while in Barabanki senior party leader and former minister Arvind Singh Gope, in Sitapur MLC Anand Bhadauria and in Unnao MLCs Sunil Singh Yadav and Udaiveer Singh organised puja and plantation drives. The leaders distributed ration among the poor and held blood donation camps. Party’s Uttarakhand unit held a programme at the party office near Parade Ground in Dehradun where former state president SN Sachchan presented the ‘Awahaan’ booklet that the SP president has released recently calling upon cadres to reach out to the masses to apprise them of the prevailing challenges before the nation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-calls-akhilesh-to-wish-him-on-birthday/articleshow/76738963.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Private hospitals line up for govt nod to treat Covid-19 patients||HYDERABAD: With a reportedly large number of Covid-19 patients willing to be admitted to private hospitals for treatment, several private hospitals are seeking government nod to treat Covid-19 patients. Around 50 private hospitals received permission to treat Covid-19 patients after the state government announced last month that private hospitals can treat Covid-19 patients. According to sources, there are at least 40 applications from private hospitals pending with the government. “We are scrutinising the applications. At present, we are granting permission to only 100-bed hospitals with certification from National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) and which are following all the guidelines to treat Covid-19 patients,” said a government official. Most hospitals that have permission to admit Covid-19 patients are part of the Telangana Super Specialty Hospitals Network Association and have more than 100 beds. These hospitals are located in Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal districts. However, several other hospitals that are part of Telangana Aarogyasri Network Hospitals Association (TANHA) with 50-bed capacity and above are awaiting government nod to test and treat Covid-19 patients. “As per the ICMR guidelines, hospitals should have equal numbers of ventilators and ICU beds in order to be able to treat Covid-19 patients and get permission. They must also follow all guidelines,” said Dr Ashok Reddy, president, Telangana Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association. Meanwhile, a few sources have alleged that some of the hospitals already having permission are not adhering to rules laid down by the government. “Some hospitals do not have separate admission and exit routes for suspected Covid-19 patients. The hospitals have become greedy and are not maintaining separate wards or lifts for Covid-19 patients and their family members,” a source told TOI on condition of anonymity. Further, a few hospitals are reportedly overcharging patients citing ventilator charges even though the patient was not put on ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-hosps-line-up-for-govt-nod-to-treat-covid-19-patients/articleshow/76737913.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 2, 2020||Nashik||Oldest Covid patient in Ahmednagar recovers||Nashik: A 90-year-old woman, oldest Covid-19 patient in Ahmednagar district so far, has recovered from the contagion and was discharged from the Evangeline Booth hospital on Wednesday. She was discharged along with three other patients. At the time of discharge, the woman thanked the hospital doctors, nurses and other health staff for their services. “She has tremendous will power that enabled her to defeat novel coronavirus,” said officials of the district administration’s health department. They said that the woman, who hails from Ahmednagar city, was admitted to the civil hospital on June 22 after she experienced fever and complained of breathlessness. She tested positive for Covid-19 on June 24. “We had kept her in ICU of the civil hospital for the three days initially and put her on oxygen support after she had respiratory issues. But, she was never put on ventilator later on,” added health officials stating that despite her advance age, the woman did not have any pre-existing ailments. “We had treated her with hydroxychloroquine, Tamiflu and multi vitamin medicines. She was released after she recovered from the contagion,” added officials. The total Covid-19 patients in the district have touched the 500 mark with 35 new patients tested positive on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/oldest-covid-patient-in-ahmednagar-recovers/articleshow/76736844.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Mysuru||31-yr-old visually challenged woman takes SSLC exam||Mysuru: Here is a visually challenged woman who can inspire us all. She discontinued her education after she developed blindness when she was in class nine. Later, she moved to Bengaluru for mobility and rehabilitation training and joined a garment factory. After working for 9 years, she decided to continue her education. She used the lockdown period to prepare for the examination. This is the story of Gauramma P, 31, who is suffering from 100% blindness and is now writing the SSLC examination as a private candidate in Seva Bharati School in Chamarajanagar. She is confident of cracking the examination and realise her dream of pursuing higher education. The daughter of Puttaswamy Gowda and Rathnamma, a farmer couple from Kabbahalli in Gundlupet taluk in Chamarajanagar, Gauramma is travelling to the examination centre every day. “A student by name Sapna is my scribe,” said Gauramma. “I lost my eyesight when I was in class nine. Due to this I was unable to clear SSLC earlier. In Bengaluru, I underwent mobility and rehabilitation training in Jeevan Bhima Nagar and later joined a garment factory in Goruguntepalya. While I was in Bengaluru, I developed confidence that despite mu challenges, I can pursue higher education. So, I decided to write the SSLC examination,” she said. “I prepared for the exam by listening to audio textbooks and taking help from my friends,” she said. Ramesh K, project coordinator, National Association for Blind, Gundlupet, said that Gauramma is a role model for all. “Initially her family was hesitant to send her to Bengaluru. But we could convinced them. In Bengaluru, she underwent mobility training and learnt other skills. She is now supporting her family too,” said Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/31-yr-old-visually-challenged-woman-takes-sslc-exam/articleshow/76736836.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Goa||‘Action taken over termination of services’||Panaji: In the complaint filed before the Human Rights Commission over termination of services of employees, the North Goa collector stated the office has taken immediate action to report such incidents to the police. “Various interventions have been done at the level of the mamlatdar, deputy collector, additional collector and collector to enforce these directions on the industries, shops and other commercial establishments to ensure that the payments are made by employers to their workers on time. In some instances, this office has coordinated the payment of wages to the employees and have facilitated their return to native states by Shramik trains,” collector and district magistrate R Menaka stated in her report last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/action-taken-over-termination-of-services/articleshow/76738771.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||Defence corridor gets boost, Aligarh node’s land sold out||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s dream project of the defence industrial corridor got a major boost after private investors purchased entire land earmarked for one of the six nodes in Aligarh to set up units to produce latest weapons and defence communication systems. “I am happy to announce that the entire 53-hectare area in the Aligarh node of the defence industrial corridor has been allotted to investors who have signed MoUs with the state government. Work to offer basic amenities and infrastructure to these companies would start soon,” said chief executive officer, UPEIDA, Awanish Awasthi, after a review meeting with officials on the defence project. In just one node in Aligarh, which is smaller in comparison to Jhansi with 2,000-hectare area, an investment of over Rs 500 crore is expected, creating jobs for over 25,000 people, Awasthi said adding three investment proposals have been cleared for Kanpur node and for Lucknow Tata Technology has submitted a DPR of Rs 357 crore for setting up a common facility centre. Awasthi said that the entire land of the Aligarh node has been sold to nearly a dozen companies, including Allen and Alvan Private Limited, Deep Explo Equipment Private Limited and Syndicate Innovations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/defence-corridor-gets-boost-aligarh-nodes-land-sold-out/articleshow/76739013.cms||Subhash Mishra
July 2, 2020||Goa||Double tracking at Majorda OK'd||Panaji: The cabinet on Wednesday approved the acquisition of 1,235 sq m in Majorda for the South Western Railways’ Madgaon-Vasco track doubling projects. SWR will pay Rs 85.4 lakh to acquire the land parallel to the existing railway track. “As the project would meet huge demand and will directly and indirectly contribute to the creation of employment and contribute towards socio economic development, it is submitted that the said procurement of land is very much essential for taking rail doubling project at final stage,” the cabinet note said. The cabinet also gave its nod for 2,860 sq m to be acquired at Marcaim, Ponda for GAIL India for construction of a sectionalizing valve station. A proposal to transfer land from the WRD at Davorlim to the electricity department for a 33 KVA gas insulated substation was also cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/double-tracking-at-majorda-okd/articleshow/76738760.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||Cash-strapped transgenders call for support||LUCKNOW: Transgender rights activists have appealed to people to help the community which is finding hard to maintain livelihood amid coronavirus pandemic. Members of Rehbar Trust, working towards improving social and economic development of the transgender community along with activists, have started a fundraising campaign on social media titled ‘Fight against Covid-19’ to provide financial assistance to transgenders and sex workers. Activists and community members said that transgenders earn their living through the custom of ‘toli-badhai’ and weddings. Due to the lockdown and cancellation of events they cannot move out, resulting in major losses. “During initial two months, the community survived on savings, but since no weddings are happening and even if they are it’s a close knit affair, their earnings have nosedived,” said Lovepreet Singh. “Till now, we have raised Rs 3,400 and our goal is Rs 60,000. The money is being used to provide ration, medicine and hygiene kits,” Singh added. Payal, a transgender and activist, said that over 35 community members living under her foundation survived lockdown through savings. “We are the worst hit since several of our community members make a living on streets. The day savings end, I don’t know what we will do,” she added. There are around 2,500 transgenders in India. Despite facing difficulties, many have extended a helping hand to migrant workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cash-strapped-transgenders-call-for-support/articleshow/76738892.cms||Aditi Singh
July 2, 2020||India||India & Pakistan exchange list of civilian prisoners||NEW DELHI: While exchanging lists of civilian prisoners and fishermen, India again asked Pakistan on Wednesday to expedite grant of visas to the members of a medical team to allow them to visit Pakistan and assess the mental condition of Indian prisoners, lodged in different jails of Pakistan, for their early repatriation. India had first made the same demand more than two years ago. While India further downgraded diplomatic ties with Pakistan last month, the government said it remained committed to addressing, on priority, all humanitarian matters. India handed over lists of 265 Pakistani civilian prisoners and 97 fishermen in India’s custody to Pakistan. Similarly, Pakistan shared lists of 54 civilian prisoners and 270 fishermen in its custody, who are Indians or “believed-to-be Indians”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-pakistan-exchange-list-of-civilian-prisoners/articleshow/76739924.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bhopal||Covid positivity rate in city 3%, fatality 3.5%||Bhopal: An analysis of the 3,000 odd coronavirus cases from Bhopal suggests that the positivity rate of the viral disease in the state capital is 3.0% and fatality rate is about 3.5%. Most of the Covid deaths reported in the city were cases with co-morbidities and those from among vulnerable population, including Bhopal gas victims, said Bhopal MP Pragya Singh Thakur, at a function here on Wednesday. While health officials claim that 100% contact tracing has been achieved in Bhopal, experts are wondering whether the efforts in the city has led to ‘breaking the chain of infection’. A health department report suggests that the health staff could establish and identify as many as 25,300 first contacts in the state capital. In Unlock 1.0, as the curbs were eased and shops and business opened, there has been a rapid increase in the number of active cases in Bhopal, especially during the last fortnight. The number was stable and declining with about 400 active cases by the end of lockdown, but it rose to about 600 in the month of unlock thereafter. Over the past three months, cumulative analysis, indicates, the situation has improved in Bhopal. At the beginning of April the state capital accounted for about 1.7% of total cases. It came down to 0.6% by June end. Health department officials are upbeat that contribution of Indore and Bhopal in nationwide Covid-19 cases is declining. With Covid-19 deaths, nearing 100 mark, there is an anticipation if a peak has been reached or more is awaited. A lot also depends on the healthcare outcome ratio. In some hospitals, the ratio is 70:30, where 30% do not survive. Another focus is Covid-19 management. It pertains to infection prevention and control including bio-medical waste surveillance, quarantine and isolation, clinical management, laboratory sample collection and testing along with psychological care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-positivity-rate-in-city-3-fatality-3-5/articleshow/76737941.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 653 cases, 11 deaths||Madurai/ Trichy: The southern districts recorded 11 deaths and 653 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday with Madurai contributing 297 to the positive cases. With this, the total number of cases in south TN has climbed to 8,416. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded the death of a 58-year-old woman at Karur government medical college, while 95 new cases were also recorded in the region, taking its total cases to 2,857. The woman had type-2 diabetes and coronary artery disease and was admitted to the hospital on June 23 when she tested positive for Covid-19. With this, Karur has recorded its second Covid-19 death. The medical bulletin also stated that a 63-year-old man from Pudukottai died at a private hospital there on June 26. The man was diabetic and had fever for five days before he was admitted on June 20. But the bulletin attributed the cause of death to respiratory failure and not Covid. Three men aged 73, 58 and 53 who were under treatment in various private hospitals in Madurai died of Covid-19 related ailments. Four others including three men and a 49-year-old woman died at the GRH. With this the total number of deaths in Madurai has climbed to 39.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-653-cases-11-deaths/articleshow/76738789.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nashik||Head constable succumbs to Covid||Nashik: A 52-year-old head constable attached to the Indiranagar police station succumbed to Covid 19 infection on late Tuesday night. He was admitted to the Seven Hills hospital in Mumbai. Arun Baburao Tongare, a resident of Wasan Nagar, Indiranagar, along with another constable of the Indiranagar police station, had tested positive for Covid 19 about three weeks back. Since Tongare’s condition was deteriorating, he was admitted to the Seven Hills hospital. However, he succumbed to the infection on late Tuesday night. Meanwhile, Tongare’s four family members also tested positive for the contagion. However, during the course of treatment, they recovered from the virus with their reports testing negative. Tongare is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. He was a native of Kherwadi in Niphad taluka. With Covid-19 cases rising in the city, police personnel, who are posted at the frontline, are catching the infection. So far, five police personnel have caught Covid-19 infection in the city. Tongare is the first Covid casualty in the city police department. Senior officials of the city police are taking various measures to ensure that policemen who are out on the field do not catch the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/head-constable-succumbs-to-covid/articleshow/76736857.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 2, 2020||Goa||Mopa runway length reduced, take-off in ’22||Panaji: In order to meet the revised International Civil Aviation Organisation operational and safety requirements for airports, the state government and GMR Goa International Airport Limited (GGIAL) have agreed to reduce the runway length for the underconstruction airport at Mopa to 3.5 km from 3.75 km. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who made the announcement, also said that the airport will commence operations by March 2022. “The target for Mopa is March 2022. We are on track,” said Sawant. “Additional requirement of land was deliberated in the meeting held between GGIAL and Goa government in June 2019 where in Goa government stated that acquisition of the land on the North West side is possible since it is government land, however, land acquisition on North East Side shall not be possible since it is forest land,” said the proposal for acquisition of additional land.Sawant said that the cabinet has given the approval for 2,367 sqm of additional government land to be acquired for Rs 29.22 lakh in Uguem village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mopa-runway-length-reduced-take-off-in-22/articleshow/76738769.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||LU campus gets 3 new gardens||Lucknow: LU got three gardens on the occasion of ‘Van Mahotsava’ on Wednesday. The Navgrah Vatika, Panchvati Vatika and Aushadhiye Vatika— together costing around Rs 40,000—were inaugurated on the Lucknow University campus. Established with assistance from the Union ministry of environment and forests, around 30 saplings were planted in the three gardens set up at three different places on the University Road campus. Saplings of five trees—peepal, banyan, bel, amla and Ashok—having ecological relevance were planted in the Panchvati Vatika created in the open space outside ONGC multi-disciplinary building. Plantation of nine saplings—shami, peepal, goolar, madar, palash, banyan, kush, durva, apamarg and kher—representing nine planets and the sun, as per ancient Hindu scriptures, was done in the ‘Navgrah Vatika’ set up at Tagore Lawns. The Aushadhiye Vatika was created near commerce block with the plantation of 15 medicinal plants and aromatic plants like brahmi, madar, amla, sandal, marigold and neem among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-campus-gets-3-new-gardens/articleshow/76739018.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Plea in Telangana HC against huge Covid bills||HYDERABAD: Dealing with a petition that wanted the court to direct the state government to restrain private hospitals from overcharging the patients in the name of Covid-19 treatment, the Telangana high court on Wednesday gave the petitioner two weeks’ time to furnish evidence and also make the hospitals as respondents in the case. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing a PIL filed by DG Narasimha Rao, general secretary of Patnam, an NGO working in health and environment areas. The petitioner, in his petition, annexed newspaper reports published in prominent dailies from Hyderabad, detailing how the corporate hospitals were collecting nearly Rs 50,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh per day from Covid-19 patients depending on severity of the case even after the government imposed a cap in the range of Rs 4,000 to Rs 9,000 per day. “The private and corporate hospitals are swindling patients and profiteering in the name of treating ovid-19 patients in Hyderabad and other parts of the state,” said V Mallik, counsel for the petitioner. He sought a direction to the state to take over at least 50% of beds in private, corporate and teaching hospitals and evolve a transparent web-based mechanism in allotting the beds to patients who are in need and provide treatment at the rates fixed by the government. The judges noticed that none of the private hospitals was made as a respondent and directed the petitioner to implead them because allegations were made against them about collection of exorbitant treatment charges. The petitioner pointed out that none of these hospitals was implementing the rates fixed by the government and charging exorbitantly. He charged that these hospitals were cashing in on the anxiety of the kin of the patients while rushing them to hospitals. The bench posted the case to July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plea-in-hc-against-huge-covid-bills/articleshow/76737938.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||Aaditya, Rathod welcome scrapping of Bander coal block auction||Nagpur: Greens and state ministers are overjoyed with the Union coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi’s decision to scrap Bander coal blocks, near the buffer and eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), from the auction list.Bander was among 41 blocks released for auction on June 18. The decision was vehemently opposed not only by wildlife and environment activists but also Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and forest minister Sanjay Rathod. A social worker Pramod Junghare even filed a PIL in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court against the move.“Though I have no formal communication from the Centre, as an environment minister and also a common citizen, I would really be happy to not have a coal mine near Tadoba or any of our wildlife or biodiversity hubs. We must have development, but that should be sustainable,” state environment minister Aditya Thackeray told TOI.State forest minister Sanjay Rathod said he had asked his ministry that as the proposed mines would destroy tiger corridor to several protected areas in Central India, no process should be initiated for forest land diversion under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980. “I too had objected to the auction in letter to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar,” he added.Kishor Rithe, former member of National Board for Wildlife (NBWL), said, “Our development model is energy-intensive. However, if the same energy is generated by polluting environment, how can you expect sustainable clean development?”Rithe added the energy sector had changed in last eight years. Power demand is 40% of the total installed capacity today. On March 24, 2020, while all industries were operating, power demand was 146GW against the installed capacity of 369GW. This includes 198GW from thermal power plants, 88GW from new and renewable energy sources (NRE) and 83GW from other sources like biofuel etc“This shows that the country can progress with NRE and energy sources other than the coal. We should phase out thermal power in next four years and reduce the pollution in the country,” added Rithe.“The exclusion of five blocks in Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh is a positive step by the coal ministry. There are many other blocks like Marki, Fatehpur, Gotitoria, Thesgora, Dhirauli, Marwatola etc which need to be excluded on similar grounds,” said Milind Pariwakam, a wildlife biologist who has worked extensively on connectivity issues in Central India.Pariwakam added, “These blocks are important from the tiger and elephant conservation perspective. The inclusion and subsequent exclusion of the five blocks in the auction indicates ignorance of the needs of wildlife and the environment in planning stage.”Bander villager Devidas Shrimande also lauded the decision. “Coal mining in Murpar has brought misery to our counterparts. The mines would have destroyed agriculture, our only livelihood,” he said.“The Eastern Vidarbha Landscape has presence of at least 200 tigers of which 60% are in Tadoba and adjoining areas. Hampering movement of wildlife by coal mines would have caused surge in man-wildlife conflict bringing humans in direct contact with tigers, leopards and sloth bears,” said Bandu Dhotre, NGO Eco Pro president, Chandrapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aaditya-rathod-welcome-scrapping-of-bander-coal-block-auction/articleshow/76737950.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Unpaid corporation teachers say funds used to pay safai staff||NEW DELHI: More than 9,000 municipal teachers and pensioners of North Delhi Municipal Corporation continue to remain unpaid for the past three months. While a section of teachers deployed on Covid duties received a month’s salary, they were left penniless again after using the money to repay loans and pending bills. The teachers’ union also alleged that the money meant for them was diverted to pay sanitation workers. Kuldeep Khatri, who heads Shikshak Nyaya Manch Nagar Nigam, said, “Our salary is pending from March to June. Around 5,400 teachers who were on Covid duty were paid only for March, but there was favouritism during disbursement. Another Rs 49 crore was released by Delhi government, but it was used to pay sanitation workers.” Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary of Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh, said, “Teachers haven’t been able to pay loans, house rent and even school fees of children. They are being forced to live a life of desperation and economic insecurity. The problem of delayed salary goes back to the faulty trifurcation of the municipal corporation. In 2014, the salary was delayed by a month. But now the dues are of four months.” “Our job is to teach, but we are being used to distribute rations, carry out surveys and deployed in containment zones. Are we not human? We are being told to find Covid patients without being paid. More than 200 teachers have been infected with the virus on duty, but no one cares about us,” Khatri said. Jai Prakash, north corporation mayor, said, “It will be wrong to say that only the corporation and not Delhi government is to blame. We were supposed to get Rs 556 crore in the first quarter of the year, but didn’t. Delhi high court also blasted the government. The court said we will be blamed if the teachers don’t get paid. The teachers are being used by Delhi government to distribute rations and fight the virus, so it should help us.” “We have extended the deadline for paying property tax so that our revenue stream increases and we can pay the employees. The government should help in this extraordinary situation as we are providing it manpower,” added Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unpaid-corpn-teachers-say-funds-used-to-pay-safai-staff/articleshow/76738797.cms||Paras Singh
July 2, 2020||Nashik||Burglars set hardware shop ablaze||Nashik: Two burglars set a shop of hardware on fire at Ugaon village in Niphad taluka of Nashik district between Monday night and Tuesday morning, causing losses to the tune of Rs 50 lakh. The suspects, who have been arrested, have admitted to setting the shop ablaze as they could not find cash or anything that they could steal, said police on Wednesday.The same burglars broke into five more shops and a house in the same area and stole goods, said police.The local crime branch and the Niphad police on Tuesday evening arrested the duo from their residences at Ugaon and Lasalgaon of Niphad taluka. They have been identified as Bhaskar Gangurde and Jayesh Thenge. According to police, the duo had gained entry into the hardware shop in a shopping complex by breaking its rear wall. The duo also broke the locks of five other shops and stole petty articles.Meanwhile, in the burglary they committed in a house in the same area, they had decamped with two domestic gas cylinders and cash of Rs 25,000. The police said that the burglars were arrested on a tip off they received. The police have secured three days police custody of the two suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/burglars-set-hardware-shop-ablaze/articleshow/76736883.cms||Santosh Sonawane
July 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cabinet nod for 26% cost hike to expand Saligao plant||PANAJI: The cost of expanding the solid waste management plant at Saligao from 150 to 250 tonnes has escalated from Rs 82 crore to Rs 103.8 crore, the cabinet was informed on Wednesday. The cabinet agreed to the escalated costs and gave the go-ahead to Goa Waste Management Corporation and Hindustan Waste Treatment Pvt Ltd to enhance the capacity of the plant. The cabinet also approved the payment of Rs 11.2 crore to Hindustan Waste Treatment Pvt. Ltd for the operation of the plant for six years from state funds. Once the expansion is completed, the plant will be able to handle 250 tonnes of waste per day with a capacity to treat an additional 20% on peak days. As per earlier approval for the expansion which was accorded by the cabinet nod in February 2019 when the Detailed Project Report prepared by GWMC estimated the project cost at Rs 82 crore. However, the proposal submitted by concessionaire estimates the expansion cost at Rs 103.8 crore based on GSR 2019. The proposal was placed before the Expenditure Finance Committee on May 5, 2020 and the cost escalation was approved at the Expenditure Finance Committee meeting. The entire funding of the expansion of the plant will come from a loan from Bank of Maharashtra at 7.7% interest which will be taken by GWMC. GWMC has worked out a revised payment model and cost for the proposed enhancement project at Saligao and projects non-recurring expense for six years to amount to Rs 130 crore while recurring expense for each of the six years is Rs 11.2 crore. Thus by the seventh year, the state would have paid Rs 197.3 crore for the plant. Based on the revised terms of the payment model, the state could save Rs 24 crore over the earlier payment model, the cabinet note said. The cabinet also gave approval for a solar plant to be setup at the Saligao plant by Goa Energy Development Agency. An amount of Rs 2.9 crore has been factored in for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-nod-for-26-cost-hike-to-expand-saligao-plant/articleshow/76738784.cms||Newton Sequeira
July 2, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Madrasa Board results declared; toppers to get Rs 1 lakh, tablet each||LUCKNOW: The annual examination results of madrassas affiliated to the Uttar Pradesh Board of Madrasa Education were declared on Wednesday. The exams were held in February-March. The Board announced that top 10 students of secondary (munshi/maulvi), senior secondary (Aalim), Kamil and Fazil will each receive Rs 1 lakh, a tablet, medal and certificate. In addition, state minister for minority welfare and Muslim waqf, Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’, announced that top three students of secondary and senior secondary in computer, mathematics and science subjects will each receive Rs 51,000, tablet, medal and certificate. Money for these rewards will come from the Arabi-Farsi Madrassa Development Fund. Budaun residents Mohammad Adil Khan and Saleem Akhtar secured the first rank in Kamil and Fazil, respectively. Kanpur Nagar student MU Kaif Khan topped in the secondary section. “Our government wants madrassa students to have the Quran in one hand and a computer in the other. The Covid-19 pandemic had delayed the declaration of the results,” said the minister. The results were announced in the social welfare department here on Wednesday afternoon and were later uploaded on the Board’s website. More than 1.8 lakh students had enrolled for the examinations held between February 25 and March 3, of whom 1.4 lakh took the exams at 552 centres across the state. “A total 1,15,650 students have cleared the exams, half of whom are girls,” said registrar, UP Madrasa Board of Education, RP Singh. The pass percentage was 81.99%, which means that over 80% of students who took the exams passed. The pass percentage for girl students was 84% while that of boys was 79%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/madrasa-board-results-declared-toppers-to-get-rs-1-lakh-tablet-each/articleshow/76738948.cms||Yusra Husain
July 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Guest lecturers at ITIs told to stop reporting to work from July 1||PANAJI: Around 40 guest lecturers working on lecture basis at various Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) around Goa were told not to report to work from July. While some principals issued orders to those appointed on guest lecture basis, they have been asked to discontinue with effect from July 1, others were informed verbally and through WhatsApp not to attend duty from July 1 onwards till further orders. More than 40 ITI instructors teaching various trades on guest lecture basis were reporting to work in June and conducting online classes for students. They were shocked when told not to report to work from July 1, despite the syllabus not being completed due to the lockdown. Incidentally, this came a day after chief minister Pramod Sawant hiked the monthly remuneration of lecture-basis teachers and vocational teachers to Rs 25,000. He stated that the nomenclature of full-time contract basis, double part-time and single part-time has been done away with. In times of the Covid crisis, guest lecturers fear they may not receive their salary for the month of June. In some ITIs, the guest lecturers were reporting to work on alternate days and in others on all working days. The lecturers are usually given a break during the examination period, but the final exam days are yet to be announced and the portion yet to be completed. One lecturer stated that it wasn’t possible to complete the portion online as many important practical skills in ITI need to be imparted to students in person. With students are likely to return from July 15, their services should have been retained, they stated. Sources say the decision to discontinue the staff was undertaken after a meeting with all principals. Director of skill development and entrepreneurship, Dipak Desai said that those who have been working and conducting online classes must be paid salaries. “They have been paid in full during the lockdown period up to May. It is up to principals as they know whether they are conducting online classes. They will be paid as per my knowledge. If they’re doing work online they have to be paid,” he said. When asked about their discontinuation, Desai said he was not aware about it, “I will check with the principals. We don’t want to do anything which may hurt them. They have been working sincerely,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guest-lecturers-at-itis-told-to-stop-reporting-to-work-from-july-1/articleshow/76738842.cms||Lisa Monteiro
July 2, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Partial lockdown affects street vendors’ business||MYSURU: With a rise in the number of containment zones in the city, the authorities have started imposing restrictions on the movement of fruits and vegetable vendors after sunset. Though the curbs are to be enforced after 8pm, the authorities are allegedly stopping the vendors from carrying out business from 6pm itself. The partial lockdown has come to haunt the vendors who have already been hit by the lockdown. A chat centre owner Chandrakanth Rao told TOI that his business has improved since May, when the lockdown was eased. “The peak time for food business is 7pm-9pm. But the new direction (on stopping business after sunset) is affecting our business. But we will follow the order keeping in view the health issues and risks,” he said. Recently, a vendor from Rammanahalli, who sold fruits by criss-crossing his van in south part of Mysuru city, tested positive to Covid-19. Meanwhile, a fast food centre near Mysuru Zoo was also sealed down. These two instances are said to have discouraged customers from eating out, thus affecting the food vendors’ business. Street Vendors’ Association of India’s national vice-president and Mysuru Street Vendors’ Association general secretary Bhaskar Srinivas Raje Urs told TOI that the vendors are already in deep financial crisis due to lockdown. “We have directed 6,000 members (those registered with the association) to follow norms on social distancing, masks and others as directed by the government. We also request the customers to follow these norms as they too are equally responsible to contain the virus spread,” he said. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde has also issued a direction to street vendors to follow the SOPs, failing which they will slap Rs 1,000 fine and also close the business. There are over 10,000 street vendors in the city, and MCC has issued identification cards to 1,770 of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/partial-lockdown-affects-street-vendors-biz/articleshow/76736896.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||CM Yogi kicks off drive against Covid, contagious diseases||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday launched the Sanchari Rog Niyantran Abhiyan, a month-long statewide programme to create awareness about precautionary measures to check the spread of communicable diseases. The programme will be rolled out in all 75 districts, along with Dastak Abhiyan, to contain Covid-19 and other diseases. Inaugurating the programme, the CM said, “Due to awareness campaigns, people are already following social distancing and are washing hands and wearing masks. It would go a long way in preventing diseases like Japanese encephalitis, AES, chikungunya and malaria.” Under Dastak programme, health workers will go door-to-door and educate people about various communicable diseases while a massive awareness and sanitization exercise will be carried out under the communicable disease prevention programme. “Prevention is the best cure for Covid-19 and following basic guidelines of social distancing and sanitization will also save us from other diseases. The Swachch Bharat Mission started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2014 has gone a long way in preventing communicable diseases which spread through open defecation. We have managed to control diseases to a large extent by constructing toilets in every village and home,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-yogi-kicks-off-drive-against-covid-contagious-diseases/articleshow/76739006.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nashik||K Shyam Sunder takes charge of 25 Equipment Depot||Nashik: Air Commodore K Shyam Sunder, Vishisht Seva Medal, (VSM) took over the command of 25 Equipment Depot at Air Force Station Devlali on July 1, from Air Commodore Ravi Sharma, VSM.Sunder was commissioned in the logistics branch of the Indian Air Force (IAF) in 1987. He had held important posts like the commanding officer of two Equipment Depots, deputy chief Logistics Management Officer of a Command HQ and deputy Air Officer-in charge of logistics management at another Command HQ. He was awarded Vishisht Seva Medal by the President in 2017 for his service to the nation.Mrs Padma Shyamsunder, the wife of Air Commodore K Shyam Sunder, also took over as the president of Air Force Wives Welfare Association (local). She is also a special educator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/k-shyam-sunder-takes-charge-of-25-equipment-depot/articleshow/76736895.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Tenure of 3,700 contractual teachers yet to be renewed||NEW DELHI: The pandemic has dealt a blow to yet another group of teachers, the 3,700-odd educators working on contract in Delhi government and municipal schools. As their contract ended on May 10, they have been without any earnings for more than a month now. Usually, the contract of such teachers would get renewed on July 1, but with schools closed till July 31 they are staring at an uncertain future. The Delhi Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Teachers’ Association said that many of their members returned to their hometown and started doing menial jobs to eke a living. Mahendra Singh, a member of the association, said, “I know a teacher who went back to Rajasthan and started doing borewell cleaning. He has become a daily-wage labourer. We haven’t been able to get in touch with him for a long time.” Singh was a teacher at a government school in Rohini. Contractual teachers have a fixed salary of around Rs 38,000 per month, unlike guest teachers who are paid on a regular basis. Their salary funding is shared between the central and state governments. The members of the association had been regularly meeting education department officials, but nothing materialised due to lack of orders to hire them. “The officials told us that they were yet to get the minutes of the meeting of the project approval board from the Centre. How long should we wait? Our friends have been forced to work in crop fields. If the government doesn’t act soon, we will hold a protest,” Singh said. Rukmini, who had been teaching for the past five years at a government school in Harkesh Nagar, said, “We managed this month with my husband’s salary. If the contract doesn’t get renewed, we’ll face a lot of problems.” An education department official said, “The decision has to come from the central government. Once we get the instructions, we can start renewal of the contracts. Moreover, the schools are closed now and the situation is very fluid. Hopefully, some arrangements will be made for them soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tenure-of-3-7k-contractual-teachers-yet-to-be-renewed/articleshow/76738823.cms||Shradha Chettri
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||First record of greater flamingoes near Nagzira||Nagpur: On Wednesday, many bird lovers and forest officials were delighted to see new winged guests — the greater flamingoes — at Saundad Lake near Sakoli in the Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) landscape.Bhandara and Gondia districts are known for sprawling water bodies that play host to many migratory and resident birds during winter. These districts are known for sarus cranes.“The sighting of flamingoes at Saundad took us by surprise. The last sighting of the tall birds is said to be 20 years ago by one Ashok Gaidhani, Lakhni, but there is no recorded evidence,” NNTR deputy director Poonam Pate said. DFO Uttam Sawant was also present.“This is the first recorded evidence of flamingoes. Our volunteers recorded 30-34 birds including juveniles. As the lake is on NH6 and villages close by, there was disturbance of both humans and cattle due to which the birds moved on towards western side,” said Sawan Bahekar of NGO Sustaining Environment and Wildlife Assemblage (SEWA), Gondia.Yavatmal’s former honorary wildlife warden Ramzan Virani says Saikheda lake, which is 15km from near Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary, plays host to greater flamingoes every year. These birds had arrive at the lake in 2015, 2016 and then again in 2019 for a brief period. “In 2016, we also promoted flamingo tourism to conserve the birds by local fishermen getting them a revenue of 32,000,” said Virani.Greater and lesser flamingoes come from parts of Africa, South Europe and South West Asia, and foothills of Himalaya. From November, these birds start migrating to Sewri mudflats in Mumbai and their number reaches to over 20,000 there. These birds can travel up to 500km at one time. While they migrate, they may take only one to two stops in between.Bird expert Raju Kasambe says, “Flamingoes generally prefer 0-2-feet-deep and saline waters. Their sightings were earlier also recorded in Washim and Lonar Lake in Buldhana district.” This is passage migration before returning to their original destination.”“In the 90s, flamingoes were sighted in various parts of Vidarbha, including Akola and Amravati. When they are not breeding, they spread across different places in the country,” says Dr Anil Pimplapure, expert and founder of Central India Bird Academy (CIBA), Nagpur.Stating that the birds are inhabitants of brackish water, Dr Pimplapure said their sighting is both good and as well as bad sign. “As the birds are mostly found in brackish water, it raises a need for serious concern as there are chances that water bodies of the region are converting into brackish water.”There is scanty record about presence of flamingoes in Vidarbha. In April 2017, a lone bird was sighted by amateur bird watchers Jaan Deshmukh and Niranjan Atre at Ambazari. In 2014, the birds were also sighted at Paradgaon lake on Umred road.Conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar said, “Bird watcher Shirish Kathikar and I recorded evidence of flamingoes at Wadad lake on Umred road in 1993.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-record-of-greater-flamingoes-near-nagzira/articleshow/76737956.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||After lockdown, China row giving pharma cos a headache||Nagpur: The pharmaceutical sector, which depends on China for over 70% of its raw material, foresees tough times if imports from the eastern neighbour are banned. The lockdown has already left units facing a shortage of raw materials due to logistics hurdles that followed. Cost of Chinese raw material has exceeded the MRP of a number of drugs, bringing down production, said sources in the industry. The price cannot be hiked to cover the cost as the medicines are covered under the drug price control (DPC) order, so the drugs cannot be sold above the MRP. Around 30 pharmaceutical units are estimated to be operating in Nagpur currently. Even before tensions at the borders led to posturing over imports, the lockdown had hit supplies from China. The pandemic had hit production in units at China too, which affected the supplies to India. This has led to a three to four times hike since March in the rates of raw materials or active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) as they are known in the industry. Subodh Deulgaonkar of Snehal Pharma, at Nagpur, said the API for paracetamol, the medicine for fever now costs double. As against Rs175 a kg before lockdown, the API is now available at Rs350 a kg. The API for antibiotic azithromycin has touched Rs15,000 as against Rs3,500. Similarly, some of the raw materials for antibiotic drugs that were in the range of Rs800 to 900 are now costing Rs2,300 a kg, he said. Industries have cut down production as the cost has exceeded the MRP. The raw material is supplied by importers, who get the stock from China. The importers have hiked the rates post-Covid, he said. Deulgaonkar said banning Chinese imports will affect industries. Though production of APIs can happen in India, it will take time. Anwar Daud of Zim laboratories said if imports are banned, it may lead to a major shortage and even hoarding. This may ultimately take a number of drugs out of the reach of the common man. “A number of API manufacturing units are in Wuhan province, which was affected by corona. The outbreak had stopped production in China. The situation is getting normalized slowly,” he said. Bhupesh Kukreja of Adroit Pharmaceuticals said the rising dollar has also contributed to the increase in price of APIs. Around 15 days ago, there was another increase of 20 to 30% in some APIs. Apart from drugs, even the price of nozzles that are fitted on sanitizer bottles have gone up, as the item is imported from China, added Deulgaonkar. A nozzle that cost Rs7 a piece is now sold for Rs20 to 28, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-lockdown-china-row-giving-pharma-cos-a-headache/articleshow/76737969.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s plantation drive to profit ‘gaushalas’ too||Lucknow: In what appears to be a win-win, the massive plantation drive planned across Uttar Pradesh in July has been turned into a revenue earner for the state’s ‘gaushalas’ (cow shelters) which will now supply ‘jeevamrut’ to be used as compost. The move to use products from the ‘gaushalas’ also aims to make the plantation mission completely organic and ensure it would not lead to pollution because of chemical fertilizers and pesticides, officials said. The ‘gaushalas’, therefore, are looking at a steady source of income, considering that the government provides for the care and maintenance of a tree up to three years, officials said. Sources said that the state’s forest department is already using ‘jeevamrut’ (compost) bought from the ‘gaushalas’ to nurture saplings in state nurseries. At present, the forest department has raised 44 crore saplings in more than 1,700 nurseries, officials said. UP government departments plan to plant 25 crore saplings in July. Close to 2.2 crore saplings will be planted along major rivers including the Ganga and the Yamuna where state government is already insisting on organic farming, officials said. Officials said that the department has also taken to publicising the technique to make ‘jeevamrut’ which has cow dung and ‘gomutra’ (cow urine) as ingredients, besides soil taken from the roots of the peepal tree on its website (http://up forest.gov.in). Mission director, plantation, Mukesh Kumar said, “State nurseries are making their own ‘jeevamrut’ also besides buying it from gaushalas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-plantation-drive-to-profit-gaushalas-too/articleshow/76738989.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Sarpanch, hubby among 17 booked||NAWANSHAHR: Police here on Tuesday night booked Nangal Chhanga village sarpanch Sita Devi, her husband Sucha Ram, namberdar, both owing allegiance to the Congress, panchayat member Rekha Rani and 14 others in connection with the suicide of village youth Varinder Singh on Monday, who had left a video recording naming all of them. Four of the accused have already been arrested. The FIR was registered on the basis of a statement given by the deceased’s father Nirmal Singh. “Initially, I had given a statement without knowing all facts but now I have watched the video of my son and I have given the names mentioned by him. All should be booked for forcing my son to commit suicide and taking away turbans of my sons and pulling their hair,” the FIR reads. After the case was registered, his family cremated Varinder in the village after a post-mortem. On Tuesday, senior SAD leaders, including former Markfed chairman Jarnail Singh Wahid, Youth Akali Dal president Parmbans Singh Romana and BSP leaders did not allow the post mortem, demanding that Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh be booked as the youth had alleged in his video that he and his family were failing to get justice as the MLA was influencing the police in the case of family’s dispute with the other side, who also attacked their home, assaulted them and took away his and his brother’s turban. In the afternoon his father gave a statement in the presence of SAD leaders, which mentioned the MLA, but the police later recorded his statement on Tuesday evening in which the MLA’s name was not mentioned. When asked on Wednesday, SSP Alka Meena said that they recorded the statement of his father when there were no politicians around. “The MLA’s name was not there even in the first statement he gave,” she said. MLA Angad Singh had said the family of the deceased youth was cultivating panchayat land on a contract and now it had been allotted to someone else, but they were not leaving the possession. He had said that he had only backed the sarpanch in getting land from any illegal possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sarpanch-hubby-among-17-booked/articleshow/76737959.cms||IP Singh
July 2, 2020||Puducherry||6 workers killed, 17 injured in blast at NLC power plant||Cuddalore/Chennai: Six workers died and 17 others were injured in a blast at thermal power station (TPS) II of the Neyveli Lignite Corporation around 9.45am in Neyveli on Wednesday. According to NCIL sources, the cause of the explosion was being ascertained. The accident comes just a month after five workers died in an explosion at the plant on May 7. The injured workers were given first aid at NLCIL hospital and 16 of them were later referred to a private hospital in Chennai for treatment. Eleven of the 16 injured were said to be in critical condition. One worker, who sustained minor injuries, was undergoing treatment at the NLCIL GH. The explosion triggered a blaze when a maintenance team attempted to light up unit 5 that was shut down on May 7 following an explosion in unit 6 in which five workers died and three others were injured. One executive, two supervisors, three non-executive employees and 17 contract workers were part of the 23-member maintenance team. CISF fire services personnel, who rushed to the spot, found multiple levels of unit 5 boiler in fire. They fought close to an hour to extinguish the blaze and recovered the bodies of six workers and rescued 17 injured workers. NLCIL chief general manager S Gurusamynathan said the company has ordered a high-level inquiry headed by retired director (technical) of national thermal power corporation (NTPC) P K Mohapatra to probe the cause of the accident. The company has also constituted an internal inquiry committee headed by director (power) of the company. The TPS II unit head has been placed under suspension pending inquiry. The company shut down all the four 210MW-capacity units each of TPS II (stage II) and has ordered an immediate safety audit. The TPS II has seven units with a capacity of 210MW each, three units commissioned under stage I and four under stage II. The plant has nearly 2,000 workers, including administration and distribution staff members. The average life span of a thermal unit is 30 years and the unit could be operated for another 10 or 20 years after renovation. Labour union leaders and a section of political leaders have held the company responsible for frequent accidents that left scores of workers dead and injured. They accused the company of compromising on the thermal power plant’s safety. “We have been insisting that the management include union leaders in expert committees to review safety aspects in the plant. But the management does not heed our plea. The committee constituted by the management after the May 7 accident did not have a representative from the union. The root cause of these accidents is poor maintenance of boilers. There are ample automatic safety mechanisms that prevent accidents and the automatic safety equipment needs periodic monitoring and maintenance,” said a trade union leader. Union leaders said seven accidents had left more than 15 workers dead at TPS II in the last two years. They insisted that the management undertake safety audit and close the units that do not have adequate safety measures and facilities. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced Rs.3 lakh solatium to each to the families of the six victims, Rs 1 lakh each for those who suffered major injuries and Rs.50,000 each for those with minor injuries. “As per my orders, industries minister M C Sampath, district collector, superintendent of police, officials of fire and rescue services and revenue departments rushed to the spot and took up rescue measures in a war footing,” the CM said. AMMK general secretary T T V Dhinakaran expressed shock and urged public sector undertakings to strengthen safety measures to prevent loss of lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/6-workers-killed-17-injured-in-blast-at-nlc-power-plant/articleshow/76736934.cms||Bosco Dominique
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||New PCCF Rambabu to focus on operational efficiency||Nagpur: The new principal chief conservator of forests (head of forest force), Dr N Rambabu, will focus on operational efficiency of the forest department with the help of IT apps to ensure ease of work.Rambabu, an IFS officer of 1986 batch, took over from SC Gairola, who retired on June 30. Rambabu’s tenure will be of eight months and he will serve as HOFF till February 28. Rambabu is not new to the post of HOFF, as he was holding additional charge from November 2019 till March 20, 2020.While taking over as HOFF, the overall head of the forest department, Rambabu is also holding additional charge as managing director of Forest Development Corporation Maharashtra (FDCM) till the appointment of new officer to the post.“We will push for reorganization proposal to improve coordination and efficiency of the department. We will also need to introspect to overcome challenges due to Covid-19 situation, where funds crunch is a big issue. I will also continue with the good work done by my predecessors,” said Rambabu.Outgoing PCCF Gairola was felicitated with other retiring employees, including divisional forest officer (DFO) DC Chakole, office superintendents VD Bakde, Mangla Jalekar, SJ Karale, AJ Rathod, RV Songire, Abdul Sayyed Sheikh, Ganesh Sakarde and Bandu Tijare at a farewell function held at Van Bhavan.PCCF (budget, planning and development) G Saiprakash, PCCF (wildlife) Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF (production & management) Pravin Srivastava, PCCF (information & technology) MK Rao, APCCFs TK Choube, Mahip Gupta, and Shailesh Tembhurnikar were present. Rajesh Meshram conducted the programme and proposed a vote of thanks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-pccf-rambabu-to-focus-on-operational-efficiency/articleshow/76737971.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||Doctor, five jailors among 44 from Central Jail positive||Nagpur: A woman doctor from Nagpur Central Jail, five jailors, including two senior (Group I) personnel, 26 guards and 12 inmates were tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, four members of a guard’s family residing at prison quarters too were tested positive. The tally of total affected personnel from prison went up to 40. A day ago, a jailer and eight guards were tested positive.The jail personnel, whose family members tested positive, had developed symptoms on June 25 while inside the prison with his other 105 colleagues as a part of lockdown norms. The group had stepped out of the prison on June 26. On June 28, he was the first to be tested positive. On June 30, samples of around 157 jail personnel were collected and tested at Neeri lab. On Wednesday, 101 more samples were collected. SP, Central Prison, Nagpur, Anup Kumar Kumre admitted there was a panic among the personnel but he is boosting the morale. “We have assured the ailing jail personnel that their families would be taken care of at quarantine centres by the prison administration. Most of them are symptomatic but adequate care is now being taken to ensure best treatment for them,” said Kumre. “Most of the positive inmates are senior citizens who were at different barracks. It’s difficult to ascertain who were the actual spreaders. We are testing the inmates too,” he said. Earlier, around 68 persons from Akola district jail had tested positive. In a major relief to the Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) all-women contingent, 74 of them were tested negative. The women troopers of CRPF were deployed at the containment zones at the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctor-five-jailors-among-44-from-central-jail-positive/articleshow/76737963.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 2, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Five suspended for langar scam in Anandpur Sahib||ANANDPUR SAHIB: The Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) has suspended five of its employees, including the manager of Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib, Anandpur Sahib, following a langar scam. The SGPC observed that while vegetables are rarely served in langars and fruits served only to VIPs visiting the premises during festivals or to attend special meetings, the Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib management raised bills worth several lalks for buying vegetables and fruits even during the Covid-19 lockdown. The matter was taken up before SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal on Tuesday evening and after going through to the documents put on record, he ordered the suspension of manager Jasvir Singh, deputy manager Lakhvinder Singh, accountant Kaur Singh, inspector Bakshish Singh and storekeeper Harmandar Singh. The SGPC president also ordered an inquiry into the matter. A preliminary inquiry carried out by SGPC found a sum of Rs 1 lakh in golak (money box), while the management showed a payment of Rs 2.5 lakh made for purchase of vegetables and fruits during 86 days of lockdown. When collections were almost nil during the lockdown, golak’devotees had contributed truckloads of ration to the gurdwara following an appeal by SGPC. Earlier also, a Rs 5 lakh scam in issuance of receipts for ‘kadah parshad’ was detected at the Gurdwara Sahib.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/5-suspended-for-langar-scam-in-anandpur-sahib/articleshow/76737964.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB urges Telangana to clear pending dues, discusses key projects||SECUNDERABAD: Citing the due property and service taxes, elected representatives of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) have asked the state government to clear Rs 80 crore funds that have been pending for the past five years. At a high level meeting presided by Telangana cabinet ministers Talasani Srinivas Yadav (animal husbandry) and Ch Malla Reddy (labour) on Wednesday, the representatives discussed issues including supply of additional potable water, revision of water tariff and enhancing medical facilities at Bollarum General Hospital. “We have raised the issue regarding increase of additional quantities of potable water. As of now, the water board is supplying nearly 50 lakh gallons per day (LGPD). We want another 10 LGPD,” Lokanathan, a ward member, told TOI. Another ward member Pandu Yadav said: “One of the major demands was about the revision of water tariff. At present, Rs 13.50 per kilo litre is being collected in the Cantonment, whereas, HMWS&SB is charging Rs 7 per kilo litre in the GHMC limits.” Regarding pending dues, J Maheswara Reddy of ward No. I, said: “All the members have urged the ministers, to clear transfer of property tax (TPT) amounting to Rs 45 crore. Another Rs 35 crore related to service tax (to be paid by the state police), professional tax and entertainment tax, is also pending.” Speaking to the media later, Srinivas Yadav said: “Pending dues will be discussed with finance minister T Harish Rao at the secretariat on Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-urges-t-to-clear-pending-dues-discusses-key-projects/articleshow/76737965.cms||Sunil Mungara
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||‘Direct disbursal of loans to MSMEs’||Kolkata: The Centre will directly get in touch with MSME units and small businesses interested in availing loans under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme under its flagship Atmanirbhar Bharat package. Union minister of state for heavy industries and public enterprises Arjun Ram Meghwal on Tuesday said that despite the state government’s criticisms, small entrepreneurs are now availing such schemes. “Bengal’s chief minister Mamata Banerjee had criticised the scheme floated for the MSME sector. But we won’t depend on the state government for that. The application can be processed online and the money can be disbursed to the beneficiary’s account,” Meghwal said, while addressing a virtual rally organised by Bengal BJP on Tuesday. The scheme was announced by the Centre to help around 30 lakh units of MSME and other businesses post lockdown. Under the scheme, enterprises can get up to 20% of their existing borrowing as additional loan at interest rates, which were capped. According to estimates with the Union finance ministry, loans have been sanctioned for more than 1.5 lakh units in Bengal while nearly 45,000 units have been disbursed the money. Till June 26, the ministry estimated, Rs 1,149 crore has already been disbursed in Bengal out of a sanctioned amount of Rs 2,790 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/direct-disbursal-of-loans-to-msmes/articleshow/76726228.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||NMC issues 2nd notice to garbage operator||Nagpur: Stating that media reports about mixing mud in garbage have maligned the reputation of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), a show cause notice was issued to one of the two garbage collection operators — AG Enviro Infra Projects Pvt Ltd of Thane on Wednesday. This is second show cause notice with earlier one issued on June 29. NMC deputy commissioner (solid waste management) Dr Pradeep Dasarwar issued the notice asking the operator why stringent action should not be taken against the company. West Nagpur MLA Vikas Thakre along with corporator Sanjay Mahakalkar and former corporator Prashant Dhawad had inspected garbage-laden trucks inside NMC’s Bhandewadi dumping yard on June 28 and found that vehicles carrying garbage to the yard had over 60% mud. This was done ostensibly to increase weight and to claim inflated amounts from the civic body. The leaders had also released video clips of truck drivers admitting to mixing mud with garbage. Dr Dasarwar told TOI, “First notice was issued after Thakre’s allegations and complaint. Second notice was issued following media reports highlighting the irregularities,” he said. TOI on June 29 had reported NMC clearing weight of 6-6.5 metric tonne (MT) garbage in a truck having capacity of carrying 3-4 MT only. It was also highlighted how NMC allowed these trucks inside the dumping yard for unloading the garbage ignoring the excessive weight of trucks at the weighing bridge situated at the entrance. NMC sources said notices mentioning all irregularities are being issued to the operators seeking time-bound replies. In the event of unsatisfactory replies, their contract can be terminated as per conditions of the contract. Taking note of Thakre’s allegations, mayor Sandip Joshi has constituted a one-member committee of additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi to conduct an inquiry and submit report within 15 days. Interestingly, Joshi-led five-member committee is also probing similar allegations levelled by Shiv Sena leader Nitin Tiwari against another garbage collection operator BVG India Ltd of Pune and the report is to be submitted to the standing committee. AG Enviro is operator for zone 1-5 and BVG India for zone 6-10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-issues-2nd-notice-to-garbage-operator/articleshow/76737980.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||ACB books NMC med officer Dr Gantawar, wife in DA case||Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation medical officer couple Dr Praveen Gantawar (48) and his wife Dr Sheelu (45), both residents of Fortune Residency, Ramdaspeth, was on Wednesday booked by the Nagpur unit of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in a disproportionate assets case.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had promoted Dr Praveen Gantawar as deputy chief medical officer from the post of medical officer. The couple was suspended by the mayor Sandip Joshi at the marathon general body meeting of the civic body after a series of allegations last week. However, Mundhe refused to implement the mayor’s ruling and termed it illegal to suspend the doctor couple.In 2015, the ACB unit had received a complaint against the doctor couple for their alleged involvement in corruption.ACB sleuths launched an inquiry. ACB sources said they carried out detailed investigations including that of their home, bank accounts and income from salary, movable and immovable properties, money received from sale of properties. Besides, they also scrutinized income tax documents, and checked offices at Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya (Gandhi Nagar), NMC health department, Government Medical College and Hospital.The team also procured information regarding their expenditure on children’s education and their shares in companies. The searches revealed the duo had amassed properties much higher than their known sources of income.An official ACB release claimed Dr Gantawar during his service with the NMC’s Indira Gandhi Rugnalay from 2007 to December 2015 had acquired assets worth Rs 2.52 crore more than his known sources of income. Preliminary investigation revealed Dr Gantawar and Dr Sheelu had property that was 43.06% more than their income.Three teams of ACB sleuths, under the leadership of superintendent of police (ACB) Rashmi Nandedkar, dySP Rajesh Dudhalwar, PI Monali Choudhary, are carrying out search operations at home and office. No arrest has been so far and the couple has been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, by the Sitabuldi police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/acb-books-nmc-med-officer-dr-gantawar-wife-in-da-case/articleshow/76737982.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 2, 2020||Jammu||26 new Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh take tally to 979, 42 recover||SHIMLA: With 26 new cases of Covid-19 surfacing in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, the number of persons testing positive for the virus so far has reached 979. Forty-two patients also recovered across the state. The fresh cases include five ITBP jawans from Kinnaur district. They had arrived from Jammu and Kashmir to Reckong Peo on June 22 and were quarantined at ITBP campus. After the detection of positive cases, the entire ITBP battalion centre at Rekong Peo has been declared as containment zone. Among the latest cases, six are from Kangra, five each from Hamirpur and Kinnaur, and two each from Una, Bilaspur and Mandi, and once each from Shimla, Lahaul-Spiti, Solan and Sirmaur. Of the total 979 positive cases, 341 are active cases, 617 patients have recovered, 11 migrated out of the state and eight died, while two coronavirus-positive patients in Chamba and Shimla district were said to have died due to non-Covid reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/26-new-cases-in-hp-take-tally-to-979-42-recover/articleshow/76744563.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Shimla||26 new Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh take tally to 979, 42 recover||SHIMLA: With 26 new cases of Covid-19 surfacing in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday, the number of persons testing positive for the virus so far has reached 979. Forty-two patients also recovered across the state. The fresh cases include five ITBP jawans from Kinnaur district. They had arrived from Jammu and Kashmir to Reckong Peo on June 22 and were quarantined at ITBP campus. After the detection of positive cases, the entire ITBP battalion centre at Rekong Peo has been declared as containment zone. Among the latest cases, six are from Kangra, five each from Hamirpur and Kinnaur, and two each from Una, Bilaspur and Mandi, and once each from Shimla, Lahaul-Spiti, Solan and Sirmaur. Of the total 979 positive cases, 341 are active cases, 617 patients have recovered, 11 migrated out of the state and eight died, while two coronavirus-positive patients in Chamba and Shimla district were said to have died due to non-Covid reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/26-new-cases-in-hp-take-tally-to-979-42-recover/articleshow/76737972.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||HC: Has Telangana come out with policy on online classes?||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday sought to know from the state government whether it has framed any policy on imparting education through online classes. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave the government one week’s time to respond. The judges were hearing a PIL filed by Hyderabad School Parents’ Association (HSPA) that objected to certain private schools conducting online classes for the students and insisting on payment of term fees.“Poor parents are facing many difficulties now. Their children cannot get access to online education on account of lack of latest gadgets. How will the government manage this imbalance,” the judges wondered. “We also heard that some of the schools are insisting that all children must appear before their screens in uniforms,” they said. To this, state counsel A Sanjeev Kumar admitted that the availability of Internet data in rural Telangana is only 42% and hence the online mode may not be feasible now. The bench issued notices to the school education department’s principal secretary, director of school education, DEOs of Hyderabad and Rangareddy and the Telangana Recognised Schools Managements Association, asking them to file their counters by July 8. Petitioner’s counsel Yakarapu Sheelu brought to the notice of the court the circulars issued by DEOs of districts like Medchal-Malkajgiri, Khammam, Warangal, etc, who made it clear the period of lockdown — till the state government green-signals reopening of schools — would be considered as vacation for all schools and no online classes should be held during this period. Despite such orders, certain private schools are holding online classes and were demanding payment of fees from the crisis struck parents, he said. The judges said Maharashtra has framed a policy saying that there cannot be any online classes. The state counsel replied Telangana too issued a circular in Telugu stating that there cannot be any online classes now. The judges sought to know from him as to why DEOs of certain districts are following the state decision, while others seem to be ignorant. “Only DEOs are competent to act in the matter as the law empowers them,” the state counsel said, while seeking time to find out why other DEOs are not acting in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-has-t-come-out-with-policy-on-online-classes/articleshow/76737983.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt issues new directives to hospitals||Hyderabad: The state government on Wednesday issued certain guidelines while permitting hospitals with a 100-bed capacity to treat Covid-19 patients. The guidelines state that the hospitals should set up separate admission and exit routes for suspected Covid-19 patients and must have exclusive wards and rooms to place them under isolation. The government has also instructed the staff to take necessary precautions while testing and treating suspects. The guidelines also state that the patients, who test positive for Covid-19, should be regularly examined by physicians. Cardiologists, pulmonologists and anesthesiologists have been asked to conduct regular video consultations. In case of a death due to infection, the hospital is to strictly follow the rules while shifting the body and performing the last rites. In other clinics and hospitals, only four patients per hour should be given appointments, the notification said. “If patients with symptoms are given an appointment in the outpatient department, they should be examined in a different room,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-issues-new-directives-to-hospitals/articleshow/76737986.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana nears 15,000 cases, but continues improving in recoveries||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s overall recoveries on Wednesday reached 10,499 as 527 patients were discharged, even as 393 new cases and four deaths took the state’s overall Covid count to 14,941 cases and 240 casualties. Sixty-one patients were stated tobe in a critical condition when this report was filed, with 47 on oxygen support and 14 on ventilator support. With this, the doubling rate for Covid-19 — the number of days it takes for the cases of the virus to double — widened to 16 days and recovery rate rose to 70.27% . At the moment, 4202 patients are being treated in the state and the condition of 61 of them is critical. Faridabad and Gurugram continued to dominate the tally. In recoveries, Gurugram has so far recorded 5,473 cases and 4,079 recoveries, while Faridabad has gotten 3,898 cases and 2,581 recoveries.On Wedensday, Gurugram got 116 new cases and a death, and Faridabad recorded yet again the highest number of cases in the state — 165. Three patients also died in the district, where the death count has risen to 80. Gurugram’s casualty count is 92. Bhiwani got the third highest number of cases, 26. It was followed by 22 new cases in Rohtak, 14 in Karnal, 10 in Palwal, nine in Ambala, eight in Nuh, six in Panipat, five in Mahindergarh, four each in Kurukshetra and Fathabad, two in Yamunanngar, and one each in Jhajjar and Kaithal. With 2,69,726 tests conducted in the state so far, Haryana’s testing rate has gone up to 10,640 tests per million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-nears-15000-cases-but-continues-improving-in-recoveries/articleshow/76737988.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||No funds, no school: State association writes to CM Uddhav Thackeray||NAGPUR: A major state-level association of school managements, comprising mostly aided vernacular institutes, has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray saying they won’t be able to open their campus till government pitches in with funds. Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal (MRSSM) said cost of sanitizing schools is beyond their reach as even non-salary grants are pending. Ravindra Fadnavis, executive committee member of MRSSM, said Thackeray had indicated that the cost of sanitization will be borne through funds available in various schemes. “We had been told that funds can be sourced through the 15th Finance Commission and that the local competent authority may disburse it. However, at the local level our members have been told that no such funds are available,” said Fadnavis. The letter to CM, bypassing education minister Varsha Gaikwad, sends a clear signal that schools managements are extremely unhappy. In the letter, MRSSM says there is lack of coordination and clarity about what the education department wants to do. Fadnavis said, “There is no idea about online classes for those who do not have access to technology. We had made suggestions regarding that, but haven’t heard back. There is no coordination about who will be providing us the funds for sanitization. It seems the government is not serious about this entire thing.” July 1 was supposed to be the day some of the higher classes resume physically. But the pre-conditions are such that probably none would qualify, and even then, the local competent authority has to give permission. Fadnavis said the aided schools are suffering because of their inability to raise funds through fee. “We don’t charge fee from students because of our aided status. The non-salary aid/grant which we receive is so less that it hardly pays our electricity bill, leaving us struggling for building maintenance and other expenses. It’s surprising that despite being told that funds will be available through 15th Finance Commission corpus, the officials at local level have backtracked,” said Fadnavis. The non-salary Grant (NSG) is about 4%-5% of a school's salary grant. But though teachers now get seventh pay commission level wages, the NSG is benchmarked with 5th pay commission. “, So there is no question of dipping into that Grant and paying for all chemicals and manpower needed to sanitize school buildings twice daily,” said Fadnavis. In the letter, MRSSM ends by saying that given the financial constraints and lack of clarity on other issues like online teaching etc, they won’t be able to reopen schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-funds-no-school-state-association-writes-to-cm/articleshow/76737990.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||No irregularities, all decisions to be tabled before BoD: Mundhe||Nagpur: A day after Union minister Nitin Gadkari sent a letter to minister of state for housing and urban affairs, demanding action against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, the latter issued a clarification that he did not commit any irregularities in Smart City project. He also said all decisions taken as chief executive officer (CEO) will be put up before the board of directors (BoD) of special purpose vehicle — Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL). Reacting immediately in a press release, mayor Sandip Joshi accused Mundhe of making false statements.Mundhe’s clarification said, “Tender for development of garbage transfer stations was terminated after consulting chairman Praveen Pardeshi. Also, tender for bio-mining of garbage lying at Bhandewadi dumping yard was floated after discussing it with the chairman. Tender process of bio-mining is yet to be completed. I will be tabling the two decisions in front of BoD,” he said.Reacting to this, Joshi said, “Mr Commissioner, you should reveal before public as to using which powers you have terminated the tender of garbage transfer stations which was approved by BoD.”Mundhe had also said, “I have released only one running bill. The contract was allotted and contractor appointed earlier. There are no irregularities in it.”On this, Joshi questioned, “How did you become signatory authority for account of NSSCDCL when you had no powers? Then, how could you clear bills?”Mundhe had also said, “Some employees were terminated after annual performance appraisal. I will table all these before BoD.”Joshi’s release asked, “Under which Act did you take the decision to terminate employees who were appointed by BoD?”Mundhe’s clarification had said, “I assumed charge as municipal commissioner on January 28. The commissioner is ex officio director in NSSCDCL. CEO Ramnath Sonawane had resigned on February 11. The chairman had directed me on phone to take charge of CEO. Also, as per state government orders, I am looking after the day to day works of NSSCDCL as CEO. I have not committed any irregularities being CEO. BoD could not happen due to situation of Covid-19.”Though not mentioned in the clarification, Mundhe put his views on record as all these issues were raised in Gadkari’s letter.However, Joshi said, “Mundhe is misguiding the people. Earlier, Mundhe claimed before media persons he took charge of CEO as per letter of chairman. Which is the Act in which charge can be given or assumed via phone?”Joshi’s statement concluded by saying, “Everyone will witness that Mr Commissioner will convene BoD meeting and regularize all his decisions.”In their capacity of nominee directors, Joshi and ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav had lodged a complaint against Mundhe with Sadar police station on all these issues. At that time, Mundhe had said BoD was the proper forum to discuss all issues. He had also said he would reveal everything in BoD. He came up with the clarification only after Gadkari’s allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-irregularities-all-decisions-to-be-tabled-before-bod-mundhe/articleshow/76737998.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: No norms yet, schools move to online classes; parents fret over forcible collection of fee||HYDERABAD: In the absence of clear guidelines from the state school education department, parents and school managements in the city are at loggerheads over online classes. While parents argue that online classes are burdening them financially, school managements say that they have no other alternative. In its GO 46, dated April 21, the school education department had clearly stated that schools, including those affiliated to state board, CBSE, ICSE and other international boards, should not increase any fees during the 2020-21 academic year and only charge tuition fee on a monthly basis till further orders. Despite this, parents argued they have to spend a lot of money to purchase computers, laptops, smartphones and other electronic gadgets. “Initially, the schools were providing user ID and password to attend online classes. Later, schools began insisting on parents to pay the term fee instead of fee on monthly basis, in violation of GO 46, to access online classes,” said Kadapa Venkata Sainath, joint secretary, of the Hyderabad School Parents Association (HSPA) that moved the high court seeking clear guidelines on online classes. The lack of uniformity is also a concern for parents. “While most high-end schools have transitioned to digital learning, budget schools are yet to do so,” said Vikram Bhati, a parent even as members of the Telangana Parents Association urged the state government to draft regulations on the lines of guidelines issued by the National Council of Educational Research and Training. “It will ensure uniformity in online classes being conducted in all schools,” said Nagati Narayana, president of the association ruing how online classes are “causing academic pressure on students, especially those in primary sections, and financial pressure on the parents”. School managements say they have no other alternative other than conducting online classes. “We are trying our best to keep students in touch with academics. During this pandemic, there is no alternative for online classes. Those charging exorbitant tuition fees are elite schools and not budget schools,” said Srinivas Reddy, honorary president of Telangana Recognised School Managements Association, a respondent in the PIL filed by HSPA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-norms-yet-schools-move-to-online-classes-parents-fret-over-forcible-collection-of-fee/articleshow/76737999.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: Haryana nears 15,000 cases, but continues improving in recoveries||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s overall recoveries on Wednesday reached 10,499 as 527 patients were discharged, even as 393 new cases and four deaths took the state’s overall Covid count to 14,941 cases and 240 casualties. Sixty-one patients were stated tobe in a critical condition when this report was filed, with 47 on oxygen support and 14 on ventilator support. With this, the doubling rate for Covid-19 — the number of days it takes for the cases of the virus to double — widened to 16 days and recovery rate rose to 70.27% . At the moment, 4202 patients are being treated in the state and the condition of 61 of them is critical. Faridabad and Gurugram continued to dominate the tally. In recoveries, Gurugram has so far recorded 5,473 cases and 4,079 recoveries, while Faridabad has gotten 3,898 cases and 2,581 recoveries.On Wedensday, Gurugram got 116 new cases and a death, and Faridabad recorded yet again the highest number of cases in the state — 165. Three patients also died in the district, where the death count has risen to 80. Gurugram’s casualty count is 92. Bhiwani got the third highest number of cases, 26. It was followed by 22 new cases in Rohtak, 14 in Karnal, 10 in Palwal, nine in Ambala, eight in Nuh, six in Panipat, five in Mahindergarh, four each in Kurukshetra and Fathabad, two in Yamunanngar, and one each in Jhajjar and Kaithal. With 2,69,726 tests conducted in the state so far, Haryana’s testing rate has gone up to 10,640 tests per million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-nears-15000-cases-but-continues-improving-in-recoveries/articleshow/76740499.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rape accused tests Covid positive in Kota, cops put in self isolation||KOTA: A 22-year-old youth, who was arrested on Monday night for allegedly raping a 20-year-old girl, was found Covid positive in the test report received on Wednesday. Following the report, the accused was admitted to the New Medical College Hospital while 6-7 policemen of Anantpura police station, who had come in contact with him, were sent to self-isolation. The test reports of the cops are expected by Thursday. Prince, alias Arvind Chouhan, a resident of Khedli Phatak area, was arrested on Monday night after a girl lodged a case of rape against him on June 22, Anantpura circle inspector Devesh Bhardwaj said. His Covid samples were collected on Tuesday and it was confirmed on Wednesday morning that the a accused was positive. Meanwhile on Wednesday, 6 others including 4 women from Chavani Ramchandrapura, one woman from Nanda Ki Bari and a 20-year-old youth from Govind Nagar of Kota city, tested positive taking the total number cases in Kota to 676. Besides, a class 10 girl of Govind Nagar, who had sat for the Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education examination at government school in Indira Gandhi Nagar on June 29 and 30, tested positive on Tuesday. Following the report, at least 357 students, who had appeared for the exam along with her in the examination centre along with 30 teachers, have been sent to home quarantine. The student’s younger sister had tested positive on June 27 and is currently under treatment at a government hospital. Similarly, at another examination centre for class 12 students, two teachers tested positive following which samples of 23 teachers and 123 students of the examination centre were collected for testing and they were asked remain in home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-accused-tests-ve-in-kota-cops-put-in-self-isolation/articleshow/76738841.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Madurai||Army man walks backwards for a cause||Madurai: An Indian Army jawan from Sivaganga district has undertaken a campaign to walk backwards for 1,000km in 10 days, in order to create awareness among the people about Covid-19. S Balamurugan, 32, from Somanathapuram village near Manamadurai began his journey on June 27, which was flagged off by Sivaganga district collector J Jayakanthan. Since then, Balamurugan has been reaching out to hinterlands in the district creating awareness about ways to safeguard from Covid-19. Balamurugan, a father of two, joined the army in 2008 and is now attached to the 31 Assam Rifles. He had returned to his native in view of the pandemic. He took up the campaign with the help of fellow army men from the district. Around 200 army men, part of ‘Vaigai Pattalam’, a friends group, help him by walking along waving a red flag to caution vehicles passing through the roads. He halts at community halls, temples and public places at nights. “Many elderly people are unaware of the infection and how it spreads. They are not even wearing masks. I have been explaining to them how the virus spreads and how deadly it can be among elderly people. I urge them to stay at home, maintain distance in public places and wear a mask,” Balamurugan, who was at Malampatti Kooturavupatti village on Wednesday, said. Balamurugan aims to cover 100km a day, but due to hot weather conditions, he restricts himself to around 80km. He starts walking at 5am and continues till 2pm. He resumes again at 4pm and walks till 9pm. On his coat, he has stuck flags of more than 170 countries to indicate the spread of the virus across countries. His wife, Uma Mageswari has been a big support in his endeavour. Balamurugan, who has been practising walking backwards for long, has an ultimate aim to walk 13,000km to break the record set by an American some 90 years ago. Balamurugan said that he will attempt it after the pandemic comes to an end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/army-man-walks-backwards-for-a-cause/articleshow/76738837.cms||V Devanathan
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||NMC to sign MoU with Centre for 40 e-buses||NAGPUR: Decks have been cleared for the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to get central government-funded 40 electric buses. “The NMC will enter into a memorandum of understanding with the central government’s department of heavy industries and public enterprises for this purpose,” said transport committee chairman Narendra Borkar after a meeting on Tuesday. According to him, bids were invited for 40 e-buses and M/s EVEY Transport Private Limited was shortlisted for the job. “The company had offered a rate of Rs72.99 per km. However, after discussion between municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe and the company, the rate was fixed at Rs66.33 per km,” he said. Unable to deal with its present financial crisis, the BJP-ruled NMC had declined to accept 100 electric buses being sponsored by the department of heavy industries and public enterprises and instead decided to procure only 40 buses under Phase-II of faster adoption and manufacturing of electric vehicles (FAME). Currently, the NMC is operating almost 370 buses, including five e-buses, and spends around Rs13 crore per month. Of the Rs13 crore, the civic body generates around Rs6 crore revenue from bus fares, while the gap viability fund is around Rs7 crore. With the induction of 40 e-buses, NMC’s monthly expenditure will increase by almost Rs85 lakh. A civic body officer said the NMC will not procure the 40 e-buses and explained that one e-bus costs around Rs1.50 crore. The Centre will provide subsidy of Rs45 lakh each while the rest will be borne by the private firm. It was informed in the transport committee meeting that NMC will have to pay only Rs66. 33 per km. Borkar has also instructed to pay the minimum wages to the employees appointed on these buses. With the committee’s nod, the NMC will soon sign an MoU with the central government, he said. With these 40 new buses, the transport system of the corporation will get a fillip. These buses, which are very useful from environment point of view, will not only offer convenient service to the citizens but also help in curbing pollution, said Borkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-to-sign-mou-with-centre-for-40-e-buses/articleshow/76738000.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
July 2, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man steps out to buy syrup for kin, scooter impounded||MUMBAI: A motorcycle vlogger’s two-wheeler was impounded by the police 200 metres from his home at Khar while he was out to purchase medicines for a relative recovered from COVID-19. Ryan Simoes, 37, said he showed the empty syrup bottle to the officer, but to no avail. A new directive issued by the police on Sunday states that venturing beyond 2km from home, except for office and for essentials, will invite action. Simoes shot a video about his experience, posing a question as to whether citizens could step out for medical reasons or not, and posted it on his YouTube channel. “A senior citizen known to us had run out of his syrup prescribed by the BMC for patients recovered from Covid-19. On Monday morning, I went to Santacruz to buy vegetables as the local market in Khar had shut. But the syrup wasn't available in pharmacies there. Around 12.30pm, I set out again to check at pharmacies in Khar. Barely 200 metres from my home, a police check was on and an officer asked me to halt,” said Simoes, who had a helmet and a face mask on. The officer asked Simoes where he lived and where he was headed. “I gave him my address and said I was out for medicines. He said I should have walked instead of using a two wheeler. I pulled out the empty syrup bottle to show him and added that I might have to check at several stores,” said Simoes. He was given a notice which said he had committed a lockdown violation under Indian Penal Code. Simoes fetched the medicine and returned to the spot where the police check post was put up. A number of impounded vehicles had piled up. “I overheard one of the cops telling the other that they could take a break after impounding about 30 to 50 vehicles,” said Simoes. After a long wait, Simoes left. He returned to the check post in the evening and got back his bike by 6pm. “The police spokesperson had said in a sound byte to the media that there was no restriction for stepping out for valid reasons within a 2km radius. I have attached his byte in my video clip as well. I’m yet to understand how walking is safe and riding alone on a motorcycle isnt,” Simoes said. M Nimbalkar, acting in-charge of Khar police station, said they were only intercepting people with pillions and not solo riders. Simoes’ notice copy says he would have to go to the police station after the lockdown to explain why he shouldn't be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-steps-out-to-buy-syrup-for-kin-scooter-impounded/articleshow/76738179.cms||Nitasha Natu
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Model CHCs to reduce pressure on district hospitals: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday suggested developing model community health centre (CHC) in every district to relieve the pressure on district hospitals. Gehlot said, “We have converted the challenge of corona as an opportunity. We are trying to make model CHC at various places in the state so that people do not have to go to district hospitals for treatment. They should get better medical facilities at their nearest CHC.” Gehlot was addressing at the foundation laying ceremony of buildings of 108 medical institutions through a video conference from the chief minister's residence on Doctor's Day on Wednesday. Gehlot inaugurated 94 projects at a cost of Rs 171 crore and laid the foundation stone for 14 projects at a cost of Rs 20 crore. He said the government’s endeavor was to make the state among the top in the field of medical infrastructure. He said the government was constantly strengthening the infrastructure of health facilities in the government sector. As a result, Rajasthan is successfully fighting the pandemic. “Whether it is recovery from corona infection, controlling mortality or screening facilities, Rajasthan stands first in the country on all parameters,” he added. Gehlot said Rajasthan was the only state in the country which has strengthened the health infrastructure on such a wide scale during corona. “When the first case of corona was reported in March, our test capacity was zero, which has increased to 40,000 per day now due to our continuous efforts. We have also taken the initiative to get the neighboring states to do 5,000 tests per day in Rajasthan,” said Gehlot. Gehlot on Doctor’s Day remembered Dr BC Roy on whose memory the day is celebrated. He congratulated the doctors of the state and said in this hour of crisis, the medical community had given remarkable services. Medical and health minister Raghu Sharma said micro management of corona under the leadership of Gehlot was being appreciated throughout the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/model-chcs-to-reduce-pressure-on-district-hospitals-cm/articleshow/76738847.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||8-yr-old jumbo found dead in US Nagar||Rudrapur : A male elephant, about 8 years of age, was found dead inside Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT) premises in Pantnagar town of Udham Singh Nagar district on Wednesday morning. Soon after the police and forest officials of Terai East division rushed to the spot. The foresters confirmed the jumbo’s death. RP Joshi, a forest official of Terai Range, said that the tusks and other vital organs of the elephant were intact and it seems to be a case of natural death as there were no visible injury marks. “However, the postmortem report will ascertain the exact cause of the death of the elephant,” he added. Meanwhile, the officials of Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, situated inside GBPUAT premises, suspect that the pachyderm died of thirst. “Water shortage inside the jungles is a matter of concern. We have made many water holes inside the jungles and these are kept full by arranging water tankers. The water spots are chosen after surveying the area,” said Parag Madhukar Dhakate, conservator of forests, Uttarakhand. “Water availability in the jungles is a major issue. The rivers and streams dry up during the summer months posing problems for animals there,” said Bhaskar Mishra, a local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/8-yr-old-jumbo-found-dead-in-us-nagar/articleshow/76736983.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 2, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19: 57-year-old man dies, 10 more test positive||Prayagraj: Ten more people tested positive for coronavirus infection here on Wednesday taking Prayagraj district’s tally to 296. While a 60-year-old man and resident of Johnstonganj tested positive for infection, a 23-year-old woman, resident of Sultanpur Bhawa (Khuldabad) also tested positive. Besides, a 48-year-old man from Civil Lines also tested positive on Wednesday. Moreover , three persons tested positive at microbiology tab of MLN Medical college. Meanwhile, a 57-year-old man who tested positive for infection two days back died at SRN hospital late on Tuesday night. With this, the tally of deceased has reached to nine. The patient who died was also a diabetic patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-19-57-year-old-man-dies-10-more-test-positive/articleshow/76736994.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||9k fly into city but no case of q-violation||Nagpur: In last 37 days since domestic flights have resumed, 16,126 people arrived at Nagpur Airport. Of these, 8,784 were from the city. The state government has made 14-day home quarantine mandatory and directed action be taken in case of violation. Amazingly, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) claims not a single case of violation has come to fore.This is not because everyone is following the rules. NMC is reportedly not monitoring the arrivals persons. Some with travel history from Mumbai, Pune, other districts and states had tested positive for Covid-19 in the city. But they were detected only when they came for medical check up.On the other hand, Zilla Parishad (ZP) has been testing whoever it comes toknow has arrived from other districts or states.As NMC data, 140 flights arrived in the city between May 25 and June 30. Of the total 16,126 arrivals, 7,342 were from other districts and neighbouring states MP and Chhattisgarh. In these cases, respective collectors and municipal commissioners are responsible to ensure 14-day home quarantine.NMC had stamped the hands of remaining 8,784 who were from the city for home quarantine and even claimed to paste a sticker at their houses. NMC officials told TOI that a list of air passengers of the city is passed on to all 10 zones. Staffers are supposed to monitor and initiate action in case of violation of home quarantine.They said violators can be put in institutional quarantine or even booked by police. “But we did not come to know about violation of home quarantine by any air passenger till date,” they said.NMC sources said, “There is no day-to-day monitoring at homes as medical team of zones has been given responsibility. Already, the team is short staffed and engaged in containment zones, special camps for testing for Covid-19 and contact tracing.” Though not mandatory, NMC has not prepared any system to test air passengers. At airport, NMC team only does thermal scanning of arriving passengers.On the other hand, ZP has taken swab samples of several air passengers and some of them had tested positive for Covid-19.NMC claims to be thoroughly following quarantining of air passengers in case their co-passenger tests positive. “We quarantine air passengers who travelled in two rows in front, two rows on rear side and those in same row in which person tested positive. We also alert respective districts if air passengers are from other parts of Vidarbha or neighbouring states,” the officials said.Among 140 flights, positive cases were reported on 21 as on June 30. In city, air passengers had tested positive when they visited any hospital for check up or got quarantined after a co-passenger tested positive.In standard operating procedures (SoP) issued by government on May 25, the local administration has been authorized to give exemption in home isolation for contributing in an office or for other important work after checking the passengers.NMC officials said around 150 air passengers were given exemption. “Most exemptions has been given to passengers who arrived here but went back within a week. Also, exemption is for ministers, legislators, government officials, doctors etc. A form seeking exemption is being filled at airport on case-to-case basis after going through all documents,” they said.The district had registered 64% of total cases in June while remaining 36% in 82 days of March, April and May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/9k-fly-into-city-but-no-case-of-q-violation/articleshow/76738005.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||Butibori-Yavatmal 4-lane cement road almost ready||Nagpur: Travelling to Yavatmal district is now no longer a pain for Nagpurians. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has almost completed the cementing and four-laning of Butibori-Tuljapur national highway near the border of Marathwada and now you can travel as smoothly as on Amravati road. You will have to pay toll thrice for travelling to Mahagaon (between Arni and Umarkhed). NHAI regional officer Naresh Wadetwar said there were three packages of the highway in Vidarbha: Butibori-Wardha, Wardha-Yavatmal and Yavatmal-Mahagaon (towards Nanded before Umarkhed). “The Wardha-Yavatmal road was completed a year before time. Butibori-Wardha road has only two small incomplete patches that will be over by October. Yavatmal-Mahagaon (via Arni) road is also ready barring a 2-km patch towards Mahagaon end near Hiwara Sangam village,” he added. Wadetwar further said two patches remained on Butibori-Wardha stretch. “One is a 400-metre patch in Asola village, some 5km from Butibori and another is a railway overbridge (ROB) on Wardha bypass road. Asola residents had moved court against land acquisition. We have recently won the case and now work on the small elevated portion will begin soon. Permission from Indian Railways was received recently for the ROB. Both works will take around four months,” he added. For Nagpurians, absolute smooth ride to Pusad will start when the flyover at Butibori is completed in February 2021. At present, it is a traffic bottleneck. It is, however, not a part of the Butibori-Tuljapur highway. According to NHAI officer Satish Janwe, the length of Butibori-Wardha package is 59km and cost is Rs1,065 crore. “Work had started on it in December 2017. The scheduled date of completion was May 2020. It is now 98.5% complete,” he told TOI. The Wardha-Yavatmal road is 65-km-long and costs Rs1,043 crore. “Work on it started in February 2018 and was over in August 2019 against scheduled completion of August 2020,” said Janwe. The Yavatmal-Mahagaon road is 80-km-long and costs Rs1,160 crore. Work on it started in February 2018 and was scheduled to be completed by August 2020. It is now 98.5% complete. Yavatmal district administration is not handing over land of Hiwara Sangam village as residents have moved the court. The court has, however, not imposed any stay. Revenue officials prefer to wait till court order. INFOGX Nagpur-Mahalgaon (Yavatmal) Road Length | 204.31km Total cost | Rs3,269.47 crore Packages | 3 Toll Plazas | 3 Status | Over 98% complete Full completion date | October 2020||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/butibori-yavatmal-4-lane-cement-road-almost-ready/articleshow/76738022.cms||Ashish Roy
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Not paid, teachers seek state govt help||Hyderabad: Demanding that the state extend financial support to teachers working in private schools in the state, the members of Telangana Private Teachers Forum (TPTF) on Wednesday took part in ‘Chalo Collectorate’ programme in various districts of Telangana. Several teachers submitted a representation at various collectorate offices in the state. The teachers said that it is the responsibility of the state government to help private teachers who have not been paid their salaries for the last four months. They said that on humanitarian grounds, the state should give ‘nirudyoga bruthi’ (unemployment allowance) or ‘corona bruthi’ to over three lakh private teachers in Telangana. “The only way private teachers can survive until the schools reopen is if the government gives them Rs 10, 000 per month and essential goods to the families of each and every private teacher in the state,” said Shabir Ali, president, TPTF. They said that the state should also direct school managements to pay them full salaries for the lockdown period, failing which action should be initiated, as not paying 100% salaries is in violation of GO 45. They also said that a committee should be formed to regulate private schools in the state so that school managements abide by all norms. Private teachers also demanded that the state should either provide or direct managements to give provident fund and insurance to all the teaching and non-teaching staff working in private schools. Members of the TPTF had on Sunday sought the intervention of education minister P Sabitha Indra Reddy over the matter. The forum had submitted a representation to the minister, explaining the woes of three lakh teachers, who are struggling to make ends meet and in some cases have been forced to take up menial jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-paid-teachers-seek-state-govt-help/articleshow/76738006.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||5 arrested for attacking man||Coimbatore: The city police arrested five people for attacking a 20-year-old man on Chettipalayam Road at Podanur on Tuesday. The arrested people were identified as N Vikki, 28, A Prakash, 26, R Maheshkumar, 28, S Santhoshkumar, 25 and K Manikandan, 20, residents of Podanur. Police are on the lookout for Jotheesh, Nagaraj and Nandhu. They had attacked M Tamilarasan of Podanur and his brother Naren, 20, under the influence of alcohol due to previous enmity, said a police officer. Tamilarasan was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) for treatment.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-arrested-for-attacking-man/articleshow/76738012.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Lucknow||UP procures 50,000 antigentest kits for critical dists||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government has procured 50,000 antigen testing kits to strengthen the battle against novel coronavirus pandemic. Stating that the kits will be used to screen hidden coronavirus positive cases in critical districts, including the ones in Meerut division, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that as many as 585 new cases were reported in 24 hours. With this, the total number of novel coronavirus positive cases in UP crossed the 24,000 mark. “A total of 585 new Covid-19 cases were reported in 24 hours, while 545 patients were discharged. Of the total cases, 16,629 patients have recovered, leaving the number of active cases to 6,709,” he said. Stating that cases in the Meerut division were a cause of concern, he said that aggressive testing has been planned. “The state has made arrangements for 50,000 rapid antigen test kits which will be used in critical areas, including districts of the Meerut division which are a cause of concern,” he said. Of the new cases reported, 170 were from districts in the Meerut division, including Gautam Budh Nagar (58), Ghaziabad (52), Meerut (42), Bulandshahr (17), Baghpat (9) and Hapur (8). Prasad stated that UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the state health and medical education department to set up a dedicated lab for Ghaziabad district. Meanwhile, the state recorded 21 Covid deaths, taking the total to 718. According to Covid bulletin, Meerut and Moradabad recorded three deaths each, while Agra and Lucknow recorded two each. Kanpur Nagar,Ghaziabad, Barabanki, Bulandshahr, Prayagraj, Muzaffarnagar, Kaushambi, Ballia, Jalaun, Jhansi and Chandauli reported one death each. Districts with over 10 cases were: Lucknow (54), Moradabad (25), Kanpur (23), Aligarh (19), Bulandshahr (17), Varanasi (16), Bareilly (15), Mathura (15), Gorakhpur (13), Ayodhya (13), Prayagraj (12), Unnao (12),Ballia (10) and Mau (10)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-procures-50k-antigentest-kits-for-critical-dists/articleshow/76739067.cms||Shailvee Sharda
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||TMC issues forms for Amphan money refund||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress, sensing a groundswell of opinion against alleged corruption in Amphan relief, has started distributing printed forms to partymen allowing them to refund money “unduly credited” to their accounts. The move has worked, with many workers and supporters returning money to district magistrates. The application format in Bengali says the applicant had erroneously applied for the Rs 20,000 house building grant and now wants to refund it. BJP leader Rahul Sinha, however, accused the government of trying to cover up an offence. TMC has already shown the door to four panchayat pradhans over alleged irregularities in cyclone relief. It has also served a showcause notice to former party minister Shyam Mukherjee and several office-bearers in Hooghly, West Burdwan and Howrah. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday tweeted that 103 families had returned Rs 20 lakh in Mathurapur block in Diamond Harbour. Trinamool secretary-general Partha Chatterjee, on his part, cautioned party workers in Jhargram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-issues-forms-for-amphan-money-refund/articleshow/76726281.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Police on lookout for rape accused||Coimbatore: Police are on the lookout for a 23-year-old man, who impregnated a minor Podanur resident.The accused was staying near the victim’s house and had ‘married’ her a year ago, police sources said. The issue came to light after the girl was admitted to a primary health centre in Vellalore for delivery. Health workers who identified the girl as a minor, informed the child welfare committee (CWC).TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/police-on-lookout-for-rape-accused/articleshow/76738013.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Unable to sell banana leaves, farmer sets plants on fire||Coimbatore: A Thondamuthur-based banana farmer, who incurred a huge loss due to the lockdown, set fire to the plants on three acres on Wednesday.M Natarajan, 65, had been selling banana leaves in neighbouring Kerala for the last 30 years. He used to cultivate the Poovan variety on his field in Madhampatti and had planted 6,500 of them.“I used to collect 1,250 bundles of leaves from an acre. Each bundle would sell for Rs 430. But this year, since the lockdown, there has been no transport between Coimbatore and Kerala and I was not able to sell. Because of this, they became wasted,” he said. “I was planning to collect fibre from the trees and sell it to the traders in the flower market for stringing garlands. This could have earned around Rs 10,000 from an acre. But as the flower sector has also been hit, flower merchants were not ready to take the fibre, even for free,” Natarajan told TOI.As there was no business for the last three months, he decided to get rid of the trees. “If I employ people to chop the trees, I have to pay them. Instead, I burnt the trees down. I have incurred a loss of more than Rs 3lakh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/unable-to-sell-banana-leaves-farmer-sets-plants-on-fire/articleshow/76738027.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Dhakka colony residents lock MC’s sub-zonal office||Ludhiana: Agitated over water scarcity and indifference of the civic authorities in resolving the issue, residents of Dhakka colony sat on a protest outside the sub-zonal office of the municipal corporation on Wednesday evening. Congress councillor Parvinder Lapran too joined the protesters, who together locked the sub-zonal office. The councillor removed his shirt to protest the callous attitude of the officials. The councillor said he will not move until civic officials start the process of digging a tube well in the colony. "As many as 200 women came to my office and demanded water supply to the colony. They are without water for the last one month,” said Congress councillor Parvinder Lapran.He added that he had talked to officials many times that 15,000 to 20,000 people were suffering due to poor water supply in the locality, especially in the summer season. He said when nobody listened to the requests, there was no other option but to protest. He said that to get a new tube well, the residents were running from pillar to post. SDO Harshpreet Singh said, “We have sought permission to install another tube well. The tender of the same has been floated. The entire process will take 21 days.” The protest ended late in the evening when civic officials assured the councillor and residents that the water supply will be resumed from Thursday. After getting the assurance, the councillor opened the lock of the office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dhakka-colony-residents-lock-mcs-sub-zonal-office/articleshow/76737004.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Govt staffer arrested for harassing colleague||Coimbatore: The Singanallur police on Tuesday arrested a 47-year-old man working in the Irugur town panchayat office for sexually harassing a woman colleague.The accused was identified as A Rajadurai, a resident of Irugur, who has been working as a driver for the last 23 years. “The victim was deputed to monitor people to ensure that they don’t step out of houses without wearing face mask. Rajadurai harassed her several times during working hours last week. The incident came to light after she consumed poison and was admitted to a hospital,” a police officer said.Based on her complaint, police arrested Rajadurai under sections 354 (A) (i) (ii) (assault with an intent to outrage the modesty of a woman), 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 4 of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. He was remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/govt-staffer-arrested-for-harassing-colleague/articleshow/76738020.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Dearth of customers forces traders in Malkajgiri to down shutters by 6pm||SECUNDERABAD: Grocery shops, vegetable and fruit outlets, auto-mobile workshops and other stores in Malkajgiri municipal limits have started pulling down their shutter by 6pm as the customer footfall continues to be low. Shopkeepers in Mallikarjun Nagar, Dayanand Nagar, Uttam Nagar, Sainikpuri and Neredmet have expressed dissatisfaction over the customer response. “Keeping my grocery shop open is not an inconvenience for any customers but we are not getting even 30 customers in a day. That is very demoralising as we take a huge risk by opening up the shop,” Dileep, a shopkeeper, told TOI. A vegetable seller at Uttar Nagar said: “My shop is being sanitized every day in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. But there is very poor response from customers and hence I have decided to close shop by 6 pm.” A barber is keeping his saloon at Mallikarjun Nagar open till late in the evening only on Sundays. On all weekdays, he closes it by 3pm because of the dearth of customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dearth-of-customers-forces-traders-in-malkajgiri-to-down-shutters-by-6-pm/articleshow/76738026.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Trichy||Trichy rly hosp to admit Covid patients from outside campus||Trichy: With a spike in Covid-19 cases being reported in Trichy, the Trichy Ponmalai Railway Hospital is preparing to admit and treat infected people from outside the Railway Workshop campus. Based on a request from the city corporation authorities, the hospital is getting ready to admit Covid-19 cases from a ward falling in the Ponmalai zone.In a letter written by the Trichy city corporation commissioner, S Sivasubramanian, to the chief medical superintendent of Ponmalai Railway Hospital dated June 26, the civic body has sought the hospital’s help to handle the Covid-19 situation. The commissioner has appealed to the railway hospital authorities to admit the residents of ward number 32, who test positive for Covid-19. In case anyone tested positive, they should be admitted as an inpatient and they should be treated as per the protocol. When contacted, the chief medical superintendent of the hospital told TOI that the corporation has sent a proposal in this regard. "However, the health officials from the corporation have to first visit our hospital and express satisfaction with the available facilities. Only then can we can admit anyone", he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-rly-hosp-to-admit-covid-patients-from-outside-campus/articleshow/76738849.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt working to reduce Covid mortality rate: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said the state government has been working to reduce mortality rate from Covid to negligible level. He said swasth mitra will be appointed in every village to create awareness on the pandemic. Gehlot was addressing the council of ministers, secretary-in-charge of districts, collectors, superintendents of police, sub-divisional officers, CMHO, information and public relations officers as well as other officers of sub-divisional and tehsil level through a video conference. Gehlot said that as the number of activities permitted under unlock increases, the number of infected people would also increase. “So people have to strictly follow preventive measures such as wearing masks, frequent washing of hands, no spitting in public places and maintaining social distancing. These are ways to stop this pandemic,” he said Gehlot said that despite the increase in the number of active cases in the last few days, with good management, the rate of doubling of corona infected patients and the death rate have been kept lower than the national average. Other states are also adopting our efforts to prevent corona infection, he said He said that public representatives have a special role in the awareness campaign. After the ministers in charge, now legislators should also participate in making people aware in their respective fields for five days. Health minister Raghu Sharma said active surveillance was done during the time of lockdown. Now, this work of door-to-door survey will also be taken forward in Unlock-2, he said. Chief Secretary DB Gupta said that in districts where migrant workers have come in large numbers, a strategy of random testing is being chalked out. He stressed the booth level committees to work more actively. Additional chief secretary (medical and health) Rohit Kumar Singh informed that so far 8.24 lakh samples have been taken for corona testing in the state out of which 18, 092 persons were found infected in the state, of which 78.7% have been cured. He informed that 1 lakh beds have been arranged in the state to deal with corona.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-working-to-reduce-covid-mortality-rate-cm/articleshow/76738850.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Bid to use property tax proof for power connection slammed||Coimbatore: More than a month after the state government made the building completion certificate mandatory for permanent electricity connection, the city corporation has written to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco), asking it to consider property tax book as a proof for completion of building construction to provide connection to the buildings in its limits.The move has, however, not gone down well with activists, who said this would only aid mushrooming of unauthorised buildings.In May, the Tangedco had in a circular stated that temporary electricity connection to a building would be disconnected upon the completion of construction and permanent connection would be provided only on receipt of completion certificates.However, exemptions were given to residential buildings that were up to 12 metres high and not exceeded three dwelling units, other buildings up to 750 square metres and all industrial buildings. “It does not apply to the buildings that were under construction or completed on or before February 4, 2019,” the Tangedco had said in the circular then.A source with the city corporation said they had been facing practical difficulties in providing building completion certificates immediately to all the people approaching them. “Hence, we have requested the state electricity utility to consider property tax book as a proof for completion of building construction to provide permanent connection to the buildings. This way, people won’t be affected.”In the letter dated June 30 to Tangedco, city corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar said, “Property tax is levied only for the completed buildings in the corporation limits. So, take necessary steps to provide electricity connection, considering the property tax book as a proof for completion of construction work.”But city-based activists have opposed the city corporation’s move stating that would defeat the very purpose of making the building completion certification mandatory - to bring down the number of unauthorised buildings.K Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause, said, “The local bodies levy tax on all the buildings. The city corporation had even said in the court that mere taxation does not legalize the buildings and that they have right to demolish the same for violation of norms. This is the basic reason for mandating the building completion certificate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bid-to-use-property-tax-proof-for-power-connection-slammed/articleshow/76738024.cms||Nivedha Selvam
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||CM inaugurates ‘e-Library’||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated an ‘e-Library’ system in Dehradun on Wednesday. The program will be used to digitise the library management system. According to the state government, five universities and 104 degree colleges of the state have already linked their library systems with this program. It is estimated that the program has around 35 lakh books available on the online portal and close to 2.5 lakh students in the state will benefit from it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-inaugurates-e-library/articleshow/76737027.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Cop’s family given Rs 50,000 solatium||Coimbatore: Animal husbandry minister Udumalai K Radhakrishnan on Wednesday met the family of policeman T Prabhu of Kallapalayam near Gudimangalam, who was run over by a truck in Tirupur on Monday night, while he was on duty.The minister consoled the cop’s family and handed over a solatium of Rs 50,000. All necessary help will be given to the family as per the chief minister’s advice, Radhakrishnan said.Prabhu, a constable with the Tirupur armed reserve police force, was guarding the Thittuparai police checkpost near Kangeyam on Monday night when he received information about a truck, which had knocked down a barricade at a check post in Erode and hit an SUV, moving towards Tirupur around 11pm. When he tried to stop the truck, the driver ignored him. He chased the truck on his motorcycle for 2km and overtook the vehicle. But the truck driver ran over him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-family-given-rs-50000-solatium/articleshow/76738029.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Manas Bhunia and wife mobbed||Senior Trinamool Rajya Sabha member Manas Bhunia and his wife, Sabang MLA Geeta Rani Bhunia, were mobbed by BJP supporters on Tuesday over poor condition of rural roads. A large police contingent reached the spot to quell the agitation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/manas-bhunia-and-wife-mobbed/articleshow/76726300.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Trichy||NIT-T seeks students’ cooperation to conduct online exams||Trichy: Following an online campaign by students seeking cancellation of online examinations proposed by the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy, the institution has sought cooperation from parents and students to conduct the exams as it is for their welfare.In an open letter to students published on the NIT Trichy website, its director Mini Shaji Thomas said the online campaign by some students for cancellation of assessments, is not advisable under the present circumstances. She said that they are planning to conduct end of semester assessments for the junior batches online so that the current semester gets over before the next semester begins. Mini also told the parents that if their wards have any issues with the online assessments, they will get a chance to write it on campus whenever the college reopens. As the online classes for next semester begin from August 25, the director asked parents to prepare their wards to attend the classes regularly, with connectivity and gadgets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-t-seeks-students-cooperation-to-conduct-online-exams/articleshow/76738856.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Salem||At 178, Salem reports highest single day spike in infection||Salem: The district reported the highest single day spike in Covid-19 cases on Wednesday when 178 people tested positive for the virus, taking its tally to 946. Among the new cases, 16 were imported ones. The earlier peak was on June 26, when the district reported 111 positive cases. Of the 162 indigenous cases, 66 were from Kolathur near Mettur in Salem district. Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of health services, said, “At least 58 of them had attended a funeral on June 21. More than 100 people had attended the funeral.” According to him, the new cases also included 42 from the city, 12 from Omalur, 10 from Attur and 30 from Sankari and Mecheri. Among the imported cases were four each from Bihar and Rajasthan, three from Uttar Pradesh and one each from Karnataka, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Of the 946 Covid-19 cases in the district, 677 were indigenous and 269 imported. Dr R Balajinathan, dean, Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital, said, “We have 655 active cases. We have discharged 10 patients today (Wednesday) after they tested negative for the virus.” Meanwhile, the Salem Municipal Corporation (SMC) has sealed 17 areas in the city to contain local transmission of the virus. SMC commissioner R Sadheesh said, “We have strictly stopped movement of people and vehicles in containment zones, where health department officials are distributing homoeopathy tablets, zinc tablets and kabasura kudineer to the residents. We are also spraying disinfectants in those areas at least five times a day.” The city corporation has also set up hand wash facilities at Suramangalam uzhavar shandy, new bus stand premises, VOC flower market in old bus stand area and another uzhavar shandy in Dhadagapatty area. “Water with sanitisers and soaps will be provided at these spots,” the SMC commissioner said. The neighbouring Erode registered 19 more cases on Wednesday, taking its count to 176. “All of them are indigenous cases,” said Dr S Soundammal, deputy director of health services. Namakkal district, meanwhile, added three more new cases to its kitty. With the total number of cases touching 99, collector K Megraj has banned public from entering the district collectorate. “I have placed a box for the people to drop their petitions.” While Dharmapuri, which had 81 cases, reported five new cases, including two imported ones from Karnataka, six people were tested positive for the virus in Krishnagiri district, taking its count to 146.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/at-178-salem-reports-highest-single-day-spike-in-infection/articleshow/76738058.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Erode||‘Class XII results will be delayed by a week’||Erode: School education minister K A Sengottaiyan on Wednesday said the announcement of Class XII results will be delayed by a week. “We will release the results with the CM's consent in the second week of July,” he said after inaugurating road and various drinking water projects worth Rs 3.38 crore at Nambiyur near Gobichettipalayam. The minister had earlier announced that the Class XII results would be released in the first week of July. Nearly 35,000 students must write their pending exams. "Out of 35,000 students, 718 have expressed their willingness for the same," he said. “Conducting exams and bringing these 718 students to the exam halls will be a challenging task for us due to the extension of the lockdown.” The minister said schools would be reopened in the state only after the flattening of the Covid-19 curve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/class-xii-results-will-be-delayed-by-a-week/articleshow/76738031.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||School uniform manufacturers in a fix||Coimbatore: The coronavirus lockdown has massively disrupted production and delivery of garment manufacturers, who supply readymade uniforms to private schools.When the lockdown hit them in March, uniform production was at its peak and several manufacturers had sourced fabric from mills, and had started making uniforms. Now, with no means to deliver the finished products and get payments, and also no way to pay the mills that supplied fabric, they are stuck. The whole supply chain, including mills, tailoring units and logistics, has been hit.Yeshwanth Yogendran, a partner of the city-based Advanced Clothing Concepts, which designs and manufactures uniforms for as many as 180 schools across South India, said the firm had sourced raw materials when the lockdown was announced. “We had started stitching uniforms by April. Now, we are not able to deliver them. Annual business worth around 10 lakh pieces of uniform garments is at stake,” he said.Rahul Ranka, a partner of Harshavardhan Garments that supplies uniforms to schools and industries, said the firm is stuck between the mills that had supplied fabric and schools that had placed orders. “Mills that supplied materials after the lockdown relaxation are demanding payment. We can get payment from schools only on delivering uniforms. As the schools are not able to receive deliveries and not able to pay, we don’t have funds to pay the mills,” he said.Owners of tailoring units to whom uniform manufacturers outsourced stitching, said they were unable to pay their tailors and are struggling to retain them. R Saravanan, who runs a tailoring unit, caters to manufacturers of readymade school uniforms. Last year, he had 40 tailoring machines and produced 30,000 uniform pieces. This year, he doubled the production capacity but the lockdown threw a spanner in the works.“If schools were open, we would be busy working. But with no activities this year, there is no fund flow and we are struggling to engage our workers. We have to retain them or they would go in search of other jobs and we would have to face manpower shortage once schools reopen,” Saravanan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-uniform-manufacturers-in-a-fix/articleshow/76738032.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan government hikes water charges for industry by 15 times||JAIPUR: In yet another instance of shoring up its depleted tax resources, Rajasthan government has increased water prices for industry by 15 times. Cement, fertilizer and textile industries, which will take the maximum hit, have decided to approach the state government for its rollback saying it will have a significant impact on their operational costs. According to the gazette notification, companies using water from canals and dams will now have to pay Rs 250 per 1,000 cubic ft against the existing charges of Rs 20 only. Similarly, industries using river water will now have to pay Rs 30 from the existing Rs 2 per 1000 cubic ft, a 15-fold increase. NK Jain, chairman of FICCI committee on MSMEs, said this was not right time to burden companies with additional charges. “We have written to the industry department to rollback the steep increase in water charges. This is the time to revive the industry, not burden them with taxes and new charges,” said Jain. He said the government should not take such decisions without consulting with the industry. “Unilateral decisions don’t build confidence among industry and sends a wrong message,” Jain added. He said the increase in charges will impact the big industrial units in sectors like cement, fertilizers and textiles. Since water is provided by RIICO in industrial areas, small units will not be affected by this increase. But water charges for industrial units in RIICO areas were increased six-fold by the previous BJP government. Even after several representations, the government did not rollback. To revive the industrial activities in the state, various associations have been demanding exemption from fixed electricity charges. Jain, who also represents employers association, said the industry should be charged electricity rates based on actual consumption. “The fixed charges component should be abolished. Let the industry pay for what it uses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-hikes-water-charges-for-industry-by-15-times/articleshow/76738853.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||Law university starts academic session via virtual classrooms||NAGPUR: In view of the coronavirus pandemic, Maharashtra National Law University (NLU) started its new academic session (2020-21) through online mode on Wednesday. Though the teaching would be imparted through virtual classrooms, it would be limited to odd semesters — third, fifth, seventh and ninth for BALLB (Honours), which is five-year integrated degree course. NLU’s officer on special duty (OSD) Ramesh Kumar said the online classes would continue till the Covid situation improves and the university reopens for classroom teaching. “The university has taken institutional subscription of Cisco Webex to facilitate the online teaching. In addition to the real-time online classes, the lectures are recorded and shared with the students on daily basis,” said the OSD. According to the OSD, the course outlines for the current semester were presented by respective faculty members in online meetings held from June 22-30 under vice-chancellor Vijender Kumar. After due deliberations, these were shared with the students. “Some of the courses of contemporary nature like competition law, criminal justice system and fundamental rights, penology and correctional administration, infrastructural laws, international taxation, media law and international law on climate change, among many others have been introduced as optional papers to the final-year students during the current semester,” he added. According to Kumar, the university has also taken a number of initiatives for the mental well-being of the students. “Our consultant Rowena Philips along with her team is conducting webinars with the students on regular basis. We appreciate the efforts of all the student committee members for their cooperation during this unprecedented situation,” he said in a press note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/law-university-starts-academic-session-via-virtual-classrooms/articleshow/76738054.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Cured patients near 4,000 in Punjab, but 101 more positive, 5 die||CHANDIGARH: Inching closer to the 6,000 mark, Punjab recorded 101 fresh cases, including five deaths, on Wednesday, taking the number of cases in the state to 5,668 and the number of deaths to 149. In what would come as good news for the state government, 122 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus. With this, the number of patients who have been cured of the virus in Punjab rose to 3,989 — a recovery rate of 70%. A casualty each was reported in Gurdaspur, Tran Taran, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Mohali. The death toll is expected to continue to rise in the next few days as 13 patients are on oxygen support and one on ventilator support. For the second day in running, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases to the tally, with 41 people testing positive in the district. It was followed by Amritsar with 17 people getting infected. Nine cases were reported in Jalandhar, five each in Mohali, Hoshiarpur and Moga, four in Fazilka, three each in Faridkot, Gurdaspur and Patiala, two each in Sangrur and Pathankot, and one each in Tarn Taran and Bathinda. So far, 3,989 people have been cured of the virus in the state and 1,530 patients are still under treatment. In Amritsar, district officials said, a 73-year-old man succumbed to the virus. In all, 43 Covid patients have died in Amritsar so far. Two Border Security Force (BSF) troopers were among the four people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Fazilka. Fazilka civil surgeon Dr Chander Mohan Kataria said the other two cases included a 54-year-old woman with no travel history and a 52-year-old man who had returned from Pakistan. The two BSF personnel are posted in Jalalabad. (Inputs from Ferozepur and Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cured-patients-near-4000-in-pb-but-101-moreve-5-die/articleshow/76738043.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Pali joins 3 districts reporting more than 1,000 cases||JAIPUR: Migrants testing positive for Covid after reaching their homes has not ended yet. In the past 15 days, Pali district, which has a huge population of workers employed in Gujarat and Maharashtra, has seen 166 more migrants testing positive. Pali tops the list of districts having the highest number of migrants testing positive. It is the fourth district in the state reporting more than 1,000 Covid-19 cases following Jaipur, Jodhpur and Bharatpur. Pali has a population of 24 lakh people and out of those two lakhs are migrants who returned to their homes. Effective monitoring of migrants in the district has prevented Covid-19 deaths as the mortality rate due to the virus is just above 1%, while the state’s figure is 2.3%. Health department officials are still busy in monitoring the health of migrants. “The strategy which we have followed here is different. Majority of the migrants who reached Pali travelled by trains from Maharashtra and Gujarat. At the railway stations, we deployed buses. When the buses reach their destinations in rural Pali, we have our team reach to conduct their screening and tests. We kept records of each and every migrant, which is why, we managed to track them,” said Dr RP Mirdha, chief medical health officer, Pali. The health department had to put a lot of effort while keeping a watch on the health of migrants. Out of 33,564 tests done in Pali, 22,577 were migrants. So far, 1,117 persons have been found infected, out of which 661 are migrants, which accounts for 59% of the total cases. Almost every day, 700 people came travelling by trains. For their transportation from railway station Pali to their villages or blocks, the district administration deployed buses. For health department, it was a difficult task to conduct screening of 700 migrants at railway station as it was a time-taking process. Since each bus carry 65 to 70 migrants, the health department chalked out a strategy to conduct their screening and testing. When the bus reached its desitination at a village or block, the officials stationed it at a school or any other public places, where they conducted screening of all migrants and take samples of suspected cases. After taking the samples, they were allowed to go to their homes with a condition they will stay at their homes in isolation. “If the test report showed negative, they remained in home quarantine for 14 days and if they tested positive, they were taken to hospital,” said Dr Mirdha, who claimed that with the strategy they managed to conduct screening of almost each and every migrant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pali-joins-3-districts-reporting-more-than-1000-cases/articleshow/76738858.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||3-day full lockdown in Bramhapuri from today||Chandrapur: In view of the steep rise in the number of Covid cases, the district administration has imposed a three-day total lockdown in Bramhapuri town from Wednesday. Collector Kunal Khemnar claimed the move is aimed at breaking the virus chain in the town and has urged people to cooperate with the administration. All shops, including that of essential commodities, will remain closed between July 1 and 3. However, hospitals and medical shops have been exempted from the lockdown. All kind of vehicles except those for medical emergencies will be banned during the next three days. All people barring medics and health workers will be prohibited from stepping outside. Bramhapuri sub-divisional magistrate Kranti Tombe had sought permission for lockdown for three days owning to rise in the number of patients in the town and also the tehsil. Bramhapuri has witnessed steep rise in coronavirus patients in the last few days. Bramhapuri has reported 11 patients so far, while 16 more have been detected in rural areas of the tehsil. To add to the woes, a large number of people had attended a birthday bash held at a corona positive patient’s house. It could not be confirmed as to whether the person was detected Covid positive after the bash or the party was organized in violation of rules. As a precautionary measure, to ensure that the infection does not spread to other parts, the three-day total lockdown has been announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-day-full-lockdown-in-bramhapuri-from-today/articleshow/76719603.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt glare on more private labs as Covid-19 cases surge, deaths mount||HYDERABAD: On a day Telangana recorded seven deaths and the second-highest surge of 1,018 coronavirus cases, the government said it will begin inspecting private laboratories in another round of checks. After the first round of tests, at least eight laboratories were found to be flouting norms laid by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for testing. “Few of the laboratories have still not made the changes they were asked to make. After the second round of inspections, action will be initiated against these laboratories also,” said a senior official from the state health department. While the state’s Covid-19 caseload jumped to 17,357, the Covid-19 death toll rose to 267. Authorities also tested 4,234 samples, the highest so far in a single day, but the state has so far 92,797, which the high court and experts say is not enough, especially when Telangana reported its first case on March 1. Yet after ramping up tests in the state nearly a fortnight back, the numbers have jumped from around 40,000 to the current count. Among the districts, Mahabubnagar, Khammam, and Macheriyal are the latest to see a surge in cases. Also, Nalgonda, Karimnagar, Warangal, Medchal, Ranga Reddy and Sangareddy have seen a substantial increase in cases over the last week, while the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) continues to see over 93 percent of the new cases. A total of 8,082 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the state so far, while 9,002 cases continue to remain active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-glare-on-more-pvt-labs-as-cases-surge-deaths-mount/articleshow/76738050.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Cured patients near 4,000 in Punjab, but 101 more positive, 5 die||CHANDIGARH: Inching closer to the 6,000 mark, Punjab recorded 101 fresh cases, including five deaths, on Wednesday, taking the number of cases in the state to 5,668 and the number of deaths to 149. In what would come as good news for the state government, 122 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus. With this, the number of patients who have been cured of the virus in Punjab rose to 3,989 — a recovery rate of 70%. A casualty each was reported in Gurdaspur, Tran Taran, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Mohali. The death toll is expected to continue to rise in the next few days as 13 patients are on oxygen support and one on ventilator support. For the second day in running, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases to the tally, with 41 people testing positive in the district. It was followed by Amritsar with 17 people getting infected. Nine cases were reported in Jalandhar, five each in Mohali, Hoshiarpur and Moga, four in Fazilka, three each in Faridkot, Gurdaspur and Patiala, two each in Sangrur and Pathankot, and one each in Tarn Taran and Bathinda. So far, 3,989 people have been cured of the virus in the state and 1,530 patients are still under treatment. In Amritsar, district officials said, a 73-year-old man succumbed to the virus. In all, 43 Covid patients have died in Amritsar so far. Two Border Security Force (BSF) troopers were among the four people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Fazilka. Fazilka civil surgeon Dr Chander Mohan Kataria said the other two cases included a 54-year-old woman with no travel history and a 52-year-old man who had returned from Pakistan. The two BSF personnel are posted in Jalalabad. (Inputs from Ferozepur and Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cured-patients-near-4000-in-pb-but-101-moreve-5-die/articleshow/76748243.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: Cured patients near 4,000 in Punjab, but 101 more positive, 5 die||CHANDIGARH: Inching closer to the 6,000 mark, Punjab recorded 101 fresh cases, including five deaths, on Wednesday, taking the number of cases in the state to 5,668 and the number of deaths to 149. In what would come as good news for the state government, 122 patients were discharged after they recovered from the virus. With this, the number of patients who have been cured of the virus in Punjab rose to 3,989 — a recovery rate of 70%. A casualty each was reported in Gurdaspur, Tran Taran, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Mohali. The death toll is expected to continue to rise in the next few days as 13 patients are on oxygen support and one on ventilator support. For the second day in running, Ludhiana contributed the highest number of cases to the tally, with 41 people testing positive in the district. It was followed by Amritsar with 17 people getting infected. Nine cases were reported in Jalandhar, five each in Mohali, Hoshiarpur and Moga, four in Fazilka, three each in Faridkot, Gurdaspur and Patiala, two each in Sangrur and Pathankot, and one each in Tarn Taran and Bathinda. So far, 3,989 people have been cured of the virus in the state and 1,530 patients are still under treatment. In Amritsar, district officials said, a 73-year-old man succumbed to the virus. In all, 43 Covid patients have died in Amritsar so far. Two Border Security Force (BSF) troopers were among the four people who tested positive for Covid-19 in Fazilka. Fazilka civil surgeon Dr Chander Mohan Kataria said the other two cases included a 54-year-old woman with no travel history and a 52-year-old man who had returned from Pakistan. The two BSF personnel are posted in Jalalabad. (Inputs from Ferozepur and Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/cured-patients-near-4000-in-pb-but-101-moreve-5-die/articleshow/76748247.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Contrary to guidelines, Shala Darpan portal shows ‘everyone need not wear mask’||Jaipur: Despite the government making rules to impose fine on people for not wearing mask in public places, Shala Darpan portal of Rajasthan School Education Department shows not everyone needs to wear a mask.According to the poster on the portal, it has been mentioned that only people suffering from cold, cough or fever or who are nursing any Covid-19 patient or health workers are supposed to wear masks every day. This has created confusion among the teachers.Narayan Singh Sisodia, spokesperson of Rajasthan Shikshak Evam Panchayati Raj Karamchari Sangh, said, “While police and municipal corporations across the state are fining people for not wearing masks, here the education department hasn’t removed this poster that promotes no need of mask and makes it mandatory only on certain terms. The department must remove this poster. Teachers are called back to schools and I got some calls from teachers enquiring if this is true. The department must clarify.”When TOI contacted the education department, a senior official who did not wish to be named, said it is a mistake on part of the department. “We completely neglected it. This poster with such guidelines was issued a few months ago by the central government so it is still there. However, we will soon take it down,” said the officer.This reasoning is not acceptable by the government teachers in the state. Uday Kumar (name change), a government teacher from Jaipur, said, “Shala Darpan is a portal that is being used by the teachers and department every day. All our data, files, records are uploaded on the portal. How can the officials give this argument that they were not able to remove the poster? This is sheer negligence on part of the government and it creates confusion.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/contrary-to-guidelines-shala-darpan-portal-shows-everyone-need-not-wear-mask/articleshow/76738868.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Injured tusker stands up after treatment||Coimbatore: Five days after treating a tusker with a severely injured leg in Sirumugai, forest department officials on Wednesday said there was a considerable improvement in the animal’s health condition.The elephant, which was unable to stand up, has not only stood up twice but also walked a few steps, said an official. “We would continue treatment until the tusker recovers fully and is able to walk. We will provide the animal with glucose, food and antibiotics.” The forest department has been treating the tusker, which is aged around eight years, since June 26 when they spotted the animal in Pethikutti area. “Unable to stand, the animal was found lying on its side. The pain seemed to be unbearable that it was writhing in agony. It had a severe leg injury, which was also infected,” the official said. On Wednesday also, Sirumugai forest officials, along with forest veterinarian, fed the tusker watermelons, antibiotics and painkillers. “We also administered 40 bottles of glucose to ensure that the tusker does not get dehydrated. We were monitoring the animal from 10am to 7.15pm. After that we leave the spot as there is a heavy elephant movement in Pethikutti area,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/injured-tusker-stands-up-after-treatment/articleshow/76738052.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||Centre sanctions fund for permanent NIT campus in U’khand||Dehradun: The Union ministry of human resource development has approved a proposal for setting up a permanent campus of NIT Uttarakhand on Wednesday. The ministry sanctioned an amount of Rs 909.85 crore for the project. Out of this amount, Rs 831.04 crore will be used for establishing a permanent campus at the Sumari village in Pauri Garhwal. The remaining Rs 78.81 crore will be used for upgrading the facilities such as hostels, lecture hall complex, and laboratories in the existing temporary campus of the institute in Srinagar Garhwal. The newly-sanctioned permanent campus is expected to hold 1,200 students from the start of the academic year in 2021. The campus is proposed to be built on an area of 90,450 square metres. In future, the existing temporary campus will be used as the “Centre for Environmental Sustainability of Himalayas”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centre-sanctions-fund-for-permanent-nit-campus-in-ukhand/articleshow/76737068.cms||Mohammad Anab
July 2, 2020||Chennai||88% in Chennai want lockdown to stay, finds IIT Madras Survey||CHENNAI: In spite of staying under lockdown for nearly 100 days, forced by the still raging Covid-19 pandemic, a majority of Chennai residents want the restrictions to stay in some form, a study has found. In the online sample survey, conducted by IIT Madras across the country including in Chennai, 88% of the respondents in the city including government employees, private employees, retired people and housewives said they wanted the lockdown to continue, those engaged in business and trade were against it. As far as the intense lockdown is concerned, 38% of Chennaiites wanted it to continue against 54% for the rest of Tamil Nadu. While 50% of the city’s residents wanted the lockdown to stay with minimal restrictions, 12% said it had to be lifted completely. In other states, about 37% wanted an intense lockdown, 49% were in favour of a general lockdown with more relaxations and 13% wanted all restrictions to go. The survey by IIT-M’s department of management studies on the lockdown’s impact and effectiveness was taken by 3,136 respondents - 46.6% from Chennai, 16.9% from the rest of Tamil Nadu and 36.5% are from other states. A high 51.1% said the lockdown was moderately effective, while 21.3% said it was very effective. Just 5.5% thought it was ineffective. “Despite saying the lockdown is only moderately effective, a large majority wanted it to continue in some form. It shows that they are giving preference to health rather than livelihood,” said Professor A Thillai Rajan of the department of management studies. While 45% of entrepreneurs and 50% of job-seekers said they were affected professionally, 48% of retired people and 34% of home makers said they were least affected. “While those with stable income in the public and private sector prefer lockdown, a higher proportion of entrepreneurs want it to end. This indicates that risk of livelihood has been larger for entrepreneurs as compared to risk of disease,” he said. People seem cautious on returning to normalcy. Except for entrepreneurs, others want some form of the lockdown to continue, Professor Thillai Rajan said. Researchers said they were surprised that youngsters preferred an intensive lockdown, while those aged 55 and above wanted a general lockdown in place with minimal restrictions. While 54% of those below 25 said they were affected professionally, only 37% of those aged above 55 said they were affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/88-in-city-want-lockdown-to-stay-finds-iit-m-survey/articleshow/76738028.cms||A Ragu Raman
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||High humidity good for coconut farming in Godavari river belt||HYDERABAD: The water supply from Kaleshwaram project into canals, reservoirs and other water bodies has raised the humidity levels in the districts along the Godavari river belt, making them favourable for coconut plantation. The Central Plantation Crop Research Institute (CPCRI) has identified Peddapalli, Mancherial, Mulugu and Bhupalapally districts as favourable for coconut plantations which need over 60% relative humidity. “Normally, the climate in Telangana is not favourable for growth of coconut plantation. Telangana gets over Rs 2,000 crore worth dry and tender coconuts every year and over 95% supplies come from Kerala and other coastal states,” horticulture department director L Venkatram Reddy told TOI. Though coconut plantation has been taken up in over 1,100 acres producing nearly 70 lakh dry and tender coconuts in Khammam and Bhadradri districts, it is not sufficient to meet the market demand in the state. Even the saplings that suit the Telangana climate and soil conditions will be supplied by CDB,” said horticulture deputy director MV Madhusudhan. It takes three to four years for the saplings to grow and start bearing the nuts and from six to seven years for the tall variety of plants to bear nuts. “The modalities are being worked out to offer discounts and incentives to farmers. We will soon come out with a comprehensive package to attract the farmers to take up coconut plantation as the profits are good in dry and tender coconut business,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-humidity-good-for-coconut-farming-in-godavari-river-belt/articleshow/76738062.cms||Roushan Ali
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Don’t turn away patients, govt tells pvt hospitals||Coimbatore: Private hospitals were on Wednesday warned not to turn away patients without providing them emergency care and first aid, citing that they were yet to be tested for Covid-19. Joint director of medical services Dr Krishna has also issued a notice to all private hospitals in this regard. Hospitals that violate the rule would have to face legal proceedings under the Tamil Nadu Private Clinical Establishment (regulation) Amendment Act, 2018.The medical services department had earlier issued a notice to all private hospitals, elaborating on the rules and regulations to be followed during the pandemic. On Wednesday, officials reiterated that the fever and Covid-19 treatment zone should be isolated from the other wards in hospitals. “All doctors, nurses, paramedics and sanitary staff visiting the wards should be provided with adequate personal protection gear and equipment.”Hospitals have been asked to treat Covid-19 patients as per the government protocols. Any doubts in the protocols, the new notice said, could be clarified with the public health department, medical services department, or the city health officer.The healthcare facilities have been instructed to ensure adherence to face mask norms by all patients and attenders. “All hospitals should provide hand wash facilities with elbow taps in front of the entrance. Soap or soap oil should be placed next to the taps. There should be a poster or board with instructions on how to wash hands effectively. Every person should be made to wash hands before being allowed in the hospital complex,” the communication said.Hospitals should also have a help desk at the entrance that would function 24x7 and ensure social distancing among the patients and their attenders. “Hospitals can take any measure necessary to implement this,” the notice said.Hospitals have also been instructed to display corona prevention measures on their premises. “Directions to the various departments within the hospital should also be displayed at a prominent place. This is to ensure a patient coming in with fever or breathlessness easily finds the way to the fever or pulmonology ward without asking too many people or roaming around unnecessarily,” an official said.Hospitals have to segregate all biomedical waste and hand them over to government approved biowaste handling companies and sanitize their facilities as per the government prescribed disinfectant formula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dont-turn-away-patients-govt-tells-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/76738039.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Business||CBI FIR against Sanjay Bhandari, South Korean firm||NEW DELHI: In mounting trouble for absconding alleged arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari, CBI has filed an FIR against him and six other entities on charges of receiving kickbacks and influencing officials to swing the contract for setting a Dual Feed Cracker Unit (DFCU) — used to produce ethylene and propylene — at the ONGC Petro Additions Ltd (OPaL), a company promoted by PSUs like ONGC, GAIL and Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation. The FIR has been lodged under various sections of corruption and criminal conspiracy. Sources said CBI will also summon two key players who haven’t been named in the FIR but have come under the radar due to a London-based property which is under probe. The FIR also names Samsung Engineering, a South Korean company and its senior manager Hong Namkoong. The other named accused include UAE-based company Santech International and UK-based Foster Wheeler Energy. It also names as accused officials of ONGC/OPaL, who are yet to be identified. It is alleged that acting as middleman, Bhandari induced unknown public servants to show undue favour to the consortium of M/s Samsung Engineering Corporation in the award of contract of DFCU project in Dahej in Gujarat. It has been alleged that Bhandari had received kickbacks worth $4.99 million in 2009 from Samsung Engineering Company Limited in order to land them the Rs 6,744 crore contract. CBI officials said Bhandari, who is allegedly a close aide of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi’s husband Robert Vadra, is believed to be in London.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cbi-fir-against-sanjay-bhandari-south-korean-firm/articleshow/76739949.cms||Rajshekhar Jha
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||‘Vid OBC students forced to pay open category fees by DU’||NAGPUR: The other backward class (OBC) students from undergraduate to PhD from Vidarbha have demanded that the Delhi University (DU) charge them application fee as per SC/ST and SEBC category instead of bracketing them under open category. As per Students Rights Association of India (SRAI), around 3,000 OBC students from Vidarbha have applied for different programmes at DU but have been forced to shell out Rs700 for application form. Citing the last date for application is July 4, the association has sought early decision on its demand. In a letter to DU vice-chancellor, SRAI president Umesh Korum said, “As the university has begun the process of online applications for UG and PG courses, it has come to our notice that there is discriminatory overcharging of fees from OBC students for online application process.” “For undergraduate courses, the university is charging Rs100 from upper caste economically weaker students, while the OBC non-creamy layer students are being charged Rs250. This despite the fact that both EWS and OBC non-creamy layer students have same economic status — income below Rs8 lakh,” he said. Similarly, for PG, the application fees for EWS students is Rs300, while Rs750 for OBC students, he said. The SRAI demanded that the DU refund the excess fees to OBC students who have already applied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-obc-students-forced-to-pay-open-category-fees-by-du/articleshow/76738088.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
July 2, 2020||Agra||Experts on alert after elusive tigress kills black buck in rubber factory||Bareilly: An elusive tigress that has made a defunct rubber factory its home for the past three months killed a black buck on Thursday morning. Alert officials now said that the big cat may return to consume the half-eaten prey. The experts from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are camping near the prey to tranquilise the tigress.Chief conservator of forests Lalit Verma said, “After killing a prey, tigress usually returns to consume the leftover meat. Hence, we are expecting the tigress to visit the place again to consume the black buck. Our experts will camp near the site on Thursday night and if the tigress is spotted, it will be tranquilised.”The experts from UP and Uttarakhand, including six veterinarians, have started the rescue operation since the past week. The operation was affected after Bareilly received rainfall and it led to waterlogging in the factory and reduced the sightings of the animal.The forest department has installed 20 camera traps around the bait. Two cameras have GSM (Global System for Mobile Communication). If the tigress comes near these cameras, the mobile numbers linked to them will get a notification and experts will immediately reach the spot to tranquilize the big cat. Besides, four modified cages have been placed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/experts-on-alert-after-elusive-tigress-kills-black-buck-in-rubber-factory/articleshow/76735826.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong demands probe into canal breach||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy has demanded a high-level probe into breach of Jagdevpur canal of Kondapochamma Sagar, which caused inundation of houses and farms in Shivar Venkatapur and other villages of Markuk mandal in Sidddipet district. He also demanded compensation to those who had suffered damages. The villagers complained that officials had not visited their village to assess and enumerate the losses. They also complained that they were facing a lot of difficulties due to the proximity of their village to CM K Chandrasekhar Rao’s farm house in Erravelli. Security personnel do not allow villagers even to step on the road that leads to the CM’s farm house. Uttam also demanded the engineer-in-chief and other officials concerned should be suspended. The losses should be recovered from the contractor for executing sub-standard works, he said. “KCR government has been wasting thousands of crores of rupees on irrigation projects by mortgaging the interests of people of Telangana,” he alleged. “If the quality of works executed in the Assembly constituency represented by CM KCR were of so low standards, people could imagine the quality of works on projects taken up in other parts of the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-demands-probe-into-canal-breach/articleshow/76738071.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nashik||Ganpati mandals agree to keep festivities low key||Nashik/ Kolhapur: The ongoing Covid crisis has taken a toll on the scale and magnitude of festivals this year. After a subdued Eid, even the Ganapati festival is likely to be a low-key one with even the chief minister asking people to pare down the festivities. In Nashik, the Ganpati mandals have decided not to have pandals, which, usually, are an essential part of the Ganeshotsav. “The mandals will install only small Ganesh idols that will not be open for public viewing. There will be no dhol-tashas, inviting celebrities etc.” said Sameer Shete, Nashikcha Raja Ganesh mandal president. Ganesh Lilke, another member of the Ganesh Ustav mandals, said the smaller mandals will not even install the idols. “The mandals that want to have idols in a public place will not be allowed to raise the pandal. No decoration will be allowed either. We will also be coming out with a code of conduct,” Lilke said. The mandals usually have idols measuring more than 40 feet in height. However, this year, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has requested mandals to limit the idol height to just 3-4 feet. This has left the Ganesh idol makers, especially those in the Kolhapur region, worried. They had faced huge losses last year, and they are concerned that the business this year too will face adverse conditions. Sagar Kumbhar, an idol maker from the Bapat Camp area, said, “We have made hundreds of idols that are taller than 4 feet. Most of the orders, both from here and other cities like Pune and Mumbai, have already been completed. We start making the idols in January. If the mandals do not take the idols, all our efforts will go in vain.” On Wednesday, the association of idol makers met district authorities and submitted a plea seeking compensation for the idols taller than 4 feet. The authorities said the CM has only made an appeal and there is no order or notification. Therefore, the officials cannot give specific assurances to the idol makers. Prakash Sakadekar, president of the idol makers’ forum said, “We urged officials to deliver our request to the state government. The idol-maker community has been suffering. Many mandals have already cancelled orders.” The idol makers said restricting the height of Ganesh idols had nothing to do with spread of coronavirus. In Aurangabad, Ganesh mandals have pledged support to the government. Prithviraj Pawar, president of federation of Ganesh mandals in Aurangabad, said, “The CM recently held a video-conference with us and requested us to not organise mass celebrations.” He said the government has asked then not to collect donations (vargani) from citizens. “We will arrange for money at our level from different sources and funds saved by foregoing grand celebrations. The corpus would be donated to the CM Relief Fund,” he said. - Inputs from Aurangabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ganpati-mandals-agree-to-keep-festivities-low-key/articleshow/76737090.cms||Abhilash Botekar
July 2, 2020||Bareilly||45-year-old man found hanging from tree||Pilibhit: Police on Wednesday morning recovered body of a 45-year-old man hanging from a mango tree just outside village Kabirpur Kasganja under Ghungchai post of Puranpur Kotwali police station. The man was identified as Zahir Ahmad. As per locals, the man was mentally disturbed since the death of his first wife. Police have sent the body for autopsy. The villagers said that his first wife died two years ago and his second wife used to misbehave with him often. As a result, he was living a stressful life. SHO SK Singh said that they will wait for the autopsy report. No written complaint has been filed in the matter, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/45-year-old-man-found-hanging-from-tree/articleshow/76735845.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Shimla||Himachal hoteliers want tourism to resume by Sept-Oct, monitoring system||Shimla: In view of the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases across the country, the stakeholders in hotel and restaurant business in Himachal Pradesh have advised the state government to start tourism activities only in September or October. They also suggested that a mechanism to monitor people coming from other states should put in place before resuming tourism in the state. In a letter to the chief minister, Ashwani Bamba, state spokesperson of All Himachal Associations of Hospitality and Tourism, and president of Hotel & Restaurant Association of Dharamshala, said tourism activities should be permitted only after the monsoon season, sometime in September or October. Also, since they do not expect many tourists to Himachal in July and August, it would be financially unviable to open hotels now. Tourism is a major contributor to Himachal’s economy. As on December 31 last year, the state had around 3,679 hotels and around 2,189 home stay units, apart from the government facilities. It is also largest employment generating industry of the state, which saw 17.21 million tourists in 2019, up from 6.55 million in 2004. Bamba said during the summer season, majority of tourists come from Punjab, Delhi, Gujrat, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, where Covid-19 cases are rising at an alarming rate. So, people from these states should not be invited now for the safety of people of the state. He said before taking the decision to allow tourists into Himachal Pradesh, the state government should make adequate arrangements for their screening, so that only healthy tourists enter the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-hoteliers-want-tourism-to-resume-by-sept-oct-monitoring-system/articleshow/76738065.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Karnal private hospitals can’t admit those with Covid signs||KARNAL: Following reports that some private hospitals are admitting coronavirus patients, the Karnal district administration has strictly told such hospitals not to admit patients with Covid-19 symptoms. The order from deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav came on a day when nine of the 14 positive cases reported in the district came from a private hospital. Even on Tuesday, nine positive cases, including four doctors and other hospital staff members, had come from the same hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/karnal-pvt-hosps-cant-admit-those-with-covid-signs/articleshow/76738081.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||Maharaj seeks report of projects involving Chinese firms||Dehradun: After Prime Minister Narendra Modi deactivated his account on Chinese social media platform Weibo and Union minister Nitin Gadkari announced that India will not allow Chinese companies to participate in highway projects, Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj on Wednesday asked the department secretary Dilip Jawalkar to share a detailed report on the contracts given to the Chinese firms in the state. A statement released by Nishith Saklani, media in-charge of Satpal Maharaj, said, “While the India government is teaching a lesson to China in all possible political and economic ways, the Uttarakhand tourism minister Satpal Maharaj too has sought a detailed report of the projects that has involvement of Chinese firms in the state." It added that a few Chinese firms are involved in ropeway construction in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/maharaj-seeks-report-of-projects-involving-chinese-firms/articleshow/76737081.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 2, 2020||Madurai||HC ticks off lawyer for appearing in vest||Madurai: A single judge of Madurai bench of Madras high court on Wednesday let off an advocate with a warning after he appeared for the virtual court proceedings wearing a vest. Owing to the pandemic, all cases are being heard through videoconferencing at the court. Specific instructions have been given to the advocates on the time to log in, method of filing affidavit and to keep their microphone in mute while the other advocates are arguing, to prevent disturbances. Instructions were also given to advocates to maintain proper dress code during the proceedings. All these instructions are mentioned in the cause list of the court uploaded everyday. According to sources, an advocate appeared in his ‘banian’ during court proceedings before the single judge on Wednesday. When the judge questioned his inappropriate attire, he immediately got up and moved away from the camera. Since he apologised, the judge let him off with a warning. In a similar instance, a man, likely an advocate, had appeared bare-bodied during the virtual court proceedings before a division bench at the principal seat recently. Unaware that he was visible, the man even pulled out a cigarette. When one of the judges intervened and warned him, he immediately disconnected. In another incident, the Tuticorin principal district and sessions judge had imposed a fine of Rs 200 on an advocate for uttering filthy cuss words instinctively on seeing a rashly driven car, forgetting that he was still in the middle of his argument in a virtual court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-ticks-off-lawyer-for-appearing-in-vest/articleshow/76863591.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Ward member self-isolates||Secunderabad: A Secunderabad cantonment Board (SCB) ward member has quarantined himself after attending the Haritha Haram programme held in the Cantonment as one of the other attendees tested positive for Covid-19. The ward member, along with animal husbandry ministry Talasani Srinivas Yadav attended the programme, where a former ward member was also present. The former ward member tested positive a day after the event and was subsequently admitted to a private hospital. After coming to know this, the ward member skipped the meeting with ministers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ward-member-self-isolates/articleshow/76738077.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Study: Knowledge gap on Covid in rural areas||Hyderabad: Knowledge gap exists on various fronts regarding the impact of Covid-19 in rural areas, revealed a study conducted by the University of Hyderabad. The study was commissioned by the UGC. As part of the study, 36 field investigators assisted by a core team of six university faculty members conducted a door-to-door survey, covering 342 households of five villages—Tellapur, Osman Nagar, Kolluru, Velmula and Vattinagulapally of Ranga Reddy and Sangareddy districts. Data collection was undertaken on five core aspects— awareness and implications, income and employment, social impact, health and administrative and policy measures. “The varsity undertook the study in a record time of just 10 days. We surveyed all households in a day and collected the required information,” said Srinivas Rao, one of the six faculty members, who led the study. “The communities and their respondents had awareness with respect to the term coronavirus. While the mode of spread, transmission, prevention and home remedies for boosting immunity seemed adequate, newer updates of symptoms, seeking testing when symptomatic and modalities to seek further treatment and management seemed inadequate. Myths, misconceptions and stigma does exist,” read the findings. UoH vice-chancellor Prof Appa Rao Podile encouraged the team to extend the study to six months in order to capture life changes before, during and after Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/study-knowledge-gap-on-covid-in-rural-areas/articleshow/76738084.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Caught for rash driving, driver sets self on fire||Udhagamandalam: A truck driver attempted to immolate himself inside the vehicle on Tuesday night after a sub-inspector (SI) inquired about his reckless driving that caused panic among the public, including motorists and pedestrians, in Nandhatti area in Gudalur taluk in the Nilgiris. According to an investigation officer, Thiagarajan was on his way back from Mysuru when people stopped him near Nandhatty for driving the truck in a rash and negligent manner. They then alerted the SI who was on traffic duty there. The officer said, “Thiagarajan seemed to be in an inebriated state. When the SI asked for his driving licence and other documents related to the vehicle, he went back to the truck. After a few minutes, they noticed fire inside the truck. Thiagarajan had set himself on fire after dousing himself with diesel that was kept in the truck.” The public and police immediately and took him to Gudalur government hospital with more than 40% burn injuries. He was later referred to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Pointing out that Thiagarajan’s brother Rajarathinam, and another 15 people were present at the spot, the officer said they had obtained statements from all of them. “We are yet to register a case.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/caught-for-rash-driving-driver-sets-self-on-fire/articleshow/76738075.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to restore private bus services||CHANDIGARH: Haryana government has decided to restore the operation of private buses plying under the state carriage scheme. The operation of these permit holders was suspended in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. An order for restarting the buses was issued on Wednesday by the transport commissioner. “The matter regarding operation of stage carriage buses has been examined and it has been observed that... the stage carriage schemes formulated by the government needs to be restored. It has accordingly been decided that... the buses will be operated in four lots in July,” says the order. As per the schedule, the first lot of buses (one fourth of the total buses) will ply from July 1 to 8, the second will be permitted to ply from July 9 to 16, the third lot from July 17 to 24 and the fourth from July 25 to August 1. However, only one fourth of total buses will be allowed to operate during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-restore-pvt-bus-services/articleshow/76738091.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand witnesses 20% rain deficit in first month of monsoon season||Dehradun: After witnessing significant pre-monsoon showers, Uttarakhand faced a rain deficit of 20% in the month of June— the first month of the four-month-long monsoon season. According to the regional meteorological department, the Himalayan state received 147.6mm of rain in the month of June, against the expected normal rainfall of 185.77 mm. Only three districts – Bageshwar, Pithoragarh and Udham Singh Nagar – received excess rainfall during the period, while the remaining 10 districts witnessed inadequate rains in June. While Bageshwar received 117% of excess rains, Udham Singh Nagar and Pithoragarh witnessed 17% and 12% more than normal showers, respectively. Uttarkashi, on the other hand, remained the driest district after recording 61% deficient rainfall. While, Pauri registered 53% less than normal rainfall, Dehradun recorded 33% less than normal. Director of regional meteorological centre Bikram Singh said, “As per figures, there has been subdued rain activity in Uttarakhand in the past one month. However, rain activity is likely to increase in the month of July.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-witnesses-20-rain-deficit-in-first-month-of-monsoon-season/articleshow/76737098.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Virtual lab at IIIT-H a hit with students during lockdown||HYDERABAD: Usage of science and engineering-related online laboratories has increased exponentially over the last six months, especially during lockdown, data released by the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H) has shown. According to a detailed analysis by the Virtual Labs initiative if IIIT-H, the cumulative page views of the laboratory material has increased from 6.28 lakh on March 25 to nearly 4 million as on June 29. “Thanks to the recent Covid-19 situation, we’ve seen a surge in the number of views. It just tells us how important these virtual labs are for students across the country and also the world”, said Venkatesh Choppella, the principal investigator for Virtual Labs, IIITH. Choppella said that typically, the outreach strategy adopted for the propagation of online lab usage is the ‘push’ mode where the team reaches out to institutions across the country by conducting workshops to enhance student participation. However, with the current situation, there has been a shift towards the ‘pull’ mode. “It is physically impossible to go to colleges now. So, we’ve had to rely on students going to the (Virtual Labs) website, discovering and using it without any intervention from us. These numbers are entirely pull-based,” he said, adding that with many colleges still unaware of these online resources, current outreach efforts through a webinar mode, in the absence of a physical presence, are being explored. From providing remote access to labs to a complete learning management system, the Virtual Labs initiative of the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) includes web-resources, video-lectures, demonstrations and self-evaluation for undergraduate and postgraduate students as well as research scholars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/virtual-lab-at-iiit-h-a-hit-with-students-during-lockdown/articleshow/76738102.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bareilly||Nepal officials stopped from burying body in Indian territory||BAREILLY: The first time, they said it was a mistake — the Mohana river had changed course. Five days later, it happened again. Against the backdrop of the India-Nepal border dispute, vigil had been stepped up along the India-Nepal border in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. But again on Tuesday night, health officials from the other side of the border tried to bury the body of an 11-year-old in Indian territory near the river at Gaurifanta in Lakhimpur Kheri.The explanation was the same — they thought it was Nepalese soil. “Our officials had been keeping an eye out for intruders. When we came to know that Nepalese nationals were here to bury a body, we informed local police and SSB officials. We had to speak with the Nepalese officials and send them back across the border,” said Manoj Sonkar, deputy director of the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (core). And there is more to it than border concerns. “Last Sunday, Nepal (health) officials had tried to bury the body of a Covid-19 patient. They did that again on Tuesday. This time, they said the child had died in a cylinder blast and not of Covid-19, but we couldn’t have risked it,” Sonkar said. Those on the other side of the border reiterated that a changing river course had made it difficult to understand border demarcations. To them, it was just a ritual. “Many living along the India-Nepal border are not aware of the complexities of the border and enter India to bury bodies like they used to do in the past. The Mohana river has changed its course and its banks now are within Indian territory,” said Munna Singh, Commandant of the 39th Battalion of SSB, which oversees the 62.9-km India-Nepal border in Lakhimpur Kheri. “We have held meetings with Nepal officials about this. They have installed signboards and have alerted the Sashastra Prahari Bal (Nepal’s armed police force) to ensure their people don’t breach the border for burials.” As for Tuesday’s attempted burial, the locals went back after being told where they were. Singh said, “When our jawans and Dudhwa forest officers told them they were in India, they went back to the Nepal side and buried the body there in our presence. We have been assured this won’t happen again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/for-the-third-time-in-2-weeks-nepal-officials-stopped-from-burying-body-in-indian-territory/articleshow/76735871.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Bangla gold, silver seizures point to bigger plot||Kolkata: Back to back seizures of gold biscuits and a huge quantity of silver ornaments by the Border Security Force (BSF) over the last two days has got officials wondering whether there is more to it than mere smuggling. On Monday, BSF troops stopped a vehicle moving towards the Indo-Bangladesh border near Swarupnagar in North 24 Parganas and seized nearly 26.9 kg silver ornaments from the vehicle. The two suspected smugglers Sadam Hussain Molla and Amirul Mistry succeeded in escaping after a mob gathered at the Hakimpur check post, nearly 600 metres from the International Border (IB). On Sunday, BSF troops seized six gold biscuits weighing nearly 699.10 grams from one Alamin Mondal in the Krishnanagar Sector in Nadia. While the silver is valued at nearly Rs 9.89 lakh, the gold biscuits are worth nearly Rs 34.25 lakh. While there seems to be no connection between the two incidents, several agencies are trying to find out the true motive behind smuggling out silver ornaments from India and bringing in gold. The BSF seized nearly 92.8 kg of silver ornaments in 2020 alone. “We now suspect that there is a link between the silver ornaments smuggled out and the gold brought in. Silver ornaments are in high demand in Bangladesh and there are several online stores selling them. This has led us to suspect that the gold that comes into India from across the border is their payment. After all, even 100 gm gold would be worth a lot of silver,” an official said. There is suspicion that gold of greater value is being smuggled into India and the additional amount could be reaching terror outfits like Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bangla-gold-silver-seizures-point-to-bigger-plot/articleshow/76726341.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 2, 2020||Nashik||185 fresh cases in city, 2 deaths||Nashik: The city has recorded 185 fresh Covid-19 patients in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 2,265. Two patients died due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the death toll to 107 in the city. As many as 98 patients have been discharged. With this, the total number of patients recovered is 1,029. The recovery rate of the city has also improved from 42% to 45.43%. The city has 1,129 active cases.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/185-fresh-cases-in-city-2-deaths/articleshow/76737101.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 2, 2020||Bareilly||Covid +ve siblings who tried to flee Sambhal caught after jt op||Bareilly: A man and his sister, who tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday and were kept in isolation, tried to escape from UP’s Sambhal district in their private vehicle. They were, however, later caught in a joint operation by the health department and Sambhal police. Police said that the duo had lost their father recently and the family did not approach the health department to collect his samples, but were suspicious. The health department authorities took cognizance and collected samples of the two family members who were found Covid-19 positive. SHO of Baniyather police station, Sambhal, Vikas Saxena told TOI, “Five people in Chandausi, including a brother-sister duo, were tested positive on Tuesday and the health department was gearing up to initiate the Covid protocol. However, the brother-sister duo, in order to escape isolation, left from their home in Chandausi. We were alerted by the Chandausi police, following which, there was intensive checking of all vehicles, and we finally managed to intercept their vehicle.” Sambhal's chief medical officer Dr Amita Singh said, “The two of them were admitted at TMU in Moradabad while their mother, wife and a three-year-old girl, who accompanied them in the car, have been placed under quarantine at a private facility in Sambhal. We have collected their samples, too. Reports are expected by Thursday.” In Sambhal district, as many as 352 Covid-19 cases were reported so far. Of these, 275 have recovered and discharged. At present, there are 70 active cases while seven deaths have been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-ve-siblings-who-tried-to-flee-sambhal-caught-after-jt-op/articleshow/76735857.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||GST collections: Telangana in top 10||HYDERABAD: Despite the state revenues seeing a dip and economic activity remaining sluggish due to Covid-19, Telangana had something to cheer.  Telangana was among the top 10 states in GST collections in the country. In June, the state’s collections stood at Rs 3,276 crore, while neighbouring AP’s GST tally was Rs 2,367 crore. Maharashtra, which is the worst-hit by Covid-19, however, topped the charts with Rs 15,143 crore collections in June, followed by Gujarat at Rs 6,424 crore. Telangana also has a better growth rate when compared to June last year’s collections. Telangana collected Rs 3,166 crore in last June, while AP’s collection was Rs 2,232 crore in the same period. Among the southern states, Telangana recorded a 3% growth rate over last June’s collection. AP had a 6% growth and Karnataka recorded just 1% growth from the last June’s collection. In March when the lockdown was imposed, Telangana had collected GST of Rs 3,563 crore. Along with Telangana, 15 other states have shown a positive growth from last year. Experts said a decline in GST revenues was expected due to economic activity coming to a near standstill. “But, once the economy is on the recovery path, the GST collections will improve in the coming months,” an expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gst-collections-telangana-in-top-10/articleshow/76738094.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||SEB, cops prepare for Unlock 2.0 challenges||VIJAYAWADA: The nascent Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), which was formed to curb illegal manufacturing and transportation of liquor, is getting ready for challenges ahead with Unlock 2.0 beginning. The Covid-19 lockdown helped police and SEB detect a significant number of cases as vehicular movement was restricted. As state borders are closed now, cops are checking every vehicle entering the state that makes it easy to detect illegal transportation of non-duty paid liquor (NDPL). Now with the beginning of Unlock 2.0, which has lifted the restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, including those for cross land-border trade under treaties with neighbouring countries, the vehicular traffic is likely to increase. It may then no longer be possible for the cops to check every vehicle entering the state. Hence, the SEB is preparing a roadmap for future challenges, which it may face once normalcy is stored. Speaking to TOI, the commissioner of SEB, Vinit Brijlal, said the SEB is still evolving. The department is being strengthened, and additional manpower is being inducted. “Building up of intelligence gathering network is a work in progress and we are enhancing our human and technical intelligence networks so as to be ready for future challenges,” he said. Brijlal said there might be a spurt in smuggling of NDPL after inter-state travel is allowed. However, there is no direct correlation between lifting of lockdown and increase in smuggling activity. “Regular people will not violate the law and carry large quantities of liquor. The habitual offenders are already doing it and they will continue to do in future for which we are preparing ourselves,” he said. Another aspect that the SEB is banking on is the new law, which is going to come to force soon. The state assembly has amended the AP Excise Act, which now specifically defines bootlegging. The maximum punishment for liquor smuggling has been raised to eight-year imprisonment from the existing five years. The Preventive Detention Act (PD Act) can also be invoked against repeat offenders, once the amendments are passed that is waiting for the governor’s assent, said Brijlal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-cops-prepare-for-unlock-2-0-challenges/articleshow/76737092.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli collector creates portal to increase farm loan disbursement||NAGPUR: Gadchiroli collector Deepak Singla launched a portal (www.kccgad.com) last week for farmers to enrol in and alert the district administration before applying for bank loans. The aim is to increase timely farm loans disbursement and reduce refusals by banks. Singla has appealed to farmers to take the help of volunteers to register in the newly launched portal before heading to the bank to file their applications. He has also issued warning the administration would withdraw government accounts from the banks if they refuse farm loans on untenable grounds. A target of disbursing 50% farm loans by July 15 has been set for the banks. It’s learnt that around 36% farm loans had been disbursed by June-end. The Gadchiroli district administration, after increasing the target of total farm loans disbursed to Rs390 crore from the existing Rs159 crore, has launched the farmer-friendly portal for loan aspirants. The volunteers, including around 600 ‘krushi mitras’ or friends of farmers, and ‘bank mitras’ or bank friends, have also been roped in to help farmers enrol on the portal. The kiosks helping as one-window system for filing various government applications and ground-level employees of agricultural department, like extension officers and agriculture assistants, would also be available for the farmers to seek assistance to access the portal. Singla said there are 1.30 lakh farmers in the district who can register on the portal, which will alert the administration about their intention to seek loans. “We have volunteers to help generate login IDs and passwords for every farmer. These farmers can enrol with simple documents like 7/12 extract and Aadhaar card. Once their enrolment is complete, the farmers will get a print out of the application which they are supposed to submit to the bank along with the details and documents, including self-declaration that there is no loan pending against them,” he said. Singla said farmers can also upload the acknowledgement from the bank on the portal using their log-in IDs so that district administration is also aware of their application. “The banks were found rejecting farm loan applications on flimsy grounds, or delaying it for various reasons. We are now set to monitor each and every application filed before them for loans and ensure they are disbursed timely,” he said. The Gadchiroli administration is also set to review banks every week so that loan application issues are regularly monitored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadchiroli-collector-creates-portal-to-increase-farm-loan-disbursement/articleshow/76738110.cms||Soumitra Bose
July 2, 2020||Chennai||Sathankulam deaths: Murder case on four policemen, SI arrested||TUTICORIN: The CB-CID wing of the Tamil Nadu police which has taken over the investigation of the alleged custodial torture and death of a father-son duo, P Jeyaraj and J Beniks, booked two suspended SIs and two constables of Sathankulam police station under Section 302 of the IPC for murders and arrested one of the SIs, Raghu Ganesh, on Wednesday. He was remanded in judicial custody late in the evening. CB-CID IG K Shankar, who is supervising the investigation, told TOI that 12 special teams had been formed under the leadership of CB-CID SP C Vijayakumar to investigate the case and carryout searches and arrest the remaining three accused SI Balakrishnan and constables Murugan and Muthuraj. “As of now, we have registered murder cases against four people. Whether more people are involved or not would be known only with the progress of the investigation,” Shankar said. Kovilpatti police had initially registered the cases as suspicious deaths. Though the state government had transferred the case to CBI, it was subsequently handed over to CB-CID on Tuesday as an interim measure following the intervention of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court to avoid delay in proceeding with the investigation and prevent tampering of evidence by Sathankulam local police. The conduct of the policemen was intimidating and non-cooperative when Kovilpatti judicial magistrate M S Bharathidasan carried out an inquest on Sunday. Relatives and friends of victims reacted to the arrest saying their fight for justice was yielding results.  “God has given us justice. We see judicial magistrate M S Bharathidhasan, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court which took suo motu cognisance of the case and everyone who supported us as messengers of God. All of them came forward to help us,” said P Pon Sekar, of one of the sons-in-law of Jeyaraj. The CB CID team visited Beniks’ mobile shop and made inquiries about the manner in which the two were arrested by Sathankulam police on June 19. The team then split into two. While one team visited the house of the deceased, the other team conducted inquiry at Sathankulam police station. Another team led by DSP Saravanakumar visited Kovilpatti sub jail, where the duo was lodged before their death. In the evening, Beniks’ friends appeared before the CB CID team and handed over pictures and video footages of the arrest. They also gave their statements as eye witnesses. Meanwhile, the relatives of the victims handed over vital evidences pertaining to the torture of Jeyaraj and Beniks to judicial magistrate M S Bharathidhasan on Tuesday evening. The evidences include blood stained shirt of Beniks, blood-stained car seat cover and bedsheet spread on the seat of the car in which Jeyaraj and Beniks were taken to Kovilpatti sub jail from Sathankulam on June 20 afternoon. The magistrate and forensic experts observed the car and took the evidences with them. The magistrate then visited Sathankulam hospital and checked the CCTV footage and conducted inquiry with the staff there. On Wednesday government doctor Vennila who had treated the father and son at Sathankulam hospital on June 20 for close to three hours, before they were produced in front of Sathankulam magistrate for remand, appeared before the magistrate conducting inquest at Tiruchendur. She explained the condition in which the victims were brought to the hospital and the treatment provided to them. Watch Four officers arrested in Tuticorin custodial death case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sathankulam-deaths-murder-case-on-four-policemen-si-arrested/articleshow/76738106.cms||M K Ananth
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||CNI schools in Kolkata slash fees by 25%||KOLKATA: City schools run by the Kolkata Diocese of Church of North India, or those where the Bishop is the chairman of the school board, have decided to waive 25% on certain heads in school fees from April to September. It was announced after a meeting chaired by Bishop Paritosh Canning and attended by principals of 13 schools at Bishop House on Wednesday. Among the principals who attended the meeting were those of the two La Martiniere schools, St James’, Pratt Memorial, St Paul’s Mission, both the St Thomas’ schools at Kidderpore, Union Chapel, St John’s Diocesan, Scottish Church Collegiate School, Christ Church Girls’ School, St Thomas’ Day School and St Thomas’, Howrah. The slash is being offered in computer, sports and games and library fees from April to September. While the first quarter just got over with the second quarter starting from Wednesday, many parents across schools are yet to pay fees for the first quarter. They can pay the arrears of the reduced amounts and those who have already given the earlier amounts, will be given refunds. Schools now hope parents would start paying after the announcement; at two of the CNI schools, only 30% parents have paid fees, while the average figure is 45% in others. After chief minister Mamata Banerjee requested institutions not to increase fees this year, CNI schools continued with the old structure. “By then, we had revised teachers’ salaries, based on Sixth Pay Commission. In one school, the salary was upgraded to Seventh Pay Commission grade. Though we have not hiked fees, we have not rolled back the teachers’ increments. Offering any waiver was becoming impossible but given the crisis and the requests, we have stretched ourselves to factor in this waiver,” Bishop Canning said, adding he hoped he had been able to address parents’ woes. Last month, a meeting of the association of the heads of Anglo Indian Schools was held, where fee rationalisation was discussed. CNI considered this an interference in its internal matters and nine schools walked out. Later, they re-joined after the Association requested the Bishop to re-consider his decision but the latter did not allow any of his principals to be part of decision-making groups of the Association. “We have to take our own decisions, according to the situation at our schools. These are our internal matters and decisions are taken at the right time,” Bishop Canning said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cni-schools-in-city-slash-fees-by-25/articleshow/76738114.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Disabled people’s org hold statewide stir||VISAKHAPATNAM: The National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) held a state-wide protest against the Andhra Pradesh police on Wednesday demanding that they register a case under Section 92 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, as well, against the deputy manager of the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation, C Bhaskar, who assaulted a differently-abled woman colleague on June 30. Besides holding protest march in seven districts – Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari, Krishna, Anantapuram, Chittoor and Praksham — members of the NPRD met the top brass of Nellore police over their demand. “The police have acted promptly in registering a case against the perpetrator of the violence. But unfortunately, they have not invoked Section 92 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. Even in the past police in Andhra Pradesh have not included sections of this Act whenever there has been complaint of differently-abled persons being assaulted. We want the Nellore police to include this section in the FIR,” Muralidharan, national general secretary of NPRD told TOI from New Delhi headquarters of the organisation. If anybody is found guilty under this section, he/she shall be punished with imprisonment for a term, which shall not be less than six months but which may extent to five years and a fine. On Tuesday, when the differently abled women, Ch Usha Rani, a senior assistant at APTDC, asked her deputy manager to wear a mask, he was infuriated and rained blows on her. A CCTV-footage of the incident, which was leaked online, went viral. Police has initiated a case under IPC Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 355 (assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person) and 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means). “The footage itself is disturbing. It showed, while a few employees did try to intervene and restrain the officer, none came forward to assist the disabled woman who had fallen down and helped her back to her seat and gain composure. If you don’t take timely action such incidents will be repeated” added Muralidharan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/disabled-peoples-org-hold-statewide-stir/articleshow/76737109.cms||Arpit Basu
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||66 fresh cases, including 8 Army jawans, surface in U’khand||Dehradun: The Covid-19 tally in Uttarakhand reached 2,947 after 66 fresh cases, including eight Army personnel, were reported on Wednesday. According to the health department, 20 positive cases were reported from Dehradun. A healthcare professional and eight Army personnel — who had travelled to different states like Rajasthan, Haryana, Karnataka, Jabalpur and West Bengal — were also among the new cases found in the capital city. “Nainital reported 22 cases, followed by nine cases from Uttarkashi, five from Almora, four from Tehri and two each from Udham Singh Nagar, Champawat, and Haridwar districts," said Abhishek Tripathi, health directorate at Covid-19 war room, Uttarakhand. On the day, 86 cases recovered from the virus. Now, the recovery rate of the state has reached 78.62%. Meanwhile, annoyed with salary deduction and delay in service contract guidelines, the lab technicians from across Uttarakhand staged a protest by wearing black bands at work on the occasion of World Doctors Day (July 1). Manoj Mishra, general secretary of Uttarakhand Lab Technician Association, said that the lab technicians have been working continuously without any day off since March. “Deduction of our salary is injustice. In many cases, our contracts are also pending. The government doesn’t give us any TA/DA or extra perks,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/66-fresh-cases-including-8-army-jawans-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/76737132.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: PGIMS to conduct Covid-19 vaccine trial||CHANDIGARH: The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, is preparing to conduct a trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of an inactivated vaccine for Covid-19. In a press release issued on Wednesday, the institute said, “The safety of this vaccine has already been proven in animal studies by Bharat Biotech, a Hyderabad-based company who is also the developer of this vaccine. This trial is planned to be conducted in two phases: a seamless phase 1, followed by phase 2 randomised, double-blind, multicenter study to evaluate the safety, reactogenicity, tolerability and immunogenicity of the Whole-Virion Inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine in healthy volunteers.” PGIMS stated clearance from the institute’s ethical committee had been taken. Approval from CDSCO, the apex body for ethical clearance for all studies in India, had also been taken for the study. PGIMS stated 12 centres all over India had been given permission to conduct this study. The principle investigator for this study would be Dr Savita Verma, professor in the PGIMS department of pharmacology, while the Co-PIs would be Dr Dhruva Chaudhry, state nodal officer, Haryana for Cobid-19 along with Dr Ramesh Verma, professor in the department of community medicine. The institute mentioned volunteers participating in the endeavour would be looked after well to manage any mild or serious side effects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgims-to-conduct-covid-vaccine-trial/articleshow/76738097.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Declare health emergency in Telangana: Revanth Reddy writes to PM Modi||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Wednesday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to declare a health emergency in Telangana and also take over the healthcare to avoid mismanagement and further deaths in the state. “Health is a fundamental right of the citizens. A central team should be sent here immediately to monitor and supervise the Covid situation. A central vigilance commission team should be appointed and sent to probe donations to CM Relief Fund,” Revanth stated in the letter.  He urged the central government to take over private medical colleges and utilize quarantine and isolation facilities for the poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/declare-health-emergency-in-state-revanth-writes-to-pm/articleshow/76738098.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nashik||Ayurvedic clinic set up in city to boost immunity||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Wednesday inaugurated the first ayurvedic immunity clinic in Gangapur Road area of the city, through video conference. The first-of-its-kind clinic has been set up to boost the immunity of residents in order to prevent contracting Covid-19. Bhujbal said that such kind of Ayurvedic immunity clinic will help provide scientific knowledge about boosting immunity among people as good immunity will prevent chances of contracting the infection. The patients will also recover faster if their immunity is better and in turn will also help to reduce the death rate, said Bhujbal. This clinic will inform people about the diet that needs to be followed, and how to boost their immunity. District civil surgeon Suresh Jagdale was also present during the digital inauguration of the ayurvedic immunity clinic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ayurvedic-clinic-set-up-in-city-to-boost-immunity/articleshow/76737197.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra govt gets NGT notice over illegal sand mining||VIJAYAWADA: The southern zone bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in Chennai issued fresh notices to the state on Wednesday over illegal sand mining in East Godavari district. Two petitions were filed by E Venkatapathi Raju, one seeking the tribunal’s intervention in preventing illegal sand mining at Rajole, Antarvedi and other parts of the district. The second petition was filed against the rampant and illegal cultivation of prawns in coastal areas of East Godavari. Hearing the first petition, the NGT observed that it is the duty of the government to protect natural resources belonging to the public. Further, the bench ordered the government to constitute an expert committee to assess the loss to the environment in the region and served notices to the government on illegal sand mining in parts of the state, mainly in East Godavari. The NGT served notices to the AP government, ministry of environment and forests, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and ministry of mines. The tribunal also ordered AP Coastal Regulatory Authority, East Godavari district collector, ministry of environment and CPCB to constitute a panel to submit a detailed report on illegal sand mining in East Godavari district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-gets-ngt-notice-over-illegal-sand-mining/articleshow/76737124.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: Jind MC sacks sanitation staff who aided Covid-19 fight||JIND: Around 70 sanitation workers of Jind municipal committee (MC), who had been contracted through outsourcing and had been working amid the Covid-19 pandemic, have been sacked after the civic body got a sweeping machine from the state government. The workers claimed that they had even been honoured for their services amid the pandemic, but they were now being left high and dry. Shubham Singh, a sanitation worker, said they had even sanitised quarantine centres and suspected areas. When contacted, Jind MC executive officer (EO) said the state government had sent a sweeping machine, so thet did not require the workers anymore. “We had outsourced them through a contractor and now services have been terminated,” he said. Shubham Singh demanded that they be reinstated to the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/jind-mc-sacks-sanitation-staff-who-aided-covid-fight/articleshow/76738112.cms||Vijender Kumar
July 2, 2020||Business||Dr Reddy’s in pact with Fujifilm for making, selling Covid-19 drug Favipiravir||Hyderabad: After entering into a non-exclusive licencing agreement with Gilead Sciences Inc for manufacturing and marketing investigational Covid-19 drug Remdesivir, Hyderabad-based pharma major Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd is now partnering Fujifilm Toyama Chemical Co Ltd, which is part of Fujifilm Corporation, and Global Response Aid (GRA) for the development, manufacture and sale of potential Covid-19 treatment drug Favipiravir under the Avigan brand name. Dr Reddy’s said that under the tripartite agreement, it will get exclusive rights to manufacture Fujifilm’s Avigan tablets. Fujifilm will be granting Dr Reddy’s the right to use Avigan’s patents of formulation and manufacturing method. The Japanese player has also granted Dr Reddy’s and GRA the rights to develop, sell and distribute Avigan across the world, except Japan, China and Russia. Fujifilm will receive an upfront license fee and royalties on sales from Dr Reddy’s and GRA. The pact also gives Dr Reddy’s exclusive rights for the development, sale and distribution of Avigan in India. As part of the tie-up, Fujifilm will also provide Dr Reddy’s and GRA data on Avigan’s preclinical and clinical studies, which the two players can use for clinical studies targeting Covid-19 in regions where the infection has been spreading. Dr Reddy’s said it will be establishing a setup for manufacturing drugs of the same quality as Avigan and will utilize GRA’s global sales network to supply the manufactured drugs swiftly and in a stable manner. The Fujifilm Group is currently conducting a clinical study on Avigan targeting Covid-19 patients in Japan and the US, and is working on ramping up the drug’s production by partnering with domestic and overseas players. This is the second time that Dr Reddy’s has entered into a partnership with Fujifilm. In July 2011, the two had inked an MoU for setting up an exclusive partnership in the generic drugs business for the Japanese market and to establish a joint venture in Japan. The MoU was, however, terminated in June 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dr-reddys-in-pact-with-fujifilm-for-making-selling-covid-19-drug-favipiravir/articleshow/76738108.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana lays stress strengthening delivery facilities||Chandigarh: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Haryana government has laid emphasis on strengthening delivery facilities in public and private health institutions across the state to ensure safe and uninterrupted institutional delivery facilities being given to pregnant women.An official said in non-Covid hospitals a provision for separate LDR room i.e. (labour, delivery, and recovery) has been made. Along with this, a facility of an isolation ward for delivery and admission of Covid-positive pregnant cases has also been made, in case where it is not possible to send pregnant women to special Covid hospitals.He said entry point screening for pregnant women present in obstetric unit triaging is being done to minimise contact between probable Covid and non-Covid cases. Besides this, home distribution of essential medicines like IFA, calcium and albendazole is being given by ASHAs and ANMs in their respective areas.He said a list of high-risk pregnancy cases is being made and shared with district control rooms and ASHAs, ANMs, MO, who are in-charge of their respective areas, so that such pregnant women can be sent to hospitals, who need higher facilities.The contact number of ASHAs, ANMs and gynaecologists have also been shared with high-risk pregnant cases. Besides this, during the last trimester high-risk pregnant women are contacted telephonically by ASHAs, ANMs to inquire about their health status for timely referral to hospitals for delivery, he said.During the Covid-19 crisis, telemedicine services are being provided to give consultation to pregnant women or answer any query asked by them regarding the safety of institutional deliveries.Deliveries during Covid-19 periodA comparison of the pre-Covid period (April 2019 to February 2020) and Covid period (March to May 2020) and analysis of delivery data from HMIS portal shows that out of the total reported deliveries in Haryana during the pre-Covid period, 95.8% were institutional deliveries, while during the Covid period, there were 95.4 % institutional deliveries.Similarly, the percentage of public institutional deliveries is 59.3% in pre-Covid period and 59.4 % during Covid-19 period. Percentage of private institutional deliveries is 40.7% in pre-Covid period and 40.6 % during ovid-19 period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-lays-stress-strengthening-delivery-facilities/articleshow/76738116.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||Cong protests against fuel price hike||Rudrapur: Congress functionaries in Rudrapur pulled tractors with ropes on Wednesday to protest against the fuel price hike. The party workers accused the Centre of adding to the hardships of the farmers who already have suffered a financial hit due to Covid-19 outbreak. The protesters, who gathered at the city's Bhura Rani colony, said that the rising prices of petrol and diesel have led to skyrocketing of the rates of essentials like vegetables and fruits. Notably, diesel price has been hiked 22 times and the petrol price has been raised 21 times since June 7 with a cumulative increase of Rs 11.14 and Rs 9.17 respectively. Sushil Gava, general secretary of district Congress, said, "Farmers cannot afford the running cost of tractors now as there has been a steep hike in the price of diesel." Meanwhile, Sanjay Juneja, president of the City Traders' Union, also termed the oil price hike an unjust move. The protestors asked the central government to roll back the fuel prices with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-protests-against-fuel-price-hike/articleshow/76737136.cms||Aakash Ahuja
July 2, 2020||Bareilly||Man who climbed 200 ft-high power tower over property dispute rescued after 24 hrs||Bareilly: A man, who had climbed a high-tension electricity tower on Tuesday as he was upset over a property dispute in the family, was rescued by a team of police and fire brigade personnel on Wednesday after over 24 hours. The incident took place in Baldevpuri area under Katghar police station in Moradabad district of Uttar Pradesh.The man, identified as Manoj Kumar, had climbed atop the 200 ft-high electricity tower in a fit of rage after an argument with his father. Local people said that, initially, they assumed that some lineman or someone associated with the power department had climbed the tower for repair work. However, when the man did not come down for several hours, anxious people enquired about him, only to find out that he was Manoj. The police was informed following which a team of fire brigade and police personnel arrived at the spot to rescue him. The police initially tried to persuade Monoj to come down, but since he had climbed very high he was unable to hear anything properly. After repeated requests, Manoj agreed to come down requesting police not to take any legal action against him. Circle officer, Katghar police station, Poonam Sirohi said, “We managed to bring him down around 10:30 am and he was arrested. A case has been registered against him under section 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC and section 140 (penalty for intentionally injuring works) and section 151 of CrPC (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offenses).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-who-climbed-200-ft-high-power-tower-over-property-dispute-rescued-after-24-hrs/articleshow/76735928.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||30% of agri, horti, aqua & dairy items to be sold at Janata Bazaars||VIJAYAWADA: Janata Bazaars are set to play a key role in finding markets for agriculture products in the days to come. The state government has moved to open over 1,100 Janata Bazaars across the state, most of them connected to village secretariats and Rythu Bharosa Kendras. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed officials of the state agriculture and marketing departments to start establishing the bazaars in every village and keep them ready for the present Kharif season. The chief minister held a review meet with the officials of the agriculture department at the camp office in Tadepalli on Wednesday. While the Rythu Bharosa Kendras were established to help farmers get quality seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and other agriculture inputs, the Janata Bazaars, besides the market yards, would provide a market platform to the farmers to sell their produce from this Kharif season. They would also be connected with the e-marketing network, which would help the farmers find better price and market for their produce. “The prices come down when the produce is about to reach the market and the prices go up once the farmers sell the product at the lowest price in distress. It is here that the government should intervene and maintain a balance in the market,” the chief minister said. The Janata Bazaars should also make available aqua products like fish and prawns and dairy products like milk, he said and added that 30% of agriculture, horticulture, aquaculture and dairy products should be sold in the bazaars to the locals people, which would allow farmers to get better prices and customers get better quality products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/30-of-agri-horti-aqua-dairy-items-to-be-sold-at-janata-bazaars/articleshow/76737145.cms||Gopi Dara
July 2, 2020||Bareilly||Negligent policing & lenient prosecution lets Pilibhit wildlife criminals off the hook, accuse enthusiasts||Pilibhit: Wildlife enthusiasts have expressed deep concern about lack of enforcement that has let wildlife criminals off the hook in Pilibhit. Demanding UP principal secretary (forest) Sudhir Garg’s intervention to ensure disciplinary action against defaulting officials, they pointed at the apathetic attitude of police in enforcing stringent action against wildlife criminals, as well as the sloppy role of prosecution in effectively opposing bail applications of the latter in courts. They were referring to the arrest of a mere four of the 43 people who were booked in July last year for the brutal killing of a tigress, as well as the prompt grant of bail to all 23 people who were arrested for rioting, arson, sabotage and firing at Mala forest range office on June 8 this year. On July 24, 2019, an aggressive mob from village Mataina, under Puranpur Kotwali police station, killed an adult tigress inside the core forest area of Deuria forest range inside Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) by brutally beating it with sticks and spears, after partially crippling it by feeding it poisoned food. Toxicological examination of the tigress had revealed positive traces of an insecticide belonging to the pyrethroid group in its liver and stomach. The most alarming aspect of the entire episode was the fact that the furious villagers had dared cops and the forest force that they would kill the tigress in their presence, and carried out their promise. Later, following a complaint filed by forest inspector Dinesh Giri, cops had booked as many as 31 named and 12 unidentified accused in the matter on July 25. Updated record of police proceedings in the matter show the cops have so far arrested four of the accused and sent them to jail, but are yet to identify the 12 unnamed accused. They finally filed a chargesheet against five of the named accused on September 11, 2019, although probe against 27 others is still pending. Police records also show as many as 15 of the named accused have succeeded in obtaining stay order on their arrest from Allahabad high court. In his letter sent to Sudhir Garg on Wednesday, a former member of the Uttarakhand state wildlife board, Kaushalendra Singh, alleged that Pilibhit police were lackadaisical in arresting all the accused in the heinous crime, as a result of which, many of them managed to find protection under the high court’s stay order. “The physical arrest of merely four of the 43 accused in a heinous crime not only stigmatises the policing system, but also raises suspicions about the integrity of the law-keepers,” Singh said. “I’ve also drawn the attention of the principal secretary towards the heedless role of departmental counsels and the public prosecutor, in opposing the bail applications of the 23 who were nabbed for vandalising the Mala forest range office, setting a large part of it to fire along with a number of vehicles, and shooting at the police on the night of June 8. As a result, the court of additional district and session’s judge (third) Amarjeet Verma granted bail to all of the accused on June 25,” Singh said. On being asked about it, PTR field director H Rajamohan said, “I’ll write letters to the district magistrate, the SP and the district government counsel regarding the cynical role of the public prosecutor, Kush Kumar Verma. I’ll also call for the explanation of the departmental lawyers in this regard.” Regarding the case of the killing of the tigress, he said, “I met the deputy inspector general of police (Bareilly range) twice, to press the demand for arresting all 43 accused, but in vain.” Newly appointed Pilibhit SP Jai Prakash Yadav said he was not aware of the matter, so it would be too early for him to make any comment on the role of Puranpur police. “Now that the matter has come to my notice, I’ll look into it with all seriousness,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/negligent-policing-lenient-prosecution-lets-pilibhit-wildlife-criminals-off-the-hook-accuse-enthusiasts/articleshow/76735936.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana announces summer vacation in schools till July 26||CHANDIGARH: Haryana education minister Kanwar has Pal said that all government and private schools across the state shall remain closed from July 1 to 26 for summer vacation. During the vacation, there is no need for teachers and non-academic staff to be present in the schools. Subsequently, from July 27, the school will reopen for teachers and non-academic staff only and the students will not attend school. However, the Union home ministry will issue necessary guidelines regarding the decision to permit students to attend schools after the re-opening of schools as per the circumstances prevailing at that time. Giving more information, he said during the summer vacation the ‘Chief Minister’s Distance Education Programme’ will continue to function. The teachers and students can watch the class wise, subject wise broadcast which will be telecasted on Edusat from their respective homes through DTH, cable TV, Jio TV.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/state-announces-summer-vacation-in-schools-till-july-26/articleshow/76738120.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||RS-elect members Pilli, Mopidevi quit as MLCs, to resign cabinet post soon||Vijayawada: Ministers Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose and Mopidevi Venkata Ramana quit their MLC posts on Wednesday following their election to Rajya Sabha. They, however, continue to be cabinet members and it is likely that they would resign as ministers before taking oath as Rajya Sabha members. The two were elected to Rajya Sabha, besides two others from the ruling YSRC in the June 19 election, filling the four vacancies caused by the retirement of two Congress members and one each from TDP and TRS. -Gopi.Dara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rs-elect-members-pilli-mopidevi-quit-as-mlcs-to-resign-cabinet-post-soon/articleshow/76737179.cms||Gopi Dara
July 2, 2020||Amritsar||Dental students assn writes to Capt to defer BDS exams||Bathinda: Raising voice for long for the postponement of their exams, the Dental Students Association of Punjab (DSAP) wrote a letter to Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday, reiterating their demand. The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), which conducts the exams of medical courses, has scheduled exams of Bachelor of Dental Science (BDS) students from July 7 and has rejected the demand for postponing the exams. The Dental Surgeons Association of India (DSAI) and a student have filed two petitions in the Punjab and Haryana high court, praying for postponement of the exams. The court has listed the petitions for Thursday. DSAI national secretary Dr Robin Malik told TOI that the petition had been filed for postponement of the exams of BDS students and the petition is listed for July 2. The DSAP in its letter to the CM has written that the BFUHS vice-chancellor is alleging that only the dental students who are not capable of clearing the exam are asking for postponement and seeking to be promoted to the next semester, while none of the medical students have made such a demand. They wrote that the students never made such demand for promotion to the next semester. Rather, they just wanted exams to be postponed till normalcy is restored in state. They further wrote that the number of cases and fatalities are increasingly each day and June 30 had recorded the maximum deaths in a day. Some of the students are still stuck in other states. Keeping in mind the current situation of pandemic, they demanded postponement of the exams and not cancellation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/dental-students-assn-writes-to-capt-to-defer-bds-exams/articleshow/76738122.cms||Neel Kamal
July 2, 2020||Agra||Two Covid-19 +ve patients die in Agra||Agra: Two Covid-19 positive patients passed away in west UP's Agra district on Wednesday. The two deceased were a 65-year-old man of Chatta Bazaar and a 35-year-old woman of Saiyan block - both suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome. The Covid-19 patients died of co-morbid conditions. So far, 89 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Also, at least 14 new positive cases surfaced on Wednesday, taking the district tally to 1,241. These included four inmates of a temporary jail and a 75-year-old man of an old age home. Ten Covid-19 patients were also discharged on Wednesday. Of the 1,241 cases reported in the district, 83.07% have been declared cured and discharged. There are 122 active Covid-19 cases in the district. In Meerut, the Covid-19 tally reached 1,012, including one found in Kanpur, after 13 new cases were reported in the district on Wednesday, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer. The positive cases included an insurance agent, a garment shop owner and a student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-covid-19-ve-patients-die-in-agra/articleshow/76735960.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal government suspends Covid test at private lab||KOLKATA: One of the biggest private labs in the city conducting Covid tests was served a temporary closure notice by the state health department for reportedly violating ICMR guidelines. The lab was directed to stop collecting new samples and carrying out tests till the health department confirmed that the lapses were rectified. This was the first time that such a notice was served on a laboratory in the state. According to health officials, a team from Swasthya Bhawan visited two private labs—Suraksha Diagnostics Pvt Ltd and Dr Lal PathLabs—both located in New Town on Tuesday, to verify if they followed the ICMR guidelines for conducting Covid tests. Sources said Suraksha was found not to be complying with some of the protocols that ICMR has set up for labs carrying out Covid tests. The temporary closure notice mentioned that decontamination of the surfaces in the lab and equipment was not done according to the guidelines and that an SOP on detecting Covid-19 was not available at the lab. “Other labs, too, will be inspected as and when required,” said director of health services Ajay Chakraborty. “Significant anomaly was detected in the growth curve (for positive cases), suggesting technical knowledge and non-confirmatory to RT-PCR Covid-19 testing protocol,” the notification stated. Absence of a microbiologist, unavailability of lists of technical staffers involved in testing and no quality check were some of the other reported reasons. “We stopped taking samples from Wednesday after the getting the directive from the health department. We have started working on the recommendations, such as decontamination. Once we rectify all the lapses that have been pointed, we will again make an application so that we can start testing,” said Suraksha director Somnath Chatterjee. Suraksha is among the 15 NABL-accredited private labs conducting Covid tests in the state. Suraksha, along with Dr Lal PathLabs, has been testing major chunks of Covid samples in the private sector. The lab, which gets samples from about 15 hospitals in the city and also offers the facility of home collection, had slashed testing rate to Rs 2,250 before the government capped the cost across all private labs. “We had been sending our samples to Suraksha for about a month now. We will have to look for another lab as it has stopped taking samples,” said child intensivist Prabhas Prasun Giri at Institute of Child Health. Health experts said the closure would add to the pressure on other labs, which would lead to delayed reports and a fall in the number of overall tests. Health department officials, however, said the closure was temporary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-suspends-covid-test-at-private-lab/articleshow/76738125.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
July 2, 2020||Business||GMM Pfaudler to acquire De Dietrich’s unit in Hyderabad||Hyderabad: GMM Pfaudler Ltd (GMMP), which supplies process equipment to the pharmaceutical and chemical industries, on Wednesday said it has entered into an agreement with De Dietrich Process Systems India Pvt Ltd (DDPSI) for acquiring the latter’s glass lined equipment manufacturing facility at Nacharam in Hyderabad. GMM Pfaudler said it has signed a binding term sheet for the proposed acquisition of the facility, which is spread across 6 acres, for a consideration of Euro 6.25 million. The transaction is subject to completion of the final due diligence and other documentation. The company informed the bourses that it inked the binding term sheet with DDPSI, which is a subsidiary of France’s De Dietrich Process System, on June 30, 2020, and said it expects to complete the acquisition by July 31, 2020. GMM Pfaudler managing director Tarak Patel said the strategic acquisition will give the company access to readymade glass lined equipment manufacturing capacity and help it strengthen its presence in the region. “We are now well poised to take advantage of the expected investment in the upcoming Pharma City in Hyderabad and maintain our market leadership position in India,” Patel said. The company was initially mulling a greenfield manufacturing facility in Pharma City and had also taken the approval for its board for the same but decided to take the acquisition route as the opportunity came up, a company spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gmm-pfaudler-to-acquire-de-dietrichs-unit-in-hyderabad/articleshow/76738132.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Trichy||Missing girl, 7, found dead in waterbody||Trichy: A seven-year-old girl was found dead in a waterbody in Pudukottai district on Wednesday. According to police officials, the girl was suspected to have undergone sexual assault. The girl has been missing since Tuesday afternoon following which relatives carried out a search. During the search on Wednesday, the relatives found her body in a nearby waterbody. Preliminary investigation reveals that the girl was sexually assaulted before she was killed and thrown into the waterbody. However, it can only be confirmed after getting the postmortem report, said a senior police official. Two people were detained in connection with the incident and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/missing-girl-7-found-dead-in-waterbody/articleshow/76738905.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Amritsar||PPE scam: Amritsar medical college principal replaced||AMRITSAR: Amid the ongoing investigations into the alleged scam in the purchase of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits by the managements of the Government Medical College (GMC) and Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) in Amritsar, the state government on Wednesday replaced principal and vice-principal of the GMC and transferred head of department of medicine even as the investigation team recorded statements of 12 persons, including doctors and other staff members. Principal secretary (medical education and research) D K Tiwari replaced GMC principal Dr Sujata Sharma with professor in radiotherapy department, Dr Rajiv Kumar Devgun, and vice-principal Dr Veena Valecha withprofessor in anatomy department, Dr Jagdev Singh Kular. Tiwari’s notification regarding the replacements states that the decision had been taken owing to administrative reasons and in public interest. However, paramedical and health employees’ coordination committee chairman Narinder Singh alleged that there had been various anomalies in both GMC and GNDH and the replacement and transfer of head of the medicine department were the result of those alleged irregularities. After taking over as principal, Devgun said the head of medicine department, Dr Shiv Charan, had been transferred to the medicine department in Government Medical College, Patiala. On June 23, in a letter to Punjab State Planning Board principal secretary, ministry of statistics and programme implementation deputy secretary Raj Krishan Bhoria had expressed concern over the delay in completion of probe into the purchase of PPE kits and other Covid-related equipment. Aujla had written a letter to the ministry on June 16, with a copy to chief minister Amarinder Singh, suggesting foul play in the purchase of kits and equipment by GNDH from the Rs 1 crore fund allocated from his MPLAD scheme. In April, Amritsar deputy commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon had marked an investigation after many doctors and paramedical staff refused to wear them. The probe was led by Dr Pallavi Chaudhary, then additional deputy commissioner (D), who was transferred but is now heading the probe in the capacity of chief administrator of Amritsar Development Authority. Devgun said, “I have just joined the the office of principle of GMC and don’t have the details. The scam, if any, will be revealed in due course of investigations.” Sources said among those who recorded statements with the probe team include nursing union president Narinder Bhuttar and corona ward in charge Vishnu. On Tuesday, the team had recorded statements of 20 doctors. GMC and GNDH managements had purchased around 3,500 PPE kits from three suppliers for around Rs 17 lakh, Rs 13 lakh and Rs 41 lakh, but were of pooor quality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/ppe-scam-asr-medical-college-principal-replaced/articleshow/76738123.cms||Yudhvir Rana
July 2, 2020||Trichy||6 wards in Srirangam to get water supply only once a day||Trichy: Trichy Corporation has restricted the piped water supply of 20,000 water connections in Srirangam to only once a day. Since the decision was taken because of a marginal dip in the water yield, the civic body urged Srirangam residents to use water judiciously.For the Wards 1 to 6 in Srirangam zone of the corporation comprising the entire Srirangam island including Thiruvanaikovil, located between Cauvery and Kollidam rivers, the civic body traditionally supplies drinking water twice a day. In the morning, the island residents get water from 5am to 8am, and between 5 pm to 6 pm in the evening.So far, as the drinking water yield sourced from Kollidam river bed was adequate, officials said that they managed to supply water twice a day to Srirangam even in summer. But, for the past one week, the civic body maintained that yield in Aalavanthan ghats in Kollidam river bed is decreasing. The move to curtail water supply implemented on Tuesday was questioned by the Srirangam residents. The civic body officials reasoned that water only flows through the Cauvery river but not in Kollidam. “It will take a minimum of two weeks for Kollidam to recharge through the water flow in Cauvery. Till then, the evening water supply will be suspended,” a corporation official added. Officials said that water wastage is a concern in Srirangam as the residents are supplied with the abundant quantum of drinking water compared to rest of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6-wards-in-srirangam-to-get-water-supply-only-once-a-day/articleshow/76738911.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Markfed begins buying tobacco stock||ONGOLE: What comes as a relief to tobacco growers, public sector marketing agency, AP Markfed (Andhra Pradesh State Co-operative Marketing Federation Ltd) has began purchasing stock from the auction platform in the district. The market intervention operations commenced from Ongole-2 platform on Wednesday that will be extended to Ongole-1 platform from Thursday. This is the first time in the history of the state that the government has directly entered the market to purchase tobacco stock. Taking into account the grim situation at auction platforms, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy had directed the agriculture department to float a separate entity exclusively to purchase tobacco stocks from the growers. After studying the issues involved in the purchasing of tobacco, a regulated crop in the country, the state government decided to utilise the services of Markfed instead of setting up a new entity. Agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu said they would procure all grades of tobacco, including the low-grade varieties, in view of the growers’ plight. “We are stepping in to bail out the farmers from the deep crisis. We will purchase all varieties,” said Kannababu. The minister also said they would be closely watching the purchases by traders and not hesitate to suspend their licenses if they were found inactive on the auction market. Meanwhile, marketing commissioner PS Pradyumna held discussions with senior officials of Markfed and members of the tobacco board on Wednesday and closely monitored the purchases from the commissionerate. Tobacco board superintendent of auctions Divi Venugopal said the entry of Markfed would help the growers sell their stocks early. The growers have been struggling for the past four months to clear their stocks as auctions were suspended during the lockdown and even after they were reopened, markets were sluggish with few traders buying the stock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/markfed-begins-buying-tobacco-stock/articleshow/76737200.cms||Samdani MN
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||Yamunotri priests begin indefinite protest against Char Dham Devasthanam Board||Uttarkashi: Amid state government's efforts to begin Char Dham Yatra, now priests of the Yamunotri temple – on the lines of Kedarnath and Gangotri temple priests – have begun a protest from Wednesday against the formation of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board by Uttarakhand government. The priests, who are staging an indefinite dharna at the Yamuna temple in Kharsali village, have demanded that the state government dissolve the board, whose formation is allegedly affecting their ancestral rights. They have also expressed displeasure over the starting of Char Dham Yatra by the government, despite increasing cases of Covid-19 in the state. “Since ages, the priest community has been taking care of all activities in the ancient temples. However, the government has suddenly taken all control in their hands, which is unbearable. We will continue the protest until our demands are fulfilled,” said Kriteshwar Uniyal, secretary of Yamunotri Temple Committee. Besides, priests have also opposed the decision of starting Char Dham Yatra and declared to not provide any facility to the pilgrims. A priest at the Yamunotri shrine Purushotam Uniyal said, “This is not the right time to start the yatra as it may enable spread of the virus in the shrine premises, along with other nearby villages. As a precautionary measure, we will not allow any pilgrim to offer prayers in the temple. We will also put a ban on taking holy dip in Tapt Kund (hot water spring) if we find that it poses risk for priests and local villagers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yamunotri-priests-begin-indefinite-protest-against-char-dham-devasthanam-board/articleshow/76737195.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD asks Punjab to withdraw power bills||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal will hold statewide protests in front of Punjab State Power Coroporation Limited (PSPCL) offices to demand withdrawal of bills sent to traders and industrialists for the lockdown period. SAD trade and industry wing president N K Sharma said described the power discom’s move to send bills to traders by taking out an average of previous bills as “most shameful”. He said the date for protests will be announced soon. He said businesses were shut due to the lockdown and failed to earn a single penny, but the PSPCL had shown disregard and prepared infated power bills. Sharma added they also wanted the PSPCL to allow traders and industrialists to pay their future bill in installments over the next six months. He said no interest should be charged for this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-asks-pb-to-withdraw-power-bills/articleshow/76738129.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Withdraw anti-farmer ordinances, farm outfits in Punjab urge Centre||Chandigarh: Leaders of major farmer unions of Punjab on Wednesday unanimously passed a resolution, urging the Centre to reconsider and withdraw the same.Participating in a video conference meeting convened by chief minister Amarinder Singh, the union leaders said the recently promulgated ordinances and the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003, are perceived as being strongly anti-farmer. “These ordinances and the proposed amendment are also a direct attack on the federal fabric of the country and, therefore, must be withdrawn,” they said in a unanimous resolution passed at the end of the meeting.Underlining the need to protect Punjab and its farming needs, Amarinder earlier asserted that “we all must unitedly stand together, notwithstanding our political affiliations.” He said he was fully prepared to take any steps necessary to protect the interests of the state and its farmers, as he had done over the SYL water sharing issue.Accusing the Centre of trying to take away powers from the states, the chief minister said, “We should raise a united voice to send a strong message to Delhi that we will not allow this to happen. ”He assured the union representatives that he was ready to make any sacrifice to protect farmers from these “anti-farmer and anti-state” ordinances, which were a blatant attack on the federal structure of the Constitution.On a suggestion from PPCC president Sunil Jakhar, Amarinder said he would get the proposal of challenging the ordinances in court legally examined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/withdraw-anti-farmer-ordinances-farm-outfits-in-punjab-urge-centre/articleshow/76738139.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nashik||117 citizens fined for not wearing masks||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has fined 117 citizens in the past 12 days for not wearing masks while moving out of their houses, and collected a total fine of Rs 23,400. NMC has started slapping a fine of Rs 200 on citizens if they are found not wearing masks in public places Of the 117 people, maximum of 50 have been fined in Satpur division, while 30 have been fined from Panchavati division of the city. The city had 48 Covid-19 cases till May 19, but there was a rise in the number of cases after the relaxations in lockdown were announced, said NMC officials. “Many people were not wearing masks and did not maintain social distancing, so we decided to fine those people,” the officials said. “Initially, we cautioned people about wearing masks and raised awareness about the same. Finally, from June 19, we started slapping fine fpr not wearing masks,” added the officials. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal, during the recent review meeting with the NMC officials and district officials, had expressed his disappointment over citizens not wearing masks and not maintaining the social distancing norm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/117-citizens-fined-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/76737212.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||K Atchannaidu discharged, taken to Vijayawada sub-jail||GUNTUR: Amid high-drama, TDP senior legislator and former minister K Atchannaidu was shifted to sub-jail in Vijayawada on Wednesday after being discharged fromGGH, Guntur. He was taken in a wheel-chair to the ambulance for his trip to Vijayawada. Atchhannaidu had been undergoing treatment in GGH since he was arrested in connection with ESI scandal last fortnight. He also underwent a surgery for hemorrhoid at GGH. The decision to discharge him was taken after his health condition improved in the last two days. TDP cadre staged protests in front of GGH alleging that authorities were discharging him in haste. A delegation of senior TDP leaders met GGH superintendent K Sudhakar on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum asking the hospital not to discharge the former minister without following due protocols. Sources said that Atchannaidu had requested the GGH superintendent not to discharge him till the reports of his colonoscopy test came in. He also urged the superintendent to test him for Covid-19 as prison authorities might not admit him till he was screened. However, the hospital authorities set his requests aside and discharged him after finding his vitals normal. Upon information from GGH, ACB team reached the hospital with additional force and took him into custody. Since Atchannaidu was in judicial remand, he was shifted to the sub-jail. TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu criticised the move. “This is only to torture and harass Atchannaidu who bravely faced YS Jaganmohan Reddy in the assembly,” said Naidu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/k-atchannaidu-discharged-taken-to-vijayawada-sub-jail/articleshow/76737219.cms||Samdani MN
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Scare over discarded PPE kit in south Kolkata||KOLKATA: Fear gripped the residents of a posh locality at Mandeville Gardens after they had spotted an abandoned PPE kit lying on the footpath in front of an apartment on Wednesday. Though the residents were not sure whether the object, stashed inside a large polythene bag, was a PPE kit, they remained indoors in fear of being infected with Covid-19. Locals said a sweeper had seen the polythene bag on Wednesday morning and he had alerted others immediately. “It looked like a PPE kit, but we could not be sure of that as nobody dared to go closer,” said Arup Ganguly, a resident of the apartment. “Though we did not know what was inside, residents were scared and most of them stayed indoors throughout the day,” he added. What added more to the fear was that the resident of a local apartment had tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Arunoday Das Bhaumik, manager with the Greentech Environment Management, said there is a specific procedure to dispose of a PPE kit. “Under the bio medical waste rules, the kit should be incinerated following specific guidelines,”he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/scare-over-discarded-ppe-kit-in-south-kol/articleshow/76738140.cms||Rohit Khanna
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||10 illegal structures razed in Madhapur||HYDERABAD: As many as 10 illegal buildings were demolished at Ayyappa society in Madhapur on Wednesday by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials. The civic officials have identified 25 illegal structures at the society. “Of the 25 illegal buildings in Gurukul Trust Lands (Chandanagar circle), 21 have been demolished this week. Remaining structures would be demolished soon. A survey is underway to identify illegal constructions in Ayyapa society,” said a GHMC official. The GHMC had conducted its demolition drive at the same Society earlier as well. But the structures to continue to resurface. The demolition drive revealed that squatters are raising illegal constructions despite Supreme Court’s status quo order. Though there are around 200 buildings in the area, the civic body demolished only the new structures. Action was not initiated against those who approached the court. However, GHMC had already written to the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) and Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) to cut power and water supply to the illegal structures. GHMC officials from town planning wing have also cautioned people purchasing lands in Gokul plots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-illegal-structures-razed-in-madhapur/articleshow/76738137.cms||Nabinder Bommala
July 2, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn resumes screening after uproar||Trichy: After public outcry over the low number of Covid-19 testing in Trichy city, that has one of the lowest testing rates in the state, the Trichy Corporation on Wednesday resumed mass screening after a brief break. Retail vegetable traders in the makeshift vegetable market on Mathuram ground on the East Boulevard (EB) road were screened by the health department of the civic body. The temporary market was closed in the morning hours. Around 112 traders were asked to undergo the screening at the Mathuram Corporation Higher Secondary School.  “Of the 112 vegetable traders, swabs from 47 traders with Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and comorbidity conditions were collected. Contact details of the traders have been collected. Some of them had mild fever,” a sanitary official said. A majority of traders who were tested, reside in Ariyamangalam zone, particularly, in Palakkarai and Gandhi market vicinity. Officials said the random sample collection was carried out to ascertain if there is any Covid-19 spread among the traders through asymptomatic carriers. In the past two weeks, at least two positive cases have told that they frequented the Mathuram market “We will gradually scale up the daily testing in the city. Mass screening is also planned for the vendors in Puthur fish market,” corporation commissioner, S Sivasubramanian said. Civic body sources said that all the 459 samples collected through the mass screening at G-corner wholesale vegetable market, private onion market and Gandhi market in the past two months, have tested negative for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-resumes-screening-after-uproar/articleshow/76738913.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 2, 2020||Nashik||Central team to assess Covid state||Nashik: Nashik will be the second city in North Maharashtra after Jalgaon where the central health team will be visiting to assess the Covid-19 situation and guide the health officials about effectively fighting against the pandemic. The team is expected to visit the city by the weekend or early next week and the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has already started preparations for collecting the various data related to Covid-19 in the city. The civic body has formed six teams, including officials from the town planning department, to check infrastructure and also ensure whether the information provided by private hospitals is correct. These squads will also inspect whether the areas of the hospitals they are using are as per permission from the NMC. “The Centre’s health team is expected to visit Nashik city shortly. We are collecting all the information along with the analysis of deaths and positive patients in the city. The teams will assess the scenario of the city and guide us,” an NMC official said. “The survey is expected to be completed within four days beginning from Wednesday. All the reports of the survey is to be submitted to the municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game. We will take action against hospitals that are found to have provided false information about the number of beds and patients to the civic body,” he added. The official said that the civic body has already reserved some beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. “Over, 1,000 beds have been reserved in private hospitals. We will increase the number of beds in private hospitals up to 80% if the number of cases increases. Currently, we have adequate beds in NMC and other government hospitals apart from private hospitals. There is no shortage of beds and we will acquire more beds if demand for beds goes up,” the official said. “We had recently acquired a government hospital in Satpur with 200 beds for Covid-19 patients. Now, we have started admitting patients in that hospital from Wednesday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/central-team-to-assess-covid-state/articleshow/76737221.cms||Tushar Pawar
July 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Libraries to remain closed till July-end||Aurangabad: As libraries and study rooms are among public reading and studying facilities that will continue to remain closed till the end of July, the daily users are unhappy with this decision. The State Directorate of Libraries has issued an official notification to this effect, citing the possible spread of Covid-19. Nalini Beedkar, an avid reader, said, “Other establishments are allowed to open,so why aren’t libraries allowed. Reading books is an exercise for the brain which keeps mind fresh and active. The libraries can act as stress busters during the pandemic,” she said. Gulab Magar, the regional president of the association of government approved libraries in Marathwada, said library owners were ready to resume operations by maintaining the norms, but the government authorities decided otherwise. He added that the government should have allowed to operate with limited number of visitors if fear of the spread of Covid-19 was the sole concern||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/libraries-to-remain-closed-till-july-end/articleshow/76737227.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid hospitals to come under CCTV cover in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state health department has decided to install CCTV cameras at all dedicated Covid-19 hospitals as part of measures to contain and manage the outbreak. The deployment of CCTV cameras is expected to strengthen the surveillance and monitoring mechanism at these facilities. Once the system is operational, officials at the district or state headquarters will be able to monitor developments at Covid-19 hospitals. CCTV cameras will be set up at 113 Covid-19 hospitals, including at government general hospitals, district hospitals, area hospitals and some private hospitals. The state has also identified a number of private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. Covid-19 patients in the state are eligible for free treatment, including foreign returnees and persons from other states, under the Dr YSR Aarogyasri scheme which offers treatment free of cost to patients at private hospitals. The state has five state-level Covid-19 hospitals with advanced amenities, as well as several government and private hospitals across its districts, categorised on the availability of treatment facilities. Severe cases, patients with comorbidites and elderly patients are treated only at the state-level Covid hospitals. A request for treatment at a private hospital, state health authorities said, should only be routed through local health authorities. An earlier order issued by the state government includes 15 different packages under the Dr YSR Aarogyasri scheme for Covid-19 suspected and confirmed cases. The maximum amount offered under the scheme for the treatment of suspected stable cases is Rs 16,405, while it is Rs 65,824 for stable but confirmed cases. Network hospitals will get Rs 1,22,520 for treating Covid-19 patients with comorbidities such as diabetes mellitus, HIV and chronic liver disease. The highest amount out of all 15 procedures is Rs 2.15 lakh for the medical management of Covid-19 patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation or acute respiratory distress syndrome. Dr D Bhasakara Rao, coordinator of the Aarogyasri scheme for Visakhapatnam said the cost of Covid-19 treatment offered for people outside the ambit of the scheme will be met from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF), in order to ensure free treatment for all Covid-19 suspected and confirmed cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-hospitals-to-come-under-cctv-cover/articleshow/76737225.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
July 2, 2020||Shimla||Climate change threat: HP to map glacial lakes||Shimla: To understand the threat arising out of climate change, the environment, science and technology department of Himachal Pradesh plans to undertake mapping of all glacial lakes being formed at glacier snouts. These lakes, formed by melting Himalayan glaciers, may contain a large amount of water, which may cause great damage if they burst. The formation of landslide dammed lakes in high altitude zones such as Parchu in the upper catchment of Spiti basin in Tibet pose tremendous threat to life and property in downstream areas. The hill state often experiences flash floods. In 2000, Satluj valley experienced devastating floods, causing economic loss of more than Rs 800 crore. Experts could not make out whether the floods were caused by cloud burst or due to glacial lake outburst floods (GLOFs). A study conducted by the Centre in 2019 reveals the presence of 562 lakes in the Satluj basin, out of which about 458 (81%) lakes are small, with less than five hectares area. About 53 (9%) fall within the range of 5-10 hectares and about 51 (9%) are big with area in excess of 10 hectares. The Chenab basin, comprising mainly of Chandra, Bhaga and Miyar sub-basins, has 242 lakes, including 52 in Chandra, 84 in Bhaga and 139 in Miyar sub-basins, respectively. The Beas basin comprising Upper Beas, Jiwa and Parbati has 93 lakes, including 12 lakes in Upper Beas, 41 in Jiwa and 37 lakes in Parbati sub-basins. This indicated an increase of 43% in 2019 as compared to 2018. Underlining the need for constant and repeated monitoring of upper catchment areas, environment, science and technology department secretary Rajneesh cited the example of the Kedarnath tragedy caused by the bursting of a small lake at the snout of Chorabari glacier in Uttarakhand Himalaya, with heavy precipitation. Revenue-disaster management director-cum-special secretary D C Rana, who also holds charge of member secretary, Himachal Pradesh centre for science, technology and environment (Himcoste) said all such lakes are being mapped and monitored. This, he said, helps make pre-assessment about vulnerable lakes being formed either in Himachal or in the adjoining Tibetan Himalayas which drains into Indian territory along the Satluj. According to him, lakes with area greater than 10 Hectares or the ones between 5-10 Hectares can be seen as potential vulnerable sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/climate-change-threat-hp-to-map-glacial-lakes/articleshow/76738142.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Camera traps to monitor leopard movement near Coonoor||Udhagamandalam: A day after a leopard attacked a woman tea estate worker, the forest department on Wednesday unveiled the plans to install camera traps in Kodamalai tea estate area near Coonoor to monitor the animal’s movement.Guru Swamy Baddal, district forest officer, Nilgiris division, said, “As the leopard has been wandering close to the Kodamalai tea estate in Attati area, two camera traps will be installed there tomorrow (Thursday) to monitor its movement.” Sasikumar, Coonoor forest range officer, said they had received complaints that a group of photographers used to venture into the forest area near Attati to take photos of the leopard and post them on Facebook. “We have warned strict action against people venturing into the reserve forest areas.”According to local people, the leopard was disturbed by the photographers on Tuesday, when it ran out of its hiding place and attacked the estate worker, injuring her. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/camera-traps-to-monitor-leopard-movement-near-coonoor/articleshow/76738141.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Trichy||Suspension of bus services to help curb Covid-19 spread||Trichy: Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses that resumed their operations a month ago suspended its services from Wednesday in the view of the increasing Covid-19 cases across the state. This has been viewed as an opportunity by Trichy Corporation officials to contain the disease spread as people’s movement will come down. With the private buses too suspending their operations, it is expected that public places will become less crowded.Until May 30, Trichy city had only 39 total Covid-19 cases. But, the cases surged to 421 as on June 30. Though the resumption of bus services in the corresponding period cannot be blamed entirely for the surge, health officials said the suspension of bus services is a positive development to bring the situation under control. Commercial streets including Gandhi Market, NSB Road and West Boulevard Road were often crowded due to the bus services, which connects the city with the rural areas. “Chennai returnees are the major reason for the surge, but buses kept people’s movement active. The suspension of bus service will prevent local transmission significantly,” a sanitary officer with Trichy Corporation said.The deserted Central bus stand also impacted the crowd at the tea shops, hotels and commercial establishments near the bus terminus on Wednesday. “Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients commuting in buses will spread the disease, and their contact tracing will become difficult. We view the cancellation of bus and train services as a timely move to check the cases,” another health official added. There are hardships in suspending the buses, as domestic helps and construction workers will to face difficulty in reaching their workplace. “All the buses were moved to depots. Only six buses are being operated to transport the health workers to Trichy GH,” a senior TNSTC official in Trichy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/suspension-of-bus-services-to-help-curb-covid-19-spread/articleshow/76738920.cms||Deepak Karthik
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||Ramdev steps back from Covid cure claims, introduces repackaged ‘Coronil kit’||Haridar/Dehradun: Asked to remove claims of Covid-19 cure from packaging and display by the Union Ayush ministry, yoga guru Ramdev’s ayurvedic drug company has repackaged three of its drugs as a ‘Coronil kit’ and stepped back from all “Covid cure” claims. Divya Swaras Vati, Divya Coronil tablet and Divya Anu Tel will now be sold as a Divya Swasari Coronil kit. Is the repackaged kit an immunity booster or a medicine? “The ministry has not said it is not a medicine. It will be a crime if someone says that — I warn of legal action against anyone who does,” Ramdev said at a press conference on Wednesday, after announcing the rebranding. The Uttarakhand Ayush department had sent a notice to the firm on June 24, stating that it had sought a licence to produce an “immunity booster” medicine and not a “Covid cure”. It had also asked the firm to ensure its publicity and ads were in line with the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and that its packaging (which showed a ‘coronavirus’ image) was misleading under the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954. In response, Divya Pharmacy, the drug company, wrote, “We have not commercially sold any ‘corona kit’ nor have we publicised it as treatment of Covid-19. We have only promoted the successful trial of the medicine.” As for the packaging, it added, “It is only for shipping purpose.” CEO of the drug company, Acharya Balkrishna, told TOI they never claimed the “cure” they observed in clinical trials was because of Patanjali drugs. “The clinical trial was the combined result of many medicines. We never said the result was because of Coronil or Anu Tel or Swasari Vati. We have only spoken of the final outcome of the trial.” Exactly a week ago, Ramdev had said the “world was waiting for medicine for corona. The research-based medicine we have launched has shown 100% recovery in 3-7 days.” Ads for Coronil and Swaras Vati had marketed the drugs as “100% corona cure.” On Wednesday, Ramdev attributed the backlash to “anti-national” sentiments. “Some people cannot accept the progress Ayurveda has made. Anti-national forces were up in arms against Patanjali the day it shared the outcome of its research. Imperialist and parochial forces and modern medical science were shocked and rattled,” he said. While he battles the censure that comes with false advertising about magic cures, he went on to promise “cures” for other diseases. “Our research is at an advanced stage. Every two months, we will share good news about cures for hypertension, hepatitis B and heart ailments … Even the Ayush ministry letter had said Patanjali worked appropriately for coronavirus management.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ramdev-steps-back-from-covid-cure-claims-introduces-repackaged-coronil-kit/articleshow/76737268.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid cases cross 100 in Nilgiris dist||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris’ Covid-19 tally crossed the 100-mark on Wednesday when it reported 18 new cases. The total number of cases has now gone up to 107. Among the new cases, 13 were women and 5 men. According to a source, 17 of them were secondary contacts of the public relations officer (PRO) with the private needle manufacturing company at Yellanhalli near Ooty. The remaining one - a 50-year old woman from Kerbetta village in Kotagiri taluk - had visited a private hospital in Mettupalayam in connection with the delivery of her daughter-in-law. The source said 61 of the 68 active cases in the district were either primary or secondary contacts of the PRO, who tested positive for the virus 10 days ago. Health officials said another 300 contacts of the PRO would be tested for Covid-19 soon. “He had attended office with cold and fever for two days.” Health officials said the woman from Kerbetta village had visited nearby villages for two days. They have traced around 100 contacts of her and collected samples from them for Covid-19 test. Of the 68 active cases, 44 are being treated at the Ooty government headquarters hospital and 24 at the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-cases-cross-100-in-nilgiris-dist/articleshow/76738144.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kanpur||Covid sample collection at city lab less than target fixed by govt||Kanpur: The capacity of the city’s Covid lab is around 1,000 samples per day, but the health department on an average is collecting 400 samples per day. The highest single day collection of 600 samples was in the third week of June. The government has fixed a target of 1,200 samples per day but the health department has not been able to achieve the target. Divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde on June 29 had asked the health authorities to collect around 600 samples per day but that figure too is proving difficult for it. It is said that due to low sampling, the infection chain could not be broken but is getting stronger. Two months back there was no Covid testing lab in the city and the samples had to be sent to SGPGI or KGMC in Lucknow. Now, the city’s Covid lab has a capacity to test around 1000 samples per day. The situation was under control but as soon as Unlock-1 was announced on June 1 last, the number of infected persons started rising. The city recorded 777 cases of infections in the month of June itself. According to the data released by the health department, in the last 10 days (from June 21 to June 30) the number of cases had twice crossed the 500 mark. The teams had collected 578 samples on June 24, 537 on June 25 and minimum 252 samples were collected on June 28 while 438 samples were collected on June 30. CMO Dr Ashok Kumar Shukla said “Several teams were collecting samples from various localities of the city. As per guidelines, a sample of any person who came in contact with an infected person is being collected after two days because infection can be detected after five days. However, sampling is being increased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-sample-collection-at-city-lab-less-than-target-fixed-by-govt/articleshow/76738938.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Despite relaxations, Unlock 1.0 a bane for Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: As Unlock 1.0 ends, in Vijayawada and the rest of Krishna district, earlier restrictions on trade and public movement are coming back, especially at various hotspots. For one, Krishna district cops are now being even more strict while allowing interstate vehicle movement at Garikapadu checkpost. Traffic snarls have begun in the region as officials are allowing vehicles to transit only between 7 am and 7 pm. Senior police officials explained that the previous lockdown rules for interstate travel shall continue till the government takes a policy decision at the highest level. Cops also acknowledged that this restriction was overlooked in the initial days of June as relaxations were given to various businesses. Secondly, officials attribute increase in traffic at Garikapadu checkpost to the Telangana government contemplating a strict lockdown under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits. “This has resulted in a spike among Andhra natives to reverse migrate,” a senior police official said. On the other hand, officials point out that Unlock 1.0 turned out to be a bane in several areas in Vijayawada as Covid- 19 cases rose substantially. The first amongst them happen to be the old city area of One-Town. The shutdown of Kaleswararao Market subsequently had a trickle down effect on other small-scale grocery shops across the district. Eventually, district collector Mohammed Imtiaz had to issue orders for lockdown across 42 municipal divisions in the district. Another reversal of decision is timings for shops. Initially, business hours in supermarkets in the city and several parts of the city were till 7 pm. Soon, the administration had reduced it to 5 pm and in some areas to 2 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/despite-relaxations-unlock-1-0-a-bane-for-krishna-district/articleshow/76737266.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
July 2, 2020||Coimbatore||Villages in Kotagiri taluk ban outsiders||Udhagamandalam: At least 10 villages in Kotagiri taluk have put up a warning notice at their entry points stating outsiders won’t be allowed to enter the villages. The move comes after a woman from one of the villages tested positive for Covid-19 after she returned from a hospital in Mettupalayam Villages like Kadaikambatty, Thanthanadu, Kerbetta and Jakkalodai in Kotagiri taluk have put up warning notice for visitors. Kadaikambatty village head Hala Gowder said, “It is a preventive and precautionary measure to contain the spread of Covid-19. In a village level meeting, it was decided that outsiders should not be allowed to enter the village. We have also imposed strict rules on ourselves that within the village people should wear masks and should not go out of the district.” Consuming liquor in open spaces near the villages, littering of liquor bottles and plastic bottles will be reported to police, a villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/villages-in-kotagiri-taluk-ban-outsiders/articleshow/76738149.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt filing false reports on Covid tests: BJP||HYDERABAD: The ongoing verbal war between BJP and TRS over Covid-19 pandemic containment measures took a turn for worse on Wednesday with BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav accusing the TRS government of filing false reports to the Centre on the number of Covid-19 tests being done in Telangana. Addressing a virtual rally of Khammam district BJP activists and leaders, Madhav said the KCR government is not honest on the Covid-19 testing. He said that bigger states like Uttar Pradesh with much bigger population were able to contain the virus spread, but Telangana with much lesser population has over 15,000 cases now. However, government whip, TRS MLC Karne Prabhar refuted BJP’s allegations. “We don’t have to hide anything. Every thing is transparent and the situation is under control here,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-filing-false-reports-on-tests-bjp/articleshow/76738164.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kozhikode||The resurgence of common man’s beedi / Kerala Dinesh scripts a resurgence||Kozhikode: As lockdown restrictions eased, beedi sales of the once-iconic Kerala Dinesh – the 50-year-old worker-owned beedi cooperative – picked up and reached its pre-Covid levels. Though the beedi industry has been on the wane for the past two decades, the Kannur-based society is now ramping up production to ensure adequate stock and providing jobs to nearly 4,500 beedi rollers, mainly women. Kerala Dinesh society chairman C Rajan said that is an increase in demand as cheaper beedis from West Bengal and Tamil Nadu could not make it to the state due to lockdown curbs. "Beedi firms from TN and West Bengal had a price advantage due to lower production cost. While we paid Rs 504 to workers for rolling 1,000 beedi sticks, some companies in Bengal paid just Rs 75. Also, some firms situated outside the state used to resort to tax evasion, while we paid around Rs 1.5 crore as tax every month. Naturally, our production costs were higher and we couldn’t provide big margins and it used to affect sales. But beedi arrivals from Tirunelveli and WB reduced following lockdown and we saw some additional demand," he added. Rajan said the society had to shut production during the first three weeks of the lockdown in March. The society then facilitated work from home by supplying tobacco and beedi leaves to workers. Secretary of the society K Prabhakaran said that from May onwards there was a recovery in sales though ‘graph of beedi industry has been on the decline for two decades’. Marketing manager, Santhoshkumar M said average sales reached pre-Covid levels of 6-7 crore beedis/month and the society was aiming to increase production to eight crore to ensure an adequate stock. The society was selling around 80% of its production in state, with Ernakulam and Kozhikode being the main markets. "After lockdown, demand has picked up and we are planning to increase production. But we don’t know how long we can carry it forward as beedis from other states – which were selling at much lower prices – have started arriving," he said. Prabhakaran said other diversified businesses of the society –including umbrella, apparels and auditorium – have been hit following Covid-19-related market disruptions. Though the society had diversified into various sectors following the decline of beedi business over the years, beedi sales continue to be the mainstay, contributing a turnover of Rs 55 crore last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/the-resurgence-of-common-mans-beedi-/-kerala-dinesh-scripts-a-resurgence/articleshow/76737307.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Coffee House set to open on Thursday with fewer tables, curtailed hours||KOLKATA: The iconic Coffee House in College Street is set to open from Thursday after a gap of over three months. A crucial meeting of employees was held on Wednesday morning and they decided to open the joint, following which an extensive disinfection of the two-storey set-up was carried out. The Jadavpur Coffee House, run by the same cooperative, is also set to open in the next 72 hours. “Now we are ready to reopen the facility for the Coffee House regulars. We welcome all once again to our joint. We also solicit cooperation from our loyal customers to strictly adhere to the social distancing norms,” said an official of the cooperative society that runs Coffee House. Several crucial decisions, though, have been taken for the College Street Coffee House to ensure that social distancing is maintained. “We usually operated from 9am in the morning till 9pm at night. However, for now, we will be operational from 11am till 6pm. Instead of the 50 tables that catered to a minimum of 200 clients, we will keep just 25 tables across the two floors. Not more than 100 customers will be allowed at a time. The fact that there will be only 25 tables will ensure that more than six-feet social distance is maintained between two tables. Not more than four people will be allowed to sit at one table,” said Tapas Pahari, secretary of the cooperative society that runs the Coffee House. Though all 65 workers are back from the districts and even Bihar and Odisha, they will be working at 50% staff strength on a rotational basis. All food will be served on use and throw dishes. Even the cutlery will be made of plastic. At the Jadavpur Coffee House where there were 20 tables, only 10 will be kept operational. “Sanitizing is a major issue and those wearing masks will be allowed inside. But then the co-operative society members unanimously decided that opening the Coffee House is the first priority. A vital step will also include a request to patrons "not to stay back on the floor for too long.” “Based on the ground situation, we might need to request our customers to leave beyond a certain point of time to maintain social distancing norms,” said Pahari. The North division police, whom the Coffee House authorities had met a couple of times recently, including an informal chat last week, said they would go by the government directives. “They have to maintain social distancing and follow the social distancing norms,” said an officer from Amherst Street police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/coffee-house-set-to-open-today-with-fewer-tables-curtailed-hours/articleshow/76738160.cms||Saikat Ray
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||422 register for Char Dham Yatra, 175 make the pilgrimage on day 1||Dehradun: A total of 422 people registered for the Char Dham Yatra on the website of Uttarakhand Devasthanam Board on Wednesday, when the yatra was opened for pilgrims from Uttarakhand. The maximum number of people (165) registered for Kedarnath, followed by 155 for Badrinath. On Wednesday, 70 people reached the Kedarnath shrine, 95 people visited the Badrinath shrine, 10 people visited Gangotri while Yamunotri had no visitors. Talking to TOI, Devasthanam Board CEO Ravinath Raman said, “A total of 55 people have registered for Gangotri and 48 for Yamunotri. We have placed barricades and drawn circles at premises of the main shrines to ensure social distancing. The local administration officials in Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi are trying to ensure smooth commencement of the yatra.” He added that “the movement of devotees is being regulated online.” “Only the number of devotees that can be accommodated at the few stays that are currently operational in the shrine towns are being allowed to proceed,” Raman said. Meanwhile, priests, who are upset at the Devasthanam Board taking the decision to start the yatra, have warned devotees against going on the pilgrimage. “Not a single hotel or restaurant is open in Gangotri and Yamunotri. The situation is no different in Kedarnath and Badrinath. Devotees who come here will have nothing to eat, nowhere to stay and end up stranded,” said Brijesh Sati, spokesperson of Devbhoomi Tirtha Purohit Haqhakukdhari Mahapanchayat, a body representing the priests. Chamoli SSP Y S Chauhan meanwhile tod TOI that people can stay at Joshimath and nearby areas instead of Badrinath. BD Singh, additional CEO of Badrinath-Kedarnath temple committee, said that “adequate personnel have been deployed and arrangements are being made to ensure smooth visit of the pilgrims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/422-register-for-char-dham-yatra-175-make-the-pilgrimage-on-day-1/articleshow/76736045.cms||Ishita Mishra
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||TOI webinar discusses road ahead for hotel & tourism industry in U’khand||Dehradun: How is the tourism and hotel industry, one of the worst-affected sectors due to the Covid-19-induced crisis, preparing to get back on track? At a webinar organised by The Times of India on Tuesday, various stakeholders put forth their views on ways to revive the sector and make it grow further. Speaking at the webinar, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj said that the state government is mulling measures like introducing rapid antigen tests for tourists, reducing the duration of their mandatory quarantine period, increasing the time till when restaurants can remain open, and also making sanitisation of hotel rooms compulsory in an attempt to revive the sector. He added that some of these steps would be implemented starting with the Char Dham Yatra that began on Wednesday for pilgrims from within the state. “Uttarakhand has a big potential for rejuvenation, spiritual and adventure tourism. I have written to the Union tourism minister apprising him of the situation in the state and seeking certain relaxations,” said the minister. Sandeep Sahni, president of Uttarakhand Hotel Association, said, “These are unprecedented times and all of us are living by the day. We are constantly interacting with the state government and are hopeful that soon, regular movement of tourists can start in a safe way. As for measures that need to be adopted, we should start exploring the antigen testing mechanism. We should also market the idea of a rejuvenation holiday for people living in cities who have dealt with the Covid-19 crisis. If we can offer attractive packages – maybe hoteliers can offer them 50% discount on tariff and ask them to come and relax in the hills -- it just might work out. The state government can also chip in with SGST relief and some more discounts for such travellers.” In a similar vein, Rakesh Chugh, director of Hotel President in Dehradun, said, “The biggest challenge now is to restore people’s faith in the measures that we are going to adopt in our restaurants and hotels. People will go to a destination only if they feel that it is safe. Initially, people are likely to visit for business purposes and stay a day or so. Hence, the hotel business in cities would open up first and then move on to tourist destinations.” He added that “there will be a great boom in domestic tourism going ahead since people will not be travelling abroad much.” “Resorts particularly will be doing very well. The government should assist in setting up resorts across the state. Also, the stress should be on opening up things and making it simpler for people to come,” Chugh said, adding that satellite towns outside the Char Dham towns should be developed and the number of people going to the shrine towns should be regulated to control the environment there. Stressing on the need to market the state’s tourism potential effectively, renowned travel writers Hugh and Colleen Gantzer said that the state should target high-end travellers who are likely to be huge spenders. “We are in the business of tourism and the business of business is to earn money. The state should think out of the box to attract travellers. Instead of five lakh people coming and spending one rupee each, the focus should be on getting that one person who can spend five lakh,” said Hugh Gantzer. Colleen Gantzer added, “Creative ways can be deployed to attract tourists. We can invite celebrities to spend their holidays here. The videos of their stay can be used for promotional purposes. The videos of Mussoorie and Dehra’ best schools can also be made. With creative thinking and hard work, the best is yet to come for our Uttarakhand.” Ravi Gosain, president of Uttarakhand Tourism Professionals Association, a body that represents tourism professional from Uttarakhand who are working across the country, said that the Covid-19 crisis has resulted in a lot of skilled manpower from the hospitality industry returning to their villages in the hills. “There is an opportunity for Uttarakhand to use this skilled manpower effectively. Also, as far as high-end tourism is concerned, there is a sizeable NRI population that can be tapped. Those living in the cities who enjoy visiting rural areas can also be targeted to get a taste of the rural way of life in hills.” Commenting on the suggestions, the tourism minister said, “We are certainly looking at ways to promote niche tourism in the state. For instance, for high-end travellers, choppers and special vehicles can be offered to allay safety concerns during Covid times. We are also exploring how to promote the pahadi culture and our indigenous cuisine. The way of life in the hills revolves around boosting immunity which is a great advantage in times like these. The participation of industry stakeholders in the government’s policy-making efforts is also important.” Welcoming the minister’s suggestion to include industry members in policy-making, Abhishek Ahluwalia, president of Tour Operators Association of Uttarakhand, said, “Safety of tourists and those attending to them remains an important concern. Registration of all visitors should be mandatory so that their data is available when required. Also, the visitors should carry Covid-negative certificates and present themselves for tests as and when required. Awareness programmes should also be conducted for support staff who deal with tourists. Another crucial step is to provide these workers with PPE kits, face shields, gloves and other safety equipment either free of cost or at subsidised rates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/toi-webinar-discusses-road-ahead-for-hotel-tourism-industry-in-ukhand/articleshow/76737293.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||A quiet homecoming for the deities||Bhubaneswar: Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra concluded their nine-day sojourn at Gundicha Temple, their birthplace, to return home on the occasion of Bahuda Yatra on Wednesday. Unlike previous years, when devotees would bid a tearful farewell to the deities during the ‘return car festival’, this year’s Bahuda Yatra was attended only by police, servitors and government officials. The state government followed its Rath Yatra protocol and imposed curfew in Puri to prevent the congregation of devotees on Bahuda Yatra. This was in compliance with the Supreme Court’s order on June 22. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik said all arrangements were done by the state government for smooth conduct of Bahuda Yatra. “Keeping in mind the pandemic, servitors had undergone Covid-19 test,” the chief minister’s office tweeted. The Jagannath Temple administration said all rituals were completed well ahead of schedule and the three chariots reached their destination by 4.35 pm. While the rituals started at 4 am, the pulling of the chariots began around 11.25 am. The deities will stay inside the chariots for the next two days, and will be taken inside the Jagannath Temple on the occasion of Niladri Bije on July 4. After the chariots reached the Jagannath Temple, the district administration relaxed curfew from 6 pm till 9 pm on Wednesday. The curfew will again be in effect from 9 pm on Wednesday to 5 am on Thursday. It will be re-imposed from 3 pm till 10 pm on Thursday. “We are thankful to the servitors for the timely completion of the rituals. We also express gratitude to the millions of devotees, who were barred from attending Rath Yatra and Bahuda Yatra, for staying indoors and watching the festival on TV,” Puri collector Balwant Singh said. Puri’s titular king Gajapati Maharaja Dibyasingha Deb, who performed the hereditary ‘chhera pahanra’ (sweeping of the chariot decks) on Wednesday, also thanked the devotees for their cooperation. On Thursday, the deities will sport huge quantities of gold ornaments as part of ‘Suna Besha’. Again, devotees won’t be allowed to congregate outside the temple to watch Suna Besha. Hours before Bahuda Yatra, 12 samples taken for Covid test were found positive for the virus. However, the district administration said only those who had undergone RT-PCR test in the past one week and were found negative were engaged in Bahuda Yatra and pulling of the chariots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/a-quiet-homecoming-for-the-deities/articleshow/76737308.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 12-member panel to suggest ways to boost businesses hit by pandemic||NEW DELHI: With the spread of the novel coronavirus showing signs of being under control, Delhi government has now started focusing on recovery of the economy that has been battered by the pandemic. The government is seeking to adopt best practices adopted by countries and mega-cities across the world to make it easier to do business in the capital. On Wednesday, a 12-member committee chaired by the vice-chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi was constituted to explore measures to boost economic activities, help businesses and people hit by the pandemic. An order issued by Delhi Disaster Management Authority stated: “The lieutenant governor is pleased to constitute a committee for comprehensive analysis and suggestions regarding measures to be initiated by various departments, autonomous bodies, local bodies to help people and businesses in the time of Covid-19 pandemic.” The committee, which has members from government, traders’ bodies and business and finance experts, has been given a wide-ranging task for recovery of the economy. The state’s finances have been equally hit hard by the pandemic with revenue collection from GST and VAT being just Rs 2,500 in the first quarter this fiscal compared with Rs 7,275 crore last year. Earnings from vehicle registration and stamp duty were almost negligible. The negative impact of the sharp drop in revenue had impacted planned infrastructure development and welfare projects. The government is planning various relief measures for existing businesses and entrepreneurs who want to take up new economic activities. It may allow renewal or automatic extension of licences issued by various departments that expired in March 2020 till March 2021 without penalty, except for categories like excise, pollution control, fire safety, etc. Moratorium with respect to lease payments may be given in some areas. The government may also waive off some fines and penalties to remove undue financial hardships on firms. The committee has been asked to explore these measures. A key task of the committee includes examining services and licences that can be made available online or through doorstep delivery to ensure seamless, contactless service to the public and businesses. “The committee should explore economic reform measures that have a potential for revenue monetisation for the government,” the DDMA order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/12-member-panel-to-suggest-ways-to-boost-businesses-hit-by-pandemic/articleshow/76759668.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 2, 2020||Shimla||Transport Nagar to come up in Hamirpur||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said a Transport Nagar will be established at Hamirpur, which will have facilities such as driving test track, driving training centres, traffic park, vehicle maintenance park, etc. Driving test and training will be managed by original equipment manufacturers. Presiding over a review meeting of the transport department in Shimla, Thakur said 250 new buses would be added to the fleet of HRTC, including 100 electric buses. He said currently, 50 electric buses are plying in Shimla town and 25 in Manali area. The CM said although the government has decided to allow plying of buses with 100% occupancy, proper social distancing, use of masks and sanitisation of buses and bus stands would be ensured. Adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols by drivers, conductors and passengers would also be ensured, he said. Thakur said to provide people-centric services, e-Parivahan Sewa would be launched on pilot basis in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/transport-nagar-to-come-up-in-hamirpur/articleshow/76738161.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Chittoor police perform last rites for Covid victim’s father||TIRUPATI: At a time when social stigma haunts Covid-19 patients and their families, Chittoor police stepped forward to perform the last rites of the father of a Covid-19 victim at a village in Nagari mandal of Chittoor district. No family member or relative of the deceased came forward to bid farewell to the 68-year-old. Nagari circle inspector (CI) K Maddaiahchari said the deceased ran a Xerox shop and lived alone while his son and daughter-in-law lived on the next street. “The 68-year-old man’s son who used to work as a driver tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to the government hospital in Tirupati for treatment about a week ago. The father died of a heart attack in the village on Tuesday afternoon. His son, too, died while undergoing treatment in Tirupati,” said the CI. While government officials performed the final rites for the Covid-19 victim, nobody came forward to claim or carry out the rites of the 68-year-old, whose body was left abandoned. Upon learning about the situation, Nagari CI informed Chittoor superintendent of police (SP) S Senthil Kumar, who directed Nagari police to carry out the final rites while adhering to safety protocol as the deceased’s son had died of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chittoor-police-perform-last-rites-for-covid-victims-father/articleshow/76737288.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||82-year-old woman beats Covid, but 165 fresh cases, two deaths||NAGPUR: Even as 165 fresh cases and two Covid deaths were reported from nine districts of Vidarbha on Wednesday, an 82-year-old woman from Akola undergoing treatment in Wardha defeated the coronavirus and was discharged on Wednesday. Wardha and Gadchiroli districts reported zero cases for yet another day. Nagpur district reported the maximum cases of the day at 73, followed by Amravati (23), including the death of a 34-year-old youth who died. A Covid patient from Patur also passed away at Akola, where total 18 cases surfaced. The octogenarian woman said that due to proper treatment, care by doctors, and the mental support given to her, she could defeat coronavirus. She had come to a relative’s place and was admitted at Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural hospital in Sawangi, where she tested positive. She was admitted for Covid treatment at the same hospital on June 16. Hospital officials said she had no symptoms and responded well to treatment. On the 14th day of her admission, she was tested again for the novel coronavirus. She was discharged on Wednesday evening after receiving a negative report. Doctors have given her a certificate and wished her a healthy life. With the new cases, the Vidarbha tally rose to 4,808 cases and 158 deaths. Against this, 76 were discharged on Wednesday, taking the count of those discharged to 3,599. Buldhana: A spurt in cases forced the local administration to shut down Malkapur town in Buldhana district till July 7. Essential shops would remain open from 9am to 3pm, while all other activities shall remain closed during the lockdown. Total 18 cases, including 11 from Malkapur, took the tally to 253 and 12 deaths so far. Buldhana has 94 active cases. Gondia: The district witnessed six fresh cases. Four are natives of Gondia and one each from Sadak Arjuni and Salekasa tehsils. Tally jumped to 132 cases with 28 active cases. Two patients hailing from Tirora recovered and were discharged today. Reports of 374 samples are awaited. Amravati: The district is just eight shy of the 600-mark with a spike of 23 positive cases taking the district’s count to 592 on Wednesday. The death of a 34-year-old man from Anjangaon Surji on Wednesday evening took the toll to 25. A youth who had tested positive on June 28 and died at Covid ward was the third death from rural belt after one each from Shirala and Dhamangaon Railway. Three patients were discharged, taking number of recovered patients to 410. With 25 deaths so far, the number of active cases is 157, including nine taking treatment at Nagpur. Krish Nagar, which gave its first case of a 55-year-old man on June 29, reported six more from his family, including a one-year-old boy. Two cases from Badnera took its tally to 80 while two cases from Daryapur and one from Rahatgaon took the rural count to 69. Two members of a family from Sonal Colony tested positive while a case each was reported from Vidarbha Premier Society, Rajapeth, Anjangaon Surji (16th case of the town), Shrikrishnapeth, Ashok Nagar (10th of the locality), Mahatma Fule Nagar, Akola, Camp and Om Colony. Chandrapur: Two more patients were detected, taking the total to 98 on Wednesday. A 28-year-old youth from Sushi village in Mul tehsil who had returned from New Delhi, and a 30-year-old youth from Tukum area in city, who had returned from Washim, tested positive. Officials claimed condition of both patients is stable, and 54 persons had been discharged after treatment while 44 active patients are in treatment. Bhandara: Seven from rural area of Bhandara district tested positive on July 1, taking the total number of cases here to 87. Out of these, 75 patients have recovered, including four discharged on July 1. Now, 12 patients are admitted in Bhandara. Results of 32 swab samples are awaited. Bhandara has till date tested 4,219 samples out of which 4,053 tested negative. Washim: Seven people tested positive in Washim on Wednesday. This took total cases to 104, which means all five districts in Amravati revenue division have more than 100 cases now. Four of the seven are from Mangrulpir. A 37-year-old man, 7-year-old boy, 32-year-old woman and 65-year-old woman are from close contacts of one of the positive patients admitted in Akola. Other three include two foreign returned youths in their twenties, and a 24-year old woman from close contacts of earlier patients. Washim now has 104 cases, including 74 recovered and 2 deaths. Active cases are 28. Yavatmal: Eleven new positive cases took the tally to 67 here. All new cases are from Digras tehsil. Of these, 7 are women and 4 men. Nine positive patients in the isolation ward of GMC were discharged, bringing down active cases to 58. During the last 24 hours, GMC received 145 test reports of which 134 are negative. Currently, 64 persons are in the isolation ward. On Wednesday, 23 samples were sent and 37 reports are awaited. The district has recorded 290 positive cases so far, of whom 223 have recovered and been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/82-year-old-woman-beats-covid-but-165-fresh-cases-two-deaths/articleshow/76738175.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Kids of US-settled Telugus desperate to go home||HYDERABAD: Children separated from their families because of the decision by the US to ban entry of people without valid stamping are appealing to authorities on Twitter. The videos, addressed to US president, his daughter Ivanka Trump and other top officials, have been watched by many. On June 21, Father’s day, four-year-old Unnathi made a poignant video for her father. The toddler says on a video uploaded on Twitter: “I miss my daddy. I want to go to America to hug my daddy…Can you take me to America?” Unnathi has not seen her father Ram Reddy, who in Michigan, since March 12 when she landed in Bengaluru. Speaking to TOI, Reddy said: “My wife and child went to India when my father-in-law, a cancer survivor, was admitted to hospital. I cannot wait to be reunited with them.” The data architect is among thousands of Indians affected by US president Donald Trump’s decision suspending the entry of workers on temporary work visas. The move to ‘save American jobs’ has also impacted dependants who travelled to India and could not get their visas stamped as consulates shut down due to the lockdown. “I have been in the US for the last 14 years. My appeal to the government is not to separate families. When primary visa holders are in the US, what is the point of keeping dependents away?” asked Reddy, whose wife is on an H4 visa, while he is on the H1B work visa. On June 30, Swathi Mekapothula who is stuck in Hyderabad, put up a similar video of her daughter. The five-year-old girl says: “I am so missing my dad. Please I want to go (to) USA. I do not have stamping.” The video has got over 1,200 views, 136 comments and counting. Techie Chandra Thota’s wife and kids are stuck in Kadapa, AP.In an appeal on social media, his nine-year-old son Santosh said: “I came to Indian and got stuck here. I have got to go to fourth grade and am missing all my lessons. So, I want to go to USA.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kids-of-us-settled-telugus-desperate-to-go-home/articleshow/76738170.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||HC takes stock of progress in Patnagarh parcel bomb case||Cuttack: The more than two-year-old sensational Patnagarh parcel bomb explosion case is back in focus with the Orissa high court deciding to take stock of the progress in the trial proceedings after it was alleged that it is yet to take off. The incident had triggered shockwaves across the state when newly-married Soumya Sekhar Sahu and his grandmother were killed after a wedding gift received through courier exploded at their house in Patnagarh on February 23, 2018. His wife was critically injured in the explosion. The case created a sensation when Punjilal Meher, who was an English lecturer at Jyoti Bikash College at Bhainsa near Patnagarh was arrested two months later after a CID-Crime Branch probe indicated that he was the alleged mastermind and executioner of the parcel bomb explosion. The CID-Crime Branch filed a final chargesheet against Punjilal Meher as the alleged mastermind of the case in the court of additional district and sessions judge at Balangir in January 2019. Punjilal, also a former principal, had allegedly hatched the conspiracy to settle scores with Sanjukta, mother of the deceased Soumya Sekhar after she took over as the new principal of the college, the chargesheet reportedly said. On Monday, during hearing through video conference on the bail plea of Punjilal it was submitted on his behalf that he is in judicial custody since April 2018 and no charge has been framed even as the case has already been committed to the sessions court. Taking note of it the single judge bench of Justice S K Sahoo said, “In view of such submission, let a report be called for from the court of learned additional sessions judge, Patnagarh, regarding the status of the case and more specifically reasons for non-framing of charge. The report should reach this court on or before July 6, 2020, the bench specified in its order while directing to put up the matter one week after. The high court had earlier rejected his bail plea in March last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/hc-takes-stock-of-progress-in-patnagarh-parcel-bomb-case/articleshow/76737327.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||To enter AP, travel pass a must, says DGP D Gautam Sawang||VIJAYAWADA: Taking a cautious approach on the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation, the Andhra Pradesh police continues to restrict interstate travel. The director general of police (DGP) D Gautam Sawang, in a statement, said that people coming from other states must obtain a travel pass prior to their journey. Sawang said that though interstate travel is being allowed according to Unlock 2.0 guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs, those coming from other states have to register first on the Spandana portal and obtain a travel pass. Only people with a valid travel pass will be allowed to enter the state from interstate border checkposts, he said. As there is a spurt in number of positive cases after Unlock 1.0 started on June 1, safety measures are to be continued to track the movement of people coming into the state, the DGP said, adding that the restrictions on travel timings will also be in force till further directions. People with a valid travel pass will be allowed to move outside from 7 am to 7 pm only. However, exceptions will be made for vehicles of emergency services and essential supplies. Those with a valid pass will have to go through mandatory thermal screening at interstate border checkposts. People with suspected Covid-19 symptoms will be sent for further medical examination, according to the Covid-19 protocol. These measures are necessary given the prevailing situation in the state and other places in the country, said Sawang. He appealed to people planning their travel to Andhra Pradesh to cooperate with the authorities and comply with the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/to-enter-ap-travel-pass-a-must-says-dgp-sawang/articleshow/76737317.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala sees 151 new cases and 132 recoveries||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state reported 151 new cases and 132 recoveries on Wednesday, taking the total number of positive cases to 4,593 and active cases to 2,130. One death was reported in Kozhikode; a person who committed suicide at his house in Vellayil on June 27 turned out to be Covid-19 positive. Following this result, seven policemen including the CI were quarantined; they had carried out the inquest in this case. Of the new cases, 51 persons came from abroad and 81 from other states. Nineteen persons were infected via contacts, including six CISF personnel in Kannur. More cases were reported in Malappuram (34), followed by Kannur (27), Palakkad (17), Thrissur (16), Ernakulam (12), Kasaragod (10), Alappuzha (8), Pathanamthitta (6) and Kozhikode (six), Thiruvananthapuram (4) and Kottayam (4), Kollam (3) and Wayanad (3) and Idukki (1). At present, Palakkad has 283 active cases, followed by Malappuram (265), Kannur (221), Ernakulam(191), Pathanamthitta (179), Kollam (173), Alappuzha (169), Thrissur (165), Kottayam (108) and Kasaragod (107). In the last 24 hours 6,564 samples were collected. Till date, 1,81,780 samples (including repeat, augmented and private lab samples) were collected; of which results of 4,042 samples are pending. As part of sentinel surveillance among high-risk groups including health workers, policemen, volunteers and social workers involved in Covid prevention activities, 50,448 samples were collected of which 48,448 tested negative. The total number of cases reported from January 30 till May 3 was 499, of which the total number of cases with travel history was 334 and total number of cases with history of contact was 165. After May 4, total cases reported are 4,094 of which 3,722 cases have travel history. The cases with history of contact are 372. Meanwhile, test results of 132 patients turned negative. Of the lot, 21 are from Kollam, 16 each from Thrissur and Kasaragod, 15 from Kozhikode, 13 from Kannur, 12 from Malappuram, 11 from Palakkad, nine from Alappuzha, six from Kottayam, five from Pathanamthitta, three from Thiruvananthapuram, two each from Idukki and Wayanad and one from Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-sees-151-new-cases-and-132-recoveries/articleshow/76737326.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bhopal||CM warns against complacency, launches ‘Kill Corona’ campaign||Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that though we have been able to control Covid-19 in India, but still we have to guard against being complacent. He was launching the 15-day Kill Corona campaign in the state here on Wednesday. The campaign aims at door-to-door survey and screening drive in across the state. He also launched the ‘Sarthak Light’ app and released the strategy document “Covid-19 Response to Recovery, Sustainable Solution” on the occasion. Praising the leadership of PM Modi, Chouhan said ‘compared to other nations’, India has done better. We got through the situation and controlled it, said Chouhan. He appealed to the people to not let their guard down pointing out at a second wave of Covid-19. He warned, “In many countries the infection was controlled and returned.” “I am concerned about Morena, Bhind and Gwalior districts,” said Chouhan. “Curfew has been imposed in these areas to curb movement,” he added, appealing to the locals for supporting the initiative. MP government has hinted that infection is on the rise, during to neighbouring Congress-ruled Rajasthan. 13 districts of MP would be specifically targeted in the 15-day campaign. These districts have above average infection rate. Chouhan said when he took charge as CM, preparedness to deal with the pandemic was in shatters. “I took oath at 9 pm in the night and went to the state secretariat. Till then, there were no systems in place. There was only one lab in Bhopal to test a maximum of 60 people. Senior officials on health department tested Covid-19 positive. The situation has since improved,” he said. State government policy provides for complete free medical care in government and private hospitals for all Covid-19 patients. Per day three lakh tests would be conducted in the campaign, said Chouhan. In MP, laboratory testing capacity can test 9,000 swab samples per day. It is planned to be increase the testing capacity to 12,000 per day this week, he added. The launch of campaign coincided with Doctors Day. “Doctors, nurses and para medics have worked 24x7 and set a new example in self-sacrifice. In the process, many of them got infected. Two policemen lost their life,” he said, praising the Covid-19 warriors. MLAs and NGO workers have also been diagnosed with the infection. From food distribution to caring for migrants on the move, Chouhan recognised their serve to the public, especially during the lockdown. Lockdown cannot be forever, resuming economic activity is needed to keep moving forward, said Chouhan. “MP was fourth most infected state during the early stages of the pandemic. We are down to 12 position. 77% of the infected have recovered. Active cases have declined too,” said Chouhan. Chouhan urged the people to come forward and volunteer to be a ‘Covid Mitra’ to help and fight the disease. About 1,000 fever clinics will be operational in the state from Thursday and the government targets to cover each family in the state, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-warns-against-complacency-launches-kill-corona-campaign/articleshow/76736090.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Factory owners want workers’ hostels in industrial areas||tnnLudhiana: Blaming poor living conditions of workers as one of the prime reasons for their exodus from the city in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the city businessmen are trying to impress upon the government the need for workers’ hostels in all industrial areas of the city. They met deputy commissioner Ludhiana Varinder Kumar in this connection on Wednesday.Concerned over the huge number of migrant workers leaving Ludhiana, hampering the functioning of industries, factory owners said the present housing arrangements of the workers in “vehras” (common settlements) is one of the major reasons for their exodus and that the problem needs to be addressed at the earliest. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of the Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (Fico), said, “The life of workers in vehras is very miserable. In order to save money, 6-7 people share one room, which made it impossible for them to follow social distancing. Moreover, common bathroom for all 30-40 occupants in a vehra put the lives of workers at further risk. In order to make the lives of our workers safer, we need to create better living spaces for them here. Many factory owners have made arrangements for housing the workers on the factories premises, but not all can do that.”He said there is urgent need for setting up of workers hostels in the industrial areas including Focal Points and the government should take the initiative to establish workers’ hostels at the earliest, so that there is no such exodus of workers in the future.Speaking on the issue, FICO chairman K K Seth said, "Housing of workers is big problem in designated industrial areas of Ludhiana. There is an urgent need for workers’ hostels with all basic facilities. This will not only help them stay safe in times of Covid-19, but also keep them close to their workplaces, reducing their travel time."Manjinder Singh Sachdeva, a leading bicycle parts manufacturer, said, "We have taken up the issue of permanent housing of workers with the deputy commissioner and received a very positive response. We also discussed the need to run special trains from UP and Bihar for bringing back the workers willing to return. We also talked about the possibility to construct an underpass or bridge to link Focal Point with Dhandari Industrial Area on GT Road for smooth flow of industrial traffic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/factory-owners-want-workers-hostels-in-industrial-areas/articleshow/76737341.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||Man who circulated fake transfer order of RTO held||Dehradun: Dehradun police on Wednesday arrested a man who allegedly circulated a fake transfer order of Regional Transport Officer (RTO) of Dehradun Dinesh Chandra Pathoi. The accused, identified as Kulbeer Singh, is a resident of Dehradun. He allegedly made a fake transfer letter to extort money from another senior transport officer, who – according to police officials – was eyeing the same post. Incidentally, Dehradun police formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate the matter, following a complaint filed by Pathoi. A case was filed under section 469 of the IPC and section 74 of the IT Act. Pathoi told police that his administrative officer Sanjeev Kumar Mishra sent him the order on WhatsApp. According to Mishra, the ‘fake’ transfer letter was sent to him by Sudhanshu Garg, former RTO of Dehradun. During interrogation, Singh said that he got in touch with Sudhanshu Garg and convinced him that he can get him transferred to Dehradun by throwing his political weight. Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Dehradun Arun Mohan said, "To extract money from him, he made a fake letter and sent it to him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-who-circulated-fake-transfer-order-of-rto-held/articleshow/76736098.cms||Gaurav Talwar
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||IIM-Nagpur doubles intake to 240||NAGPUR: In some good news for Vidarbha’s management aspirants, the Indian Institute of Management (IIM-N) here has doubled its intake capacity from 2020-21 academic session. Thanks to overwhelming demand, the intake has been increased from 120 to 240. Mentored by prestigious IIM-Ahmedabad, the B-school here is also planning to shift to its sprawling campus in Mihan by November. Though the original plan was to shift by June before the new academic session began, it was deferred. “The Covid pandemic has affected our plans too. Now, with the support of Board of Governors (BOF) chairman CP Gurnani and building panel chief Vaibhav Dange, our target is to shift by November. We are working in tandem with our project management consultants Engineers India Ltd (EIL) and contractor Ahluwalia Contracts (India) Ltd (ACIL) to meet the targets,” IIM-N communication and media cell in-charge Anagha Wankhede told TOI on behalf of director LS Murty. Spread over 132 acres in Mouza Dahegaon, the new campus would cater to infrastructure requirements for 600 students in first phase. It comprises administrative complex, academic buildings (North and South), ‘Executive Education Programme (EEP)’ and ‘IIM-N Foundation for Entrepreneurship Development’ (InFED), multi-purpose hall, four students’ hostel blocks, dining hall, sports centre, health centre and essentials building, faculty and staff residences, and supporting engineering services. “All plans are in place to pick up the work as the pandemic situation eases,” Wankhede said. After beginning its first batch from 2015-16 session with 60 students from Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT), IIM-N doubled the intake to 120 from 2018-19 batch and now doubled again 240. In permanent campus at Mihan, the planned intake is 600 in the first phase. “Growth is essential for any institution for various reasons like contribution to the nation and sustainability of the institution. We are very fortunate to have a host like VNIT for our transit campus. Without their help, this couldn’t have been possible. The actual intake, which is very close to the planned intake, depends on the infrastructure and the admission process,” Wankhede said. With its impressive growth in five years, the IIM-N has also made its mark in National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) by securing 40th rank in very first attempt. Its performance was way ahead in comparison with other new IIMs, which started with it, according to IIM-N officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/iim-nagpur-doubles-intake-to-240/articleshow/76738197.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Gunny for trouble: Delhi corporation teachers search for missing bags||NEW DELHI: During the Covid lockdown, the municipal school staff were given the unusual task of distributing foodgrains to stranded migrants and the economically vulnerable. They now face a unique problem arising from that irregular assignment. They are scurrying around to find the empty jute bags in which the rations had come after Delhi government’s food and supplies department informed them that it wants the empty sacks back. A letter written by the food supply officer in the Sultanpur Majra circle on Wednesday ordered the heads of school to keep the “empty gunny bags lying in the premises of the school in safe custody and hand them to the FSI of the circle”. A municipal primary school in Sultanpur B2 Block distributed over 83,000kg of wheat and 20,000 kg rice brought there in 2,076 gunny bags. In this circle alone, over 10,209 bags need to be re-submitted by teachers, who ironically haven’t themselves received their salaries for four months now. Several teachers in charge of the ration distribution told TOI that they no longer had the bags, having given them out to the needy people to take home their provisions or damaging them after using knives to cut them open. A teacher of a school where 40,900kg of wheat and 10,100kg of rice were distributed asked, “Why were instructions not given to retain the bags all these three months? From where will the schools now get the empty bags?” A school principal said the priority of the teachers was to provide relief to the people, despite hundreds of them getting infected by the coronavirus in the process. “We worked in an extremely harsh environment, even faced violence in some schools. We are being harassed again.” Kuldeep Khatri, who heads Shikshak Nyaya Manch Nagar Nigam, pointed out that the teachers had also been directed to deliver rations to homes in many cases. “How could we have delivered items to homes if we hadn’t used the bags?” he asked. The food department did not provide us with masks, forget bags.” North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash, supporting the teachers, said if the food department had wanted the sacks back, it should have indicated this in the beginning. “This is wrong. Our teachers have been doing their Covid duties at the risk of infection. Now they are being told to collect and give back gunny bags,” Prakash fumed. The food and civil supplies commissioner, however, claimed to TOI said that the order on the empty gunny bags wasn’t issued by the central office, but by officials at the circle level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gunny-for-trouble-corpn-teachers-search-for-missing-bags/articleshow/76759687.cms||Paras Singh
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Physical training instructors’ recruitment: HSSC ex-chief, members booked||CHANDIGARH: In a development that could embarrass the Congress leaders, the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) has booked former chairman of the Staff Selection Commission Brig Nand Lal Punia (retd) over the alleged irregularities in the recruitment of 1,983 PTIs in the state, while the then members of the commission have been made co-accused in the case. The move came following a communication from the office of Haryana’s advocate general, who had asked for a vigilance probe after going through the court verdict regarding the selection of physical training instructors (PTIs). Based on a complaint of SVB DSP Sharif Singh, the case was registered at the vigilance bureau’s police station in Panchkula under the IPC provisions dealing with forgery of documents, false evidence and criminal conspiracy, among others. It may be recalled that after coming to power in the state in 2005, the Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government had appointed Punia as the chairman of selection commission and the other accused as its members. In July 2006, the commission had advertised for the recruitment of 1,983 PTIs. It has been alleged that according to initial rules, the selection was to be made based on written examinations of 200 marks and 25 marks for interview. The DSP in his complaint said the investigations revealed that the chairman and members misused their powers to twist rules to suit some unqualified candidates. The commission had repeatedly changed the criteria of selections to suit them, and none of the other members ever dissented or refused to approve the changes, he alleged. According to the FIR, the chairman had subsequently prepared one more note to justify his move to amend the criteria, and the document had the signatures of all the members. The Punjab and Haryana high court had also observed in its judgment that the changes infringed the rights of other candidates, and this could spell trouble for the accused. Ever since the sacking of PTIs in line with the court order, senior Congress leaders have been demanding to bring a special legislation to provide them re-employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ptis-recruitment-hssc-ex-chief-members-booked/articleshow/76738180.cms||Manvir Saini
July 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Naveen asks party MLAs to serve people||Bhubaneswar: Asserting that Odisha is entering the most critical phase in its fight against the Covid-19, BJD president and chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday told his party MLAs that the pandemic provides a unique opportunity to serve the people like never before. While addressing the MLAs over video conference, the first virtual meeting since the outbreak, Naveen said Odisha is in a better position compared to other states because of the blessings of Lord Jagannath, cooperation of the people and hard work of the people’s representatives and government officials. “We have one of the highest recovery rates in the country and one of the lowest mortality rates. We still have a long way to go and have entered the most challenging phase in our fight against Covid-19. From setting up Covid-19 hospitals to making medical equipment available and training of manpower, we have done it in record time,” said Naveen. The chief minister said irrespective of the development works the MLAs have done for their constituencies, the pandemic is the biggest challenge for them in public life, as it concerns life and death of people. “You have a big role to play in the fight against the virus. People have faith in your leadership. In your every act, every move, every step you should inspire our workers and people at large to follow Covid-19 guidelines and take care of themselves and their families,” said Naveen during the video conference. He requested the MLAs to work on some specific areas. While the BJD MLAs were earlier asked to organize Jiban Bindu (voluntary blood donation programme) in their constituencies to cater to the blood requirement during the lockdown period, Naveen urged the MLAs to further intensify the programme. As the state government focused on community participation by forming ward-level committees in each village for effective management of the pandemic, Naveen asked BJD legislators to mobilise party workers to work at volunteers in their respective villages. The chief minister asked MLAs to motivate party workers to take care of the elderly people, who are most vulnerable now and to create massive awareness on wearing masks and maintaining social distance. He also asked them to avoid public gatherings and use other methods to connect using technology. The chief minister also sought cooperation of the party MLAs for smooth functioning of the ward-level committees formed in all 50,000 villages across the state for community monitoring and the Covid-19 care homes in all 6,798 gram panchayats to isolate the suspected cases. The BJD legislators have also been asked to monitor the livelihood and skill development programmes announced by the state government. Naveen also spoke on the steps taken by the state government like arranging quarantine facilities for returnees, social security measures during lockdowns and scientific approach in handling the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/naveen-asks-party-mlas-to-serve-people/articleshow/76737336.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||283 apply for vice-chancellors’ posts in six state universities||Bhubaneswar: The state higher education department has received as many as 283 applications for the post of vice-chancellor (VC) at six state-run universities including Utkal University and Rama Devi in Bhubaneswar. As per government data, the highest number of applications — 51 — have been received for the vice-chancellor’s position at Gangadhar Meher University, Sambalpur, followed by 50 applications each for Fakir Mohan University, Balasore and Khallikote University, Berhampur. The department has also received 45 applications for the V-C’s post at Rama Devi Women’s University, 44 for Utkal University and 43 for North Orissa University, Baripada. Sources said that 29 applications have been rejected as they were not in the format that the department wanted. “We have received the applications and have already started shortlisting the candidates. About 29 applications have been rejected since they were not in the right format. Further criteria will be analysed and the names of the shortlisted candidates will be provided to the selection committee soon,” a senior higher education department official said. Earlier, the higher education department, after initiating the recruitment process for the vice-chancellor’s position at the six state-run universities, had in June extended the tenure of the existing VCs due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The tenure was extended by a special order issued by governor Ganeshi Lal. The VCs whose tenures were extended for three months were Soumendra Mohan Patnaik of Utkal, Amrendra Narayan Misra of Khallikote University, Padmaja Mishra of Rama Devi Women’s University, Atanu Kumar Pati of GM University, Madhumita Das of FM University and Pradeep Kumar Chand of North Orissa University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/283-apply-for-vice-chancellors-posts-in-six-state-universities/articleshow/76737349.cms||Sandip Mishra
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||HC hearings via video conference to continue||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh High Court issued fresh instructions confining hearings through video conferencing mode till July 13 in view of the alarming rise in number of Covid-19 cases in the state. Judicial and administrative work in the high court, state legal services authority, high court legal services committee and arbitration and mediation centre working under the control of high court are confined only to matters of urgent hearing. The registrar of the high court in a notification on Wednesday stated that filing of urgent cases shall be only through e-filing mode and the guidelines issued by the high court will have to be followed for e-filing of urgent cases. The hearing of urgent cases will be taken up from the residence of judges through approved video conferencing applications. High court classified bail petitions, suspension of sentence, habeas corpus petitions, demolitions or eviction from premises and dispossession from the land are matters to be taken up for urgent hearing. In pending matters, if any application for urgent hearing is filed, the chief justice of the high court will take a call after examination of such matters if they satisfy the conditions to be taken up for urgent hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-hearings-via-video-conference-to-continue/articleshow/76737347.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Vikarabad man makes it ‘app’en after TikTok ban||HYDERABAD: Banking on the void created by the ban on Chinese social networking platform TikTok, a 29-year-old man from Vikarabad has developed a similar video sharing app. ‘ChatPat’, which was put up on Google Playstore on June 28, already has 15,000 downloads and been given 4.2 stars out of five. The app specifically mentions that it is made in India. The developer of the app, Naskanti Srinivas, said that the ban on TikTok incidentally coincided with the release of ‘ChatPat’. “I was working on the app for the last 15 days because I felt an Indian app should be available to people instead of a Chinese one. Incidentally, with the ban on TikTok, my app started getting huge traffic,” Srinivas of Nawabpet village in Vikarabad told TOI. Srinivas studied B.Com (computers) and has so far created six apps, including an online shopping platform. While the rest of his creations did not get adequate attention, ‘ChatPat’ was an instant success. He has said that he learnt everything about app development from YouTube. “I now have to increase the server capacity so that many people will be able to download and work on it,” Srinivas said. Chevella MP Ranjith Reddy has congratulated Srinivas. “What Srinivas has come up with is commendable and I have assured him to give any support that he needs,” said Reddy. One of the first users of the app is one Shiva of Vikarabad. He has identified himself on his ‘ChatPat’ account with the name @Madapathi814744276. “Naskanti Srinivas you did a great job. All the best for your furture,” he said while appreciating the developer of the app. Some of the users have also posted their old TikTok videos on the new platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vikarabad-man-makes-it-appen-after-tiktok-ban/articleshow/76738187.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||2 more die as Covid-19 toll continues to rise; 25 test +ve||TNNLudhiana: Two Covid-19 positive patients, both from Ludhiana, died at different hospitals on Wednesday. With this, the toll from the district rose to 22, while that of the outsiders who died here stood at 23. Health department officials said a 71-year-old woman from Basti Jodhewal, who had diabetes and respiratory problems, died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. The second casualty was an 18-year-old boy, a road accident victim from Rania village in Ludhiana, who breathed his last at Rajendra Hospital in Patiala.Meanwhile, 27 patients, including the two casualties, from the district tested positive for novel coronavirus on the day. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the 638 samples sent for testing to Government Medical College, Patiala, on Tuesday, reports of 568 came as negative and 70 were pending. Health department officials said of the other 45 pending samples, reports of 34 came as negative and 11 were positive. Of these, 10 patients were from Ludhiana district and one from Agra. They said of the cases from Ludhiana, two were from Aggar Nagar, one each from Jagraon, Dashmesh Nagar, Janakpuri, Jamalpur, Sherpur, BRS Nagar, Bhai Himmat Singh Nagar and Dehlon Nagar. Besides, five samples tested positive at a private laboratory and one at the Patiala hospital. Health department officials said of the 13 positive reports received from DMCH, 11 cases were from Ludhiana, one each from Patiala and Jalandhar. They added that of the 11 patients from Ludhiana three were from Basti Jodhewal, one each from Janta Nagar, Dugri, Kanganwal Road, Miller Ganj, Khanna, Civil Lines, Dad village and Pakhowal Road.The civil surgeon said in all 27 persons from Ludhiana district tested positive on Wednesday, besides three persons from other districts and states. He added that till now a total of 865 patients have tested positive for the disease in the district, besides 200 persons from outside. Health department officials said 861 samples of suspected patients were sent for testing on Wednesday. BOXThey are among positives A 54-year-old policeman from Dad village of Ludhiana A 35-year-old healthcare worker from BRS Nagar A 24-year-old pregnant woman from Dehlon Nagar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-more-die-as-covid-19-toll-continues-to-rise-25-test-ve/articleshow/76737354.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bhopal||As curbs go, MP records spike in Covid +ve cases||Bhopal: Once the curbs were eased during Unlock 1.0, state capital Bhopal alone accounted for 24% of the 5,504 cases reported between June 1 and 30 in the state. Though atleast one case was reported from each of the 52 districts of the state—Bhopal and Indore contributed to 46% of the fresh cases during the period. Niwari was the only district which did not had a Covid positive case and was added to the list of the new infected districts in June. As on June 30, nine positive cases had been reported in Niwari. Bhopal had reported maximum positive cases in June even outnumbering Indore where maximum cases have been reported till date. While 1,322 cases were reported in the state capital in June, only 1,223 cases were reported in Indore. Morena—the district which had reported third highest number of cases (315) in the month of June—had no active cases till May 1. In the past one week, there has been at least two occasions when maximum number of cases in the entire state were reported from Morena district. After Bhopal, Indore and Morena, it is Gwalior where maximum cases (257) have been reported in June. Like Morena, there were only 3 active cases in Gwalior on May 1. Sources said that though isolated cases were reported both in Gwalior and Morena in the beginning but the situation was under control. However, it was only after the relaxations and when the migrant workers returned that there was spurt in number of cases. Same is the case with Sagar and Rajgarh districts, these two are also among the top 15 districts where maximum positive cases were found in the month of June. As on June 30, Sagar had 193 positive patients and Rajgarh had 84 positive patients. But on May 1, there was no patient in Rajgarh and Sagar only had 4 active cases. Apart from the migrant workers returning to the state, increased testing could also be attributed to the increase in number of positive cases as more people were tested in 30 days of June than the total testing done cumulatively between March 24 and May 31. While 1.9 lakh people were tested in June alone, between March 24 and May 31 only 1.67 tests were done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/as-curbs-go-mp-records-spike-in-covid-ve-cases/articleshow/76736105.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||ED books ex-CEO of TV9 Ravi Prakash under PMLA||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday booked former chief executive officer (CEO) of TV9, V Ravi Prakash under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). An enforcement case information report (ECIR) has been issued based on the Cyberabad police FIR alleging a Rs 18 crore fraud. ED sources said summons will soon be issued to Ravi Prakash for questioning. In October 2019, Banjara Hills police had arrested Ravi Prakash on allegations that he had fraudulently withdrawn Rs 18 crore from Associated Broadcasting Company Private Limited. ABCPL director Gottipati Singa Rao had filed a complaint against Ravi Prakash and two other directors — MKVN Murthy and Clifford Pereira — alleging that between September 2018 and May 2019, the accused had withdrawn Rs 18 crore from the company. The Associate Broadcasting Company was taken over by Alanda Media and Entertainment Private Limited. Meanwhile, the Banjara Hills police booked a case for sections pertaining to cheating and criminal breach of trust. Following this, the ED stepped into the case. Alanda Media had acquired a majority share in TV9 in August 2018. During verification of accounts, it came to light that money was withdrawn without proper approval of shareholders and directors. The company alleged that the amount was transferred to one of the directors, Clifford Pereira. Ravi Prakash was released on bail. Counter allegations were also made by Ravi Prakash against the promoters of the company. He too filed a complaint with the ED. In June 2019, Ravi Prakash’s counsel stated before the Telangana high court that his client had lodged a complaint with CBI and ED claiming that around Rs 294 crore had been siphoned through hawala networks. The counsel for Telangana police refuted the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-books-ex-ceo-of-tv9-ravi-prakash-under-pmla/articleshow/76737871.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Drug peddlers hide dope in vehicles for essentials||HYDERABAD: Drug peddlers are now using vehicles transporting essential commodities to move contraband into the city. Excise sleuths have found out that several peddlers — many of them from Africa, who had earlier been arrested and are currently out on bail — are sending drugs to their local agents in the city using this method. In June, enforcement sleuths of the excise department busted three gangs of drug peddlers and seized 55 kilos of ganja, 79 grams of cocaine, 410 grams of charas, 105 grams of MDMA, four LSD blots and over two kilos of hash oil. In all cases, the accused were locals. Upon interrogation in two cases, excise officials found out that the main suppliers of cocaine and MDMA were African peddlers based in other cities such as Bengaluru and Delhi. In one of the interrogations, officials found out that Mike, a Nigerian peddler who has been accused in several drug cases in the city, had been supplying cocaine from Bengaluru. “Mike stopped operating from Hyderabad three years ago after he was released on bail. He has been providing cocaine to local peddlers from Bengaluru, either in Bengaluru or through his network of couriers,” said an excise official. Meanwhile, two other peddlers — Divine Ebuka and Cheema Good Luck, who are also brothers — have been operating from Delhi. Ebuka and Cheema are accused in multiple cases in Hyderabad and had been last arrested in 2019 for peddling cocaine. The duo earlier used to operate from Bengaluru but has now shifted base. Their names also cropped up during the interrogation of a recently-arrested gang. “We found out that the Delhi and Bangalore-based African peddlers have been sending consignments through essential goods supply trucks by handing over parcels to drivers and cleaners. They use local associates to hand over parcels to the drivers saying that they were some medicines or documents to be collected by a friend or family members in Hyderabad. To avoid suspicion, they pay only a small amount as commission. The local suppliers are collecting the parcel from drivers on the highway or near the ORR,” according to an excise official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/peddlers-hide-dope-in-vehicles-for-essentials/articleshow/76737848.cms||Mahesh Buddi
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||In support of Centre’s ban, TikTok users now seek Indian alternative||HYDERABAD: While they are in complete support of Centre’s move to ban TikTok, users of the app are now wishing for an Indian alternative at the earliest. They say that other platforms such as Instagram or Youtube serve a different purpose and cannot be a replacement to a creative app like TikTok. “People found it funny when I made music videos in that app. I love music and I am passionate about making the videos. I am living my life the way I wanted to by putting out everything I wanted to in public domain. However, at the same I am a responsible person,” said Kalyani Gorre, an environmentalist, who is also pursuing her Ph D. In a very short time she got more than 10,000 followers and put out 1,500 videos. “Sometimes I would put out a social message asking people to plant trees, or simply make sound tracks and act it out,” said Kalyani, a resident of Lingampally. While Kalyani is pursuing her own goals, Eshwar of Kavadiguda was had high hopes and believed that the app would take him to higher places. The 27-year-old has been marketing his videos and hoped to gain an entry into films. He imitates Tamil actor Dhanush, son-in-law of Rajnikanth, as he has an uncanny resemblance to him. “I myself was shocked when one of my videos got 11.9 millions views,” Eashwar Dhanush, as he calls himself, told TOI. “I put out only 340 videos in the last two-and-a-half years but people liked what I did,” he said. The Centre’s decision to ban TikTok does affect creative people but Yugandhar Munagala, who is popular on the app agrees that the interest of the nation should come first. “I must admit that I got my identity by doing videos where I showed off my beard,” Yugandhar, who has already forayed into tinsel town, said. The 28-year-old, who is a post-graduate in microbiology, works for a Germany-based seeds company. With two lakh followers, Yugandhar, a resident of Suchitra said that the need of the hour is to come up with an Indian app that matches TikTok or has better features.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/in-support-of-centres-ban-tiktok-users-now-seek-indian-alternative/articleshow/76738194.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
July 2, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man who killed two sisters found hanging||HYDERABAD: The investigation into the missing man from Chandrayangutta wanted for killing his two sisters took a new twist on Wednesday night after he was found dead. The man was found hanging from the ceiling. Chandrayangutta inspector Rudra Bhaskar confirmed to TOI that the man, Ahmed bin Salam Ismail, had indeed died of suicide. Interestingly, while five police teams were in search for Ahmed since the murders, he ended his life at his residence. Ahmed’s body was found in decomposed condition. The case came to light only after neighbours began complaining of a continuous foul smell. “Though the house was locked following the double murder, there was a small entrance from the rear. Using that, the accused gained entry without anyone’s knowledge and committed suicide. No one knew that he was inside until the foul smell started emanating,’’ a top officer from Hyderabad police told TOI. A case of sucspicious death has been registered On Monday at around 7 pm, Ahmed had picked up a quarrel with two of his three sisters. He then attacked his two sisters at their residence in Salala. Both died on the spot. Later, the accused went to his youngest sister’s residence in Balapur where he attacked her. Her husband intervened but he too was attacked. However, they both managed to escape with injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-who-killed-two-sisters-found-hanging/articleshow/76737885.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 10 lakh to witness DK Shivakumar’ swearing-in ceremony online on Thursday||BENGALURU: After earning flak from various quarters for organising a protest without adhering to social-distancing norms, the Congress unit in Karnataka has decided to hold the swearing-in ceremony of its new president DK Shivakumar online on Thursday. The oath-taking ceremony, Pratijna Dina, is said to be a first of its kind in the country as 10 lakh people from the remotest corners of the state — 462 blocks and 6,000 gram panchayats and municipalities across 7,800 locations — will witness it online. The formal event will be held at the KPCC office in Bengaluru with not more than 50 people. Shivakumar said he has handed over the security of KPCC headquarters on Queen’s Road to police and they have been asked to allow only those with passes issued by them. “We are restricting the event to a select few and they will ensure social distancing. Before entering, everyone will be subjected to thermal screening and oxygen-level check-ups,’’ said Congressman BL Shankar. The programme will include many interactive features: Participating party workers will also be administered the Congress pledge and will read out the Constitution’s Preamble along with the newly-sworn in KPCC president. The six-time legislator is said to have taken a leaf out of the BJP’s book by adopting the latest technology to reach the masses. Apart from taking professional assistance to manage social media, it’s said Shivakumar has already created a system within the party, wherein district and block-level party leaders have to directly report to him and under which he tracks their movement. With a two-way phone and a tracker installed on it, the gadget is being distributed to all Congress block and district presidents. “Most of these coordinators and booth-level office-bearers are youngsters. Keeping track of their movements will help us ensure accountability,” said Congress functionary VR Sudharshan. “Shivakumar has been aspiring to lead the party and become the CM for a long time. He has got what he wanted. Let’s see how he goes about it,” said another senior Congress functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-10-lakh-to-witness-dk-shivakumar-swearing-in-ceremony-online-on-thursday/articleshow/76737904.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bengaluru||3,363 kids from containment zones appear for SSLC exams||Bengaluru: The number of students from Covid-19 containment zones writing SSLC exams touched 3,363 on Wednesday. On the first day on June 25, it was 998. This comes as several areas, especially in Bengaluru city, have turned containment zones in the wake of rise in cases. In all, 32 students could not appear for the exam as they turned positive. While on June 25, the number of students who were found unwell during the check up at exam centre was 201, it was 613 on Wednesday. Students who are sick and those from the containment zones take the exam in a different room. The social science exam on Wednesday saw an attendance percentage of 97.9 (7.7 lakh). This was against 98.8% last year. There were 7.5 lakh fresh candidates, 20,000 private candidates and 593 from outside the state. Five students in Yadgir district were given question papers based on the old syllabus for maths exam on June 27. Their answerscripts will be evaluated separately and action will be taken against the officials. Malpractices assisted by schools by switching off CCTV cameras were reported in Ballari and Koppal. We’ve completed all the core subjects. Now only languages are left. We’ll complete them too in a safe environment —S Suresh Kumar, primary and secondary education minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3363-kids-from-containment-zones-appear-for-sslc-exams/articleshow/76737892.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Mumbai||Adani starts video calls to resolve power bill issues||Mumbai: With thousands of complaints pouring in from celebrities to common citizens about “inflated power bills”, Adani Electricity on Wednesday announced a video call facility to redress grievances without having to step out of home. It assured no power connection will be disconnected over non-payment of dues and also announced installation of seven lakh automated smart meters to get readings without human intervention. Adani has a total 29 lakh consumers in Mumbai, and others will get smart meters gradually. Meanwhile, a city businessman from Mulund, Ravindra Desai, has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) before the Bombay high court for its intervention against such “excessive bills during the lockdown’’. The PIL, filed through advocate Vishal Saxena, sought orders to ensure bills are reduced for June and for electricity distribution companies to formulate a strategy to avoid exorbitant bills during the Covid-19 pandemic. The PIL, which sought a hearing for July 3, has pleaded for a stay in the payment of bills for the month of June and for waiver of late payment charges, pending a hearing in the matter. The PIL has made the state, the Union ministry of energy along with electricity providers such as Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company, Adani Electricity, Tata Power, among others, parties. The inflated bill issue is now raging across the city for all power utility firms—MSEDCL, Tata Power and BEST. MSEDCL released a video on Wednesday in which it said: “Had the Centre enlisted electricity in the list of National Disaster Relief Fund, it could have helped Maharashtra procure funds to give relief to those getting hefty bills during the lockdown/Covid pandemic.” State energy minister Nitin Raut has also written to the Centre for funds to give subsidy to consumers. His announcement of 2% discount on bill payment has angered many consumers who said it was a “pittance”. Adani officials on Wednesday said they have set up 25 help desks at eight customer care centres for the video call facility. “You can also call our 24x7 helpline number at 19122 or use WhatsApp to reach us at +919594519122,”said an official. An Adani spokesperson said, “You can simply speak to our customer care officer over video call. He or she will listen to your complaint and will redress it over the video call. You can also show bills and get clarification.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/adani-starts-video-calls-to-resolve-power-bill-issues/articleshow/76736369.cms||Somit Sen
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||Coffee, tea vendors at rly station face bleak prospects||Ludhiana: After cancellation of all long route trains for the next one month in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, tea stall owners at the station face uncertainty. Already, they had been struggling to make ends meet selling tea and coffee among passengers as business had been severely hit. With survival becoming increasingly difficult, several tea stall owners have taken to selling vegetables and fruits on city roads. Local vendors have urged railway authorities not to charge any rental fee from vendors who have not earned anything and are reeling under financial crises. Fifteen vendors had been serving tea and coffee to 80,000 to 90,000 passengers during peak season when over 100 long route trains pulled in. However, after the Covid-19 outbreak, railways decided to cancel all trains. Most of the owners did not open their stalls and tried to earn money by other means like selling vegetables or working in grocery stores for home delivery. Tea stall owner Ashok Gupta, who has been working at the city station for the last 30 years said, “I have been working as an authorised tea stall owner at the city station for the past three decades but I have never witnessed such a massive downslide in business. After losing all savings in the past four months, most tea stall owners have decided to switch to selling fruits and vegetables.”New norms have also dented tea sellers’ business. “ For almost eight days, authorised tea and food stall owners have not earned a penny. After a few trains began plying, railways introduced new terms and conditions for local food stall owners. We could not serve unpacked food and could only offer takeaways. Because of this, our business came to a standstill. We have decided not to open stalls for next several days till the situation comes back to normal,” a tea stall owner said.According to Rajesh Kumar, another tea stall owner, “There is a sense of fear among passengers who are totally ignoring food stalls.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/coffee-tea-vendors-at-rly-station-face-bleak-prospects/articleshow/76737355.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
July 2, 2020||Bengaluru||3,363 kids from containment zones appear for SSLC exams||Bengaluru: The number of students from Covid-19 containment zones writing SSLC exams touched 3,363 on Wednesday. On the first day on June 25, it was 998. This comes as several areas, especially in Bengaluru city, have turned containment zones in the wake of rise in cases. In all, 32 students could not appear for the exam as they turned positive. While on June 25, the number of students who were found unwell during the check up at exam centre was 201, it was 613 on Wednesday. Students who are sick and those from the containment zones take the exam in a different room. The social science exam on Wednesday saw an attendance percentage of 97.96 (7.68 lakh). This was against 98.78% last year. There were 7.45 lakh fresh candidates, 20,000 private candidates and 593 from outside the state. Five students in Yadgir district were given question papers based on the old syllabus for maths exam on June 27. Their answerscripts will be evaluated separately and action will be taken against the officials. Malpractices assisted by schools by switching off CCTV cameras were reported in Ballari and Koppal. We’ve completed all the core subjects. Now only languages are left. We’ll complete them too in a safe environment —S Suresh Kumar, primary and secondary education minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/3363-kids-from-containment-zones-appear-for-sslc-exams/articleshow/76737685.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||FIR filed against unidentified accused day after accident||Times News Network Ludhiana: A day after six youngsters were injured after their speeding car rammed into a tree in Sarabha Nagar, the Division 5 police registered a case of rash driving on Wednesday.On the statement of a police constable, the case was filed against unidentified accused. The police are trying to identify the owner of the car.Cops said four boys and two girls, all minors, were in the car. “The car was speeding when it crashed into a tree in Sarabha Nagar, outside the house of MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, around 6.15am. CCTV cameras installed near the spot have captured the incident,” said a cop. Following the crash, passersby brought the injured out and took them to different hospitals. Thereafter, the police were called. Division 5 police station assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jaspal Singh said, “All of its six occupants have sustained severe injuries. Things will become clear after we record the statements of the injured. An FIR has been registered under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (whoever cause hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or personal safety of others) of the IPC.” The CCTV cameras’ footage showed the speeding red car coming from BRS Nagar bridge side and going towards Durga Mata Mandi, Sarabha Nagar. At a speed breaker, the driver lost control of the car after which it ran into the roadside tree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fir-filed-against-unidentified-accused-day-after-accident/articleshow/76737365.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||BSCL to upgrade cycling infra to win Centre’s Cycles4Change challenge||Bhubaneswar: The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs’ ‘Cycles4Change Challenge’ for Smart Cities, part of the government’s Covid-19 response, has given the Bhubaneswar Smart City Limited (BSCL) the perfect opportunity to improve the capital’s cycling culture. Depending on the feedback provided by the cities on a portal to be launched on July 10, ten Smart Cities will be chosen to receive help from the Centre on upgrading their cycling infrastructure. The cities will also receive reward of Rs 1 crore. In order to be chosen, Bhubaneswar’s smart city administration has decided to upgrade the city’s cycling infrastructure and involve citizens in deciding policy on non-motorized transport. “Bhubaneswar already has good infrastructure for cyclists. We have dedicated tracks and enough bicycles to provide on rent. The lockdown has encouraged many people to opt for cycling, especially when public and private transport systems came to a halt,” BSCL general manager (admin) Kamaljit Das said. The topic of improving cycling infrastructure also came up in the last meeting of the BSCL’s board of directors. “The authorities are working on plans to improve infrastructure and it will be done on time,” Das added. The central challenge for Smart Cities asks the local administration to open bicycle clinics where the two-wheelers can be repaired for free. It also asks the Smart Cities to open training centres in every neighbourhood where people can learn how to ride a cycle. “There is obviously a craze for cycling but there are challenges too. Government enforcement plays a major role in safeguarding cyclists on crowded roads,” urban planner Piyush Rout said. He added that the city authorities must focus more on popularising cycling among residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/bscl-to-upgrade-cycling-infra-to-win-centres-cycles4change-challenge/articleshow/76737367.cms||Sandip Mishra
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||After stopping Bander, greens target airport in Chanda tiger corridor||NAGPUR: After successfully blocking auction of Bander coal blocks in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), the greens have trained their guns on greenfield airport coming up in Vihirgaon and Murti villages on Tadoba-Kawal tiger reserve corridor. The airport is in Rajura tehsil of Chandrapur district. The Rs 30-crore project was conceived by former forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar in 2018. It needs 75.24 hectares forest land of which 47.41 hectares is reserve forest and 27.830 hectares protected forest in Central Chanda division. In all, 3,817 trees will be felled for the project. The project needs over 300 hectares land. Chandrapur chief conservator of forests (CCF) SV Ramarao, though having recommended the project in March 2020, stated in his remarks that compartment numbers 173, 200, and 593 fell in functional tiger corridor between Tadoba and Kawal as per the Eastern Vidarbha Landscape (EVL) report on corridors by Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun. The inspection report also stated that the airport site was used by tigers, leopards, sloth bears, and herbivores were also found in the area. WII observed the site was within critical wildlife habitat and connected corridors and therefore it should not be considered for the airport. It suggested mitigation measures in case user agency Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC) goes ahead with the project. “Currently, MADC has been asked to comment on WII recommendations on mitigation steps. MADC, which plans to give private land in Ratnagiri for compensatory afforestation, has also not submitted details about it and undertaking from the owner. We have asked the CCF to seek comments from user agency,” said forest sources. MADC’s Mumbai-based consultant, who did not wish to be quoted, said, “Our agency’s job is to get Stage I & II permission on forest land diversion. MADC will comment on mitigation steps. As per my knowledge the proposed site is not a tiger bearing area.” However, senior wildlife officers said, “With 200 tigers in Chandrapur district alone, and the way big cats were crying for space, even 75 hectares forest mattered, especially when it is corridor. One of the mitigation steps includes 4km compound wall, which would actually mean blocking the corridor. Besides, ancillary activities after the airport is in place will be detrimental for wildlife.” “CCF should have rejected the project outright. The user agency is creating fait accompli situation by going ahead with land acquisition process. If tomorrow someone goes to court or the agency doesn’t get forest and wildlife clearances then money spent on land acquisition will go waste,” said Suresh Chopne, president of Green Planet Society and member of Regional Environment Committee (REC). Wildlife conservationist Kishor Rithe, who was on committee to grant clearance to New Mumbai airport, said, “The location in Vihirgaon-Murti is risky. Most accidents during landing and take-off occur due to presence of deer family. Even leopards and tigers can enter the premises. Besides, the compound wall will stop free movement of wild animals. It will be dangerous to set up a airport near an area surrounded by forests.” Eco-Pro president Bandu Dhotre says, “I suspect that the former BJP government perhaps stalled Kanhargaon sanctuary proposal to pave way for airport. The proposed sanctuary has been cleared by state wildlife board and is 3km away from the airport site. There is already man-animal conflict in the proposed airport area. MADC should drop the proposal and develop existing airport at Morwa, 10km from Chandrapur.” However, MADC officials said, “Morwa site has been rejected by DGCA-AAI team in 2016-17 as it falls in the funnel area of two power plants whose chimneys are an obstruction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-stopping-bander-greens-target-airport-in-chanda-tiger-corridor/articleshow/76738210.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Isolation ward with 200 beds at North Delhi Municipal Corporation hospital||NEW DELHI: To enhance its Covid bed capacity, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has started converting a newly-constructed block at Balak Ram Hospital, Timarpur, into a 200-bed isolation ward. “The departments concerned have been told to fix the pending work and check supply of water and electricity in a phased-manner. I visited the place last week and asked the officials to clean the site, arrange for beds and ensure clean washrooms. Based on the requirement, arrangement for oxygen cylinders will be made,” said Jai Prakash, mayor, north corporation. Before Balak Ram Hospital, the civic agency aims to open a 50-bed isolation ward at Saraswati Vihar (Rohini) primary school and another at Hudson lane polyclinic. It will provide guards, sanitation staff, water, electricity and tie up with NGOs for medical facilities. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage Unlock 1.0: What's open & from when in MHA's phase-wise reopening plan It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news “We will inaugurate the facility at Saraswati Vihar on Tuesday. Here, with the help of NGOs, we have even arranged for ventilators and oxygen cylinders. All the three places will be empanelled with Hindu Rao Hospital, and if some patients turn serious, they will be taken to the hospital. We target to create beds for 8,045 people in the isolation wards,” said Prakash. In east Delhi, the municipal corporation claimed to have readied seven community halls and transferred them to the district magistrate (DM) for providing medical facilities like beds, oxygen ventilators and medical staff. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said they were contacting the DMs regularly for close co-ordination on the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/isolation-ward-with-200-beds-at-corpn-hosp/articleshow/76759712.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 2, 2020||Bhopal||Anandiben Patel takes oath as MP Guv||Bhopal: Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel took oath as governor of Madhya Pradesh for the second time at a simple ceremony Raj Bhawan here on Wednesday. On June 28, President Ram Nath Kovind entrusted Anandiben with the additional charge MP due to illness of MP governor Lalji Tandon. Chief Justice of the MP High Court Ajay Kumar Mittal administered her the oath of office. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, his cabinet colleagues including Tulsi Silawat, Meena Singh, former chief ministers, Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh and senior leaders were present on the occasion. This is the second time Anandiben took oath as MP Governor. Earlier, in January 2018 she was sworn in as MP Governor but was replaced by Lalji Tandon in July 2019. Anandiben has been given the additional charge of governor of MP to facilitate Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s cabinet expansion in the absence of Lal Ji Tandon. She will administer oath of office and secrecy to the new ministers. She will stay in Bhopal on Wednesday night and is likely to fly back to Lucknow on Thursday, after administering the oath of office to the new ministers. Tandon, who was on leave to his native city in Lucknow , took ill and has been admitted to a private hospital these since June 11. He is on ventilator support, but his condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/anandiben-patel-takes-oath-as-mp-guv/articleshow/76736122.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||No more restrictions on sitting arrangements in vehicles||Ludhiana: Now, there are no restrictions on sitting arrangements in vehicles, said commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal during a live Facebook session on Wednesday.During the session, which was organized to address the queries of residents, Agarwal received many a complaint against morning walkers and others violating the safety rules in the district. Some residents complained about opening of liquor vends till 11pm. During the talk, the top cop also shared the recipe of ‘kadha’ to boost immunity. Answering a query, Agarwal said now people could travel in their cars as per the permission given on registration certificates (RC). Ludhiana Police is issuing on an average 500 challans daily to those violating the Covid-19 norms, he added.On a question, he said after getting permission for a marriage function from the DC office, people invited more than allowed guests. “City police have already registered seven cases against such violators. Residents must follow the rules or face the music,” he added.Residents said morning walkers in their localities gathered in groups, violating social distancing rule, and in some areas people were still using open gyms. The top cop assured to get it checked and take action. A Ludhianvi told Agarwal that tuition centers were operating in some localities. On this, the top cop said gyms and coaching centers were not yet allowed to operate and that action would be taken against the guilty.While clearing confusion about Sunday curfew, he said shops dealing with essential goods could open on the day. About traffic movement, he said it was allowed till 10pm on weekdays, 5pm on Saturdays and restricted on Sundays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-more-restrictions-on-sitting-arrangements-in-vehicles/articleshow/76737377.cms||Payal Dhawan
July 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Intensive surveillance in private hospitals helps trace +ve cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Positive cases that may have evaded the surveillance net of health team are being traced from private hospitals and accredited labs in the district. During the past one week, four such cases were confirmed here, including the fish vendor who tested positive on Tuesday. A medical student, who was asymptomatic, did self-swabbing on the second day of his arrival from Kazakhstan and his sample tested positive at RGCB. Private hospitals have stepped up the screening process in the district, enabling them to catch probable positives and isolate them properly so as to avoid quarantine of staff or other patients or transmission to larger number of people. Two persons –who exhibited clear symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) – were isolated and monitored at private hospitals and their samples were collected for testing which came out as positive. They were then shifted to Medical College Hospital for further treatment. The fish vendor had also approached a private hospital where he was screened, isolated and samples were tested. The result was positive. Intensive surveillance of patients with ILI and respiratory distress in private hospitals has enabled the district health team and administration to activate containment in areas where patients had travelled and in areas of origin of infection. In two recent cases, private hospitals did well to catch the disease early even they the initial screening did not yield details of travel history or contact with a Covid positive person. They relied solely on scrutiny of symptoms to isolate the patient. With rise in case load, officials said that such engagement from private hospitals is most-welcome considering the fact that there had been cases where patients who tested positive had ignored repeated directives from health centres to go for testing. "Administering medication for flu and sending them home with a directive to do test often go unheeded. In some cases, medication gives them a false sense of security and they ignore symptoms and go to different places. If you suspect disease and isolate them properly till their results arrive, it prevents spread of the disease," an official said. District medical officer Preetha PP said that Covid management team has a special wing for private hospital surveillance. "Daily data on patients with ILI and respiratory distress are tracked by this wing. It also helps us to engage with private hospitals for proper isolation and monitoring which has helped us a lot in checking transmission of disease," she said. In two cases, so detected in private lab, containment zones had to be declared across various wards owing to the extent of travel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/intensive-surveillance-in-pvt-hosps-helps-trace-ve-cases/articleshow/76737387.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Big hospitals running out of ventilator beds in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The crisis of ventilator beds in Delhi for Covid-19 patients turned more acute on Wednesday with major hospitals like AIIMS, Ram Manohar Lohia, Apollo and Max at Patparganj and Saket running out of such beds in ICUs. Mechanical ventilation is required to save those Covid-19 patients who are not able to breathe on their own despite oxygen support. According to real-time data shared by the government’s Delhi Corona app, the capital has 744 ICU beds with ventilator support, excluding 50 such beds at AIIMS-Jhajjar. Of these, 569 — 76% — beds were occupied on Wednesday. Only seven hospitals in Delhi have five or more ICU beds with ventilator support available. These are Lok Nayak (37 ventilator beds), Guru Teg Bahadur (16), Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (13), Lady Hardinge Medical College (12), Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty (9), and Hindu Rao and Vimhans (8 each). Forty-one hospitals have less than five ventilator beds and 33 hospitals have no such facility. However, 9,453, or 62%, of the 15,243 general beds reserved for Covid-19 patients are still vacant. Dr Sumit Ray, head of the critical care at Holy Family Hospital in south Delhi, said patients with mild symptoms didn’t require hospitalisation. “Admission is required only if a person has cough and breathlessness. Such patients need to be put on oxygen support. If that fails to improve breathing, ventilator support is needed,” he said. If ventilator support is not made available to a critically ill patient in time, he may die due to respiratory failure. “We need more ventilator beds and trained manpower to run them,” the doctor said. On Tuesday, Delhi government issued an order to all state-run hospitals to rework their existing bed capacities in a way to increase the number of ventilator beds over and above the existing beds. Three teams will also conduct inspections of government and private hospitals for rapid assessment of Covid care facilities. Delhi has witnessed a significant decline in new cases over the past three days. However, the number of daily fatalities continues to be around 60, which is considered very high. From June 17 to July 1, government data shows 966 people died due to Covid-19 in the city. “It has been observed that many patients who get better, either at home or in hospital, suddenly develop cough and breathlessness in 10th to 12th day of infection and if they aren’t managed effectively, the condition deteriorates very fast leading to fatality,” said a senior doctor. He said patients must be quick to report to hospital if they faced any breathing difficulty. Watch Covid-19: Big hospitals running out of ventilator beds in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/big-hospitals-running-out-of-ventilator-beds/articleshow/76738224.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
July 2, 2020||Bhubaneswar||7 from CMC area test positive, admin starts screening of traders||Cuttack: Six persons who had come in contact with a Covid-infected person at Acharya Harihar regional cancer centre (AHRCC) tested positive for the virus in Cuttack district, which reported 32 cases in the last 24 hours. Out of them seven are from the Cuttack Municipal Corporation (CMC) area, including the six who came in contact with a positive person from AHRCC. A 33-year-old woman from Kathagadasahi, a 52-year-old man from Thoriasahi, two women, aged 24 and 30, from Nuapatna, besides a 23-year-old man from Manglabag and another man (45) from Jagatpur tested positive for the virus in the CMC area. Besides, a 40-year-old woman from Mahanadi Vihar (a family member of a former Covid patient) also tested positive. All the affected families have been asked to remain in home quarantine. Their swabs will be taken for testing. “Further contact tracing and swab collection of suspected persons in the areas is going on. A team has been engaged to carry out the task. Regular sanitization of concerned areas is being carried out by our staff,” said Ananya Das, CMC commissioner. In the CMC area, 46 people have so far tested positive for Covid-19, resulting in two deaths and 22 recoveries. The city now has 22 active cases. The CMC, meanwhile, has started screening of traders at Malgodown and Chhatra Bazar on Wednesday to see if anyone has contracted the virus. Teams comprising civic body officials, health experts and ASHA workers visited Malgodown and Chhatra Bazar area and undertook a screening of the traders. A total of 262 shops at Malgodown and Chhatra Bazar areas were visited by the teams. “The screening of the traders was done given their daily exposure to many people, from both within and outside the state, including those from Covid hotspots like Nashik and Kolkata,” the CMC commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/7-from-cmc-area-test-positive-admin-starts-screening-of-traders/articleshow/76737381.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bhopal||Now, you can fly to only 3 destinations from city||Bhopal: Bhopal airport issued a revised schedule of flights operating from the city on Wednesday. As per the new schedule, only 10 flights are now available to three destinations: Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad. Earlier, flights were operating from Bhopal to Bengaluru, Shirdi, Jaipur, Pune, Lucknow, Ahmedabad and Raipur. In 2019 July, around 40 flights flew to 11 destinations from the city, which is now down to 3. Now, only one flight will take-off for Mumbai that too in the evening. Passengers reacted sharply to the move. “I am not able to understand as what to difference it will make, if you start resuming the services, which were available before the lockdown. Either you stop operating the flights, or don’t operate at all. People want to resume work. However, in the absence of flights, it has become tough to get back to work,” said Anas Khan, a city-based businessman. Connectivity still remains an issue. In his reply to the tweet of the revised schedule, flyer Anjan Sengupta tweeted: “Really, Pathetic. No flights to Bangalore or Kolkata. Royal Ignore from @airindiain who are more interested in flying multiple flights from places like Jharsuguda.....They can’t schedule one daily flight to Delhi from Bhopal, but flying 3 daily from Bhubaneswar.” Some flyers comaplined as only one flight is available for Mumbai. “At least there should be a flight in the morning to Mumbai. There is only a single flight that also in the evening. This is not done,” said Bhushan Verma, a flyer. Notably, before lockdown, there were five flights for Delhi and 4 for Mumbai. Some passengers also reacted over sudden rise in ticket prices. Flight Schedule Flight no Origin Arrival Departure Frequency Aircraft type AI-481/482 Delhi 10.15 am 12.15 pm 4 days A 320 6E-2053/2052 Delhi 3.20 pm 4 pm All days A 321 AI-437/438 Delhi 6.20 pm 8.20 2 days A 329 6E-7121/7122 Hyderabad 1.10 pm 1.45 pm All days ATR-72 AI-631/632 Mumbai 7.25 pm 9.25 pm 2 days A 320||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/now-you-can-fly-to-only-3-destinations-from-city/articleshow/76736136.cms||Ramendra Singh
July 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Confusion reigns along AP-Odisha border||VISAKHAPATNAM: In what comes as a shock for many travelling by car from Odisha to Andhra Pradesh with regular passes or passes with a 72-hour validity, government officials and police along the state border in Ichchapuram are allegedly delaying and questioning those entering the state. Police, however, have refuted the allegations. Passengers allege that they have to walk long distances after parking their vehicles and wait for hours for the swab test and other formalities. Despite holding valid passes and registering on the Spandana mobile application, they alleged that often they are asked to pay a fine. The restrictions, passengers said, come up while they are returning to Andhra Pradesh from places in Odisha that have registered relatively low numbers of Covid-19 cases. No such restrictions, however, are in place for people travelling to and fro from high-risk districts such as Krishna and Kurnool, they claimed. Recently, a businessman who travels between the two states for work said, “Even though I have the inter-state travel pass valid for 72 hours and I was returning from a very safe area of Odisha where there are hardly any Covid-19 cases, I still was forced to undertake a swab test at the border. I had to get down the car and walk two kilometres. Like me, there were other travelers and we had to wait for four to five hours for the test and other formalities.” Another passenger from Odisha to Vizag alleged that officials at the border asked him to pay a fine even though he had registered himself on the Arogya Setu app and Spandana app. K Vijay Mohan, president of Tours and Travel Association of AP said, “It is not only businessmen and other passengers who are facing these issues, due to this harassment at the border, patients from Odisha and Chhattisgarh who usually come to Visakhapatnam for treatment are not travelling and medical tourism is suffering.” When contacted, Icchapuram sub-inspector V Satyanarayana said, “We enforce strict rules and checks for interstate travelers, especially along Andhra-Odisha border, where often ganja, gutkha, illegal liquor are smuggled through the National Highway. Passengers need valid passes not just from their own state governments but must have valid e-pass from AP DGP on Spandana app. Without it, we are sending them back. We do not charge penalty or fine but simply deny permission to enter AP. Also, those planning to stay in Srikakulam have to undergo swab test at Ichchapuram. The MRO will register passenger details while the test counter will collect swab samples.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/confusion-reigns-along-ap-odisha-border/articleshow/76737374.cms||Sulogna Mehta
July 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Check hoarding of fertilizers: Satish Chavan||Aurangabad: NCP MLC Satish Chavan on Wednesday alleged that the traders are forcing farmers to buy fertilizers of a particular company and demanded that the state government should ensure its distribution via cooperative societies. In a statement issued on Wednesday, Chavan said that he has made a representation to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, drawing the latter’s attention toward the state of affairs in Marathwada involving seed and fertilizer traders. He demanded the authorities to check the hoarding of fertilizers and the attempt of some traders to forcefully sell goods of a particular company than what is sought by the farmers. He also alleged that seed and fertilizers were being sold for higher price that the maximum retail price. “The farmers are told to cough up more money, and being denied fertilizers they refuse. The government should also make available fertilizers through cooperative credit societies, district marketing federation, Maharashtra Agriculture Development Corporation,” Chavan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/check-hoarding-of-fertilizers-satish-chavan/articleshow/76738993.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kochi||Random sample collection drive at Ernakulam market||KOCHI: To prevent a community spread like the one witnessed in Tamil Nadu’s Koyambedu market, health authorities and district administration have swung into action and began collection of swab samples from traders and drivers in Ernakulam Market. The market was closed on Tuesday after three employees of an electrical shop tested positive for Covid-19. Random samples of as many as 26 people were collected on Wednesday, and officials said the sample collection will continue in the days to come. A mobile team has been deployed to collect samples of people associated with the market. “We have already collected samples of the immediate contacts of the infected patients. Since RT–PCR is a complicated test, we do it only on people who are at high risk for Covid-19. Since only 200 PCR tests are currently conducted in Ernakulam daily, each test will be held after verifying all facts. But the sample collection in the market will continue,” said additional DMO Sreedevi S. The containment procedures were kicked off in division 67 of Kochi corporation on June 27 soon after a Thrissur native, working in an electrical shop in the market tested positive for Coronavirus and authorities were not able to trace the source of his infection. Later, lockdown restrictions were extended to the whole Ernakulam market when two men who were employed at the shop where the Thrissur man worked tested positive for the virus on June 30. “The situation in Ernakulam market is quite serious. We are trying to prevent the market from turning into a Koyambedu-like cluster. We will strengthen surveillance in the area. If anyone associated with the market or his family member develops Covid-19 symptoms, they should contact health officials. They should not go directly to hospitals. The samples will be collected and tested to seclude those who test positive at an early stage itself. That is our policy,” said a senior health official. Another health official said the three infected persons used to supply electrical equipment to several shops in the district. A couple of such stores in Varapuzha were closed. “As many as 32 people have been placed under quarantine as they came into direct contact with the people who tested positive for the virus. We could know about the spread of the infection much earlier than in Koyambedu market. The containment will continue in the area for seven days after the last case is reported,” said the official. Eight people contract the virus through contact: Out of the 12 new Covid-19 cases reported on Wednesday, eight people contracted the disease through contact. The remaining four had come from abroad and outside Kerala. The eight contact cases were reported from Nayarambalam, Thoppumpady and Ernakulam Market. A 43-year-old Pachalam native and a colleague of the Thrissur native who tested positive on June 27 was among them. The Pachalam native was an employee at the electrical shop where the Thrissur native used to work. In all, four people in the shop have tested positive for the virus. The source of infection of the Thrissur native is still unknown. The wife, son and daughter-in-law of Nayarambalam native who is a dubbing artist also tested positive for Covid-19. Three others who tested positive for the disease are a Thoppumpady native who runs a shop in TD Road near Ernakulam market, an Elamkunnapuzha native, and a staff at the shop of the Thoppumpady native.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/random-sample-collection-drive-at-ekm-market/articleshow/76737390.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Another 90 cases in Kurnool district||Tirupati: Three deaths and 90 new cases were reported on Wednesday in Kurnool district. The district continues to be the most-afflicted by Covid-19 in the state. Anantapur district reported its highest single-day spike with 118 patients, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,689 — 676 patients are under treatment. In Kadapa district, 60 patients tested positive in the last 24 hours. While 619 patients are still undergoing treatment, 380 patients have been discharged so far. Thirty-five new cases were reported in Chittoor district, taking the number of overall cases to 1089. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/another-90-cases-in-kurnool-district/articleshow/76737392.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
July 2, 2020||Bhopal||Cong sends legal notice to Prabhat Jha, V D Sharma||Bhopal: Congress’s Rajya Sabha MP and eminent lawyer Vivek Tankha’s law firm on Wednesday served legal notices to BJP national vice-president Prabhat Jha and state BJP chief V D Sharma for making “patently false, incorrect statements” which “were highly defamatory in nature” against former chief minister Kamal Nath. The legal notices are related to Jha and Sharma’s recent statements alleging that Nath as Union commerce minister reduced import duties on Chinese products and the money received in return were given to Congress and the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation. The legal notice to Jha drew the BJP leader’s attention to his statement of June 26, when he alleged there was a reason why Congress was “talking the language of China”. Jha had claimed, “It is because of Nath, who during his stint as commerce minister in the UPA government had acted at the behest of China.” Following Jha’s statement, state BJP president Sharma had claimed that Nath destroyed livelihoods of crores of small traders and manufacturers by letting Chinese firms dump their goods in the country at the behest of the Gandhi family. “The act was no less than treason and a crime,” he said. The notice gave Jha and Sharma seven days “to immediately tender an unconditional apology in writing” and issue a clarification by holding a press conference with regard to their defamatory statements failing which legal proceedings — both civil and criminal — will be initiated. Speaking to TOI, Jha said, “The Congress party should initiate the defamatory suits first with those television channels, which had exposed that Nath reduced import duties on Chinese goods. The revelations were made by journalists before I spoke on the subject.” Jha had claimed that Congress received money from China and the funds were sent to the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation. He alleged that Nath played a key role in the Congress’s entente with China. “If I say in my own language that he was working as an agent of China, I will not be wrong,” the BJP leader had said. Jha had alleged that Nath had reduced import duty on 250 items which were available in plenty in the country. The legal notice to Jha said, “All statements issued by you against Mr Kamal Nath is downright canard and scurrilous allegation perpetuated to wrongly benefit your party both in Madhya Pradesh and nationally by besmirching the reputation of a tall leader.” The notice further added, “Your objective to spread canard and falsehood in every nook and corner of the state and the country so as to discredit the Congress leadership in the eyes of the approximately 7.5 crore people of MP is writ large.” To both Jha and Sharma, the notice alleged that the statements were made keeping the upcoming by-elections in 24 assembly seats in the state. “Your statement dated 26.06.2020 has caused irreparable injury and loss of reputation to my client and you deliberately with mala fide intent, have disseminated this false information to hurt the prospects of the Indian National Congress in the forthcoming bypolls,” the notice to Jha said. BJP spokesman Rajneesh Agarwal said, “After we receive the legal notices, an appropriate legal reply will be given.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-sends-legal-notice-to-prabhat-jha-v-d-sharma/articleshow/76736151.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 2, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA seeks ways to offset loss as revenue takes a beating||Visakhapatnam: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has suffered a major revenue loss this financial year due to the Covid-19 outbreak. VMRDA chairman Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao held a review meeting on the financial position of the urban development authority through a video conference on Wednesday. Speaking on the occasion, Srinivasa Rao said the VMRDA earned a revenue of Rs 26.62 crore and Rs 32.33 crore against an expenditure of Rs 28.47 crore and Rs 24.87 crore during the first quarter of 2018-19 and 2019-20 financial years, respectively. “But this year, the VMRDA earned only Rs 8.46 crore during the first quarter against an expenditure of Rs 18.49 during the same time,” he said. After brainstorming with officials on measures to boost revenue flow, the chairman asked officials to opt for auctioning vacant shopping complexes, odd plots and open sites in accordance with VMRDA regulations. He also suggested putting to use the recently-completed open auditorium in Pedagantyada. Srinivasa Rao also spoke about getting clearance from the state government for auctioning LIG plots in its joint venture layout ‘Fortune Hills’ in Dakamarri to generate revenue to the development authority. He asked officials to identify potential areas to develop new layouts in a bid to shore up revenues. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao, additional commissioner Manajir Jilani Samoon and others were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-seeks-ways-to-offset-loss-as-revenue-takes-a-beating/articleshow/76737410.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Sewage still leaking into Sukhna choe||CHANDIGARH: A technical team of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) on Wednesday found sewage leaking into Sukhna choe at only two points, while at around 10 points, where the leakage had been detected earlier, were clean. The CPCC team also collected water samples from the leaking points. The inspection began from the stretch along Kishangarh village, where they found mild flow of sewage due to some repair work. The point was immediately capped. From there, the team moved towards Bapu Dham, CTU Workshop area, Colony Number 4 and Hallomajra. On proceeding beyond Hallomajra, a leakage in sewer was detected near Daria village. However, it could not be capped immediately, as it fell under forest area. Permission for the same has been sought. A team of the engineering wing of the Chandigarh municipal corporation also accompanied them. The technical experts of CPCC would submit their report on the collected samples of the choe water to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) as per tribunal’s directions, officials said. The CPCC team was scheduled to visit both Sukhna choe and N-choe on Wednesday, but as the inspection of the former took long, the experts decided to inspect N-Choe on Thursday. The inspection came following orders from the NGT couple of weeks back, after officials from the tribunal held a virtual meeting with the stakeholders to know the exact status of both Sukhna choe and N-choe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sewage-still-leaking-into-sukhna-choe/articleshow/76738217.cms||Deepak Yadav
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Flight brings back 177 from Kuwait||Mohali: The GoAir flight number G8-7228, carrying 177 Indian passengers from Kuwait, landed at the Chandigarh International Airport around 7.15 pm on Wednesday. Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said all the passengers have been asked to undergo strict institutional quarantine at their respective districts and their passports have also been taken into possession by the administration. All repatriated persons, who mostly belong to different parts of Punjab and nearby states, will reach their districts under the supervision of the respective state government representatives, where they will be quarantined. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/flight-brings-back-177-from-kuwait/articleshow/76738229.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Aurangabad||Appoint landowners as company directors:||Aurangabad: NGO Vishwajieet Bahujan Ekta Sanghatana, Maharashtra, has demanded that farmers whose lands have been acquired for industrial purposes should be appointed as directors of the company that sets up its unit on their land. NGO president Chandrakant Bansode, in a statement, said that the lands were acquired at throwaway prices and handed over to the industries who set up their units in the spaces. In such a situation, the displaced farmers should be considered to be appointed as directors of the unit that was being set up on the very land which they once owned. He said that once the authorities concerned convince farmers to sell off their lands for industrial projects, they don’t look back at them and leave these farmers to the lurch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/appoint-landowners-as-company-directors/articleshow/76738996.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Women artisans to launch handloom face masks||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Call it an innovative move or a desperate attempt to stay afloat during the pandemic-induced crisis, a group of women artisans in the Balaramapuram traditional handloom village is set to launch custom-made face marks, meant for bulk purchase by corporate houses, healthcare institutions, political parties and other institutions. To begin with, the group would be making masks using the deadstock of dhotis (mundu) spun in Balaramapuram handlooms in the recent months. The handloom products that suffered a sharp slump in demand in the past two Onam festival seasons, mainly due to floods and landslides in several parts of the state, were pinning hope on this year’s Onam season which is only a few months away. The Balaramapuram handloom, which sports a GI Tag for its nearly 400-year-old weaving tradition, is facing survival challenges even otherwise following the introduction of power looms and the like. An artisan working on a traditional loom would be able to spun only one mundu of four-meter length a day. It could fetch him maximum Rs 500. Maybe for the first time, political parties could give succour to these artisans as local body elections are around the corner and distribution of free facemasks have already assumed popularity among residents’ associations and socio-cultural organisations in the state. “A team of 15 women artisans are currently engaged in the production of PM 2.5 quality masks, which are lower only to N 95 masks as per the quality scale. Since local body elections are about to take place in a few months, so we think of pitching the masks to political parties first. We have already made thousands of masks with hand embroidered symbols of political parties on it. If the parties choose to distribute quality masks as part of their political campaign, it could be a win-win situation for artisans, general public and political parties,” said Sabitha who co-ordinates the ‘mask revolution’. Being 100% organic and bio-degradable, the Balaramapuram handloom masks, say artisans are more natural than any of its kind available in the market. “The masks we make are very comfortable to wear and you can be sure that you won’t be breathing in anything toxic. We use no artificial dyes,” says Latha, an artisan engaged in this profession for long. “It is a three-layer mask at a relatively cheaper price, compared to the similar quality masks currently available in the market. While a PM 2.5 mask costs Rs 250 in the market, we plan to sell it at a retail price of Rs 60 per piece,” says Abhinesh who co-ordinates between artisans engaged in weaving, cutting and stitching works from their traditional homes in the Salyar Theruvu in Balaramapuram. Most of the artisan families here have one handloom each. “We have chosen women artisans only for the time being . We can currently produce up to 1,000 masks as day. If the project clicks, we can scale up production capacity by engaging more artisans,” Abhinesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/women-artisans-to-launch-handloom-face-masks/articleshow/76737414.cms||B S Anilkumar
July 2, 2020||Bhopal||Govt being formed through auction of MLAs: Kamal Nath||Bhopal: With the bypolls approaching in 24 assembly constituencies, former chief minister Kamal Nath on Wednesday said, “I have trust in the people of Madhya Pradesh that they will not believe in a government of announcements.”Nath was addressing a gathering of Seva Dal workers at the state Congress headquarters here on Wednesday afternoon. Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh was also present on the occasion. “This is the time to bring a change in ourselves and make people join the transformation,” Nath said. He said that even a few years back, only 10% to 20% people would be on social media. “But, today, nearly 95% people are connected to social media. It is a matter of time and changes are essential. We need to bring about that transformation in ourselves and make others join it,” he said. Kamal Nath said that Congress returned to power in the state after 15 years. “We had hopes. We had only 15-months in government, of which two-and-half months passed in Lok Sabha elections and model code of conduct. The remaining time, we gave people of this state a government of policies. There were many other schemes that I wanted to start but could not,” he said. The senior Congress leader asked Seva Dal workers to find persons who believe in Congress’s ideology and let them work in the 24 assembly constituencies going for bypolls. “With time even voters have changed. It is no longer a situation when you declare your vote for a certain party and the rest follows. Today, even in a family the father, mother, uncle, aunt have different votes. Our fight is against the BJP organisation,” Nath said. Nath asked Seva Dal workers to start with training camps in the constituencies where bypolls will be held. “Work silently because public meetings and giving speeches does not get votes. Seva Dal is known to work silently for the Congress party at the grassroots level,” he said. “If you join us in this electoral fight, no one can stop us,” he added. Nath said, “For the first time in history, governments are being formed through open auction of legislators”. The Nath government was toppled in March after 22 party MLAs and Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists quit and joined BJP. Congress alleged that they were purchased with crores of rupees by BJP. “Babasaheb Ambedkar, while framing the Constitution did not know that such a day will come in India when the character of the country will change to this extent,” Nath added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-being-formed-through-auction-of-mlas-kamal-nath/articleshow/76736176.cms||Suchandana Gupta
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Badnore launches PM street vendors’ scheme in city||Chandigarh: Punjab Governor-cum-UT administrator V P Singh Badnore launched the PM Street Vendors’ AtmaNirbharNidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme at the Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh in the presence of senior UT and mu nicipal corporation (MC) officials, on Wednesday. Municipal commissioner K K Yadav briefed about the features of the scheme, which includes initial working capital loan of up to Rs 10,000, interest subsidy on timely or early repayment of loan at 7 per cent monthly, cash-back incentive on digital transactions and higher loan eligibility on timely repayment of the first loan. He said the Chandigarh municipal corporation will establish a separate window by deputing community organisers in the vending zones, organise community camps and distribute I E C material for extending benefits of the scheme to street vendors identified by the MC. Badnore also unveiled a special report titled as “Combating Novel Coronavirus (Covid-19), a case-study of Chandigarh. During the release, the Governor appreciated the efforts of the MC towards documentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/badnore-launches-pm-street-vendors-scheme-in-city/articleshow/76738220.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nashik||Bhuse reiterates promise of delivering fertilisers to farms||Nashik: State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse on Wednesday said that the state government has meticulously planned for the distribution of seeds and fertilisers to farmers so that they do not face any problems while farming. The state has also made provision of 50 lakh metric ton of urea for the purpose. Bhuse was speaking on the occasion of ‘Krishi Din’ and ‘Krishi Sanjivani Saptah’ organized on the occasion of the birth anniversary of former chief minister Vasanrao Naik at Sapte village in Trimbakeshwar taluka of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhuse-reiterates-promise-of-delivering-fertilisers-to-farms/articleshow/76739003.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Youth ‘drowns’ friend, faces murder charge||Patiala: The police have booked a man on charges of cuplable homicide for allegedly drowning his friend in a canal on the pretext of taking bath. Sewa Singh of Sahal village in Patiala reported to the police that his son Avtar Singh, was taken away by a 17-year-old co-villager around two weeks ago for a bath in the nearby water canal. He said the accused did not reveal anything to the family about the incident, but admitted before the police when he was pressured. Sewa Singh told the police that his son did not know how to swim and the accused was also aware of it. The police said the accused confessed that he had forced Avtar to come down in the deep water where he incidentally slipped and drowned. The family said it has been more than a fortnight and the police are yet to trace his body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youth-drowns-friend-faces-murder-charge/articleshow/76738249.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gang develops mobile app to offer liquor at doorstep||NEW DELHI: A group of tech-savvy bootleggers developed a mobile application to accept orders for doorstep delivery of liquor in east Delhi. The delivery was also conducted through a website, police said after arresting one of the key accused. The accused, identified as Pawan Sharma (26), is a resident of Shahdara. DCP Jasmeet Singh said that Sharma was selling liquor without any licence after taking online orders from customers. “The accused used to take orders on ‘www.saathee.org’ or ‘saathee’ app or even on mobile phone. They bought the ordered liquor from licensed liquor shops and then delivered it for a higher price at the given address,” he added. Cops found that they charged Rs 200 above MRP for an order given a day before the delivery date and Rs 300 above MRP for same-day delivery. When a user registered with the app, they had to enter their location and phone number before they were allowed to order. Following a tip-off, cops laid a trap to nab the accused. On July 1, an order of four whisky bottles was placed by a decoy cop. Sharma visited Tyagi Chaupal, Shakarpur, riding on a bike and delivered the order. “A payment of Rs 6,240 was made and the accused was caught red handed. A case under Section 33 of Delhi Excise Act was registered at the Shakarpur police station,” said an official. Police are now looking for other members of the gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-develops-mobile-app-to-offer-liquor-at-doorstep/articleshow/76759007.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: ‘Temporary closure of private hospitals following cases not a solution’||KOCHI: Last week alone, the functioning of seven private hospitals were affected for two or more days after either staff or patients tested positive for Covid-19. Health experts said that with the surge in cases expected, it may not be a good idea to temporarily close down non-Covid hospitals. Since the outbreak, nearly 20 private hospitals have closed and reopened in the state with district medical officers’ permission. This, despite the Union ministry of health not recommending closure of hospitals. "Once a suspect/confirmed case is detected in a healthcare facility, standard procedure of rapid isolation, contact listing and tracking disinfection will follow with no need to shut down the whole facility," says the ministry's guidelines on detection of suspect/confirmed Covid cases in a non-Covid health facility. The Centre and private hospital managements discussed the issue after three private hospitals were closed down in Mumbai when staff tested positive for Covid. “Everyone soon realized that closure of hospitals is no solution and should not be allowed. If you keep closing hospitals like this, then once cases surge in Kerala, then within a week all private hospitals will be closed down. Knowingly or unknowingly a Covid patient may walk into the private hospital as cases increase," said Dr Girdhar Gyani, director general of association of healthcare providers India (AHPI). But DMOs in the state are still asking hospitals to close down temporarily. The latest was a private hospital in Edappal, which was shuttered after two doctors tested positive in sentinel surveillance tests. “Since the Covid outbreak in Kerala, more than 20 hospitals have closed down, seven in the last week alone. While in some health workers turned positive, in most it was because patients who had visited the hospitals were later tested positive. Delays in testing and contact tracing results in delay of reopening the hospitals," said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) hospital board of India. The Kerala private hospital association (KPHA) has decided to take up the matter with the state government. "In a pandemic, closing down a hospital is definitely not a good option,” association president Hussain Koya Thangal said. Recently, when at a government hospital in Chavakkad a staff member was infected, the casualty functioned with doctors from other centres, while the hospital staff was placed in quarantine. “Only PHCs run by a single doctor are closed temporarily. Within two days replacement is arranged and the hospital is slowly opened up,” said Dr Joseph Chacko, president of Kerala government medical officers' association (KGMOA).#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/temporary-closure-of-pvt-hosps-following-cases-not-a-solution/articleshow/76737431.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||CBSE tells schools to hold compartment exams online||CHANDIGARH: In a recent order passed by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), controller of examination has asked schools to conduct compartment exams of classes IX and XI in online and creative mode. The circular read “Schools can conduct online/offline/innovative tests and may decide promoting students on the basis of the test conducted.” The CBSE had on May 13, 2020 issued a notification stating that students of classes IX and XI, who could not pass in some subjects, will be provided an opportunity to clear the same. It was reiterated that this exemption is to be extended to all students, even to those who were given this opportunity earlier. Around 4,550 students of classes XI and XI of government schools, affiliated to the CBSE, in Chandigarh have got compartment. With the announcement of closure of schools till July 31 by the ministry of home affairs (MHA), the UT education department is unsure about when and how to conduct the compartment exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbse-conduct-compartment-exams-online/articleshow/76741029.cms||Kamini Mehta
July 2, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Cow dies after chewing bomb meant for boars||TIRUPATI: In an incident reminiscent of the June 5 killing of an elephant in Kerala when she was fed a pineapple stuffed with crackers, a cow was severely wounded after it chewed on a crude bomb used for wild boars three days ago in Chittoor district. The cow died on Wednesday. The incident took place on June 28 when Arjun Reddy, founder and caretaker of a private goshala at Kogileru village in Peddapanjani mandal, left the cow to graze. The cow suffered serious jaw injuries after it chewed a ball of explosive material wrapped in a fruit. Arjun Reddy first shifted the cow to SV Veterinary College and then to Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam’s Sri Venkateswara dairy farm, where veterinary doctors declared nothing could be done to restore the jaws. Left with no hope, Arjun Reddy took the cow back to the goshala. It survived for three days on intravenous fluids and died on Wednesday evening. Meanwhile, preliminary investigations done by the local police revealed that the explosive material covered in a fruit was allegedly placed by poachers to trap wild boars. Sources said police took four smugglers and three poachers into custody in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cow-dies-after-chewing-bomb-meant-for-boars/articleshow/76737422.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||UDF not to burn bridges with KC(M) Jose faction||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The UDF high power committee on Wednesday decided not to burn bridges with Kerala Congress (Jose K Mani) faction and keep a room for negotiation. Though no formal arrangement for a negotiation was finalized, the high-power committee is learnt to have decided not to worsen the situation further. After the meeting, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the Mani faction was only banned from attending UDF meetings. “Nobody expelled them. That was clearly mentioned when the UDF convener spoke to media the other day,” said Ramesh. However, queries on the status of relation between Mani group and UDF didn’t elicit any reply. The UDF leadership still maintains that the Jose faction can remain with the front if it quits the Kottayam district panchayat president post. “Kerala Congress is an essential part of the UDF and they have been with the front for over four decades. Following the death of K M Mani, the party split and the UDF tried to bring them together. When that was found impossible, it was decided to treat them as two parties,” said Ramesh. According to Ramesh, Monday’s decision followed the firm stand of Jose faction against quitting the district panchayat president post. “There was a clear understanding for Jose and Joseph factions sharing the post for eight and six months respectively. For the last four months, efforts led by P K Kunhalikutty had been going on to cajole the Mani group to accept the agreement. We will readmit them to UDF meetings the moment they correct their stand,” he said. The UDF meeting also decided to organize panchayat-level protests on July 9, raising the recent corruption allegations against the government and laxity in handling the pandemic situation. Ramesh said 10 members will take part in the protest in each of the panchayats by strictly adhering to social distancing norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udf-not-to-burn-bridges-with-kcm-jose-faction/articleshow/76736229.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Man commits suicide after daughter becomes critically ill||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Unable to bear grief of his daughter’s ill health, a 42-year-old man allegedly ended his life by hanging himself near the hospital where the daughter was under treatment. Chandrababu of Meenathil Kizhakkathil House at Nooranadu South in Alappuzha is the deceased. He was found hanging in the garbage disposal area behind Sri Avittam Thirunal Hospital for Women and Children, Government Medical College, here on Wednesday morning. The man allegedly ended his life hours after seeing his daughter one last time in the intensive care unit. According to his family, Chandrababu’s eight-year-old daughter Chandana is admitted in SAT Hospital where she was undergoing treatment for bacterial infection in brain for the past eight days. Chandrababu’s father-in-law Ramesh said that he was very upset since Tuesday. “On Tuesday afternoon he had created a ruckus at the intensive care unit wing to see his daughter,” said Ramesh. He allegedly barged into the ICU disregarding the warning by the staff there and saw his daughter. Later, he disappeared from the hospital. Chandrababu was a daily-wage painting labourer. He was married to Rajitha. Chandana, who is currently in the hospital is his elder daughter. Two years ago, the couple had another girl who unfortunately died during childbirth. “It was Chandana’s presence in their life that helped the couple tide over that difficult phase,” said Ramesh. Two weeks ago, Chandana fell ill following which she was taken to a primary health centre. From there, she was referred to the taluk hospital at Adoor, where the doctor referred her to SAT. A day after being treated here, her condition improved and was discharged. But, the next day, she fell ill again following which she was again admitted to the hospital. Six days ago, she was put on ventilator support as she was having trouble breathing. Medical College police registered a case on unnatural death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/man-commits-suicide-after-daughter-becomes-critically-ill/articleshow/76737432.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Varanasi||Retired banker paints all verses of Hanuman Chalisa||Gorakhpur: The lockdown affected many people, and while many battled depression, a retired bank manager in Gorakhpur made most of the time by using his brush and colours to depict all the 40 ‘chaupais’ (verses) of Hanuman Chalisa, one of Lord Ganesha and one painting of Lord Ram and Sita. Ravi Dwivedi, who retired recently as bank manager and is an ardent devotee of Lord Hanuman, has depicted each chaupai on a 3 ft 2 inch long and 2 ft 6 inch broad painting. He now plans to put up an exhibition of the paintings inspired by Hanuman Chalisa once the Covid crisis is over and wants to invite chief minister Yogi Adityanath for its inauguration. “There are a total of 42 paintings. The first is of Lord Ganesha as we start our prayers by seeking his blessings first. Then one of Lord Ram and Sita, followed by 40 paintings of the chaupais,” he said. “Since last 33 years, on every Tuesday I have been regularly visiting the Hanuman temple at Gorakhnath temple and another Hanuman temple nearby early morning. If I was away from the town, I would visit the Hanuman temple in whichever city I was, but I never missed Hanuman ji’s darshan on any Tuesday,” Dwivedi added. “For long, I had been thinking of depicting the Hanuman Chalisa in paintings and fortunately I got ample time during lockdown to fulfil my dream,” he added. Dwivedi is also known for his vast Bonsai collection and his Madhubani paintings. “I also visit the mazaar of Mubarak Khan Shaheed Baba regularly as my best friend is a Muslim since 1972,” he said. “I have completed most of the paintings and am giving finishing touches to a few and want to put up an exhibition to display them. CM Yogi and former Governor Ram Naik appreciated my paintings on many occasions. It is my wish that CM Yogi inaugurates the exhibition,” Dwivedi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/retired-banker-paints-all-verses-of-hanuman-chalisa/articleshow/76736195.cms||Arjumand Bano
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Restrictions removed from parts of Bapu Dham pocket||Chandigarh: After opening all pockets, including containment zones of Bapu Dham Colony, the UT administration on Wednesday lifted perimeter control from the affected houses and lanes of pocket no. 14 of the colony. On June 22, the administration had lifted sealing restrictions from all pockets, except affected houses in four pockets. On Wednesday, UT adviser Manoj Parida ordered for lifting of perimeter control from the affected houses and lanes of pocket no. 14. Now, houses in pocket nos. 4, 5 and 16 are under perimeter control. The Bapu Dham Colony was declared an affected pocket on April 25. On May 2, the administration had declared portions of it as containment zones and remaining areas as buffer zones. Parida said regular screening and monitoring of the areas by medical teams will continue. Regular sanitisation of the areas by municipal authorities will be conducted and residents will be advised to maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. These orders will come into force with immediate effect. Parida said that the issue of outbreak of Covid-19 was further studied and examined by a committee comprising municipal commissioner, district magistrate, SSP, director health services and a WHO representative,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/restrictions-removed-from-parts-of-bapu-dham-pocket/articleshow/76738272.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 2, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur to get pvt university soon||Gorakhpur: A private university would open in Gorakhpur soon as the proposal for establishing ‘Mahayogi Gorakhnath Vishwavidyalaya’ under Uttar Pradesh Private University Act 2019 has been sent to the state government. The construction of the university campus is going on at Balapar road in Sonbarsa, Gorakhpur, said Prof. U P Singh, president of Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad. “The construction is under way on around 200 acre land. The university will be equipped with latest technology and will provide quality education of international standards. It will also have a research centre. The research will focus on find solutions for diseases like encephalitis, black fever (Kalazar) and calamities like flood, earthquake etc. The university will open new avenues for youth of east Uttar Pradesh,” said principal of MP PG College Jungle Dhoosar, Dr Pradeep Rao. “Under the guidance of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the work for Mahayogi Gorakhnath Vishwavidyalaya has been going on since 2012. The administrative block, Aryuvedic Chikitsalaya, Panchkarma centre, nursing college, women’s hostel have already been constructed. The construction of men’s hostel, guest house, residence for officials, employees and teachers is in its last phase” he said. Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad and Mahant Digvijaynath had also played a leading role in the establishment of Gorakhpur University 70 years ago, Rao added. MP Shiksha Parishad president, Prof. U P Singh said the fees of MBBS and other courses will be such that anyone could get education. In 2018, on the 86th foundation ceremony of Maharana Pratap Shiksha Parishad, president Ramnath Kovind had given a call for making Gorakhpur ‘city of knowledge’ by the year 2032. At present, 48 institutes are being run under MP Shiksha Parishad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-to-get-pvt-university-soon/articleshow/76736228.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Administration ends odd-even for congested markets||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration on Wednesday ended the odd-even system for congested markets like Shastri Market in Sector 22, Sadar Bazaar in Sector 19, Patel Market in Sector 15 and different motor markets and for vending zones. UT adviser Manoj Parida said on the pattern of Punjab, the administration has given relaxations to two-wheeler riders and four-wheeler drivers. A maximum of two people in a scooter/motorcycle, four people in a car and three in an auto-rickshaw are allowed (including the driver), according to the order. However, all riders will use masks and vehicles will be regularly sanitised by owners, the order stated. The administration also allowed all shops/restaurants to remain open from 10 am to 9 pm. On the demand of call centres and industrial establishments, the administration allowed them to operate night shifts provided their employees do not come out of the office/factory premises during the curfew period from 10pm to 5am. However, apni mandis and organic markets will remain closed. Inter-state bus service will too continue to stay suspended. The administration did not provide relief to hotels and restaurants, refusing to allow them to serve liquor to customers. However, alcoholic drinks in marriage functions will be permitted after permission from the excise and taxation department. Bars will remain closed. There will be strict implementation of mask-wearing, social distancing in public places and any person violating the guidelines/directions will be penalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-ends-odd-even-for-congested-markets/articleshow/76738259.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
July 2, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Temporary market also shut down||KOCHI: A temporary market, which was opened at Marine Drive Ground on Wednesday morning was shut down within a few hours after hundreds of people, including vegetable traders and buyers thronged the area flouting all norms of social distancing. The temporary market was opened after the Ernakulam main market was closed from Wednesday following confirmation of three corona cases amongst shop employees. District collector ordered the traders to close the makeshift market as people were throwing to wind all safety precautions. The vehicles carrying commodities to the main market unloaded the vegetables and fruits at Marine Drive Ground on Wednesday morning. The main market wore a desolate look with shops and establishments remaining closed. Police personnel were not be found when the traders moved to the Marine Drive Ground but they were later summoned after concerns over violation of social distancing norms were raised. “It was impossible to maintain social distancing norms at the temporary market when vegetable traders and customers turned up in large numbers. We did not expect it. The vegetable market will not function on Thursday and traders have not ordered for vegetables for the day. It will not spark any shortage of vegetables for Thursday but if authorities do not make any decision on alternative location for vegetable sales, people in the city may start feeling the scarcity. Canteens running in hospitals and hotels in the city buy vegetables from Ernakulam market,” said G Karthikeyan, president of Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce. It has been estimated that due to the decline in sales the vegetable traders in Ernakulam market suffered a loss of Rs 20 lakh on Wednesday.  “At a meeting convened with district authorities, we have put forward a suggestion on not allowing retail customers to turn up at the market to purchase vegetables. Instead, they can buy it from their nearby shops. This will help to reduce crowd at the market,” said Karthikeyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/temporary-mkt-also-shut-down/articleshow/76737418.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Different ball game: CWG Village to house Covid patients from Monday||NEW DELHI: Commonwealth Games Village, constructed as a living area for athletes participating in the 2010 Commonwealth Games, is likely to start admitting Covid-19 patients from Monday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia visited the complex on Wednesday to take stock of the preparations being undertaken to convert it into a Covid care centre in order to take pressure off the existing Covid facilities. “The 480-bedded Covid care centre at the Commonwealth Games Village will be attached to Lok Nayak Hospital,” Kejriwal said after visiting the facility. “Separate wards have been put up for men, women, and there are stay-in facilities for doctors and nurses at the centre.” Kejriwal also announced that the plasma bank set up at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences in south Delhi will be inaugurated on Thursday. The plasma bank, it is hoped, will ease access to blood plasma needed for the treatment of Covid patients. The CM said that compared with last month, the number of cases in Delhi was now decreasing and the situation appeared to be getting under control. “I hope and pray that the Covid facilities created and the beds installed across the capital are not required. But even if they are, we are not lacking in our efforts. If there is a spike in Covid-19 cases, we are ready to deal with it,” Kejriwal said, adding that many banquet halls are also being requisitioned to create temporary Covid care centres. After Delhi Development Authority, which owns the Commonwealth Games Village, handed over the sports complex to the East district administration, the work to install medical care infrastructure is in full swing. The badminton and tennis courts have been converted into hospital wards. Arun Kumar Mishra, district magistrate (East), said that the Covid centre development began immediately on the district administration getting the complex. “Covid patients will be shifted to this facility from Monday. Most things are ready, and the facility is getting some final touches. It has been created in record time,” said Mishra. The doctors and paramedical staff will be provided by Doctors for You, an NGO. “This Covid centre will accommodate non-critical patients only,” explained a government official. “Around 70% of the beds will be connected with oxygen supply, but there will be no ICU or ventilator facility. The patients will be monitored and those developing critical symptoms will be sent to the dedicated government hospitals for management.” Dr Rajat Jain of Doctors for You added, “One ambulance will be kept ready for every 100 patients. There will be additional transport facilities. The deployment of doctors will be on need basis.” He said the medical care centre would begin operations in a phased manner, initially with 100-150 beds. When 70% of these were occupied, another 150 beds would be readied. The government official also said, “A green area has been made for doctors and healthcare staff to stay in. The helipad located on the premises has been converted into the kitchen area so that patients can be provided proper food. Separate toilet blocks have been created, with one toilet for every six persons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/different-ball-game-cwg-village-to-house-covid-patients-from-monday/articleshow/76738267.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Now, glanders threat looms large over Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhiites may have to focus on another zoonotic disease along with the novel coronavirus with a horse testing positive for glanders, a new report by the National Research Centre on Equines, which was addressed to Delhi’s department of animal husbandry, has revealed. The report, dated June 20, stated the horse was likely used for ceremonial purposes. PETA India, too, wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal asking them to act immediately and prohibit the use of equines, such as horses, donkeys and mules, in the capital in order to protect the public. The zoonotic disease, which can prove to be fatal at times, can spread from animals to humans. PETA India said that while eight horses in Delhi had tested positive for glanders in 2019 and 40 in 2018, no action had been taken by the animal husbandry department to prohibit the movement of equines or to carry out disease surveillance as mandated by the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, under which glanders is a notifiable disease. “We commend the action taken by the state government to address health-care challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. However, in order to protect Delhiites from the deadly zoonotic disease (glanders), the use of horses for rides, to haul goods, for ceremonies, and for other purposes need to be done away with,” PETA India CEO and veterinarian Dr Manilal Valliyate said. Glanders is a contagious, fatal disease among horses, mules, and donkeys caused by the bacteria Burkholderia mallei and characterised by the serial development of ulcerating nodules, commonly found in the upper respiratory tract, in the lungs, and on the skin. Humans may become infected with the disease through contact with the infected animals or through inhalation. Without proper treatment, it can lead to a painful death, experts claim. The erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi had in 2010 banned tongas in the state, quoting the high prevalence of glanders as one of the reasons for the ban. However, the ban is yet to be implemented fully. PETA India, in its letter, stated that all three civic bodies do not mandate routine disease surveillance in animals, which can put their health and the lives of public at risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/now-glanders-threat-looms-large-over-city/articleshow/76759024.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
July 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||War of words over funds to SCTIMST||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor were engaged in a fierce battle on Twitter over Tharoor’s donation of Rs 1 crore from the MP fund to Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology. Minister V Muraleedharan tweeted that an RTI plea has ‘busted the claim made by Tharoor of donating Rs 1 crore from MPLAD scheme. The institute has not received the fund.’ Tharoor lashed out at the minister and the BJP government at the Centre for not giving a sanction to the institute to produce the Covid-19 testing kits, which is pending approval for the past two months. “For over 2 months, kits developed by the government owned SCTIMST and RGCB have been pending GOI approval. On the other hand, Pvt labs had their kits approved in a matter of days. Can any of you explain why our institutes have been kept waiting for this long,” asked Tharoor in a tweet. “A scurrilous tweet by a BJP MOS, @VMBJP, accusing me of “lying” about donating 1 crore to the Sree Chitra Thirunal Institute for Medical Sciences in Thiruvananthapuram, prompts this detailed clarification. The grant was authorised on 30 March before GOI suspended MPLADS funds,” Tharoor tweeted. He said the Rs 1 crore was allotted to SCTIMST towards the purchase of Covid-19 rapid testing devices to the district collector. Fund has not yet been transferred to SCTIMST since the delivery of the testing devices has not yet been fulfilled by SCTIMST. “It is pretty disgraceful when a minister, who can easily check the facts, lies by accusing an MP of lying,” said Tharoor. “This BJP government has a shameful pattern; it fails to perform and then it attacks the opposition for allegedly not doing the government’s job, he said. The cretinous tweet by @VMBJP is merely the latest example of this. He should apologise for accusing me of lying when I’ve been fully transparent,” Tharoor tweeted. “If Centre’s argument is that the SCTIMST kits are not yet ready for production and therefore the collector cannot authorise the release of the Rs 1 crore allotted by me on March 30, then why is a minister attacking me publicly for something his government has been delaying,” Tharoor asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/war-of-words-over-funds-to-sctimst/articleshow/76737447.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kochi||Jose K Mani snubs UDF overtures||KOTTAYAM: Jose K Mani dismissed the statement of opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala that Jose group of Kerala Congress (M) has not been expelled from the UDF. Replying to Chennithala, Mani said that his group will not return to the UDF after quitting Kottayam district panchayat president post. “Is it wrong to support a person, who changed sides to become a panchayat president? Expelling from a political front for this is unheard of in the country,” he said. “UDF has only made a technical correction. They haven’t corrected their political stand. They expelled a party which was at the forefront of UDF for four decades. Media records will show that the UDF convener had said that we were expelled. Saying now that we were excluded only from UDF meetings is only a technical correction,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mani-snubs-udf-overtures/articleshow/76736267.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Case closed, judge gets challan for stolen car||NEW DELHI: Even a judge finds it difficult to get a stolen car recovered in the capital. A car, which had the official “JUDGE” sticker on it and was stolen in April, remains untraceable, with Delhi Police recently filing a closure report in a city court. The car, which was stolen from the lady judge’s residence, was registered in the name of one of her relatives who had earlier filed a theft complaint . Police, which claimed to have investigated the case for the past few months, have finally recommended closure of the case before a magistrate’s court. Interestingly, while the cops assured the victim they were making all efforts to trace the vehicle, she was shocked to receive a traffic challan for speeding. A member of the judge’s family said that the e-challan was for speeding on May 22 — two months after the vehicle was stolen. “From the e-challan, we could recognise our car and the spot of violation was 10 km away from where we live. We immediately sent the photos to the investigating officer, but there was just assurance. Police eventually filed a closure report,” he added. “We were under the impression that the car would be dismantled and its parts would be sold. But when we got the e-challan, a completely different picture emerged. This meant the car had till then never left the city, nor was its numberplate or other identity changed by the carjacker,” the relative said further. For the family, the argument that a different car was being driven with their numberplate also does not hold water as the challan photo taken by a CCTV camera showed the same colour and make of the vehicle convincing them that it was the stolen vehicle. The case closure notice stated, “Dear complainant, the untraced report of your FIR no. 009611/2020 for the stolen vehicle has been sent to court. If you have any objection, reach the court of ACMM-01, West District, Tis Hazari courts within seven days. Regards, Delhi Police Motor Vehicle Theft Application (sic).” The bigger worry, family members say, is that the car can be misused since it has an official “JUDGE” sticker on it, allowing the vehicle access to courts across the capital. “When a judge’s stolen car is being driven around with such conviction, I cannot imagine the predicament of a common person,” the relative rued. As per the complaint, the car was stolen from outside the judge’s house when the city was on a self-imposed curfew just a day before the first lockdown was announced. With the matter being reported a few minutes within the incident, the family hoped that the police’s investigation would lead to recovery. However, filing of the “untraced” report in a city court and the same being accepted on June 2 means disappointment for the family. “We had even requested police to transfer it to Crime Branch but our requests fell on deaf ears,” the relative added. Watch Delhi: Judge gets challan for stolen car, police file closure report||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/case-closed-judge-gets-challan-for-stolen-car/articleshow/76738279.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||Tadoba ESZ notified in 2019, allows no mines around it||CHANDRAPUR: Nine months before the coal ministry announced that Bander block on the northern tip of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) is among the 41 in the country to be put up for auction to private parties, the popular park had got protection from destruction by the Union environment ministry. However, neither green activists nor current forest officials were aware of it. On September 11, 2019, the ministry issued the eco sensitive zone (ESZ) notification. On June 18, the coal ministry made the announcement on Bander block. The ESZ prohibits all kind of commercial mining and stone quarrying in the area. As per an official map available with TOI, a part of Bander block juts into not only the Tadoba buffer, it also lies smack on the ESZ. “Though forest officials knew that the ESZ had been notified they were unaware that Bander was a part of it. They did not have a copy of it. After digging information on the environment ministry’s website I found the notification,” said Bandu Dhotre of Eco-Pro NGO which was spearheading the agitation to stop mining in Bander. Tadoba field director NR Pravin said that mining can take place neither in Bander or in Lohara east and west coal blocks in the southern part of Tadoba. Dhotre had played a crucial role in the inclusion of forest cover over Bander and, Lohara east and west coal blocks in the ESZ draft. He had opposed both the mines when they were proposed in 2009 and 2010, respectively. While forest officials wanted to limit the ESZ only as far as the Tadoba buffer, Dhotre had insisted that the boundaries be extended to cover the northern and southern wildlife corridors. “This was to prevent any mining activity in the future,” he said. As per Dhotre’s suggestions, the proposed ESZ had a 10km boundary radius outside Tadoba core and include 3 kms outside the buffer. “This was to ensure that it covers Bander in the north and extends up to the railway line passing through Lohara forest,” said Dhotre who was “happy” that the environment ministry had agreed to the proposal. The green activist said the approval of ESZ is the final nail in the coffins of all the coal blocks in the northern and southern corridors of Tadoba. “Even if the Union coal ministry does a U-turn, we will challenge it in the court of law,” said Dhotre. Listing of Bander, along with 41 other coal blocks, to be auctioned had evoked a huge uproar from wildlife activists. There was a strong opposition and a series of protests from wildlife buffs. Following the dissent expressed by state’s environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and former Union environment minister Jairam Ramesh, the Union minister for coal and mines Pralhad Joshi had agreed to withdraw Bander coal block from the auction list. A formal announcement is expected soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tadoba-esz-notified-in-2019-allows-no-mines-around-it/articleshow/76738301.cms||Mazhar Ali
July 2, 2020||Varanasi||Dist’s tally crosses mark of 500||Varanasi: With 29 more Covid-19 cases detected in the district, the total tally crossed the mark of 500 reaching to 525 on Wednesday while one more death of an infected person took the toll to 20. The district, which witnessed Covid-19 cases rising to the mark of 100 in 57 days, is now recording 100 new cases in less than a week’s time. In sixteen days, from May 19 to June 3, the number of cases increased from 101 to 200 in 16 days (May 19-June 3) and around 100 more cases were added to the list in next 15 days (June 4-June 18). While in only 8 days 100 more cases came to light, in five days cases jumped from 401 to 525. Besides, even frequency of deaths related to Covid-19 has also seen a rise in the district reporting one death per day since June 25 . District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said, “On Wednesday, 29 persons were found positive with coronavirus while one infected person died during the course of treatment on late Tuesday night after which the total count of Covid-19 deaths in the district reached up to 20. So far, 307 patients have been cured in the district while 198 are being treated at DDU district, ESIC and BHU hospitals.” Among the new cases 23 were in contact of already infected persons and were detected during contact tracing, said the DM adding that the other two are migrant while four others have no contact history so far. Wednesday’s figure was the largest number recorded in a single day. The district recorded its first case on March 22 after a Gulf returned person of Pindra area was tested positive. In April the Tablighi Jamaat attendees led to a jump to Covid-19 figures and later a drugs wholesaler emerged as super spreader. In May, return of migrants led to rise in corona cases but in June maximum number of cases started coming to surface mostly from contact tracing. In past one month the number of cases among medical practitioners and their supporting staff has also increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dists-tally-crosses-mark-of-500/articleshow/76736255.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Manimajra SHO yet to join probe, suspended||CHANDIGARH: Manimajra police station house officer (SHO) inspector Jaswinder Kaur has still not joined the investigation in the Rs 5 lakh corruption case in which a middleman was arrested with Rs 1 lakh in the early hours of Tuesday. Kaur is untraceable since Tuesday. Her phone is also switched off. The CBI has now written a letter to Chandigarh SSP asking her to direct Kaur to join the probe as soon as possible. Police, on their part, on Wednesday, suspended Kaur and initiated a departmental inquiry against her. To evade arrest, Kaur is planning to file an anticipatory bail application in a court. On Tuesday, the SHO was booked for allegedly demanding Rs 5 lakh bribe for not registering an FIR against a resident of Modern Housing Complex in an alleged cheating case after the CBI raided the police station and her house in Sector 22 and arrested Bhagwan Singh of Manimajra while allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from Gurdeep Singh, the complainant, on behalf of Kaur. The CBI had directed Kaur to join the investigation at 12noon on Tuesday. Kaur did not reach the CBI office, citing medical grounds. Then she was given a reminder to arrive by 3pm but still she did not show up. On Tuesday, a special CBI court remanded Bhagwan Singh in four-day police custody. Not new to controversies On February 13, a special CBI court had directed UT SSP to take “necessary action” against Manimajra SHO inspector Jaswinder Kaur in the graft case involving SI Mohan Singh. An application was submitted in the court that SHO was “pressuring” the complainant to withdraw his application seeking to make her an accused in case. The court had directed the CBI to place before the sanctioning authority (SSP, Chandigarh) all the material or evidence collected in the case, so that “she could apply her own mind on whether to give sanction for prosecution or not”. The court on its own could not summon the SHO as the accused was a serving public servant and sanction is required. The SSP office is still to give sanction. Rs 2L bribery case SI Mohan Singh was caught by CBI while accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh on October 24, 2017. Prem Singh Bisht, the complainant stated in court, “I am being pressurized by Manimajra SHO and through other police officials to not make statement in the court and withdraw my application, else I and an my business partner Sandesh Kumar will be implicated falsely in an NDPS case.” Bisht had moved an application in the CBI court on February 2, 2019, stating that there is enough evidence against the SHO and she should be charge-sheeted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/manimajra-sho-suspended-yet-to-join-probe/articleshow/76738307.cms||Neha Sharma
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Road accidents see spurt as Delhi slowly unlocks||NEW DELHI: Easing of lockdown rules triggered a spurt in the number of road accidents in the national capital. Delhi saw nearly 150% increase in the number of road accidents in the month of May compared with April. According to the Delhi Police data, 67 accidents took place during the lockdown in April, while as many as 173 accidents took place in the next 30 days after the lockdown norms were relaxed. On Wednesday, police detained four youths, including two minors, for mowing down a woman and a man at KN Katju Marg in outer Delhi. Taking advantage of empty roads, the accused were on a joyride in a car and one of them had lost control of the vehicle while driving at a high speed. DCP (Rohini) PK Mishra said that the car was registered in the name of Tarun Chauhan. “He was also driving the car at the time of the accident. While he was arrested, the others were taken into custody. Legal action would also be taken against them.” Even though the restriction on the movement of vehicles has been eased, the roads remain empty due to the pandemic. Drivers of private vehicles, which are now plying unchecked, tend to speed presuming that they would escape unnoticed. “Almost all the road fatalities occurring in May were due to hit-and-run incidents. The drivers were later tracked down and caught,” a police officer said. According to an estimate by the traffic police, about 30% of the total vehicle volume, which used to be witnessed in the city before the lockdown, is now out on the city’s roads. Police officers said that speed violations mainly take place on the longer stretches, such as Ring Road, Outer Ring Road or the interstate highways. The period between 3pm and 10pm— when many people step out of their homes to reach markets and buy essentials—sees maximum violations. “The tendency of drivers to violate the speeding rules increases when they don’t spot an enforcement officer on the road,” said a cop on the condition of anonymity. To this, a senior police officer said: “We would like to inform such speedsters that the violations are being captured by the cameras and notices under the new MV Act will be issued to them.” With the amended MV Act coming into effect, 2019 had seen a drastic dip in the number of fatal accidents since February. Drivers were found to be complying more with the road rules due to hefty fine amounts. The novel coronavirus outbreak has kept the number of road accidents low this year so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/road-accidents-see-spurt-as-city-slowly-unlocks/articleshow/76738309.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Apartment owners’ body slams corp order||KOCHI: The All Kerala Apartment Owners’ Apex Association (AKAOAA) is gearing up to approach the Kerala high court seeking to quash Kochi corporation’s order restraining shopkeepers and institutions from attending to those above 60 years of age. Advocate Jacob Mathew Manalil, who represents AKAOAA, said: “We have decided to approach the court to protect the health and well-being of senior citizens residing in apartment complexes.” He said that many senior citizens are staying alone, and it is necessary for them to interact with other people and move around to keep themselves physically and emotionally healthy. More than anything else, senior citizens face the issue of loneliness. They do not have visitors. Shopping is being done online or over the phone. The delivery boys leave it at their doorsteps. They cannot go to offices or religious places. Even those senior citizens who are healthy are confined to the four walls of their homes. Almost all their activities are restricted. Through an order issued on June 23, the Kochi corporation has stated that shopkeepers are bound to ensure that senior citizens above the age of 60 and children below the age of 10 should not be allowed at their establishments. “This is illegal and unconstitutional,” he said. Noted orthopaedic surgeon Dr R Venugopal who is involved in the formation of an NGO Pedestrian Facilitation Council said as uncertainties over Covid-19 and lockdown continue, chances of elederly getting ill because of comorbidities are high. “They need exercise as part of the treatment for various medical conditions. As most elderly do not have equipment to exercise, they should be allowed to walk,” said Venugopal. He said that though there is no statistics available regarding the morbidity of geriatric population, “but definitely it is going up”. He said that elderly citizens should be allowed to go out at least one hour a day, and this time slot can be exclusively reserved for them. Others can be asked to stay indoors. Places of worship can be kept open just for them. AKAOAA secretary V S Somanadhan said institutional quarantine is better than quarantining people in flats especially at smaller apartment complexes. “The possibility of other flat owners, who live in constant fear, developing mental illness cannot be ruled out,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/apt-owners-body-slams-corp-order/articleshow/76737436.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||No antibodies in 25% plasma samples: Study||CHANDIGARH: No antibodies against the new coronavirus were present in 25% samples of plasma, according to an ongoing Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) study. The national body has completed an interim analysis on 370 out of 452 samples. The initial findings almost align with the results published in the US that mentioned 30%-40% of the samples did not have antibodies against the virus. The ICMR has asked some centres to conduct antibody tests for Immunoglobulin G (IgG) — antibody in the blood that takes time to form after infection — and Immunoglobulin M (IgM) — in the blood and the first antibody the body makes to fight an infection. The trial in 21 different hospitals in the country was started in April and is expected to be completed in another 15 days. The ICMR had included only symptomatic donors, as they had more antibodies. After the US study, the ICMR planned to measure antibody response. “This is not made mandatory for all centres as there are some limitations of kits. But we will have antibody kits by this weekend in PGI. So, we shall test the antibodies in six plasma donors we have till now,” said Prof Pankaj Malhotra, principal investigator of the convalescent plasma therapy trial at PGI. He said, “More donors should come so that lives can be saved.” There are two ways to see the neutralising antibodies—simple antibody response by using igG IgM antibody kits and culture live virus in the laboratory. For live culture, the facility is only in National Institute of Virology, Pune, and is risky. “We have stored the plasma by the donors and shall send to institute for antibody measure. But in the meantime, we shall use the kit for some idea about the antibodies,” said Prof Malhotra. Convalescent plasma therapyWhen attacked by any virus/bacteria, the immune system produce proteins called antibodies to fight the infection as a response to the attack These antibodies produced naturally in a non-critical Covid-19 patient (who turned negative) can be transferred to a critically ill patient, before his vitals are affected The antibodies are extracted from his plasma –a component of the blood. And the plasma is later transfused in the unhealthy sick patient. The procedure is same as blood transfusion This plasma which is screened for any infection can provide immunity against the pathogen attack Blood can be collected from a person, who tested positive and recovered from Covid-19, only after 28 days of discharge from a treating facility or 28 days after home isolation ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-antibodies-to-fight-virus-in-25-plasma-samples-study/articleshow/76738275.cms||Shimona Kanwar
July 2, 2020||Kochi||Walkway renovation works begin in Kochi||KOCHI: The Marine Drive walkway, which is city’s most celebrated hangout spot, located near the backwaters, will soon get a facelift as the much-awaited renovation work has begun. The 2.4km-long walkway owned by Greater Cochin development authority (GCDA) will be renovated by the Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) at a cost of Rs 7.1 crore. Titled ‘open space corridor project linking DH Ground to Mangalavanam’, it is part of area-based development (ABD) projects under Smart Cities Mission. The project aims at revitalizing all the open/ public spaces, along the western water edge of Ernakulam mainland between Durbar Hall ground and Mangalavanam bird sanctuary, by improving the accessibility, introducing various activities and linking the same with each other to create an active corridor for recreational facilities. The plan includes re-tiling of the walkway, building new drainage systems, planting new saplings, protection of existing trees, installation of new benches, setting up kids’ play area, blind-friendly tactile track, gardening, landscaping among others. CSML is also planning to install eight high-definition CCTV camera as part of its surveillance project in the city. The high court too had criticised GDCA over the unhygienic and pathetic condition of the walkway. The project was delayed as there were no bidders for two tenders floated earlier. Now, a contract has been signed with a bidder and the work is scheduled to be completed within 15months. Once the work is completed, CSML will be maintaining the walkway for next three years as per the contract. “Major interventions of the project include surface paving, landscaping and providing street furniture such as benches, street lights, advertisement boards etc., The scope of work includes site cleaning, streetscaping, surface finishes, electrical and plumbing works and landscaping and maintenance work. The widened stretch in Abdul Kalam Marg near the Kettuvallam bridge will be developed as kids’ play area. CSML will also carry out the maintenance of the bridges in the walkway. Beautification of the walkway with gardens and lawn will also be carried out. In the first phase, construction of drainage is happening at the northern side of the walkway,” said a CSML official. Tactile track will be constructed throughout the 2.4km stretch. Though the construction of a dedicated cycling track was planned along the walkway initially, CSML is yet to finalise the proposal due to lack of space. Meanwhile, GCDA chairman V Saleem said the full-fledged work is yet to begin due to shortage of labourers. “May be in aweek or two the work would start in full swing. The lockdown has affected the project,” he said. GCDA is also planning to construct a tourism jetty atMarine Drive in association with district tourism promotion council with the aim to curb the functioning of illegal boat services from many jetties here. But the project is still in the pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/walkway-renovation-works-begin/articleshow/76737446.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Health officer caught taking Rs 15k bribe||Chandigarh: The UT vigilance department has arrested a senior assistant officer of the health department, Punjab mini-secretariat, red-handed while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000 on Wednesday. The accused will be produced before a local court on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Surinderjit Singh Shah, senior assistant officer, posted at the Punjab health department, mini-secretariat, Sector 9, Chandigarh. The police said the complainant is working as a medical officer at the Faridkot civil hospital, Punjab. He said he has been selected for MD/MS at PGI, Chandigarh, as sponsored candidate. For this purpose, NOC has been signed and forwarded from the director of the health services to Punjab secretariat. To know the status of the NOC, the complainant visited the mini-secretariat, where he met Shah, who allegedly demanded Rs 15,000 for issuance of NOC to him. On this, the complainant submitted a complaint to the UT vigilance department. The vigilance department laid a trap on the rear of the Punjab mini-secretariat and arrested the accused red-handed while accepting the bribe. The vigilance sleuths also recovered the bribe amount from the accused. During investigation, accused Shah has revealed that he received the bribe amount on behalf of Gurlal Singh, under-secretary and the vigilance is investigating his role in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/health-officer-caught-taking-rs-15k-bribe/articleshow/76738302.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||From July 3, traffic violation fines to be paid via cards only||CHANDIGARH: From July 3, you will have to pay the fine for a traffic violation from your credit or debit card only at the spot and need not stand for hours in queues at traffic lines in Sector 29. UT administrator V P Singh Badnore will launch e-challaning service on Friday, nine years after police had initiated the project for compoundable offences like riding without helmet, triple riding, wrong parking, not wearing seat belt and zebra line violations in 2011. In the second phase, payments through UPI would be accepted, cops said. For drunken driving, red light jumping, driving while using mobile phone and overspeeding, there will be no option for on-the-spot payment because cops have to seize the driving licence and send it to the court. At present, traffic violator’s documents are seized and cops do not accept penalties in cash. All traffic cops will have e-challan devices having in-built facilities for making online payment with debit or credit cards. These devices will also have a history of challans pertaining to the offending vehicles with their payment status. The traffic police have procured around 150 e-challaning devices. These hand-held devices are connected to the Chandigarh RLA (registration and licensing authority) and traffic police server. Information of previous offences will also be mentioned on the traffic ticket. Last year, the police department had conducted a training programme for traffic police and started uploading information regarding challans, offences and their fee on the devices. Cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Gurgaon, Bangalore, Hyderabad and even some in Punjab have already introduced e-challaning system. Police had introduced e-payment of fines for traffic violation information slip challans sent on the postal address of violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/from-tomorrow-traffic-violation-fines-to-be-paid-via-cards-only/articleshow/76738310.cms||Pawan Tiwari
July 2, 2020||Kochi||No bias towards South: Centre to Kerala HC||KOCHI: Central government on Wednesday informed Kerala high court that it cannot ensure that domestic passengers are not allowed entry into flights in which expatriates are returning to their home state. The submission by the central government was made before justice Anu Sivaraman in response to a petition (WP-C No. 12579/2020) filed through advocate Anitha Mathai Muthirenthy. Passengers allowed on Vande Bharat Mission flights now belong to vulnerable groups, such as senior citizens, severely-ill persons, and babies, the petition had said. During the hearing on Wednesday, a counsel representing the central government submitted that expatriates returning on Vande Bharat Mission flights may have to get down and board another flight to their home state, depending on the route. Immigration and customs clearance will be done at the airport in the state, provided it is an international airport, the counsel submitted. “So, we cannot assure that there will not be disembarkation of the petitioner or others or that there will not be other passengers who are allowed to enter into the plane,” the counsel representing the central government said. Flights to other states are also operated like this, the central government counsel (CGC) said, citing example of a flight to Jaipur from Ukraine, which lands at Delhi and then proceeds to Jaipur. It is not that flights to Kerala only or South India are being discriminated, the counsel said. He also added that there are cases where flights come to Kochi and then go to Tamil Nadu. The counsel also submitted that it is Air India that has to provide the information regarding need of disembarkation in between. However, advocate Ramola Nayanpally, who represented Air India at the hearing, submitted that there was a flight that connected through Delhi on May 19 during the second phase of Vande Bharat Mission, but passengers did not have to alight at Delhi. The same procedure can be followed in the upcoming flights in phase four also, she submitted. The CGC intervened and said it has to be considered on a case-to-case basis. Air India’s counsel further submitted that it only provides ticketing facilities and crew for the Vade Bharat Mission. All operational and other requirements are as per the directions of the ministry. Air India does not have any control over where the flights go, whether the passengers have to disembark in between, or whether persons can alight. It is all at the instance of the ministry and Air India does not have the power to take a call as it is operated for this scheme. So it has to be only as per what is instructed to Air India, the counsel submitted. The CGC reiterated that it is Air India that has to answer whether passengers from Mumbai can board the flight carrying the expatriates. The court pointed out that it is not a domestic flight but a flight on central government’s scheme. Other passengers from Mumbai who are proceeding to Kochi under Vande Bharat Mission may enter the flight, the CGC submitted while stating that open booking of tickets is also available in addition to the 30% seats reserved for Vande Bharat Mission. There may be people who are booking open tickets from Mumbai to Kochi and they may have to be allowed to board the flight, the CGC said. As the petitioner’s counsel submitted that the central government’s stance is opposite to what the court was told at the earlier hearing, the court directed the CGC to place a statement on record. Further hearing in the case is scheduled on July 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/repatriation-flights-centre-tells-hc-that-there-is-no-discrimination-towards-southern-states/articleshow/76737473.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district registers 48 Covid-19 cases||Kolhapur: Satara district on Wednesday registered 48 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of patients to 333. Of the recent 48 cases, 22 were reported from Karad taluka — the highest number of patients to be recorded in a single day. With this, Karad taluka has crossed the 300-mark of positive patients. Karad, which had controlled the number of Covid-19 cases in May, is witnessing a gradual surge in the number of patients. Almost half of the patients reported from Satara district on Wednesday belong to Karad teshil. At present, Satara district has 118 active patients while the remaining have been discharged from various hospitals after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-registers-48-covid-19-cases/articleshow/76739025.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||In cold blood: Murder planned and executed in Tihar jail||NEW DELHI: A Tihar Jail inmate, who murdered another prisoner last Monday to avenge the rape of a relative, had planned the sinister plot for months before executing it. This revelation has shocked police and jail officers and also exposed loopholes in the intra-jail transfer policies of Tihar. The killer, Zakir (21), was lodged in jail number 5 after being arrested in 2018 in a robbery case. He used a piece of metal to prepare the murder weapon. For the next few months, he hid the weapon at different places inside his cell to ensure that it remained undetected by the jailers. A few weeks before the murder, Zakir picked up a fight with a fellow inmate and injured himself to get transferred to jail number 8 where his target, Mehtab (27), had been lodged. He was allotted a cell on the ground floor, while Mehtab was lodged on the first floor in the same ward. Jail authorities are conducting an inquiry as to how he managed to secure a cell in the same ward. The role of the jailers who allotted him the ward is under the scanner. On interrogation, Zakir said that he kept a watch on Mehtab’s activities for a few days. He then chose the morning assembly period to attack him since the corridors on the first floor usually remained empty at that time. He went to the first floor and waited for Mehtab to return to his cell after finishing his prayers. Zakir then attacked him from behind. Police said the minor girl whom Mehtab had raped in 2014 had allegedly killed herself after being unable to bear the stigma. Zakir, who was a teenager then, couldn’t bear the grief of the girl’s family members and decided to teach the rapist a lesson. Inquest proceedings have been started by a metropolitan magistrate in the case. Police are also trying to ascertain if he had staged the robbery in 2018 to get himself jailed.The investigators will also speak to Zakir’s counsellors to find out whether he had shown signs of seeking revenge earlier. ( The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Delhi: Tihar Jail prisoner kills inmate to 'avenge' sister's rape||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-cold-blood-murder-planned-and-executed-in-tihar/articleshow/76738330.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||RERA makes owners of land answerable to home buyers||Jaipur: To bring transparency in the real estate sector, the Rajasthan Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) categorised the definition of ‘Promoter’ to avoid disputes in joint development projects. After observing a trend that most of the times developers being declared the accused, the landowners remain out of the scene, the RERA in its recent order has fixed the accountability and liability of the landowners who will come under the ‘promoter’ category, as per the recently laid guidelines. In its notification dated June 30, 2020, Rajasthan RERA has clarified the role and status of landowner. CREDAI Rajasthan secretary Sanjay Gupta said, “In cases where a landowner is treated as promoter, he will be jointly liable for the functions and responsibilities of the promoter under the Act to the extent of his functions and responsibilities under the development agreement.” In the already registered projects where the landowner has been recorded as co-promoter, the landowner will be treated as promoter depending on his role in the project as stated in the development agreement. A RERA official said, “There are landowners who take a share of the built-up area and sell them on their own. It’s a common practice in the city that the builders and landowners enter into agreements where the builder takes 60% and the landowner takes 40% of the built-up area and sells them individually. Since, developer is registered under RERA, the land owner evades from liability and accountability. To address this issue, the order has been issued.” For the projects to be registered the authority has removed the term co-promoter in the online application form for registration of project and new columns namely developer-promoter, seller-promoter and landowner are to be introduced. Manoj Agarwal, another developer, said, “The authority will now have powers to hold the defaulters. There have been instances where landowners take money and escape.” The authority has also stated that the landowner is not included in the definition of promoter as given under the Act, therefore he need not necessarily be treated as promoter and the terms of development agreement executed between the builder and landowner will govern whether a landowner will be treated as promoter or not. Irrespective of the fact whether the landowner is treated as promoter or not, the entire sale proceeds of the project including landowner’s portion will have to be routed through the separate RERA designated account as required under Section 4(2)(l)(d).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rera-makes-owners-of-land-answerable-to-home-buyers/articleshow/76738322.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Interstate gang of phone ‘receivers’ busted||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has busted an interstate gang of mobile phone ‘receivers’ with the arrest of three persons. The gang members would purchase snatched mobile phones from criminals and later sell them in various parts of the country. The arrested accused, including a couple, used to travel on a two-wheeler on the pretext of meeting relatives and hand over the consignment to dealers in Bharatpur. “The mobile phones were being supplied to MP, Haryana, Rajasthan and southern states. Transactions worth Rs 25 lakhs have been noticed in their bank accounts,” said police. “The arrested accused have been identified as Sharif (46), his wife Khurshida (39) and Taariq (36). An SUV car and 103 mobile phones have been recovered from them. With their arrest, 19 cases have been solved,” added Jasmeet Singh, DCP (East). In recent times, various incidents of snatching and robbery had taken place in East Delhi. A total of 75 snatching incidents took place in the area in the month of June itself. In the wake of this, the local police had launched a crackdown on snatchers and even receivers who were buying the stolen mobile phones. Earlier, police had arrested two other receivers, Nizam and Wasim. As many as 143 mobile phones were recovered from Nizam and 25 from Wasim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/interstate-gang-of-phone-receivers-busted/articleshow/76759037.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kochi||Vehicle pollution level shot up by 539% in Kochi: Study||KOCHI: An analytical study by the centre of science and environment has found that Kochi has shown dramatical drop in air pollution levels during the lockdown period compared to other cities. The report says that new analysis of summer air quality trends during the national lockdown that started on March 25, 2020, reveals a mixed trend in 22 mega and metropolitan cities in the country. While the PM2.5 and NO2 curves fell and flattened dramatically in cities — a phenomenon that hogged the national attention — tropospheric ozone pollution (henceforth ozone) increased and even breached standards in several cities: a fact that was not noticed as widely. “As soon as lockdown 4.0 was declared with more relaxations, traffic returned on our roads. As a result, average NO2 levels increased rapidly from the cleanest lockdown phase. This increase was the highest in Kochi with 539%,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director-research and advocacy, CSE. “We do not see much build-up of pollution in Kochi given its climatic conditions. More expansion in monitoring grid and data generation across the city will help provide better exposure levels. During lockdown we have seen dramatically lower levels in Kochi. But in terms of percentage increase in NO2 levels, this is the highest,” Anumita said. The other higher percentages were Chennai-77%, Noida- 66%, Jaipur- 43 %, Visakhapatnam- 89%, Pune-81%, Delhi- 49 %, Gurugram- 81%, Hyderabad- 45%, Bengaluru- 38%, and Ghaziabad- 49%. The reason for such high levels could also be the fact that Kochi is moving to a near normal traffic when compared to other cities. Pointing out that ozone levels have gone up, CSE researchers said ozone is not directly emitted by any source but is formed by photochemical reactions between oxides of nitrogen (NOx) and other volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and gases in the air under the influence of sunlight and heat. Ozone can be controlled only if gases from all sources are controlled. “This pandemic-led change in air quality has helped us understand summer pollution. Normally, every year, winter pollution is what draws our attention. The characteristics of summer pollution are different: there are high winds, intermittent rains and thunderstorms, and high temperature and heat waves. This is in contrast to winter -- with its inversion, lower mixing height of air, and cold and calm conditions that trap the air and the pollutants in it,” she said. The most granular data (15-minute average) was sourced from the central pollution control board’s (CPCB) official online portal, the central control room for air quality management - all India. This has analysed over 23 million data points recorded by 116 air quality monitoring stations or about 50% of the existing network under the continuous ambient air quality monitoring system (CAAQMS) of the CPCB. All cities with three or more CAAQMS stations were included in this analysis to ensure geographical and demographical representations. Data from state pollution control board showed that when lockdown restrictions were relaxed, air quality witnessed a gradual fall. Of the seven stations and three real-time ambient air quality monitoring stations, the levels were fairly high in MG Road and rising in Vyttila and Eloor. These are the three main stations where air pollution levels had shot up from May first week onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vehicle-pollution-level-shot-up-by-539-in-city-study/articleshow/76737481.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
July 2, 2020||Kochi||Cops to quiz Vellappally Natesan on Thursday, aide questioned||ALAPPUZHA: The investigation team probing K K Mahesan’s suicide on Wednesday interrogated K L Ashokan, the close aide of SNDP Yogam leader Vellappally Natesan. He was questioned by the police team led by Mararikulam CI S Rajesh. Rajesh said that they questioned him over three hours and also recorded the statements of Kanichukulangara devaswom manager and school manager. “The family members mainly levelled allegations against Ashokan in connection with Mahesan’s death. So, he was questioned. We will also question Natesan on Thursday in connection with the case,” the investigation team said. Meanwhile, Sree Narayana Sahodara Dharam Vedi took out a march led by its working chairman C K Vidyasagar to Natesan’s residence, but was blocked by the police. The march was organized demanding a comprehensive probe into the death of Mahesan and it also demanded that Natesan and family resign from all the posts of SNDP Yogam. Natesan’s close aide and SNDP Yogam Kanichukulangara union secretary K KMahesan was found dead in the union office here on June 24. The police started to question SNDP Yogam leaders after Mahesan’s family levelled serious allegations against them. Mediapersons on Wednesday received Mahesan’s suicide note and in it, Mahesan said, “I am sacrificing my life for the union leaders who are being tortured for Vellappally sir and my friend K L Ashokan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-to-quiz-vellappally-today-aide-questioned/articleshow/76736313.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||No upgrade in Punjab Engineering College as administration refuses Rs 5 crore first quarter grant||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Engineering College (PEC) deemed to be university has not sought any upgrade plans from department for purchase of any new equipment in laboratories as Chandigarh administration has not released the first quarter instalment of Rs 5 crore. Highly placed sources said though they have not received written communication from the administration, the institute was told that there would be a cut of Rs 5 crore this year due to fund constraints caused by the Covid-19 crisis. Every year, PEC has a plan budget released by the Chandigarh administration of Rs 20 crore for each quarter, comprising three months starting from April. This budget is divided into two parts; Rs 10 crore allocated for upgrade of laboratories as per requirement and annual purchase of some important equipment worth around Rs 2 to Rs 3 crore by five to six departments, which they all can use. The other part of the budget, which is Rs 10 crore, is spent on Phd scholarships and maintenance. The first quarter grant of Rs 5 crore was released in April. Director, PEC Dheeraj Sanghi said since they have not received the amount of the first quarter, he did not ask for suggestions from the department about new equipment or lab upgrade. He said he has plans to spend Rs 20 crore on revamp of hostel infrastructure, which is in bad condition and get other repair work done if needed. He hopes that authorities will restore the institute grant by July. If that does not happen, he said, there will be difficulties and he will have to use his own resources to meet planned budget demands. In April, the institute received a communication from the Chandigarh administration saying that authorities should not spend on the planned budget from April 1 to June 30 and further communication about funds would be sent by July. The communication clearly stated that the institute should use contingency funds except non-plan budget, which is largely staff salary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-upgrade-in-pec-as-admn-withholds-rs-5cr-first-quarter-grant/articleshow/76738320.cms||Aarti Kapur
July 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Ponnachen gets a ‘wheelchair’||By: Sandeep Thomas IDUKKI: A veterinary doctor has made a custom ‘wheelchair’ for a cat in the hope that it will help the feline move around after both its legs were paralysed in an attack by a dog. ‘Ponnachen’ came under the dog’s attack about two weeks ago. Mauled by the dog, it suffered serious injuries to its spine. Its owner, Sainaba, a housewife, who is a resident of Pathiram Kandam in Idukki, took the hapless creature to the Murikkasery Veterinary Hospital. Dr Romeo Sunny who examined the cat found that its legs were paralysed and that it could only drag them on the floor. "To ensure that it can at least move about, I decided to make a ‘wheelchair’ for it. The ‘wheel-chair’ was made using locally-available materials like PVC pipes and rubber slippers. If we had decided to purchase one, it could have costed at least Rs 5,000," said Dr Sunny. "It will recover from the injuries but it will take some time. I hope it can freely move within one or two months. If it sits in a place all the time, it cannot be a happy cat," he added. "The commitment shown by the pet owner moved me. That is why I decided to make a ‘wheelchair’. Normally, people throw away injured pets. For Sainaba, ‘Ponnachan’ is precious," said the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ponnachen-gets-a-wheelchair/articleshow/76737485.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ludhiana||New Ashok Nagar a containment zone||Ludhiana: The health department has made a ground assessment and declared another containment zone in the city, while one more area may fall under micro-containment zone category.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said as per the directions of the health department, a district-level committee, comprising municipal corporation additional commissioner Sanyam Aggarwal, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Kumar and medical college head Dr Clarence Samual, would identify containment and micro-containment zones in the district.A senior officer in the health department said as 23 cases were reported from New Ashok Nagar, Salem Tabri, they recommended to the district administration to declare it a containment zone, which would mean movement of people will be restricted. “House-to-house screening will be carried out in the area. Symptomatic patients will be sampled, besides random sampling will also be done. As five cases have been reported from Rajiv Gandhi Colony, a team of the health department, led by epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat, is expected to assess the ground situation and explore whether it can be declared as a micro-containment zone.”They added that even in micro-containment zone, people’s movement would be restricted.With this, the district has three containment zones, the earlier ones include Prem Nagar and cluster of Habib Ganj, Islam Gang and Sensi Mohalla. Besides, as the situation in Chawni Mohalla got better, its containment zone tag was removed.The deputy commissioner has been indicating that since the matter was related to livelihood and freedom of the people, they wanted them to take necessary steps, like wearing of masks and social distancing, among others, so that no such zone tags were required. He has also been appealing to the residents to follow the directions of the Punjab government to stay indoors to save themselves and everyone around them.Earlier in the zoneOn June 27, the district administration had declared six micro-containment zones, including Samrat Colony in Giaspura; New Ashok Nagar (Street Number 1); New Kartar Nagar in Salem Tabri; Basant Avenue Phase 2, Dugri; Guru Harkrishan Nagar in Giaspura; and Ram Nagar Street Number 21 behind Sangeet Cinema in Vishwakarma Colony.Earlier, New Model Town (street numbers 1, 2 and 3 behind Dhamija Medical Hall), New Janta Nagar (street numbers 1, 2 and 3) opposite New Model Town and Bhamian Khurd (street numbers 1 to 4 in Krishna Colony) were in the bracket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/new-ashok-nagar-a-containment-zone/articleshow/76737487.cms||Shariq Majeed
July 2, 2020||Varanasi||Hooch unit unearthed in Mirzapur||Varanasi: In a joint operation, Mirzapur police and excise department officials unearthed a hooch manufacturing unit in Goshala premises in Pandeypur Lathiyahva area under the limits of Dehat Kotwali police station on Tuesday night. Police have arrested six persons while four including the kingpin of the gang managed to escape. Police have recovered prepared and bottled hooch which is sold under the name of big brands of country liquor on licensed shops and articles worth rupees 27 lakhs used for manufacturing. Providing details of the action, SP Mirzapur Dharmvir Singh said, “On getting inputs regarding manufacturing of hooch at a large scale, a joint team of police and excise department officials was formed, which raided a Goshala owned by Keshav Gupta in Pandeypur Lathiyahva locality on Tuesday night. During the raid, six persons were arrested. However, the kingpins of the gang-Anup Malviya and Rakesh Gupta along with two other members-Kamlesh and Pankaj Maurya managed to escape. During the raid, police recovered 4400 litres of spirit packed in 80 drums, 2233 filled bottles of illicit liquor, two cars, one SUV, one e-rickshaw, lables of country liquor brands, cash worth Rs 23,000, barcode stickers, chemical colours, empty bottles, caps, empty bottles and other packaging materials from the spot. The total cost of recovered articles was estimated to be Rs 27.75 lakhs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/hooch-unit-unearthed-in-mirzapur/articleshow/76736288.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University may let applicants edit form after July 4||NEW DELHI: With just three days left for the Delhi University’s online registration process to close, the university is considering an option to allow applicants to edit their forms. However, aspirants may be allowed to correct their registration forms only after July 4. By 5.30pm on Wednesday, 1,28,036 applicants had paid, but the number of registrations was as high as 2,52,538. According to members of the admission branch, this could be because of some aspirants filling more than one form. “Several applicants, after completing their registration process, realise they made some mistakes or forgot to select courses. Such students then fill the form twice or thrice. This creates problems as we get multiple forms for the same person. It would be better if there is an edit option,” explained a member of the admission branch. Sparsh Singh, the student volunteer of the helpdesk, confirmed it. “We have been getting queries from applicants asking if they can fill multiple forms. While we are against the idea, many applicants do that after making some minor mistakes. They sometimes fill two or even three forms with different email addresses,” he added. The helpdesk member informed TOI that applicants make basic mistakes like writing their name’s spellings or phone numbers wrong, or writing incorrect reservation categories. DU admission branch dean, Shobha Bagai, said that “DU will soon issue a notice and allow applicants to edit their forms. But that would happen after the registration period for the portal ends on July 4.” “We do not allow personal details to be changed as that would be logistically a huge challenge for the university. While applicants will be allowed to edit their forms, they will not be allowed to make changes in portions of the form that are related to fees,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-may-let-applicants-edit-form-after-july-4/articleshow/76738335.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Mission Impossible? 32 lakh buildings, just 126 engineers||NEW DELHI: With only 126 empanelled structural engineers and 32 lakh buildings in the capital, the project for conducting a structural safety audit of city buildings in the coming six months faces an uphill challenge. In an on-going case in Delhi high court, the municipal corporations had admitted that 75% of buildings in Delhi are without sanctioned plans. While the process to issue notices to schools and housing societies has been rolled on by the building departments, many are worried that the scale of the task cannot be accomplished under the existing plans. Atul Goel who head URJA, a collective body of Resident Welfare Associations of Delhi, said the strategy adopted by the civic body is faulty and officials who allowed the problem to reach current levels, be held accountable. “Why are they playing with the lives of people? There is no monitoring and accountability in the system.” Goel said a similar proposal of safety certification was proposed when the current master plan had come into effect but nothing came out of it and all provisions were diluted layer. “Every time the court cases come, municipal corporations carry out these antics and try to create a diversion. Everyone forgets it for a while and the problem keeps growing in size,” claimed Goel. There have been over a dozen minor earthquakes over last two months in the city and adjoining areas. Goel wondered how it was possible for a few engineers to check and certify lakhs of buildings. In an affidavit filed before the court, civic bodies had admitted that “only about 25% of the corporation areas in Delhi fall within the planned/approved areas while the rest, about 75%, is unplanned and unauthorised.” Arpit Bhargav, the petitioner in this case, doesn’t seem convinced with the civic body’s plan either. “90% of Delhi is seismically not compliant. There is a disaster waiting to happen and authorities are sleeping. If there are 32 lakh buildings on record and if we consider the nominal figure of 50 lakh dwelling units, are 126 engineers capable of carrying out the survey?” he questioned. Even though the municipal corporations have provided the relaxation of using engineers and experts working in government institutions, the human resource is still not enough. Senior civic official said that besides empaneled-structural engineers, people can also approach experts working in government institutes, IIT, DU and AICTE-approved institutions. Bhargav, however, disagreed. “Even if we add some professors from universities, about 200 people would be available. Can 200 engineers and experts cover 50 lakh dwelling units? How many years would it take? It’s not possible and everything remains on paper,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mission-impossible-32-lakh-buildings-just-126-engineers/articleshow/76738371.cms||Paras Singh
July 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Corporation recovers tax arrears of Rs 4.8 crore in April-May||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The revenue wing of city corporation has made good use of lockdown period to reach out to some of the tax defaulters with huge amount as dues, eventually raising the collection from tax arrears by more than Rs 1.39 crore. Long-pending dues as tax arrears have always dented the corporation’s revenue prospects and the city corporation had made public the list of defaulters, including star hotels, retail chains and super markets, which owed the corporation amount worth lakhs in terms of tax dues. The revenue wing tracked down such tax defaulters during the lockdown through persistent phone call reminders and revenue from tax arrears increased from Rs 3.5 crore in April-May 2019 to Rs 4.89 crore in April-May this year. In a recent review meeting convened by corporation to assess the status of tax arrears, the officials were even asked to take off some of the names, which were published on corporation's website after dues were paid. “The lockdown period was tough because work force was reduced but we were keen on collecting the tax arrears, which had been due. We could get in constant touch with defaulters and eventually they cleared the dues. This has been the highest amount ever collected in terms of tax arrears by city corporation,” said a revenue official. The officials, however, said that despite the best collection rates so far, a significant amount still needs to be collected as dues. The revenue wing had estimated that four major defaulters; a star hotel, a retail chain, a super market and an IT building, together accounted for dues worth Rs 16 crore in 2019. Towards the middle of March 2019, the revenue officials had issued demand notices to these defaulters who owe corporation tax dues ranging between Rs 2.5-Rs 5 crore. Some among the top defaulters have taken legal recourse buying time to evade tax. In one case, a defaulter paid Rs 24 lakh while the actual dues amounted to Rs 2.5 crore. The commercial nature of these defaulters also meant huge loss for corporation as property tax is assessed at higher rates when compared to residential constructions. The officials said although the corporation has been enforcing social distancing and minimal contact to provide service for the public, a faulty online tax payment system by Information Kerala Mission (IKM) has often deterred the corporation’s efforts in terms of collection of routine tax. Very often, the residents who pay tax online end up paying additional amount due to erroneous records being maintained by IKM. In some cases, the residents who paid the tax twice; to bill collector and online, had to turn up in person with original receipts and to make the officials enter the payment for upcoming fiscals and adjust the records. The corporation had repeatedly brought up the matter with local self-government department, however, it has fallen on deaf ears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/corp-recovers-tax-arrears-of-rs-4-8-crore-in-april-may/articleshow/76737494.cms||Aswin J Kumar
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Situation in control, recovery rate up: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday that the Covid-19 situation in Delhi was improving. He said the situation was under control and the recovery rate had risen, but emphasised that there was no room for complacency. After reporting over 3,500 new Covid cases every day for some days, Delhi is now seeing a decrease in the number reported daily. So far, 89,802 have tested positive for Covid in the city. The CM was happy to have defied predictions made last month that by June end, the total cases in Delhi would reach one lakh, with 60,000 active cases. Currently the city has around 26,000 active cases. A sense of fear prevailed last month after it was predicted that the total number of cases may reach 1 lakh by June 30 and may overwhelm the existing healthcare infrastructure. The projections were based on a website created by central government experts. Though the situation isn’t as serious as expected and the recovery rate is rising even as adequate medical infrastructure has been created, Kejriwal still urged citizens to take precautions because the nature of the coronavirus was unpredictable. “We must hope for the best, but still continue to be prepared for the worst,” the CM cautioned. “We worked twice as hard and sought help from whoever we could at that time. Today, there are only 26,000 active cases in Delhi, just one-third of what was predicted,” the CM said. “It was also predicted that Delhi would require 15,000 beds because there was a big increase in daily new Covid cases. Today, there are 5,800 Covid patients in all the hospitals in the city. One week ago, there were 6,250 hospitalised patients, which means a decrease of 450 patients in hospitals.” Kejriwal continued, “A month ago, around 38% of the patients had recovered. Today, with 58,000 of 87,000 patients having recovered, that figure has gone up to 66%. There were 8,500 hospital beds one month ago; today, we have created 15,000 beds in hospitals and hotels. On June 23, there were 3,950 new cases in Delhi, but on Tuesday the number of new cases was 2,200, signifying that the daily count of new cases is also decreasing. It has been around 2,000 for the last 3-4 days.” The death rate too was coming down. “There were once around 125 deaths every day in Delhi, but this has decreased to 60-65. Also, while 31 out of 100 people tested were found Covid-positive initially, now only 13 of 100 people test positive,” Kejriwal said, crediting this achievement to the people of Delhi. The CM, however, advised caution. “It may be possible that the cases will increase in the coming days. So, Delhi government will continue the Covid management efforts without slackening. We will work twice as hard to fight the virus should the the number of positive cases increase in the coming days,” he said. Kejriwal also said that people should be a little circumspect about what activists or so-called experts were saying on social media. “On such platforms, there are experts commenting and saying that Delhi’s peak has come and gone. I would like to say that these comments should be ignored for now. We must continue social distancing, wearing masks and maintaining hand hygiene,” said the CM. Watch Situation of covid-19 in Delhi not 'terrible', says CM Arvind Kejriwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/situation-in-control-recovery-rate-up-cm/articleshow/76738329.cms||AlokKNMishra
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Interest waiver scheme for agri traders extended till Sept-end||Jaipur: In a relief to agriculture traders, the state government has extended the interest waiver scheme till September 30 for the recovery of outstanding mandi fee and other arrears. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot approved the proposals received in this regard from the department of agricultural marketing to provide relief to agriculture traders in view of the coronavirus pandemic and lockdown, an official statement said. A total amount of Rs 68 crore, including mandi fee, allocation fee and other arrears, was outstanding till September 30, 2019. For the recovery of this amount, the government had fixed a deadline of March 31, 2020, to pay the due principal and gave 75% discount on the interest payable. Earlier, the period of the amnesty scheme was extended from March 31 to June 30, which has now been extended till September 30, 2020. Similarly, the state government had started a scheme for recovery of outstanding dues on mandi duty on commodities and sugar imported from other states. The deadline to pay the dues was June 30, which also has been extended till September 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/interest-waiver-scheme-for-agri-traders-extended-till-sept-end/articleshow/76738377.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Centre failed to add more beds in Delhi, allege state govt officials||NEW DELHI: Delhi government sources on Thursday alleged that the Centre had failed to fulfil its promise and add more beds to hospitals, especially for serious patients that required intensive care. Sources claimed that the central government only made 200 beds available in train coaches, while the testing kits given by them was used up in just two days. Except for providing equipment, such as oxygen cylinders and initial rapid testing kits, sources said, all other promises made by the Centre had not been fulfilled. Following his first high-level meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his cabinet colleagues and top state government officials of Covid-19 management on June 14, Union home minister Amit Shah had announced a slew of measures, including ramping up of testing facilities and adding more beds, to prepare the capital in its fight against the novel coronavirus. The meeting was also attended by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. AAP government sources, however, said that the “Centre’s intrusion” in the last 15 days had “created chaos” in the capital. “It did bring some benefits in terms of equipment being provided, such as oxygen cylinders and initial rapid testing kits. However, the damage done was much greater. Most importantly, the promises made were never fulfilled,” an official said. Sources said Centre had promised 2,000 beds in its hospitals but only 500-odd had been added and that too at AIIMS, Jhajjar, which was not convenient for Delhiites to reach. “We had asked for ICU beds in these hospitals, which were of the utmost need. Not a single ICU bed has been given,” said an official. Similarly, of the promised 8,000 beds in train coaches, less than 200 beds have been provided thus far. Officials said while the central government asked the state administration to conduct more tests, only 10,000 kits had been provided which was used up in just two days. Another official alleged that no formal agreement had been made by the Centre, after it cancelled the contract of the agency that coordinated with home-isolation patients and the overstretched government machinery and district surveillance officers were forced to do the job. “There is terror amongst all officers of health, revenue and other departments who are working for Covid care. Majority of their time are attending to MHA officials personally as opposed to doing actual work on the ground. Also, there has been no continuity in the senior-level officers and officials on corona duty are being frequently transferred,” an official claimed, adding that the new nodal officer given the charge of Covid management was on leave till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-failed-to-add-more-beds-in-capital-allege-state-govt-officials/articleshow/76759086.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fish vendor, 3 others test positive on Wednesday||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Four more positive cases were reported in the district on Wednesday. They include a 47-year-old fish vendor from Poonthura, a 38-year-old man who arrived from Doha on June 19, a 25-year-old man who arrived from Doha on June 27 and a 28-year-old man who arrived from Bengaluru on June 27. Around 80 contacts of the fish vendor have been identified. The authorities said that he was a wholesale fish vendor who collected fish from Tamil Nadu and sold it here.  He was admitted to hospital with high fever on June 29 and was tested for Covid-19. The officials said that he may have contracted disease from Tamil Nadu and a detailed epidemiological investigation has begun. The 38-year-old man, who is a resident of Chempazhanthy, was in room quarantine and he showed symptoms on June 26 following which he was tested.  The 25-year-old man is a resident of Edava. He was tested for Covid after he fell unconscious following his arrival. As many as 887 people were brought under observation on Wednesday. A total of 84 people completed observation period without showing symptoms on Wednesday. A total of 37 people were admitted to hospitals with symptoms and 34 people were discharged. As many as 221 persons are currently hospitalized. As many as 26,803 people are under room quarantine in homes and 1,972 people are under institutional quarantine in the district. As many as 372 samples were sent for testing and 426 samples turned negative on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fish-vendor-3-others-test-positive-on-wednesday/articleshow/76737517.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||HC notice to Dhariwal over legal advisor appointment||Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday issued a notice to UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal seeking reply in the matter of appointing a retired employee as legal advisor in the local self-government department (LSG). The division bench of chief justice Inderjit Mohanty sought a reply from Dhariwal, principal secretary, LSG, director LSG, commissioner, Jaipur Municipal Corporation and the person given the appointment while hearing a petition filed by Ganesh Chaturvedi. The petitioner states that Mahavir Prasad Swamy had applied for appointment as legal advisor at LSG department on August 5 last year. On the same day, Dhariwal approved his appointment at a salary of Rs 50,000 per month. On August 6, orders were issued to appoint Swamy as legal advisor in LSG directorate. Within a month of his appointment, Swamy was also given additional charge of the post of law director in Jaipur Municipal Corporation. Sunil Samadia, counsel for the petitioner, said that according to Rule 151 and 164A of Rajasthan Civil Service Pension Rules-1926, a person over 65 years cannot be reappointed to a permanent post. Swami turned 66 in July 2018 itself. Besides, permission of the CM is necessary for the appointment of a consultant in any department. While in the case of Swamy, no approval was taken from the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-notice-to-dhariwal-over-legal-advisor-appointment/articleshow/76738364.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kochi||K K Maheshan behind missing Rs 15 crore: Thushar Vellappally||IDUKKI: SNDP Yogam vice-chairman Thushar Vellappally alleged that K K Maheshan was the only one responsible for the missing of Rs 15 crore from Kanichukulangara union office. Addressing media at Thodupuzha on Wednesday, Thushar said Maheshan committed suicide as he was sure that he would be trapped in the money fraud case. “The allegation that I and my family tried to trap Mahesan is baseless. However, there have been large-scale financial irregularities at the Kanichukulangara and Cherthala unions,” said Thushar. “Maheshan weaved a story in his suicide note. His first attempt was to threaten us to escape from the financial fraud. He began to disagree with the SNDP Yogam general secretary Vellappally Nateshan when investigations into the irregularities began. A detailed probe will reveal the truth behind the death,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/maheshan-behind-missing-rs-15cr-thushar/articleshow/76736357.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia orders financial audit of women’s college||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has ordered financial auditing of Delhi University’s Bhagini Nivedita College, stating that the government has received several complaints against it. In an order to the secretary of higher education, Sisodia wrote that he had “received multiple complaints regarding financial irregularities in Bhagini Nivedita College, one of the colleges fully funded by the government of NCT of Delhi”. Sisodia, who is also the state education minister, said the complaints had come from different stakeholders such as students, parents and teachers. They “allege financial irregularities in tendering processes, hiring of a car for the principal, buying of unnecessary items not needed in an educational institution, etc,” he added. The matter is serious and the directorate of higher education should immediately get the college accounts of last two years audited, “preferably by a CAG-empanelled auditor”, Sisodia said. A compliance report will have to be submitted in 15 days. “Strongest action must be taken against officials concerned if any irregularities are found in the audit,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, Charu Sharma, the principal of the women’s college didn’t comment. A senior DU official, however, claimed the auditing had been announced to force the college to accept the government’s governing body (GB) nominee. “The current acting principal has been around for only a year. The government should have done auditing earlier if they had proof of financial irregularities from the past two years,” the official said. A Delhi government official said financial irregularities in the college were well known and the government was acting on complaints. “This is not related to the GB formation. But it is likely that the college did not allow its formation as they were worried GB would ask for the accounts. That would have been problematic for the college authorities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-orders-financial-audit-of-womens-college/articleshow/76738374.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Rush at SDM offices for EWS certificates||NEW DELHI: As registration for admissions to Delhi University is going to end in three days, students and parents have started thronging the sub-divisional magistrate’s offices in the city to get economically weaker section (EWS) category certificates. Flouting social distancing norms, parents and students gathered in large numbers at the SDM’s office in Dwarka on Wednesday. An applicant, Harshit Gupta later told TOI, “While OBC certificates are procured online, there is no such provision for EWS category students. There is a long process that we need to complete at the SDM office and hence, there was crowding.” The EWS reservation was introduced in the university last year and the number of seats under the category has now increased by 10%. The university has said that students belonging to the EWS category can submit the application receipt. However, students are even finding it difficult to submit the application in many cases. Amisha Nanda, a DU student who is helping the aspirants with registrations, said, “We have been receiving a lot of queries from students related to certificates, including caste certificates. Some students are not being able to apply online also, which is adding to their stress and anxiety.” A DU official, on condition of anonymity, said, “the rules for procuring EWS certificate are set by the government of India and DU cannot do much about them, except extending the dates of the registration period.” The admission branch has asked applicants not to panic as they still have over two weeks to upload the documents. Shobha Bagai, dean (admissions), said: “We had also put up a video on our website explaining this to applicants and they shouldn’t be anxious. The university has also assured applicants that they can apply online for the certificate and upload that application receipt on the DU admission portal while registering. They can update the form with the certificate later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rush-at-sdm-offices-for-ews-certificates/articleshow/76738384.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala government increases bus fares||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has decided to hike the bus fare in the state until further notice during the Covid-19 crisis, on the basis of an interim report by Justice M Ramachandran commission. Transport minister A K Saseendran said that the government has not decided to hike the minimum charge, which will remain at Rs 8. However, the maximum distance up to which one can travel using minimum fare has been reduced from the existing 5km to 2.5km. The charges have been increased from 70paise/km to 90paise/km. These changes will be applicable to ordinary services of Kerala state road transport corporation’s buses too. The government also decided to increase the fare in the super class category of KSRTC buses including fast, city fast and super-fast buses by 25% for minimum charge and charge per km. The minister said that since there is no much travel for students during Covid times, the concession rates for them will not change. The commission had recommended an increase in the student concession fare as well. The commission’s report was considered by the cabinet on Wednesday. The new fares will come into effect once notification is issued. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran said that the state government is helping bus owners by increasing the bus fare when the Centre has decided to extend free ration to the poor for five more months. The LDF government has once again backstabbed the public during a crisis, after water and power tariff hike, he said. Meanwhile, all Kerala bus operators’ forum general secretary Johnson Payyappilli said that the bus fare hike is grossly insufficient and this would only help KSRTC and not private bus operators. He said that private buses plying in short routes will not get any benefit from the fare hike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/government-increases-bus-fares/articleshow/76736397.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Gallantry award winning inspector dies of Covid-19 in Delhi||NEW DELHI: An inspector with Delhi Police’s Special Cell, who was suffering from Covid-19, succumbed to the infection on Tuesday night. Inspector Sanjeev Yadav was on ventilator support for the past fortnight at a private hospital and had undergone plasma therapy twice. His last rites were held with state honours on Wednesday at the Sarai Kale Khan crematorium. Apart from his wife, the officer has left behind a 16-year-old son and a daughter aged 13. His wife, too, has been admitted to a hospital after testing positive for the novel coronavirus. Born in Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, Yadav was enlisted in Delhi Police in 1996. He was posted with Crime Branch for a long time and joined Special Cell in 2018. At Special Cell, he continued to exhibit exemplary conduct in several high-risk operations and was awarded the coveted Police Medal for Gallantry on January 26 this year. Besides, the officer was also a recipient of 25 Commendation Rolls, 13 Commendation Certificates and 26 Commendation Cards issued by Delhi Police. During his posting with Special Cell, inspector Yadav came face to face with armed criminals on no less than thirteen occasions, each of which involved an exchange of fire. Even when the global novel coronavirus pandemic was raging, the officer showed exemplary dedication to work by arresting rewarded and dreaded criminals like Bijender Gagdu and a wanted sharpshooter, Vikas PK. Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, among others, condoled his demise. Baijal tweeted: “Extremely saddened at the death of Insp Sanjeev Kumar Yadav in the line of duty fighting COVID-19.” “A great warrior, recipient of Police Medal for gallantry, he brought laurels for Delhi Police. His untimely demise is irreplaceable loss for the organisation. My deepest condolences!,” he added. The chief minister said: “A very brave policeman and recipient of Police Medal. His death is a great loss to Delhi Police.” On Wednesday afternoon, another constable posted with the PCR died after suffering from Covid-19 for the past fortnight. The policeman, constable Dheer Singh, was admitted to a private hospital and was given breathing support, but he succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gallantry-award-winning-inspector-dies-of-covid/articleshow/76738381.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||RWAs write to Delhi lieutenant governor for audit in all sectors||NEW DELHI: Highlighting the lapses by civic agencies in implementing structural safety norms, a united body of resident welfare associations has written to the lieutenant governor on Tuesday, demanding execution of norms in all sectors simultaneously rather than taking commercial or institutional buildings on priority. On the direction of Delhi high court, the three municipal corporations have recently issued notices to 258 schools, residential group housing societies, institutional buildings etc. to submit structural audit reports to ensure seismic stability of the buildings in 30 days. The civic agencies plan to cover the entire city in six months. North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which has issued notices to 115 schools and societies, said in a press statement that “structural safety audit and retrofitting of high-risk buildings in government or private sector will be done in phase I and completed within three years. In the second phase, buildings coming under the lower risk matrix as well as those falling in the jurisdiction of unauthorised, regularised (earlier unauthorised), village abadis, re-settlement colonies and special areas will be taken up.” However, members of United Residents Joint Action (URJA) argued that Delhi’s more than 60% population live in unauthorised, regularised colonies, JJ clusters, slums and even old neighborhood areas like Chandni Chowk, Sadar Bazar, Shahdara, Nazafgarh, Mehrauli. “Many unauthorised, regularised colonies fall in high risk category and are prone to get affected during earthquakes. Most of the structures which do not comply with the structural safety norms will get demolished by quakes, causing huge loss of life,” said Atul Goyal, president of URJA. Meanwhile, an official of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation explained the reason for selecting government or private buildings. “These are isolated buildings constructed on large areas so chances of their crashing down is higher. In comparison, houses — even in unauthorised or regularised or approved colonies — are constructed next to each other and have low chances. Moreover, safety certificate is required only for buildings constructed before 2001, because after that the seismic norms were incorporated in Delhi’s building bylaws,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rwas-write-to-baijal-for-audit-in-all-sectors/articleshow/76738386.cms||Vibha Sharma
July 2, 2020||Meerut||2 suspicious deaths in Amroha attributed to leopard attacks, cops wary & forest department defers||BIJNOR: An 18-year-old girl in UP’s Amroha district died under suspicious circumstances with her parents claiming that she was killed in a leopard attack. The alleged feline attack took place barely 15 days after a 40-year-old woman died under similar circumstances in the same region. No police case was registered in both the cases. On their part, the forest department said they found no leopard pugmark in the vicinity of the two attacks and demanded an extensive probe into the two deaths, suggesting some foul play. Meanwhile, people in the two villages, separated by a few kilometers, said that leopards and cubs have been sighted in the area and at least six persons have been attacked by feline in the last one month. The latest incident took place on Tuesday evening in Dehari Khaddar village of Hasanpur area. The girl, Jaldhara, was helping her parents in the field when she was said to have been attacked and killed by the wild animal. Her father Rohan Singh said, “We all were working at some distance in the field. Suddenly, my daughter shouted for help. When I rushed there, I found my daughter unconscious and bleeding. I took her to community hospital where she was declared brought dead.” This comes at a time when three leopard cubs and a leopardess were spotted in two different instances last week. On June 16, a 40-year-old woman was allegedly attacked and killed by a leopard in Sultanpur area. The victim, Sharda Devi, of Phoolpur village, had gone to irrigate her field when attacked. When she did not return home, her family and villagers launched a search operation. They found her body in a mango orchard, where the big cat is said to have dragged her. When contacted, Amroha’s divisional forest officer Ramesh Chandra said, “Villagers told us about the death of the girl on Tuesday. They are claiming the girl was killed by a leopard. We inspected the place. There was no pugmark of a big cat there. Besides, there were some scratches on her neck. No deep injury was found on the body. In addition, last month another woman was stated to be killed by a leopard. According to our investigation, the leopard did not claim the life of anyone here. Post mortem reports of the deceased are yet to come. Matter should be investigated thoroughly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-suspicious-deaths-in-amroha-attributed-to-leopard-attacks-cops-wary-forest-department-defers/articleshow/76736391.cms||Harveer Dabas
July 2, 2020||Meerut||Health department worker gets inappropriate messages on WhatsApp, cyber cell takes over case||MUZAFFARNAGAR: UP police’s cyber cell has taken over a case filed by a health worker in Muzaffarnagar. In her complaint to police, the government official alleged that she has received several inappropriate text messages on her WhatsApp number from a man who claimed to be a minister in the UP government and a local MLA. The Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) of the state health department approached police in Bhopa area of the district on June 23 to file the case. According to sources, the case was not filed then. It was registered after some senior police officials intervened. Local police initially found that the mobile number was registered on the name of a man who runs a tea stall and had allegedly put up a picture of the legislator on the social media app. When questioned, the suspect claimed that he has never used a smartphone. On Wednesday, the case was transferred to the cyber cell department for further probe. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of Bhopa, Rajesh Kumar Trivedi, said, “After investigation it was found the number belonged to a tea seller who lives in the same area where the woman lives. But he never used a smartphone and still keeps an outdated phone. The case was then sent to cyber sell to find culprit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/health-department-worker-gets-inappropriate-messages-on-whatsapp-cyber-cell-takes-over-case/articleshow/76736395.cms||Mohd Dilshad
July 2, 2020||Udaipur||All Chittorgarh fair price shops to get yellow-green paint for easy spotting||UDAIPUR: Uniformity has great significance as it builds brand awareness and instills responsibility. To weed out corruption and leakage in the Public Distribution System (PDS) and help common man distinguish Fair Price Shops (FPS) from other outlets in any crowded market place, the district administration has launched a ‘One Theme-One Design’ project. Chittorgarh is the first district not only in Rajasthan, but perhaps in the country too to have taken this unique initiative. The district which has 682 licensed ration or fair price shops in its 11 blocks are being re-designed with uniform exteriors. Every FPS would stand out from other outlets with its Yellow-Green oil-painted front wall, bearing a Mahatma Gandhi charkha logo and the ‘Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao’ slogan. Chittorgarh collector Chetan Ram Deora told TOI, “Over 10 lakh persons from 2.63 lakh families would benefit from it. We embarked on the project in January and had almost completed 80 per cent of the task by March but unfortunately due to the lockdown, the project came to a halt. Now it has gained momentum and all the shops would be seen in the new identical pattern by this week.” The project is the brainchild of Beezal Surana, the district supply officer, who took charge around seven months ago. This is the first posting of the 30-year-old officer who is still in her probation. “After taking charge of the office, when I first set out to inspect the FPSs, I was completely puzzled as it was very difficult to identify authorised ration shops from ordinary provision stores. I realized if it is annoying for an officer of the department, it would be equally troublesome for a common man too and hence the idea struck upon to give an identical design to our ration shops,” Beezal told TOI. The department had no problems in convincing the license holders. “All willingly agreed as we gave them the model to follow. They painted their shops in the designated colors and pattern which cost them around Rs 1000, the department did not spend a penny,” the officer said. The font and colours remain same while the size differs for each shop as per its area. The new exterior wall has a display block for commodities with their prices and stock availability which has to be regularly updated. Also displayed, are license holder's name, details of the supply office and helpline numbers. “Hardly do people know that for every fair price shop, there is a vigilance committee having 5 members like sarpanch, gram sachiv, principal and teachers of the government schools who could be approached by the consumer for any grievance or mismanagement at the ration shop. In the new exterior, the names and numbers of the committee members too have to be compulsorily displayed,” the collector said. Complaints had ushered in the first month, as people became vigilant and informed about the misconduct in some of the shops. “We took action and reprimanded the wrong doers on the complaints and now gradually the sellers are improving their services to the customers’ satisfaction,” Surana said. Encouraged by the people’s response, the district administration is writing to the food and civil supplies department to replicate the Chittorgarh model in other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/all-chittorgarh-fair-price-shops-to-get-yellow-green-paint-for-easy-spotting/articleshow/76738396.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur traffic police get to work, to fine violators strictly||JAIPUR: As the lockdown is being eased, the city traffic police have started its work in a routine manner with the cops working in two shifts of eight-hours each from Wednesday. The officials said that there will be stricter checks on traffic violations as compared to the last few months when there was complete lockdown. Prior to the lockdown, there were 3,000 ‘challans’ per day which came down to 1,000 per day from April to June. DCP Traffic Rahul Prakash said, “During the lockdown, we had been a bit lenient when it came to penalising the violators and the challans on a daily basis were less than half as compared to the first quarter of the year. However, from Wednesday, we started the normal routine with violators being fined. Also the traffic cops have started working the two shifts from July 1.” Till date, police have arrested 20,794 persons across the state under the Motor Vehicles Act and collected fines amounting to Rs 9.3 crore. They also seized 1,46,837 vehicles in Rajasthan for violating the traffic norms during the lockdown. A total of Rs 2.7 crore was also collected for flouting the norms under Rajasthan Epidemics Ordinance and 1,63,215 persons were challaned for the same. “The police personnel will continue to check the violators as per the guidelines especially as the lockdown is being eased and more number of people is venturing out of their homes. The aim is to prevent the spread of coronavirus and ensure that even with the lockdown being eased, the pandemic is contained,” said a senior police official. Apart from this Jaipur Development Authority also announced that all the gates of Ramniwas Bagh will remain open from 8 am to 9 pm for vehicular movement. Prior to this the gates were opened from 5 am to 8 pm but with the recent changes in the lockdown guidelines, the decision was taken to change the timings, claimed officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-traffic-police-get-to-work-to-fine-violators-strictly/articleshow/76738388.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 2, 2020||Nagpur||Sustainable heating can cut CO2 by 30% in Himalayan region||NAGPUR: Sustainable solutions for heating homes and other living spaces in the Indian Himalayan region can reduce emission of carbon dioxide by 30% by 2030, reveals the latest report by World Wildlife Fund (WWF) India and The Energy and Resources Institute (Teri). Titled the ‘Sustainable Space Heating Solutions in the Himalayan Region’, the report highlights that 71.4% of emissions due to space heating in the Indian Himalayan Region are contributed by Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Jammu and Kashmir. Stating that the Indian Himalayas were one of the most ecologically fragile regions in the world, the report mentions, “Given its cold climatic conditions and unavailability of regular source of power, and limited financial capacity of local communities, people in the region often resort to fuel wood to provide thermal comfort in their built environment. The traditional space heating mechanisms not only contribute to the increasing emissions of the region but also lead to degradation of natural resources, and adversely impact health of people residing in these areas.” The report highlights the possibility of a reduction of CO2 emissions from space heating in Himalayas from the projected 17.8 million tonnes (MT) by 2030 under a business as usual (BAU) scenario to 12.3 MT through the use of efficient technologies. “Currently, the emissions from space heating for the year 2020 stand at approximately 15.9 MT of CO2, for the entire Himalayan region, equivalent to annual emissions generated from about 27 units of 200MW thermal power plants,” the report added. According to the report, about 78 per cent of the total emissions in the Indian Himalayan Region are from space heating in residential dwellings in rural areas of the region, with 71.4% attributed to the northern states of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Jammu and Kashmir. “The development and deployment of innovative solutions thus have a tremendous potential to not only reduce rising emissions but also decrease indoor air pollution and its associated health hazards. However, limited financial capacities of households and lack of awareness have been identified as the primary barrier to a slower than required transition from traditional fuelwood based heating to more efficient and clean energy-based sustainable space heating technologies despite their availability,” the report added. Sejal Worah, programme director of WWF India, said, “The Himalayas are a very heterogeneous region and the space heating solutions have to be designed to be responsive to both community needs and the ecological fragility of the region. Sustainable space heating systems can greatly improve the comfort and well-being of people, reduce impact on natural resources, and address the global issue of climate change from increasing emissions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sustainable-heating-can-cut-co2-by-30-in-himalayan-region/articleshow/76738397.cms||Manka Behl
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 2,300 beds ready for use, says MHA||NEW DELHI: Reacting to the Delhi government’s allegation, the Union home ministry sources said that a total of 2,300 beds with “sufficient” ICU capacity had been made available and would be ready for use as and when required by the state administration. “Regarding the promise to provide 2,000 beds, the 1,000-bed Covid hospital developed by DRDO will be operational soon and will have nearly 250 ICU beds. Besides, 500 beds have been made available in AIIMS, Jhajjar; 350 in ESI hospital, Okhla; 50 in All India Institute of Ayurveda, Sarita Vihar; 150 additional beds in Base Hospital of the Army; 180 isolation beds in the NCC camp near Base hospital and 120 beds by MHA at Bawana, Chhawla and Jharoda Kalan,” an MHA source said. The source added that Delhi government had been informed of the situation by Union health ministry on June 17. MHA sources said that 503 train coaches of around 8,000 beds capacity had been arranged and their placement and deployment was being done as per need. “Since only 24 patients have been referred to these coaches so far, the remaining are awaiting the deployment,” an official said. He added that a 10,000-bed Covid care centre had been operationalised in Chhatarpur by the ITBP-led Central Armed Police Forces. “As on July 1, total Covid-19 dedicated beds available in Delhi were 15,243 against which only 5,747 are occupied. Hence, the idle capacity in the health system is around 62%,” the official said. MHA sources said the RT-PCR testing had also been ramped up to a level of nearly 10,000 per day after June 14 from an earlier level of 4,000-5,000 per day. With the provision of “sufficient number” of antigen kits, the combined testing was around 16,000-20,000 per day, which would be further ramped up, said an official. “There is no shortage of testing kits and they will be supplied as per need and demand,” he added. Over allegations of frequent transfers, MHA sources said eight officials of “proven” capabilities had been sent to Delhi from outlying segments and the Centre and the state government had “sufficient strength” to take care of field operations, monitoring and supervision. “The transfer of officers is done at the level of LG depending on the assessment of the situation,” said an MHA source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2300-beds-ready-for-use-says-mha/articleshow/76759104.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Allow retests in classes IX and XI: CBSE to schools||NEW DELHI: Central Board of Secondary Education has again written to its affiliated schools to allow students who have failed in classes IX and XI to reappear for the examination. The schools have been asked to conduct online/offline/innovative tests for such students and decide on their promotion based on the tests. In its first letter on May 13, the board had said that this was a one-time measure adopted in view of the Covid-19 situation. CBSE had been receiving queries and requests from the students and parents, following which it decided to allow retests. “This opportunity of allowing students to reappear for an exam is mandatory to be extended by all the schools, irrespective of whether their examinations have been conducted or results released. The same had to be done irrespective of the number of subjects and attempts,” said the circular issued on May 13. On Tuesday, CBSE again issued the order as schools were getting misled owing to a court order. “Schools are getting misled that till the time LPA no.154 of 2020, Rukmini Devi Public School vs CBSE filed in Delhi HC is not disposed of, there is no need to comply with notification dated May 13,” the circular said. The school had moved court demanding quashing of the notification, which the bench had rejected. They then moved the double bench, where the case is pending. Watch CBSE asks schools to allow retests in classes IX and XI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/allow-retests-in-classes-ix-and-xi-cbse/articleshow/76741175.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||241 illegal guns meant for criminals out on bail seized during lockdown in Delhi||NEW DELHI: During the lockdown, police have seized 241 illegal firearms that were to be supplied to criminals who were released on bail to implement social distancing norms in jails. Most criminals who came out of jail wanted to buy firearms to get their hands on some money, a police officer said. However, due to border restrictions, it was difficult to get ammunition and its seizure also fell drastically during the lockdown, he added. Till June 15 this year, 1,047 cases have been registered under Arms Act and 1,049 firearms seized. In the first two months of the lockdown, 93 firearms were seized; but 148 seizures were made in just first 15 days of June after the lockdown norms were eased. Till June 15 last year, 1,074 cases were registered. However, the ammunition supply during the same period dipped from last year’s 4,206 to 1,810 this year. The count dropped “as suppliers from Meerut and Madhya Pradesh failed to enter the capital due to border restrictions”, said Mandeep Randhawa, additional CP (crime) and PRO. “Even now as the capital goes into the unlock phase, pickets have been installed and random checks in parks and isolated areas are being carried out,” he added. “Since the interstate borders had strict checking during the lockdown, criminals were getting arms from local sources, who were selling a countrymade pistol at Rs 5,000 and a little improvised version at Rs 15,000,” said an inspector posted in outer Delhi. Two criminals who were arrested last week, however, bought weapons from a dealer in Uttar Pradesh. The accused went to Murthal and then turned towards the Yamuna and entered UP to get the weapons, the inspector said. The Delhi Police commissioner has instructed the station house officers to keep an eye on street crime and illegal firearms since the lockdown has been lifted partially. In the first week of June, the Special Cell of Delhi Police arrested a man who was one of the biggest suppliers of firearms in north India and had been manufacturing illegal weapons since the past two decades. Out of the 1,047 cases registered till June 15, 1,032 have been solved, while 1,061 cases were solved last year during the same period. “This year, 1,221 people have been arrested in possession of firearms,” Randhawa said. The count was 1,262 last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/241-illegal-guns-meant-for-criminals-out-on-bail-seized-during-lockdown/articleshow/76738401.cms||Sakshi Chand
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Soon, pay for bus ticket in Delhi via a QR code on your phone||NEW DELHI: Passengers travelling by Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster scheme buses in Delhi will be able to pay bus fare through QR codes generated on their mobile phones. A trial run to test the technology, which will help implement contactless mobile ticketing, was carried out on Thursday. State transport minister Kailash Gahlot has constituted a task force for timely coordination and implementation of exploring the options of contactless mobile ticketing inside DTC and cluster scheme buses, keeping in mind safety of passengers — so that no physical contact takes place between the bus conductor and the commuters. Apart from senior officials of the transport department, DTC and Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd (DIMTS), which operates the cluster scheme buses, other members of the task force are Pravesh Biyani, associate professor, Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology, Delhi and Amit Bhatt, director of Integrated Urban Transport at WRI India. The field trial was conducted in an air-conditioned cluster scheme bus on route number 763 between Nizamuddin Railway Station and Uttam Nagar Bus Terminal. “The trial was largely successful, though some limitations were also noticed. Some technical changes were suggested by DIMTS officials for practical implementation of the system and these will be explored,” said one of the members of the team that carried out the trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/soon-pay-for-bus-ticket-via-a-qr-code-on-your-phone/articleshow/76759128.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||46 lakh non-NFSA beneficiaries received free ration: Food dept||Jaipur: Around 46 lakh non-NFSA beneficiaries in the state have received ration (wheat and chana) as a part of state government’s initiative to provide free ration to returnee migrants and those belonging to 37 special categories, according to an official in the food department. Of the total 4.50 lakh registered in Jaipur, through E-mitra, 92% (4.15 lakh) have received ration till the end of distribution, said district supplies officer (DSO-I), Kanishk Saini. Around 87% of the total ration allotted for non-NFSA beneficiaries in Jaipur has been distributed, he said. In Jaipur, 47,724 quintal wheat and 2,473 quintal chana were allotted. “However, the total amount of wheat allotted (47,724 quintal) was for meant for 4.77 lakh beneficiaries, which was 10 per cent extra allocation,” he added Under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), free ration – 5kg wheat per person and 1 kg chana per family – will be distributed to the beneficiaries under NFSA (National Food Security Act) till November as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday. With distribution of ration (wheat and chana) to non-NFSA beneficiaries - migrant workers and those belonging to 37 special categories - being completed, the state government may consider distributing the remaining ration to other categories of non-NFSA beneficiaries, who have not received ration yet. These may include those beneficiaries who received Rs 2,500 each from the government, but were not provided ration despite registering themselves through e-mitra. “These beneficiaries may include those who got Rs 2,500 from the state government during the lockdown, but was not considered for the ration. They had already registered through e-mitra, but were not distributed ration. The government may consider giving ration to this category of beneficiaries. There are around 3.5 lakh such beneficiaries in the state,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/46-lakh-non-nfsa-beneficiaries-received-free-ration-food-dept/articleshow/76738406.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Safai staff forced to work as ward boy, alleges union||NEW DELHI: Delhi Commission for Safai Karamcharis (DCSK) has issued a notice to North Delhi Municipal Corporation and Hindu Rao Hospital over a sanitation worker allegedly being forced to work as a ward boy at the healthcare facility. The 53-year-old worker got infected by the novel coronavirus and passed away on June 28. Sanjay Gahlot, DSCK chief, said that he had summoned the medical superintendent and assistant sanitary inspector of the hospital to appear before the commission. “The supervisor made the sanitation worker a ward boy despite his repeated pleas that he shouldn’t be assigned duty related to Covid patients. Subsequently, he contacted the virus and died,” he added. “The sanitation workers at Hindu Rao Hospital complained to me that the position of ward boys was vacant and they were being forced to take up the job,” Gahlot claimed. On Sunday, a senior corporation official had said that the ward boy had passed away after getting infected with Covid-19. “He was on staggered duty and did not come after June 19. He had diabetes and hypertension and was admitted to the hospital on June 26. His sample was sent for testing on June 25 and the report came positive two days later. We shifted him to the emergency Covid ward on Saturday after he developed kidney failure. He expired on Sunday afternoon,” the official added. North corporation denied the allegation that the sanitation worker was forced to work with Covid patients against his will and despite having health problems. Mayor Jai Prakash said, “The allegations are baseless. We care about all employees equally, whether they are a ward boy, sanitation worker or doctor. I met Hindu Rao employees to understand their issues and dissuade them from going on strike. There are a few people who are trying to create trouble.” “Hindu Rao is now a Covid-dedicated facility and the employees and the medical superintendent shouldn’t be disturbed as it will impact the fight against the virus,” added Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/safai-staff-forced-to-work-as-ward-boy-alleges-union/articleshow/76738411.cms||Paras Singh
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: An app to help track potential plasma donors||NEW DELHI: The resident doctors of AIIMS, with the help of IIT-Delhi students, have developed a mobile app to track Covid patients at the hospital in real time. They will also be able to track discharged patients who have the potential to become plasma donors 28 days after their recovery. The app, COPAL-19, has details of patients who have already been discharged from AIIMS and those currently undergoing treatment along with their blood groups so that patients who require plasma therapy can get it in time without any hassle, said Dr Adarsh Pratap Singh, AIIMS, RDA president. “Amid shortage of donors for plasma therapy, a team of AIIMS resident doctors and IIT-Delhi students developed an app to correct the mismatch between Covid-19 discharged patients and patients requiring plasma donation. It was a great initiative by Dr Abhinav Singh Verma and the students,” Dr Singh said. The app was launched at the premier hospital on Doctors’ Day on Wednesday. Dr Verma, resident doctor, neurosurgery department, AIIMS, the main person behind COPAL-19, said it’s a simple user interface application with automated donor matching. Though it has been launched primarily for AIIMS patients for now, the app will be available on open platforms. “This app will act as a bridge between patients seeking plasma therapy and donors who have recovered and have completed 28 days post recovery,” the doctor added. The app will also automatically track donors who will be eligible to donate plasma after a cycle of 14 days. The doctor also referred to the case of his senior who was infected with the virus and recalled the difficulties they had to face arranging plasma for him. “We were already working on developing such an app, but it was after this incident that we really pushed for it and finally launched it on Wednesday,” he said. Currently, 70 plasma donors are registered with the application, he added. Watch Delhi: AIIMS launches app to help track potential plasma donors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/an-app-to-help-track-potential-plasma-donors/articleshow/76738399.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Business||Kidderpore Docks revamp on PPP mode||Kolkata: In what can be a major shot in the arm for the economy of West Bengal, the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port Trust (SPMPT) has embarked upon a plan to rejuvenate the nearly 130-year-old Kidderpore Docks (KPD) in Kolkata. Port authorities hope to be able to get private agencies to pump in nearly Rs 185 crore in the project that will be undertaken on a Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) mode. “KPD primarily handles bulk and break-bulk cargo and the western and eastern sides are the points where work is carried out. The maximum dimension of vessels that can be handled at KPD is 152.4 metres (500 feet) x 21.3 metres (70 feet) and about 0.2 million tonnes of cargo is handled there annually. The proposal is to develop the entire 800-odd metre-long west side quay into an integrated multipurpose one to handle all kinds of cargo including containers,” a senior SPMPT said. The project will be on a Build, Equip, Operate and Transfer basis for 30 years. Phase-I will have two dedicated container terminals and a multipurpose berth with a total quay length of 400 metres. These will be equipped with at least two mobile harbour cranes, five reach stackers and 10 tractor trailers. Any other equipment as required to handle the cargo mix and unleash the full potential of the port will be deployed by the PPP operator. “For Phase-I, nearly 6.77 hectares, including structures and sheds, will be handed over to the PPP operator. In Phase-I, the project is expected to yield nearly 2.5 million tonnes of cargo per annum. In Phase-II, three more berths shall be developed along the remaining 400 metres of quay. The capacity addition expected from Phase-II is 1.5 million tonnes,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kidderpore-docks-revamp-on-ppp-mode/articleshow/76731270.cms||Jayanta Gupta
July 2, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Police seize bike, force couple to walk 23km through forest||PALAKKAD: A couple from a tribal community was forced to walk 23 kms home braving rain and wild animals after a police team seized their two-wheeler for not having an insurance certificate. Based on the couple’s complaint, district superintendent of police G Sivavikram asked the DSP, special branch, to file a report. The couple, Ajeesh and Unnimaya, said police flagged them down at Pullamkunny on Malampuzha-Akamalavaram Road around 7pm on June 28, and seized their bike for not having the insurance certificate. The inspector at the scene, the couple said, ordered them to walk home, despite being told that their house was 23 kms away at Akamalavaram forest area. The police were also told that there was no transport facility after 6pm. The couple reportedly walked through the forest and reached home by 12 midnight. The police superintendent confirmed receiving the complaint. He said vehicles were not allowed on roads without insurance. Taking cognizance of the incident, minister for welfare of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes A K Balan directed the SP to probe the incident and initiate action if the police were found to have tortured the couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-seize-bike-force-couple-to-walk-23km-through-forest/articleshow/76736419.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Irregularities in 1,115 NREGA projects; 2,855 notices issued||JAIPUR: Following a statewide surprise inspection, notices have been issued to remove 1,335 mates for irregularities and shortcomings in MGNREGA work in the districts. Notices have also been issued to 1,157 village secretaries/village employment assistants and 363 junior technical assistant (JTAs) for various inadequacies. They have been warned and asked to improve the quality of their work. A one-day intensive inspection was conducted by rural development department in 33 districts on June 19. Of the 21,414 projects inspected in the state, irregularities were found in 1,115. In all, 4,213 teams carried out inspections including nearly 350 district-level officers. “The irregularities that were found during the inspection included – job cards of the workers were not updated, absence of work site boards in some villages, untrained mates found at a few work sites, absence of shades for workers and unavailability of drinking water in some sites,” said MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “Shortcomings and irregularities were also found in digging work (layout work of the surface), which was not done as technical norms. Also, in some places the mates were not informing the NREGA workers if their share of work was complete or not,” he said. Kishan further said, “Action has been taken against the person concerned even if minor irregularities were found. Action has been taken the officials even if Covid protocol/norms have not been followed. Notices have been issued now. If they still don’t improve their work, they could be blacklisted (won’t be allowed to engage in NREGA work) for a year or two. Even though it was a surprise inspection, there hasn’t been a single case where machines were found to be used by the workers.” “In such a case, action could be taken against the block development officers (BDOs) or programme officers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/irregularities-in-1115-nrega-projects-2855-notices-issued/articleshow/76738404.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Youth shoots at fiancee, her sister in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 17-year-old girl and her 15-year-old sister were shot at by two youths outside their house in Southwest Delhi’s Kapashera on Thursday. Police said the 17-year-old girl’s fiance suspected her of having an illicit relationship and wanted to kill her as he thought she wouldn't marry him. Police got a call about the shootings around 6pm after which the girls were rushed to Safdarjung Hospital. The girl’s fiance, who is also aged 17, and his friend (16) have been apprehended. A country-made pistol and seven live rounds were seized from them. A probe has revealed that the fiance, a resident of Badaun in Uttar Pradesh, went to his village last week and purchased the pistol for Rs 8,000. He then asked his friend to accompany him to the girl’s house. DCP (Southwest) Devender Arya said, “The two youths reached the girl’s house on Thursday evening and called her outside. When she came out with her younger sister, they opened fire at them. A bullet hit the 17-year-old girl in the abdomen and a second round hit her sister’s leg. Their wedding was fixed around three months ago, but the youth suspected her of having an illicit relationship with someone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/youth-shoots-at-fiancee-her-sister/articleshow/76759138.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Set up helpline for health workers: Delhi HC to AAP govt||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Thursday advised the Aam Aadmi Party government in the capital to set up a helpline where healthcare workers can call anonymously to complain against private hospitals or nursing homes not providing N-95 masks and personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan suggested the same during the hearing of a PIL by an NGO, which alleged that nurses in private hospitals and nursing homes were not being provided proper personal protection equipment and masks. The court said once a complaint is received on the helpline, Delhi government can inspect the hospital or nursing home concerned and fulfil the requirement for PPE kits and masks and also take action. It asked the NGO, Distress Management Collective, to give suggestions on how the issues raised in its PIL can be addressed and listed the matter for hearing on July 6. The NGO alleged that nurses in private hospitals and clinics were being given used PPE kits. It demanded that all the private sector nurses be covered under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) of insurance protection and provided proper psycho-social support. In response, the state government said that it takes action against private hospitals and nursing homes which violate Covid-19 guidelines as and when such instances are brought to its attention. It further told the high court that it has issued an office order on April 7, which stated that any person, including doctors, nurses, para-medical staff, sweeper or any other staff in government or private sector, expires while attending to Covid-19 patients his her family shall be provided Rs 1 crore as compensation. The Centre, represented by its standing counsel Anil Soni, told the court that it was providing all assistance to the states which have to do the actual work. It has in its affidavit said that it has provided PPE kits and N-95 masks to states and Union territories as per their requirement and it is up to them to “optimally utilise” the protective gear. The central government maintained that healthcare workers in government and private sectors are covered under the PMGKP, which provides comprehensive personal accident cover of Rs 50 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/set-up-helpline-for-health-workers-hc-to-aap-govt/articleshow/76759132.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Rajkot||Man bludgeoned to death over land dispute||Rajkot: A 62-year-old man was bludgeoned to death with spades and bats by seven assailants including three women over a land dispute in Devdi village of Kodinar taluka in Gir Somnath district on Tuesday night. Police said the accused _ Anil Barad, Pradeep Barad, Ravi Barad, Bhupat Barad, Samju Barad, Geeta Barad and Dudhi Barad _ had allegedly attacked Babu Barad. "The accused had a land dispute with the victim for the past several years. On the fateful night, the accused and the victim entered into an altercation, subsequent to which the accused attacked the victim. Babu was first taken to Kodinar Civil Hospital and from there to Junagadh Civil Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries shortly after admission," said an official from Kodinar police station. "We have launched a manhunt for the accused who absconded after committing the crime," the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-bludgeoned-to-death-over-land-dispute/articleshow/76737563.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Focus on early hospitalisation, Amit Shah tells NCR||NEW DELHI: In pursuance of his call for a unified strategy for Delhi-NCR in the fight against Covid-19, Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday stressed on the need to reduce infection transmission rate in the entire region by conducting more testing via rapid antigen kits, which could be provided by the Centre to UP and Haryana, in addition to Delhi that has already been given sufficient kits. Keen on ensuring that human lives, especially of the poor and needy, were saved, Shah asked the NCR authorities to focus on early hospitalisation of patients, so that the mortality rate can also be reduced. It has been seen that many Covid-19 patients who died in Delhi had succumbed within hours or a couple of days after they were brought to hospital, pointing to a link between their deaths and delay in their getting proper medical attention. Shah stressed on the wide use of Aarogya Setu and Itihas applications to help in Covid-19 mapping in the NCR. Importantly, as part of extending facilities to entire NCR region — covering Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Gurgaon, etc — on par with those offered to Delhi, the home minister said the AIIMS telemedicine consultation model being used in Delhi for Covid patients should be replicated in UP and Haryana as well. He suggested that UP and Haryana join AIIMS-telemedicine Covid consultation through which patients can get advice by expert doctors. The training for doctors in small hospitals in UP and Haryana can be provided by AIIMS with the help of tele-videography, he added. NITI Aayog member V K Paul, who had earlier prepared a report on revised containment strategies for Delhi, gave a presentation at the meeting on the strategy for tackling Covid-19 in NCR. He provided details of best practices adopted in Delhi-NCR and the way ahead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/focus-on-early-hospitalisation-shah-tells-ncr/articleshow/76759147.cms||Bharti Jain
July 2, 2020||Business||Edtech startups get lockdown boost||Kolkata: The coronavirus-triggered lockdown over the past three months has given a boost to online learning in Kolkata and other parts of the country, with several edtech (educational technology providers) startups witnessing a spurt in the number of enrolments across age groups for online courses. As educational institutes continue to remain shut, with professionals finding more time amid work-from-home (WFH) arrangements, many signed up for various online courses. For Great Learning Academy, it has been a three-fold increase in demand for registrations to courses associated with Data Science, Business Analytics, Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning and Data Science and Engineering over the past two months. “In terms of enrolment, Kolkata featured among the top 10 cities. Many young professionals are opting for our courses, including cloud computing, machine learning, cyber security and digital marketing to better themselves,” said Hari Krishnan Nair, co-founder of Great Learning. The demand for online education in AI and robotics is not limited to professionals. Edtech firm WhiteHat Jr — which offers courses for students aged 6-14 — reported 100% month-on-month growth enabling a $100 million annual recurring revenue (ARR). Nearly 10,000 classes are being conducted daily on the platform for Indian students. Karan Bajaj, founder and CEO, WhiteHat Jr, said, “While we were earlier growing at a 60% MoM, this has accelerated after the lockdown. The average monthly enrolment from Kolkata was 1,850 before the lockdown, which has now gone up to 2,608. With more than 20,000 paid subscribers and over 5,000 daily classes conducted, our US business alone is growing at about 160% and we have recently announced plans to expand in other markets like Canada, Australia and New Zealand.” Pranjal Kumar, the principal and CFO of Bertelsmann India Investments, which is active in education sectors, said, “The pandemic has brought about significant tailwinds for edtech startups that have clocked business growth with two- or three-fold jump in registrations, so the contribution points have improved by 5%-8%. Some of these points are likely to stick beyond the Covid times as parents and children are getting well acquainted with online learning.” The spike in enrolment at some top-notch startups, including Gradeup, Unacademy, Eduisfun and upGrad, ranges from 2%-15% in various metro cities, including Kolkata. Arjun Mohan, the CEO of upGrad, said, “The pandemic added positivity to the business of edtech startups that have opened up live-learning platforms for school- and college-goers. Currently, we have around 45,000 students from 50 institutes on our live-learning platform for courses based on data, technology and management.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/edtech-startups-get-lockdown-boost/articleshow/76731296.cms||Abhishek Chakraborty
July 2, 2020||Goa||Cong protests high power bills at Bicholim||Bicholim: Congress workers on Wednesday held a protest in front of the electricity office in Bicholim demanding that the hike in power tariffs be withdrawn immediately. Stating that at a time when citizens have been reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has given them another shock by increasing the electricity tariffs. “The government is harassing the poor by doubling the bills and levying hidden tariffs when the state is in a difficult situation,” party workers said. Congress member Sankalp Amonkar insisted that the hike in tariff should either be withdrawn or the government should pay all the bills. After hearing the protesters out, electricity engineer S Fernandes said he would put forth the issue before the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-protests-high-power-bills-at-bicholim/articleshow/76738425.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal appeals India to reopen suspension bridge so that its 1,600 soldiers who served in Indian Army can cross border, withdraw pension||Pithoragarh: The district administration in Pithoragarh has received a request from Nepalese authorities to reopen the suspension bridge on the Indo-Nepal border in Jhulaghat to enable retired personnel of the Indian Army, who hail from Nepal, to cross the border and collect their pension amounts which are deposited in Indian banks. The district administration has now written to the state government and the ministry of home affairs seeking the nod for the same. In the letter to the district magistrate (DM) of Pithoragarh, Nepalese authorities had written that more than 1,600 retired Indian Army soldiers of Gorkha Regiment have not been able withdraw their monthly pension for more than three months as the suspension bridge in Jhulaghat remains shut in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. These soldiers, who are nationals of Nepal, have accounts in the State Bank of India (SBI) branches in the border towns of Pithoragarh district like Jhulaghat, Jauljibi and Dharchula. Speaking about the matter, Vijay Kumar Jogdande, Pithoragarh DM, said, “Last week, we received a letter from chief district officer (CDO) of Nepal’s Baitadi district asking to open the suspension bridge for retired Gorkha jawans to withdraw pension. We have written to the Centre and the state government regarding the same. The bridge cannot remain open for public movement in times of Covid-19 outbreak but we can allow ex-soldiers to enter if we get the nod from the Centre.” The ex-Army personnel (or their widows) are largely based in Baitadi and Darchula districts of Nepal which share a border with Pithoragarh. Kamlesh Joshi, manager of SBI Jhulaghat, told TOI, “SBI Jhulaghat and SBI Dharchula branches have 700 bank accounts each of Nepalese citizens who have served in the Indian Army, followed by 200 such accounts in SBI Jauljibi branch. It is estimated that a cumulative pension amount of Rs 50 lakh is withdrawn from these branches by the ex-jawans of Gorkha regiment every month. Most of the pensioners are non-commissioned officers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepal-appeals-india-to-reopen-suspension-bridge-so-that-its-1600-soldiers-who-served-in-indian-army-can-cross-border-withdraw-pension/articleshow/76735362.cms||Prem Punetha
July 2, 2020||Rajkot||Duplicate driving license racket busted, two arrested||Rajkot: A duplicate driving license making racket was busted and two persons arrested in Adhevada locality on the outskirts of Bhavnagar on Wednesday. Police said that from the possession of the accused, Sharad Vegal (22) and Krishna Solanki (24), seven duplicate driving licenses were found. "A large number of soft copies of driving licenses stored in seven pen drives were also found from the spot. We also seized several election cards, aadhar cards, PAN cards, ration cards and school leaving certificates along with several photographs from the house of Vegal," said S N Barot, inspector with Bhavnagar special operation group (SOG). "The accused would collect hefty amounts from their clients, telling them that they would get the licenses at their doorstep without having to appear for the test. The accused duo used to work as agents with Bhavnagar RTO," added Barot. The accused have been booked in Bharatnagar police station which has handed over the investigation to Bhavnagar SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/duplicate-driving-license-racket-busted-two-arrested/articleshow/76737628.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Rajkot||Duplicate driving license racket busted, two arrested||Rajkot: A duplicate driving license making racket was busted and two persons arrested in Adhevada locality on the outskirts of Bhavnagar on Wednesday. Police said that from the possession of the accused, Sharad Vegal (22) and Krishna Solanki (24), seven duplicate driving licenses were found. "A large number of soft copies of driving licenses stored in seven pen drives were also found from the spot. We also seized several election cards, aadhar cards, PAN cards, ration cards and school leaving certificates along with several photographs from the house of Vegal," said S N Barot, inspector with Bhavnagar special operation group (SOG). "The accused would collect hefty amounts from their clients, telling them that they would get the licenses at their doorstep without having to appear for the test. The accused duo used to work as agents with Bhavnagar RTO," added Barot. The accused have been booked in Bharatnagar police station which has handed over the investigation to Bhavnagar SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/duplicate-driving-license-racket-busted-two-arrested/articleshow/76737671.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Rajkot||Duplicate driving license racket busted, two arrested||Rajkot: A duplicate driving license making racket was busted and two persons arrested in Adhevada locality on the outskirts of Bhavnagar on Wednesday. Police said that from the possession of the accused, Sharad Vegal (22) and Krishna Solanki (24), seven duplicate driving licenses were found. "A large number of soft copies of driving licenses stored in seven pen drives were also found from the spot. We also seized several election cards, aadhar cards, PAN cards, ration cards and school leaving certificates along with several photographs from the house of Vegal," said S N Barot, inspector with Bhavnagar special operation group (SOG). "The accused would collect hefty amounts from their clients, telling them that they would get the licenses at their doorstep without having to appear for the test. The accused duo used to work as agents with Bhavnagar RTO," added Barot. The accused have been booked in Bharatnagar police station which has handed over the investigation to Bhavnagar SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/duplicate-driving-license-racket-busted-two-arrested/articleshow/76737608.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Rajkot||Duplicate driving license racket busted, two arrested||Rajkot: A duplicate driving license making racket was busted and two persons arrested in Adhevada locality on the outskirts of Bhavnagar on Wednesday. Police said that from the possession of the accused, Sharad Vegal (22) and Krishna Solanki (24), seven duplicate driving licenses were found. "A large number of soft copies of driving licenses stored in seven pen drives were also found from the spot. We also seized several election cards, aadhar cards, PAN cards, ration cards and school leaving certificates along with several photographs from the house of Vegal," said S N Barot, inspector with Bhavnagar special operation group (SOG). "The accused would collect hefty amounts from their clients, telling them that they would get the licenses at their doorstep without having to appear for the test. The accused duo used to work as agents with Bhavnagar RTO," added Barot. The accused have been booked in Bharatnagar police station which has handed over the investigation to Bhavnagar SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/duplicate-driving-license-racket-busted-two-arrested/articleshow/76737731.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||‘Pvt labs must continue on-site sample collection’||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has cautioned private labs in the capital against stopping on-site collection of test samples, saying the Covid situation in the city is at a “critical juncture.” A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said if the labs were unhappy with the rates fixed for onsite collection of samples and testing, they could raise it before the committee set up by the LG or Delhi government. “However, it is not acceptable that the private laboratories will stop conducting on-site tests at such a critical juncture where the number of cases of Covid-19 infection are shooting up phenomenally on a day-by-day basis,” the bench observed in its order Thursday. The court was taking stock of progress in ramping up testing as also testing facilities in city’s labs and hospitals. During the hearing, the court found that hospitals designated for treating Covid patients had not yet started conducting the Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) and was told that they are awaiting nod of the Indian Council For Medical Research (ICMR). The bench then ordered ICMR to file an affidavit indicating how many private hospitals and labs have approached it for authorisation to undertake RAT and clarify the actual number of tests undertaken for residents of Delhi on a daily basis. It also asked the ICMR to ensure that one of its officers appears in videconferencing hearing to assist the court as the Centre’s counsel were unable to answer some of the queries of the bench. Meanwhile, the AAP government filed an affidavit assuring the court that it has implemented recommendations of the committee set up by the LG to make private labs more efficient in sample collection and processing. Last week, the court had also called for an action plan on ramping up tests in the national capital to which the government informed court it has adopted the ICMR advisory and on the action plan to ramp up testing, it said that RAT is being used increasingly as a “frontline test” in most areas of the city. “In cases of symptomatic individuals reported as negative in the RAT, the RT PCR based molecular testing is being undertaken. Due to the aforesaid procedure that has been adopted, testing through RT PCR testing is expected to decrease,” additional standing counsel Satyakam told the bench during the hearing. He added that “sero-surveillance” has been started in Delhi from June 27 and would continue till July 5 during which period a total of 21,793 rapid random samples would be collected from across the state and the results would be made public within one week thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pvt-labs-must-continue-on-site-sample-collection/articleshow/76759153.cms||Abhinav Garg
July 2, 2020||Rajkot||Duplicate driving license racket busted, two arrested||Rajkot: A duplicate driving license making racket was busted and two persons arrested in Adhevada locality on the outskirts of Bhavnagar on Wednesday. Police said that from the possession of the accused, Sharad Vegal (22) and Krishna Solanki (24), seven duplicate driving licenses were found. "A large number of soft copies of driving licenses stored in seven pen drives were also found from the spot. We also seized several election cards, aadhar cards, PAN cards, ration cards and school leaving certificates along with several photographs from the house of Vegal," said S N Barot, inspector with Bhavnagar special operation group (SOG). "The accused would collect hefty amounts from their clients, telling them that they would get the licenses at their doorstep without having to appear for the test. The accused duo used to work as agents with Bhavnagar RTO," added Barot. The accused have been booked in Bharatnagar police station which has handed over the investigation to Bhavnagar SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/duplicate-driving-license-racket-busted-two-arrested/articleshow/76737621.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Rajkot||Duplicate driving license racket busted, two arrested||Rajkot: A duplicate driving license making racket was busted and two persons arrested in Adhevada locality on the outskirts of Bhavnagar on Wednesday. Police said that from the possession of the accused, Sharad Vegal (22) and Krishna Solanki (24), seven duplicate driving licenses were found. "A large number of soft copies of driving licenses stored in seven pen drives were also found from the spot. We also seized several election cards, aadhar cards, PAN cards, ration cards and school leaving certificates along with several photographs from the house of Vegal," said S N Barot, inspector with Bhavnagar special operation group (SOG). "The accused would collect hefty amounts from their clients, telling them that they would get the licenses at their doorstep without having to appear for the test. The accused duo used to work as agents with Bhavnagar RTO," added Barot. The accused have been booked in Bharatnagar police station which has handed over the investigation to Bhavnagar SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/duplicate-driving-license-racket-busted-two-arrested/articleshow/76737617.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Dehradun||Kanwariyas to undergo 14-day paid quarantine if they enter Haridwar: Dist admin||Haridwar: After the Uttarakhand government decided to suspend this year’s Kanwar Yatra, the district administration of Haridwar has now specified that even though the yatra has been suspended, kanwariyas will have to undergo compulsory paid quarantine of 14 days if they still try to enter Haridwar district. The decision was taken in a meeting held between the officials of Haridwar and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Haryana districts on Wednesday. Officials said that pilgrims will not be permitted to collect water from the banks of Ganga. Instead, the district administration will make arrangements so that Ganga water can be sent through post offices to the kanwariyas in their respective areas. The Kanwar Yatra, one of the biggest pilgrimages of north India in which millions of devotees of lord Shiva reach Haridwar to collect water from the Ganga from Har-ki Pauri, begins from the month of July every year. The state government has decided to suspend the yatra with the consent of Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Haryana governments. However, it is believed that despite restrictions, pilgrims from some of the states may still try to enter Haridwar. Haridwar district magistrate (DM) C Ravishankar told TOI, “A meeting was held with officials of Bijnor, Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar districts of Uttar Pradesh and Yamuna Nagar district of Haryana about the implementation of government’s decision regarding the suspension of Kanwar Yatra. We will not allow anyone to come to Haridwar to collect water from Ganga for the yatra. If they enter the district, they will have to undergo a paid quarantine of 14 days. A similar action will be taken in neighbouring districts of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. We have also banned the sale of other items related to the yatra in Haridwar. It is a major task for us but we must implement the order in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kanwariyas-to-undergo-14-day-paid-quarantine-if-they-enter-haridwar-dist-admin/articleshow/76735367.cms||MS Nawaz
July 2, 2020||Goa||‘Delayed’ 108 service blamed for Aquem man’s demise||Margao: Fakru Shaikh, 67, a resident of Aquem, Margao, who suffered a ‘paralytic attack’ died after neighbours claimed the 108 ambulance delayed in rushing him to the hospital. His neighbours alleged that the failure of the 108 ambulance service to reach out to him in time cost his life. Speaking to TOI, one of his neighbours who called the 108 ambulance after Shaikh suddenly “froze”, said that he was told that there was currently no ambulance available, and that they would send a bike ambulance instead. “How could they take a paralytic patient on a bike ambulance? I urged them to at least send a car to get him to the hospital. As we stay on the second floor, there was no way we could take him to the hospital on our own. As we waited for more than half an hour, the man died,” the neighbour said, adding that had the ambulance reached in time, Shaikh could have survived. Shaikh along with his wife was residing in Aradhana apartment, Aquem. His last rites were performed on Wednesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delayed-108-service-blamed-for-aquem-mans-demise/articleshow/76738470.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Business||For late edition: Small tea gardens give a wage hike to workers||Jalpaiguri: Amid massive salary cuts across large, medium to small scale industries during Covid-19 lockdown, small tea gardens in north Bengal have decided to give a wage hike to their workers. According to figures available, there are more than 40 thousand small tea gardens in north Bengal which are mostly concentrated in North Dinajpur, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts covering over 1,25,000 acres of land with a workforce of over 1 lakh. Small tea growers (STG) have given a hike of Rs 9 per worker per day to Rs 159, which will result in an increase of 30% in their production cost. “Last year, India produced 1,390 million kg (mkg) of tea of which 34% or 470mkg leaves come from north Bengal. STGs contribute 62% to the whole North Bengal output,” said Bijoy Gopal Chakraborty, president of the Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista). “But this year, the scenario is different. There has been no first flush. The second flush is down by 50% and the production of June is less by 40%. From March to June, we generally get 40% of the year’s yield. This year that is down by 50%,” he added. “We have to remember that our workers are equally affected because of the lockdown. We have therefore hiked their daily wage by Rs 9. Some 10 lakh people are involved in our industry. We cannot put their lives at stake,” Chakraborty said. The number of small tea gardens was only 7,500 and the total area of land covered was 24,000 acres till June 2001. This means that over the past decade, tea gardens have mushroomed on more than 1 lakh acres, which means that the growth rate is over 500%. And this figure is on a steady rise. According to the law, any tea garden planted in an area below 15 acres is considered a small tea garden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/for-late-edition-small-tea-gardens-give-a-wage-hike-to-workers/articleshow/76731328.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
July 2, 2020||Pune||Micro containment zones rise up to 109 in Pune municipal corporation areas||PUNE: The civic administration on Wednesday increased the number of micro containment zones from 74 to 109 in areas under its limits following the recent spike in coronavirus cases. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), in its first rearrangement of zones as part of second phase of unlock, deleted 15 zones from its earlier list and added 50 new with effect from Thursday. It, however, kept the total area under containment more or less unchanged at 6.69 sqkm. “Though the number of micro containment zones has gone up, the area under containment has not increased much because we made the size of the micro-containment zones even smaller. In many cases, an existing containment zone has been divided into two or more micro-containment zones,” municipal commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad said. The civic administration, however, did not make any changes as far as shop timings are concerned. The shops in the non-containment zones will operate between 9am and 7pm. Only essential shops in the containment zones will remain open from 9am to 2pm. Gaikwad said the administration identified the new micro containment zones based on the spike in the number of coronavirus positive cases in those areas. The new cases are coming up mostly from in the non slum areas. Areas such as Aundh, Baner, Kothrud and Bavdhan, which had very few patients even in recent past, are of late witnessing a sizeable spike in the Covid-19 positive cases. The maximum number of the micro containment zones are along Ahmednagar Road and Satara Road and in the Parvati, Bopodi and Hadapsar areas. PMC data revealed that the total area under containment zones in its limits spanned across 6.645 sq km after the last major zoning on June 16. It was lesser than the 9.93sq km area that was under containment on May 3. Only 2% of areas in the PMC limits are now in the containment zones as against 3% on May 3. The PMC had 66 containment zones in its limits during the fourth phase of lockdown. The number of containment zones was brought down to 63 in the first rearrangement of Unlockdown 1.0 in first week of June. The second restructuring was made on June 16. This time, the number of containment zones was increased from 66 to 73. Before entering Unlockdown 2.0, the PMC made its last reorganization of the micro containment zones on June 24, when it added one more zone to the list. “When it comes to sealing a building after finding a patient, we will take the decision on a case-by-case basis. If not needed, we will avoid sealing of a building even after finding a couple of patients. Options like only sealing the patient’s flat or the floor will be considered,” Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/micro-containment-zones-rise-up-to-109-in-pmc-areas/articleshow/76738459.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||IIT alumni help for casual workers, ‘safai dadas’||KOLKATA: Help is pouring in for the ‘safai dadas’ and casual workers of IIT Kharagpur, all thanks to the alumni. The financial assistance, however, is not only limited to mess workers and ‘safai dadas’ at the hostels or halls of residence but also for security guards, rickshaw pullers, Toto drivers and domestic helps, for whom the campus is the only source of livelihood. It took a few days to raise Rs 8 crore by the alumni-driven IIT Foundation, in consultations with the institute. The first installment of Rs 2.5 crore has already reached the institute and it is being disbursed in a novel way. The initiative was started by alumnus and former CEO and chairman of Infogroup Vinod Gupta. An amount of Rs 3,000 has been deposited in the bank accounts of the 1,200 casual outsourced employees like mess and sanitation workers. More than 10,000 others, connected with the “IIT-ecosystem”, are being given monthly ration. The money will keep coming to their accounts every alternate month till December, while the ration is monthly. There are 22 halls of residence (hostels) and during the three- month long lockdown, 5,500 students stayed here choosing not to leave the campus. To serve them, the mess, sanitation and security workers were also accommodated to minimize chances of disease contraction. “Vinod Gupta was reminded of his student days when once he had fallen ill and a hostel ward boy, lovingly called Papaya by the students, nursed him back. Similar memories are common among our alumni,” said director, V K Tewari.  “Not a single domestic help or a worker in a shop near the campus have been left out,” said Subrata Chattopadhyay, dean, alumni affairs. Others helping Gupta in the initiative are US-based architect and president of the IIT-Kgp Foundation Ranabir Gupta, co-founder of HCL Arjun Malhotra, former president of L&T R N Mukhija and former EVP of global product and content at Infogroup Rakesh Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-alumni-help-for-casual-workers-safai-dadas/articleshow/76738446.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Guest teachers will be roped in to expand online learning: Manish Sisodia||NEW DELHI: While schools will remain closed till July 31, online teaching-learning will continue for Delhi government school students. Teachers with the help of technology will now also try to develop a personal bond with the students. They will even connect with students who do not have smartphones so that they do not miss out on the learning process. Announcing these initiatives on Thursday, deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia said that the services of permanent, guest and contractual teachers would be taken for the purpose. The announcement brought relief to over 20,000 guest teachers and about 2,000 contractual teachers. “The core of our approach is outreach and create a connection between teachers and their students. Our teachers will reach out to their students through WhatsApp or regular phone calls and give them light assignments and take regular feedback. In the process, they will also address the well-being of the children,” said Sisodia. The completed assignments will be sent back by students/parents through WhatsApp itself. The online teaching-learning will begin from Monday itself. For students of classes KG to VIII, worksheets with questions/activities will be provided to promote reading, writing, basic numeracy and happiness. For students of classes IX and X, the activity sheets will be from the basic topics of five subjects, namely Hindi, English, Maths, Natural Science and Social Science. For classes XI and XII students, live online classes will continue. Each class will be of up to 2 hours daily in 12 subjects having the highest enrolment. Apart from these regular teaching-learning activities, additional optional online teaching-learning activities will also be added from time to time. All the 1,035 school heads have been asked to ensure that class teachers have the updated WhatsApp group of parents/students. A list of the parents, who are not available on WhatsApp, will also have to be maintained. “Digital divide should not affect regular interaction with teachers. Those parents who are not on WhatsApp will be contacted over phone by the concerned class teachers and invited to the school to collect the worksheets for the entire week. They will return back the completed assignments physically to the concerned teacher the following week,” the deputy chief minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/guest-teachers-will-be-roped-in-to-expand-online-learning-sisodia/articleshow/76759180.cms||---
July 2, 2020||India||Election Commission likely to discuss possible revision of campaigning methods for Bihar assembly election||NEW DELHI: Election Commission is likely to discuss on Friday a possible revision of campaigning methods for Bihar assembly poll due later this year, in view of the need to maintain social distancing amid Covid-19 threat. With the home ministry guidelines continuing to ban large political events and congregations in view of Covid-19, there is talk of political parties having to rely largely on digital and electronic media for virtual campaigning in Bihar. However, several parties like RJD, BSP, CPM, CPI, NCP, during an all-party consultation held by Bihar chief electoral officer on June 26, opposed restricting campaigning to digital mode, arguing that the huge expenditure it entails puts the cash-rich and ruling parties at an unfair advantage. JD(U) said allowing huge public rallies would run contrary to social distancing steps like limiting voter count per polling station but sought a mix of door-to-door campaign by candidates and digital publicity. RJD suggested that screens be put up at designated rally grounds to facilitate campaigning with social distancing. “The entire campaigning protocol may need to be reviewed to ensure adherence to social distancing norms,” said an EC functionary. Highly-placed sources told TOI that the issue shall be taken up at the full Commission meeting on Friday. For now, EC has directed that the number of electors in each polling station be limited to 1,000 and auxiliary polling stations be created in the same location/vicinity in enforcement of social distancing norms laid down by the health authorities, during polling. Also, the commission has recommended that voters above 65 years of age as well those in home/institutional quarantine be allowed postal ballot facility. The aforesaid measures were duly discussed with the recognised political parties at an all-party meeting held by Bihar CEO on June 26, the Commission informed CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury in response to his recent letter objecting to “unilateral” extension of postal ballot facility to additional categories of voters “under Article 324 of the Constitution”, which he alleged stands to benefit the ruling party. On Wednesday, EC, responding to Yechury, clarified that it had not used Article 324 but Section 60(c) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, that provides that “any person belonging to a class of persons notified by the Election Commission in consultation with the Government to give his vote by postal ballot.” Stating that voters above 80 years of age, physically challenged electors and those employed in essential services had voted through postal ballot in Jharkhand polls in 2019 and Delhi polls in February this year, EC said no political party had raised any concern in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/election-commission-likely-to-discuss-possible-revision-of-campaigning-methods-for-bihar-assembly-election/articleshow/76740050.cms||Bharti Jain
July 2, 2020||Pune||1.61L properties registered in June after April & May slack||Pune: Property registrations across the state, particularly in Mumbai and Pune regions, significantly increased in June. While the revenue collection in the first quarter of this fiscal is 78% less than in the same period last year, in June it was much better — 67% less compared to June 2019. Officials and developers say the numbers will only get better from here on.Property registrations in June rose to 1.61 lakh from 1,000 in April and 43,000 in May. “There was a steady revival of registrations in June in all the districts, especially in Pune and Mumbai,” Inspector General of Registration and Stamps (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh told TOI. But, they fell by 75% when compared to last year’s 8.14 lakh documents. Revenue collection in the same period was Rs 1,613.95 crore this fiscal from April to June. Last year, during the same period, the collection was Rs 7,501 crore. Officials said the registration process stopped completely after the lockdown in March.There was some revival at the end of April, but they picked up from mid-May when the offices opened in the green zones. Online registrations continued during this period.Registrations are expected to rise once the remaining offices that are not in the containment zones open. They may also rise in July once the proposal to allow developers who have sold 25 flats to register the client’s documents from their own offices comes into effect. Builders and developers said the move would be a big boost. Vice president of NAREDCO Manju Yagnik said the convenience to register from the builder’s office will help developers and buyers, and the state government. “Allowing developers to have the home buyer to register his or her home from their office will also bring a sense of security and ease of doing business in an uncertain pandemic-stressed world,” she said.This year will be one of technological upgrade, moving the home marketplace to the digital platform, she added.The nationwide lockdown has forced developers to bring construction activity to a halt leading to large scale labour migration from urban areas to rural areas, which now after the government’s Mission begin again is slowly changing, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-61l-properties-registered-in-june-after-april-may-slack/articleshow/76738467.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 2, 2020||Pune||Owners urge state govt to allow malls to open again||Pune: Several mall owners from the city have urged the state government to permit them to reopen shopping malls and complexes with all precautions as revenue has completely dried up. The owners made representations to the government after malls were not granted permission to open even in Unlock 2.According to various shopping mall owners and management, multiple representations have already been made to the government but to no avail. Anuj Kejriwal, managing director and chief executive officer, Anarock retail and board of director of Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI), said, “So far, numerous representations have not yielded results but we are convinced that ultimately increasing unemployment and need for renewed economic growth will win the day.”Chief operating officer of Amanora Mall Surjit Rajpurohit said, “It is very disappointing that we were not permitted to open even after assurances. All malls are facing several issues including repayment of loans, payment of electricity bills, salaries of employees, maintenance, and others. Even retail outlets are suffering due to the dead stock they have to hold. We have written to the state’s chief secretary.”Arun Arora, centre director for Phoenix Marketcity, said that they will once again make a representation to the government seeking permission to re-open. “We can reopen tomorrow if we get the permission. We have put in place measures to ensure safety of consumers and staff. Everyone will undergo temperature checks and bags will be sanitized using special UV scanners that have been installed. Kiosks will be put up to distribute masks in association with NGOs. We have already reduced seating in the food court and other areas. CCTV cameras have been integrated to enable us to keep a record of the number of customers. A board will display the number of customers in the mall at a time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/owners-urge-state-govt-to-allow-malls-to-open-again/articleshow/76738476.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: IIT to tap student talent for alternatives to Chinese apps||KOLKATA: With India banning 59 Chinese apps, IIT Kharagpur plans to make most of the market opportunity by helping indigenous players. The institute is likely to call for submission of app development projects by students, which will be sponsored by the institute. With many students from the IITs powering the strongest corporations in the digital space, IIT Kharagpur also plans to provide tech support to the Indian businesses and companies contemplating to build alternative apps as a substitute for Chinese ones. IIT Kharagpur director Virendra Kumar Tewari pointed out, “We have a start-up ecosystem of our Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Park, where start-ups can be incubated, helped with both seed funding and developing of such apps. We are also planning on calling for a submission of app development projects by students, which we can sponsor.” Suman Chakraborty, dean, Sponsored Research and Industrial Consultancy, said, “This will definitely create an opportunity for Indian technologists and scientists to meet the strong demand for similar products. The ban has only created a supply imbalance in the market, which will attract start-ups to feel the void.” Goutam Saha of IIT Kharagpur’s IP Law School said, “A specific mobile app-based game can be protected but not its concept or subject area. The way forward is to proactively work on user feedback and assess user needs to launch new products.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iit-to-tap-student-talent-for-alternatives-to-chinese-apps/articleshow/76738471.cms||Somdatta Basu
July 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Shivaji Market reopens to lukewarm response||PUNE: The Shivaji Market and the Clover Centre commercial complex in Pune Camp reopened on Wednesday to a lukewarm response after three months of shutdown. Traders and shopkeepers said the fear factor among customers was evident from the response on day-one of resumption of their business activity after the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) gave its nod for reopening from July 1 to 12 with certain restrictions and subject to review on July 12. Only one-third of the 550 shops, which work out to 183 establishments, were allowed to open in Shivaji Market from 5am to 7pm. Only 120 shops opened on Wednesday. Former president of Shivaji Market Traders’ Association Manzur Shaikh, who runs a chicken shop, said, “Most shopkeepers were busy cleaning their establishments and setting up their items. A very few people visited the market. We have explained the terms and conditions put forth by the cantonment to our members. The market’s reopening was critical as people were paying extra money for buying essentials from other places in view of a prolonged closure.” Clover Centre’s former secretary Darshan Chawla said, “We opened shops on P1/P2 basis as per the PCB’s order. Since the complex opened after almost 100 days, many shopkeepers were busy in setting up their shops. Out of total 270 shops, around 100 opened today (Wednesday). Customers are still hesitant about visiting crowded places and are confused about the timing of shops. We shall get to know the real response in the weekend.” Joint chief executive officer, PCB, Rahul Gajbhiye, said, “We have categorically asked shopkeepers to adhere to social distancing norms, and terms and conditions given in our order. Our staffers, along with police, will visit both the places regularly to monitor and assess the situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/shivaji-market-reopens-to-lukewarm-response/articleshow/76738482.cms||Sandip Dighe
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||HC orders DGP to lodge FIR in SAR court records tampering case||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court on Tuesday ordered director general of police M V Rao to get an FIR lodged for tampering of documents and records of the Scheduled Area Regulation (SAR) courts. Justice Ananda Sen while hearing a petition filed by former SAR court officer Matiyas Vijay Toppo observed that tampering of SAR court records is a “serious matter”. Toppo, a former officer in the SAR court in the city, has been accused of disposing off about 300 cases illegally and is facing a departmental inquiry in the matter. In course of inquiry, Toppo was allowed to inspect documents and records of the SAR court for his defence in the inquiry. In course of scrutiny of documents, Toppo realised that in as many as 70 records, the signature of the court officer is forged and not signed by him. Certain documents and records of the cases were also interpolated or missing. In all those cases, the restoration of land was not allowed in favour of the tribal landlord but land was retained by the non-tribal purchasers. Toppo took up the matter with the departmental inquiry board which did not heed any attention. He then approached the Ranchi deputy commissioner citing his grievances, but no action was taken. Toppo then moved before the high court seeking investigation into the matter. Toppo’s counsels Rajendra Krishna and Amit Sinha argued that interpolation of case records is a serious offence and immediate investigation is needed in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-orders-dgp-to-lodge-fir-in-sar-court-records-tampering-case/articleshow/76718697.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Chakan traders shut stores after 15 cases in a week||PUNE: A death due to Covid-19 pandemic and 15 new cases in a week in the villages surrounding Chakan has prompted traders, shopkeepers and market yard commission agents in the industrial town to voluntarily shut their establishments from Wednesday till July 7. The deceased worked as a commission agent in the Chakan Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) yard. Only medical stores, groceries and fertilizer shops remained open. On Tuesday, trade representatives submitted a memorandum regarding their voluntary closure to Khed sub-divisional officer and incident commander Sanjay Teli, besides the Chakan Municipal Council. “We are discussing the situation with the trade representatives,” Teli said. Chakan Municipal Council president, Shekhar Ghogre, told TOI, “We have not asked shopowners to close their establishments. It is a decision taken by them.” Nilam Patil, the municipal council’s chief officer, said, “In the municipal town limits, we have recorded 17 cases so far, of which seven have been discharged, while the remaining 10 are active cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chakan-traders-shut-stores-after-15-cases-in-a-week/articleshow/76738492.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||Regent Park suicide pact: Mom, son die||KOLKATA: Four days after cops had rescued a woman and her two sons from their rented residence at Regent Park after they had allegedly consumed poison, two of them lost their battle and were declared dead by the doctors of Baghajatin state General Hospital late on Tuesday night. Cops said they are now worried about the elder son — the only survivor — who has been discharged from the hospital and insist that he needs a home where he can be counselled. Among those who consumed poison, was a 67 year-old woman and her two sons, aged 43 and 38. “The woman was critical and died first. A few hours later, her younger son passed away. While she had difficulty walking, her youngest son suffered from a mental illness,” said an officer. Cops said the eldest son is staying alone at the family’s Sonali Park address. “It was his younger brother who had called a relative and informed them they were committing suicide due to poverty. We do not know how the elder son will cope with the loss. We want to ensure he gets counselling and a secure future. We will soon be talking to NGOs, friends and family in this regard,” said an officer from the Regent Park police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/regent-park-suicide-pact-mom-son-die/articleshow/76738489.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||Parents of bride, groom booked for flouting norms||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Tuesday registered an offence against the parents of a bride and groom from Khed taluka for flouting social distancing norms during a marriage function. The police found about 100 people gathered at the function on Monday evening and many of them were not wearing the masks. An officer from the Mhalunge police chowkey said constables Dattatreya Shelke and Kiran Sangle were patrolling in the area when they noticed a crowd on an open plot at Nighoje village. “They found that a marriage ceremony was on with a gathering of over 100 people,” the officer said. The police also found that many of them were without the masks and not following the social distancing norms. “The local authorities and even the police were not informed about the marriage and no prior permission was taken,” the officer said. The state government has permitted 50 guests for a marriage function. “We booked the parents of the bride and the groom, as well as an owner of the plot, under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parents-of-bride-groom-booked-for-flouting-norms/articleshow/76738501.cms||Mihir Tanksale
July 2, 2020||Pune||Employers told to take care of migrant workers in Pune||PUNE: The district administration on Wednesday told the employers to take the responsibility of migrant workers returning to Pune, ruling out the possibility of providing temporary shelters to them as was done during the lockdown period. District collector Naval Kishore Ram told TOI, “The workers are returning only because their employers or contractors have assured them work, shelter and ration. No worker is returning from their native place in search of work, at least now.” Ram felt that the migrant workers would not need shelters now because they would get work. They would return to the site as the contractors were expected to make the necessary arrangements for them, he said. Nearly 30,000 workers have returned to Pune over the past fortnight and more are expected to return in the coming days. Over 1.25 lakh migrant workers had gone back home from the district during the lockdown. A large number of them are expected to return by the end of July. The district administration is maintaining a strict vigil on the reverse migration process to tame the spread of Covid-19. Officials had been deployed to check the health of migrant workers returning by trains and buses, the collector said. He said all the workers were being made to go through thermal scanner. Collector Ram said the workers without any symptoms could head directly to their sites and resume work after staying at home for a week. Only symptomatic persons would be sent to institutional quarantine centres, he said. An official posted at the railway station said, “We are checking all the migrant workers. They are giving us their work sites’ address and then heading there. We are not stopping them for details.” Most of the workers who have returned claimed that their contractors were giving them salary on daily basis. Ramlal, having his roots in Rajasthan, said his contractor was providing him salary daily and there was work every day. “Hamein abhi koi pareshani nahi hain (we don’t have any problems now),” he said. The state government and the state home minister had earlier emphasised on the registration of all the migrant workers. But district officials, on the condition of anonymity, claimed that it was practically impossible to check and register all the workers as their inflow was huge. Over 10,000 migrant workers are returning to Mumbai daily, said official sources. The number has been estimated to be around 3,000-5,000 for Pune, Navi Mumbai, Kolhapur, Gondia and Raigad, they added..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/employers-told-to-take-care-of-migrant-workers/articleshow/76738509.cms||Nisha Nambiar
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||ACB summons 10 cops in bribery case||Jaipur: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has called around 10 policemen from Bharatpur range for questioning in the high-profile bribery case involving an ex-DIG Laxman Gaur of the range.According to ACB, the officials called for questioning are from the ranks of constable to inspector. The ACB officials have found evidence to say corruption was active in the Bharatpur range for at least the last couple of months and suspect that it was going on for much longer.ACB had recently arrested Pramod Sharma, the middleman, who was allegedly caught accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh. He had demanded the bribe from the SHO of Udyog Nagar police station in Bharatpur for facilitating his good service record. Private bus owner Sharma used to extort junior police officers claiming to be a close aide of Bharatpur Range DIG Laxman Gaur.During the investigation, ACB found that not only Sharma shared a good rapport with many political leaders but was also apparently close to Gaur and stayed at his residence.Saurabh Srivastava, ADG, ACB said, “We are questioning the junior officials first who were suspected of taking bribes and involved in making the calls. These personnel are right from the rank of constable to inspector. We are always making the main accused, Sharma, confront them though at this point cannot confirm how many have confessed.”Sharma was taken on five days of remand and sleuths claimed that their main focus at present is to get as many details from him as possible during this period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-summons-10-cops-in-bribery-case/articleshow/76738514.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||Cancer patient wins battle against Covid||Pune: An underlying health condition and the absence of family members did not prevent a 65-year-old last stage cervical cancer patient from emerging victorious against the coronavirus. Under the care of nurses, doctors and staff from Sassoon Hospital, she fought the disease and was discharged recently. According to doctors from the obstetric and gynaecology department of the hospital, the woman’s neighbours brought her to the hospital knowing that she did not have any relatives to help her. “She was physically and mentally stressed, spurring her neighbours to bring her to the hospital. Apart from medicines and two blood transfusions, she was given a proper diet and nurses would bathe her. This led to improvement in her health. We found out that she came from a containment zone and had to conduct a swab test, which was positive,” said a doctor. She was then shifted to the Covid ward where the doctors, nurses and paramedical staff looked after her. “She was in the Covid ward for a month as three weekly tests returned positive despite continuous treatment. Finally, she tested negative for the virus in the fourth week,” a staff member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cancer-patient-wins-battle-against-covid/articleshow/76738516.cms||Rujuta Parekh
July 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Couple injured as car plunges into riverbed in Wakad||PUNE: A software engineer and his wife suffered injuries, after their car crashed the railings of a bridge and fell 40-feet onto the banks of The techie, Rajiv Dubey, a resident of Wakad, suffered injuries on his chest and head. “He is unconscious and undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Wakad,” the sub-inspector of Hinjewadi police Ravindra Bhavari said.  Dubey and his wife Varsha had gone to a medical facility in Kothrud. The accident occurred when they were returning home. “When they reached the bridge just before the flyover at Wakad, Dubey’s car crashed into the barricades and fell from the gap between two bridges,” Bhavari said. He said the car fell on the bank of the river, few metres away from the water. “A passer-by alerted the police. We rescued the couple and sent them to a hospital,” he said, adding that the woman suffered minor injuries. The car was lifted up late in the evening. An NHAI official said, “We have put up temporary barricades at the accident spot. We will start repairing of barricades from Thursday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/couple-injured-as-car-plunges-into-riverbed-in-wakad/articleshow/76738518.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Forest dept stops lion study by WII||Ahmedabad: A study on lions by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) which had been going on for 14 years in the Greater Gir area has been stopped by the Gujarat forest department, which abruptly withdrew permission without according any reasons. Sources said that the study, ‘Metapopulation dynamics behaviour and ecological role of lions in Greater Gir landscape’ was started in 2006 under the name ‘Ecology of lion in agro-pastoral Gir Landscape’. Radio-tagging of lions took place in 2007 and the title was changed to ‘Metapopulation dynamics, behaviour and ecological role of lions in Greater Gir landscape’. Sources said the WII received a one-line letter saying the permission had been withdrawn till further orders from the office of the principal chief conservator of forests, Shyamal Tikadar. WII officials said the permission was withdrawn on the direction of the state government. A letter signed by joint secretary, forests and environment, Manish Shah, was sent to the office of the PCCF with a copy sent to the chief conservator of forests, Junagadh wildlife division, asking the PCCF’s office to withdraw the permission. Officials in Union ministry of environment and forests said that in December, the WII was removed from the lion census after being granted permission to carry out the census through the camera trap method. The study was being conducted by senior researchers Y V Jhala and Kaushik Banerjee, among others. Its objective was to study the movement of lions, man-animal conflict and conflict between leopards and lions in the Greater Gir area. Apart from finding that lions can move as much as 100km in a night and much about their kill behaviour, the study also showed that in Greater Gir, lions are not only tolerated by humans, but humans assiduously cultivate the company of the magnificent beasts. The lions’ special place in the human scheme of things owes to their capacity to be security guards who ward off nilgai and wild boars, which can destroy fields if given a free run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/forest-dept-stops-lion-study-by-wii/articleshow/76737723.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Forest dept stops lion study by WII||Ahmedabad: A study on lions by the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) which had been going on for 14 years in the Greater Gir area has been stopped by the Gujarat forest department, which abruptly withdrew permission without according any reasons. Sources said that the study, ‘Metapopulation dynamics behaviour and ecological role of lions in Greater Gir landscape’ was started in 2006 under the name ‘Ecology of lion in agro-pastoral Gir Landscape’. Radio-tagging of lions took place in 2007 and the title was changed to ‘Metapopulation dynamics, behaviour and ecological role of lions in Greater Gir landscape’. Sources said the WII received a one-line letter saying the permission had been withdrawn till further orders from the office of the principal chief conservator of forests, Shyamal Tikadar. WII officials said the permission was withdrawn on the direction of the state government. A letter signed by joint secretary, forests and environment, Manish Shah, was sent to the office of the PCCF with a copy sent to the chief conservator of forests, Junagadh wildlife division, asking the PCCF’s office to withdraw the permission. Officials in Union ministry of environment and forests said that in December, the WII was removed from the lion census after being granted permission to carry out the census through the camera trap method. The study was being conducted by senior researchers Y V Jhala and Kaushik Banerjee, among others. Its objective was to study the movement of lions, man-animal conflict and conflict between leopards and lions in the Greater Gir area. Apart from finding that lions can move as much as 100km in a night and much about their kill behaviour, the study also showed that in Greater Gir, lions are not only tolerated by humans, but humans assiduously cultivate the company of the magnificent beasts. The lions’ special place in the human scheme of things owes to their capacity to be security guards who ward off nilgai and wild boars, which can destroy fields if given a free run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/forest-dept-stops-lion-study-by-wii/articleshow/76737721.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Goa||Bills not inflated, more power used in lockdown: Goa electricity department||PANAJI: The Goa electricity department has stated that regular bills couldn’t be issued on a monthly basis due to the lockdown on account of Covid. Consumers in various parts of the state raised a hue and cry after receiving bills which combined consumption for more than two months. “The printed bills which could not be issued were issued subsequently by extending the due date of payment and also waiving of delayed payment charges for the entire period,” the department stated. Refuting claims of exorbitant power bills, the department stated that the bills have been issued as per the consumption of energy recorded by the energy meter. “Bills are issued on a pro-rata basis by dividing the consumption spread over the entire period for which bills were issued. Since the period for which the last bills have been issued coincided with the lockdown period, and people were mostly indoors, there is every likelihood that consumption has increased,” the department stated. Due to this, consumers are comparing their consumption pattern during this particular time to the pattern during the non-lockdown period, it added. “On finding the consumption high during the lockdown period, people have assumed that the meter has shown wrong reading and department has issued exorbitant bills as per the said wrong readings,” the department stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bills-not-inflated-more-power-used-in-lockdown-dept/articleshow/76738534.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Ashok Khemka writes to CJI on no nod to represent case in SC||CHANDIGARH: Upset over the Supreme Court’s registry branch refusing to accept his reply in ‘propria persona’ (filed in-person) in the apex court, senior Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka has written to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) that such a denial suggests “an unkind predisposition towards the intellect and temperance of fellow humans.” He has urged the CJI to either make necessary amendments in the rules or pass an administrative order so that he can represent himself in the matter. Any restriction placed upon an individual to represent his own case before a court of law, by placing burden upon him to demonstrate his ability and candor, is “an impediment upon his natural right of self-defence,” according to the bureaucrat. “Such procedures distance the accessibility of institutions from their intended beneficiaries and encourage doubts over ‘ivory tower tribunals’ hegemonized by the law,” Khemka wrote in his three-page letter to the Chief Justice of India. Submitting that blanket presumption under Order IV Rule 1 of Supreme Court Rules encompassing senior public officials as not being competent to argue in propria persona is “logically absurb,” Khemka said public officials are highly qualified and are subject to rigorous discipline mechanisms under their relevant service rules. “Once such public officials are presumed to be competent for the nation’s administration and held accountable for executing the orders of the court, then they must necessarily be presumed capable of assisting the court in their own cases,” Khemka submitted to the CJI and requested him to consider amendments to the SC Rules 2013 or issue necessary clarifications on the administrative side. The matter pertains to a case related to Khemka’s annual confidential report (ACR) in which the Haryana government had filed an appeal before the SC against an order passed by the Punjab and Haryana high court in Khemka’s favour. The Haryana government has engaged the solicitor-general of India as the lead counsel in the case and Khemka wants to represent himself. The SC registry, however, refused to allow him to represent himself in person and told Khemka that they can accept a reply from him only through an advocate-on-record (AOR) of the SC. Khemka had to engage an advocate on record to file his reply and marked his appearance before the SC registrar on August 30, 2019 or the matter would have proceeded ex-parte against him. Thereafter, Khemka submitted a representation to the SC (on administrative side) requesting to allow him to argue his case in person. The request was turned down by the registry branch on March 18. Aggrieved from this, Khemka had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court challenging the rules of the SC registry branch. Hearing his plea, the HC gave liberty to Khemka to approach the appropriate authority. BOX Benches of Supreme Court? In a recent tweet, Khemka shared photograph of Chief Justice of India S A Bobde sitting on a motorcycle in Nagpur, stating, “If CJI can work from Nagpur, why not establish benches of Supreme Court in few state capitals. Ordinary citizens must have easy access to the apex court as well as the service of local lawyers. Delhi is far and relatively expensive for most.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khemka-writes-to-cji-protests-against-denial-of-permission-to-represent-his-own-case-in-sc/articleshow/76738538.cms||Ajay Sura
July 2, 2020||Pune||Realtor turns to snatching chain, held in Pune||PUNE: A real estate agent (26) from Nana Peth took to chain snatching to overcome the financial stress because of the Covid-19 lockdown, but police nabbed him and recovered the gold chain worth Rs35,000 that he had snatched on his first attempt on Tuesday. Mohammed Atif Iqbal Shaikh (26) was arrested within an hour after he snatched the gold chain of a woman (60) while she was going to a vegetable market in Nana Peth around 1.30pm on Tuesday. The woman told police in the FIR that the chain-snatcher was riding a green scooter. “Our team received a tip-off that a green scooter rider had been spotted in Nana Peth. We laid a trap and Shaikh walked into it. We called the woman to the spot and she identified her chain,” said sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure, who nabbed Shaikh. “Shaikh is not a habitual chain snatcher. He is a real estate agent operating in Peth and Camp areas. The realty business slumped during the lockdown. Shaikh revealed that after he failed to earn enough to support his family, he decided to snatch the woman’s chain,” Kapure added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/realtor-turns-to-snatching-chain-held/articleshow/76738540.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold prices touch new high of Rs 50,650 per 10g||Ahmedabad: Continuing their rally spurred by global factors, gold prices touched a new record high on Wednesday, settling at Rs 50,650 per 10 gram. On Tuesday, the price was Rs 50,150. “In the international market, gold prices neared an eight-year high as cases of Covid-19 resurfaced in some countries,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion & Jewellers’ Association. “As a consequence, fears of a global recession intensified and safe-haven investments went up. In fact, central banks of several countries have been heavily investing in gold.” Rising prices of gold have adversely impacted the demand for jewellery. As a result, employment in the gems and jewellery sector has been gravely hit, said industry players. Despite high prices, the import of the yellow metal at the Ahmedabad Air Cargo Complex (AACC) finally went past 1 metric tonne after five months. Data released by AACC suggests that 3.29MT gold was imported in Gujarat in June. The last time imports were above the 1MT-mark was in December 2019, at 2.56 MT. “The demand for gold has taken a major hit. Compared to the first quarter of 2019-20, gold imports have declined by 80% dropping from 19.1MT last year to 3.8MT this year,” said a source. “Imports have only marginally revived against the past months in fulfilment of pending orders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-prices-touch-new-high-of-rs-50650-per-10g/articleshow/76737752.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Patna||Seat-sharing buzz as top BJP leaders meet Nitish||Patna: BJP national general secretary and Bihar in-charge Bhupendra Yadav, state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi held a one-and-a-half-hour long meeting with JD (U) chief and CM Nitish Kumar his 1 Anney Marg residence in Patna on Wednesday evening. Sources claimed that deliberations were held on the nomination of two vacant seats in the legislative council as well as seat-sharing in the upcoming assembly election and other poll-related issues. Dr Jaiswal described it as a courtesy meeting. “Discussions were held on various ambitious schemes of the Centre, including Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana scheme, which has been extended till November end,” he told TOI. But a senior JD (U) functionary said it was very likely that talks were held on the issue of governor’s nomination for 12 vacant seats in the legislative council and seat-sharing for assembly polls. “Since Election Commission (EC) is doing poll preparations in full swing considering that assembly polls will be held as scheduled in October-November, thus it is obvious that talks will start on seat- sharing. Today’s meeting was possibly the first round of talks in this regard,” he said. With regard to vacant seats in legislative council, the JD (U) functionary claimed that out of the 12 vacant seats, it was initially proposed that JD (U) will get seven and five will go to BJP. BJP sources claimed that it has demanded seven seats out of which it may give one or two to third ally LJP. JD (U) would get five seats under this formula. LJP sources, on the other hand, claimed that the party has demanded two seats from the governor’s quota. Meanwhile, LJP on Wednesday suspended its Munger district president Raghvendra Bharti from his post for giving a statement to media persons that “NDA is completely intact”. A statement issued by LJP’s general secretary Shahnawaz Ahmad Kaifi stated that only party president Chirag Paswan will take a final decision or put a stamp on the alliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/seat-sharing-buzz-as-top-bjp-leaders-meet-nitish/articleshow/76737740.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Foreign travel takes baby steps towards resumption||KOLKATA: Foreign travel that had been severely disrupted by the pandemic is on the verge of resumption with the United Kingdom set to resume visa services from next week and several international carriers opening bookings for travel from mid-July. Though international flight services will resume only after the civil aviation ministry and regulator DGCA give their nod, the development has lifted the spirits of all stakeholders in the travel trade industry that has been staring at the barrel for over three months. “VFS Global’s office in Kolkata will open on Monday, July 6, to accept visa application to the UK and Ireland. Prior appointment is required to visit the office and slots can be booked online,” said VFS Global regional head (north and east India) Amit Kumar Sharma while announcing its restart plans. The visa facilitation agency in India accepts visa applications and processes travel documents for nearly 51 countries. It has opened slots for UK visa appointments and its office in Kolkata will start operations from July 6. “It’s very good news that we’ve been able to announce the phased resumption of services at 11 of our visa application centres across India, including Kolkata. This will be done in a way that puts the health and safety of customers, staff and their loved ones in the first place. We know that the last three months have been a difficult time for many others wanting to start work or to be with their families,” said Nick Low, British deputy high commissioner to Kolkata. While the UK will issue all types of visas, Ireland has opened visas for students and long-stay applicants. Italy, Belarus, Denmark, Norway, Portugal, South Korea, Dominican Republic, Turkey are UAE are also opening up but operations will initially be restricted to Delhi and in some instances Mumbai. Of them, Turkey, Belarus are UAE will issue all types of visas while the rest are opening applications for select visa categories. “Residents of West Bengal and other cities in the east can apply for visas to Belarus, Norway, Denmark, Portugal, South Korea and Dominican Republic at the VFS Global office in Delhi,” a VFS official said. At least six international carriers have commenced flight booking from two Indian cities from July 16. Sources in the travel trade fraternity said KLM, Lufthansa, Turkish Airlines, Emirates Airlines and Etihad Airways had opened flight bookings off both Mumbai and Delhi from July 16. In addition, Polish Airlines has scheduled a flight from Mumbai. “Though flight operations are subject to approval from DGCA and civil aviation ministry, that airlines are keen to fly to India is very encouraging. Several countries are beginning to open up in a calibrated manner and I think this is the right time for India to resume flights as well,” said Travel Agents Association of India chairman (east) Anil Punjabi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/foreign-travel-takes-baby-steps-towards-resumption/articleshow/76737743.cms||Subhro Niyogi
July 2, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra class 11 admission process set to begin from July 15||PUNE: The First Year Junior College (FYJC) admission process is will start from July 15. The college registration and approval will be completely online. Registration for colleges will start from Thursday with the filling up of details like the seats available, medium of instruction and streams. Part one of the form-filling process where students fill up basic data and preference list of colleges will start from July 15, Dinkar Patil, director of secondary and higher secondary education, said on Wednesday. “The college registration has started. Most colleges are already registered but some would want to update if there has been a cancellation of a division or addition of a stream. Part I of the application process will start online by July 15. Admissions will be granted via the centralised admission process only. Part 2 of the form can be filled online after Class X results are declared, “Patil added. Parents are apprehensive about the admissions during the pandemic and about the dates of CBSE, CISCE and FYJC admissions clashing. A concerned parent said there is a possibility that all admissions will start together which will lead to confusion. “The CBSE, CISCE boards release their results much before the state board. The number of CISCE and CBSE schools are fewer in the city and hence students who have completed their standard X from these boards, like my daughter, had a chance to try her luck in these schools. Even if she didn’t get through, her options in junior colleges with the state board were open,” a parent who lives in Ganeshkhind area said. Others expressed their doubts about how admissions will be processed when maintaining social distancing is of utmost importance. Usually, students from other education boards, including NIOS and IGCSE and homeschooled students , also join the centralised admission process for junior college. Their numbers sweel the volume of students seeking admission into state board run junior colleges. Board Issues Special Instructions For Students The information booklet will be available online only. Students while registering online will have to create a login id and password and the information booklet will be available on the official website and app. There are enough guidance/counselling centres functional during this process. Schools will also approve the first part of the form online. Payment of the requisite fee will be done online. To make people aware of such methods, schools and colleges need to create counselling sessions, preferably online and or follow social distancing norms. It will be the responsibility of the respective schools to approve part 1 of the forms of its students. For students from outside Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, guidance/counselling centres will be responsible. The counselling session of students and teachers will be undertaken and the schedule will be released in time. There will be no First-Come-First-Serve round this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/std-xi-process-set-to-begin-from-july-15/articleshow/76741515.cms||Ardhra Nair
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Teacher offers to drop girl after exam, molests her||Ajmer: A teacher of a government school, who was on duty as invigilator during a board exam, molested a class 10 girl who came to write the exam on Tuesday.The teacher was known to the girl and offered to drop her to her house after the examination. But he took her to his house and molested her. The city’s Christian Ganj police registered a case against the teacher and searching for him.According to police, the girl went to give her board exam at a government school in Vaishali Nagar. After the exam, the teacher, Naresh Prajapat, told the girl that he would drop her. The girl was known to him and accepted the ride. On their way, Naresh told her that he received a message from his house and will have to go there first. As there was no one at his house, he forced the girl inside and tore her dress, but the girl gathered courage and ran away from his house. The victim reached her house and explained everything to her parents. The parents of the victim took her to Christian Ganj police station where police took the girl for medical examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teacher-offers-to-drop-girl-after-exam-molests-her/articleshow/76738537.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Two HC benches have different views on Rampal’s bail plea||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Haryana police to inform it if adequate security could be deployed in case controversial preacher Rampal of Satlok Ashram in Rohtak is permitted to attend his granddaughter’s wedding. Rampal filed two interim bail pleas seeking week-long release from jail to attend the wedding of his granddaughter Tamanna in Rohtak on July 15. Rampal, who has been lodged in Hisar jail for around five years and six months, moved two pleas for interim bail as he was convicted and sentenced to life terms in two cases of murder in October 2018 along with his son Virender and other followers. Normally, the two bail pleas would have been clubbed and heard together but the two pleas ended up being heard by two benches of the high court. Rampal was arrested on November 19, 2014 after the police stormed his ashram for contempt of court for trying to influence judicial proceedings in a murder case pending against him in a lower court. He had stubbornly challenged the high court’s orders for over four months even after non-bailable warrants were issued against him. In his bail pleas, Rampal claimed that his presence is necessary to perform some customary ceremonies for the wedding. He also informed the HC that the residents of the locality where the wedding is to take place have no objection to his presence at the event. His son was granted three-week interim bail by the HC on June 25. The HC division bench, comprising Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan, asked the police to assure the court that Rampal will positively surrender peacefully at the end of the interim bail period. The division bench ordered police to inform the HC about its views by July 6. “To enable this court to consider the prayer in the present application and, in particular, given the background of the case, this court directs the senior police officer, in charge of the law and order of the concerned district to file a personal affidavit in this court within two days, assuring the court that adequate security will be deployed at the wedding venue to ensure that there is no large gathering of people either at the venue or outside and that it is strictly in conformity with the orders regarding the maximum permissible attendance at weddings during these Covid-19 times. That the applicant/appellant will positively surrender peacefully at the end of the interim bail period,” the bench said. Another high court bench comprising Justice S N Satyanarayana and Justice Archana Puri, however, dismissed Rampal’s plea for release on interim bail. The second bench dismissed Rampal’s plea after considering his background where he had defied the HC directions. “We are shocked and surprised to notice that on an earlier occasion when order of arrest was issued against the very same person it was dodged in such a way that the high court had to interfere twice to ensure his arrest,” the bench observed while dismissing his plea. The bench added that Rampal’s son has already been enlarged on bail and admittedly he has to perform the marriage of his daughter. “With that being the case, it is seen there is some responsible elderly person in the family available for marriage to be conducted smoothly. Therefore, in the present situation, the question of considering any relief to the applicant-appellant (Rampal) does not arise and accordingly, the application is hereby dismissed,” the bench observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/one-hc-bench-seeks-police-view-on-rampals-interim-bail-plea-other-refuses-his-request/articleshow/76738529.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Operators relent, private buses to resume services from Thursday||KOLKATA: Faced with the prospect of the idle bus fleet being confiscated by the government and cancellation of permits, private operators softened their stance on Wednesday and said most buses would hit the road by Thursday. Transport secretary Prabhat Mishra and key officials handling public transportation met bus operators at Maidan Tent of the West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) on Wednesday to end the imbroglio on services that were suspended after the private operators refused to climb down from their fare hike stand in lieu of the Rs 15,000 per month subsidy that the government had proposed for 6,000 private buses. Incensed by the rigid stand, CM Mamata Banerjee had issued an ultimatum to bus operators on Tuesday. The buses, she said, would be taken over by the government if they did not hit the road by Thursday. Pressure started building up on Tuesday evening when police and motor vehicle inspectors began surveying buses that were parked on the road. The survey sent a signal to operators on the probable action on multiple fronts against operators. The bus operators found themselves under further pressure when an advocate filed a PIL at the Calcutta High Court, challenging their decision to not ply the buses and sought relief for passengers from the court. When transport department officials met the private bus operators on Wednesday, the latter were already in a corner. But they continued to maintain a defiant posture as they walked in. But the stance gradually mellowed during the two-and-a-half hour meeting as transport department officials impressed upon the operators the need to be pragmatic and not push the situation to a point of no return. When the operators finally consented, relief was palpable. “At the meeting, we made it clear that the government will be weighing options and will choose one that is in the best interest of commuters and operators. And that can happen only if they are with the government. We are glad that the bus operators came with an open mind and saw reason,” an official said. Bus operators said they continued to pursue their demands through talks. “The meeting opened the path for dialogue. We explained how we have lost all resources to operate buses while complying with Covid-19 social distancing norms and consecutive diesel price hikes. We reiterated why fare revision was the only way to save the trade from an imminent death,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates. Bus operators have proposed a ‘special lockdown fare’ till the complete normality resumes. Transport department officials said the proposal will be conveyed to the highest level but pointed out that fare hike remained a politically sensitive issue. Pradip Narayan Basu, secretary of the West Bengal Bus and Minibus Owners’ Association, said: “We are happy at the outcome of the meeting. We have not stopped plying buses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/operators-relent-private-buses-to-resume-services-from-today/articleshow/76737724.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rape case: SHO among 4 sent to lines in Alwar||Alwar: Four police personnel, including the SHO of Ramgarh police station in Alwar, were asked to report to lines on Wednesday after the controversial case in which a minor girl was allegedly raped by local youths two weeks back following which her father was found hanging from a tree.SP Alwar Paris Deshmukh said that SHO Virendra Kumar, two sub-inspectors and one head constable were sent to lines till further investigation were underway in the matter.The minor girl has attempted suicide in the Ramgarh area of Alwar district after allegedly being raped. The girl had jumped into a well to kill self on June 18. However, she was rescued by the locals.Later, the victim told the family members about the harassment and repeated rape by a man. The cops arrested the three accused for eve-teasing.However, three days after the incident, the girl's father was found hanging from a tree. Members of right-wing organisations reached the village alleged that the man had been killed by the accused.According to sources, the cops had not registered the case initially and once the FIR was lodged, police only arrested the accused for eve-teasing and not for rape putting the position of the local police in question.The girl’s father committed suicide just few days before his other daughter’s wedding on June 29. Locals alleged that police had delayed the investigation and claimed that this left the accused with enough opportunity to allegedly kill the minor’s father. The investigation into the sexual assault and the suspicious death of the girl’s father are currently underway, claimed officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-case-sho-among-4-sent-to-lines-in-alwar/articleshow/76738545.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Complainant moves court against Sonali’s bail||Hisar: Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh, who had lodged a police complaint of assault by BJP leader Sonali Phogat, moved an application in a local court on Wednesday for the cancellation of bail granted to her. Sultan has alleged that Sonali was influencing the witnesses in the case. The court has asked Sonali to file her reply in two days, following which the application be taken up for arguments. Sonali and five others were arrested on June 17 for assaulting Sultan and granted bail by court on bonds of Rs 30,000 each in view of the Covid-19 situation. Hisar Sadar police station had registered cross cases in the matter. Sonali and her associates were booked on Sultan’s complaint for rioting, unlawful assembly, voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty, assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions and criminal intimidation. Another case was registered on the complaint of Sonali against Sultan for assault or criminal force on woman with intent to outrage her modesty. Sonali had alleged that the market committee secretary used abusive and vulgar words not only about her but also for women and child development minister Kamlesh Dhanda and chairperson and former minister Krishna Gahlawat of the State Agricultural Marketing Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/complainant-moves-court-against-sonalis-bail/articleshow/76738543.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Minor raped by relative, two others in Rajasthan's Bharatpur||ALWAR: A 16-year-old girl was raped allegedly by her brother-in-law and two others in Bharatpur’s Pahadi police station area. Following the assault, the accused fled after threatening the girl with dire consequences if she reported the matter. “The girl’s father registered a case that his elder daughter’s husband along with two of his friends raped the minor girl after luring her to the forest area in Pahadi under false pretext. We have registered a case and started an investigation,” said an official of Pahadi police station. According to sources, the accused had tried to get the matter done away through village panchayat but no compromise could be reached. “The accused tried to use influence of panchayat but the girl’s father was adamant that he will register a case against his son-in-law as well as the co-accused,” said a villager. After case was registered under Pocso act and relevant IPC sections, cops reached the village and survivor’s medical examination was done. Cops are yet to arrest the accused who are on the run. Her statement under CrPC section 164 is yet to be recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-raped-by-relative-two-others/articleshow/76738549.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||9 vehicles damaged in pile-up after speeding truck hits tempo||Pune: Nine vehicles were damaged in a pile-up after a speeding truck heading towards Sinhagad Road from new Katraj tunnel rammed a tempo, which in turn hit other halted vehicles at the Navale bridge traffic junction on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass around 9.30am on Wednesday. No one was injured, police said. “As the truck hit a tempo, vehicles rammed each other in cascading effect, resulting in a pile-up,” said senior inspector Nandkishor Shelke of the Sinhagad Road police.The police suspect that the truck driver had failed to apply the brakes on time. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9-vehicles-damaged-in-pile-up-after-speeding-truck-hits-tempo/articleshow/76738546.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||Cops book man for animal cruelty||Pune: The Kondhwa police on Wednesday booked the chairman of Bramha Emerald County, a housing society at Kausarbaug off NIBM Road, for caging, beating and abandoning two stray dogs in the jungles of Bopdeo ghat sometime between June 21 and 29. Nisha Verma, a member of the Animal Welfare Board of India, lodged an FIR against the society chairman Habib Patel, who has strongly refuted the allegations. Patel has also registered a complaint against Verma for disobedience, trespassing and giving false information to the police. Senior inspector of the Kondhwa police station Vinayak Gaikwad said, “We are investigating if the chairman had sought help of any other person to capture the stray dogs. As of now, we have applied the cruelty to animal charge on the basis of the FIR, which states that he captured the dogs in a cage and beat them. We will soon issue him a notice to join the investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-book-man-for-animal-cruelty/articleshow/76738560.cms||Asseem Shaikh
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||CRPF jawan from Sikar killed in Jammu and Kashmir||JAIPUR: A CRPF jawan from Sikar’s Bawdi village was martyred in North Kashmir’s Sopore town of Baramullah district on Wednesday morning during a counter-terrorism operation. Head constable Deepchand Varma, who was part of the operation, was martyred during cross firing. A three-year-old boy was also rescued during the attack. According to officials, the terrorists opened firing on a naka party of security forces in Sopore, resulting in injuries to three jawans and a civilian, the officials said. Varma who was in his late 30s joined the paramilitary forces in 2003 and was part of the 179 Battalion posted in Srinagar. Bawdi sarpanch Kailash Chand said, “Deepchand was highly respected in the village and always motivated the youth. He was passionate about joining the forces and continued to be so even after 16 years in service. The news of his death has blanketed the whole village in grief as no one can believe it. According to the information that we have received, he died after being hit by a bullet fired by the terrorists. Though he was taken to the hospital, he succumbed to the injuries.” Varma who was supposed to come on leave soon will now arrive shrouded in the country’s flag and his mortal remains are expected to reach his native village on Thursday morning. “Deepchand had not come on leave for a very long time and he was expected to come on leave on July 10. His family is inconsolable and while his family resided in Ajmer in government quarters, the rest of his family stayed in the village. He had gotten promoted just six months back,” added the sarpanch. The martyr’s funeral with military honours is expected to be done on Thursday. He is survived by his wife and three children-one daughter and twin boys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crpf-jawan-from-sikar-killed-in-jk/articleshow/76738557.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
July 2, 2020||Pune||Karate instructor held on molestation charge||Pune: A 42-year-old karate instructor was arrested on Tuesday on the charge of molesting a 17-year-old girl on the morning of June 9. The girl, a college student, approached the Sahakarnagar police and lodged an FIR on Tuesday after consulting her parents. She tendered a detailed statement about the incident, following which the police arrested the instructor. According to the complaint, the girl was receiving training in marshal arts from the instructor for the past six to seven months. The instructor has cellphone numbers of all his students. The police said on the morning of June 9, the instructor called the girl to an open space located in Balajinagar for fitness training programme and touched her inappropriately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/karate-instructor-held-on-molestation-charge/articleshow/76738554.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: IAF builds locust control system for MI-17 helicopters||JAISALMER: The Indian Air Force has developed indigenous air-borne locust control system and helicopter MI-17 will play an important role in it. It will operate in locust-affected districts in Rajasthan and other parts of the country in upcoming days. The ministry of agriculture signed a contract with M/s Micron, UK to modify two MI-17 helicopters for spraying atomized pesticide to arrest locust breeding in May this year but due to Covid-19 pandemic, the firm would be able to manufacture and supply the modification kit to IAF only from September 2020 onwards, for system integration and testing. IAF spokesperson said, “In view of the envisaged delay in provisioning of modification kits by M/s Micron, the Indian Air Force tasked No 3 Base Repair Depot located at Chandigarh to undertake the challenging task of indigenously designing and developing an Airborne Locust Control System (ALCS) for MI-17 helicopters. Using all indigenous components, the atomized airborne spraying of pesticide has been successfully achieved in air through a configuration of nozzles mounted both sides on external trusses of a MI-17 helicopter.” The nozzles used for the purpose are a mix of commercially available nozzles as well as the nozzles developed by CSIO, Chandigarh. The pesticide Malathion, in appropriate concentration, would be filled in the internal auxiliary tank of 800-litre capacity fitted inside the helicopter and pumped into the nozzles by using an electrical pump as well as compressed air, achieving nearly 40 minutes of spaying duration in the infected zone, covering an area of approximately 750 hectare in each mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/iaf-builds-locust-control-system-for-mi-17-helicopters/articleshow/76738564.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Goa||Museum officials await orders for reopening||Panaji: With the state gradually relaxing restrictions in the unlockdown, the Goa State Museum is also hoping to open its doors to visitors. However, the directorate of museums is awaiting a nod from the central government before permitting people to navigate the artefacts on display at the Adil Shah Palace in Panaji. “We are waiting for an order from the central government to follow appropriate SOPs to open the museum. We will not open for the public until then,” director of museums Radha Bhave said. Usually the museum is thronged by school students, researchers and enthusiasts of Goan history keeping the guide lecturers engaged in the tour of the museum that houses centuries-old artefacts. The state museum officials currently keep themselves occupied with administrative works, reading Goan history and cleaning the objects installed inside the palace. “The number of positive cases is continuously increasing so we see little scope for the reopening of the museum immediately. May be after Ganesh Chaturthi, we can hope that the order comes through,” Bhave said. The museum had released an order on March 18 stating that it will remain closed to the public as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Meanwhile, the Museum of Goa (MOG), a private an art gallery reopened on July 1. MOG utilised the lockdown period to upgrade the museum by adding some new works to its collection, including interactive digital works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/museum-officials-await-orders-for-reopening/articleshow/76738594.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Shimla||Activists to Centre: Don’t amend EIA notification||Shimla: Over a dozen members of different environmental and social organisations of Himachal Pradesh have written to the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEF&CC), demanding to scrap the 2020 draft amendments to the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification proposed by it. They said, “In the context of the already vulnerable and sensitive Himalayan region, flouting of various provisions of even the present EIA notification has heavily impacted the local ecology and livelihoods of the people. The new amendments will only legitimise and legalise these violations and this will mean irreparable damage to the Himalayan ecosystem.” The EIA notification, first issued in 1994, under the Environment Protection Act 1986, is a critical mechanism which regulates clearances granted to all kinds of development projects and economic activities in the country. It is one of the environmental decision-making processes that make it mandatory for project developers to not just study the socio-economic, ecological and other impacts of a proposed project, but also place them in front of the affected communities for their opinions and objections, thus ensuring the process of a free, fair and informed consent. R S Negi of Him Lok Jagriti Manch, Kinnaur said however, this notification has been amended and read down several times, in the last two decades, in favour of ‘easing the norms’ for business. He said that latest draft continues to move in the direction of rendering the EIA process a mere formality. The key objections raised are around exemptions of a variety of projects from the mandatory ‘Public Consultation’ process as well as the dismantling of this process itself. “The reduction of the time prior to public hearing from 30 to 20 days is also highly objectionable. In the given 30-day period itself the information about public hearings does not reach all the affected areas which are often spread out widely in case of mountains with some project-affected communities residing in remote and inaccessible terrains,” Negi said. “Here accessing information takes a long time and reducing this time to 20 days will completely exclude such people from raising their grievances and suggestions in the public consultation. This is a clear attempt to block their participation in the environmental decision-making process,” he added. Prakash Bhandari of Himdhara Collective said it is shocking that amendments include allowing post-facto clearance, which means that the project proponent can start work and before they have obtained environmental clearance. If the basic precautionary principle on which the EIA notifications is grounded is itself not followed, it can lead to a disastrous situation for the ecology and local people, he said. Kulbhushan Upmanyu of Himalaya Bachao Samiti said 2020 draft also dilutes the guidelines for monitoring and compliance of environment conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/activists-to-centre-dont-amend-eia-notification/articleshow/76737767.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Goa||Depts allowed to fill up vacant posts even 7 years later||Panaji: The cabinet on Wednesday relaxed norms that govern filling up of vacant and lapsed posts, permitting departments to fill up posts that have been vacant for as long as seven years, said chief minister Pramod Sawant. Sawantsaid that an office memorandum issued by the personnel department in October 2019 has been amended to allow departments to fill up posts that would otherwise lapse. “The high-level empowered committee (HLEC) and Inter Departmental Committee of Officers (IDCO) had said that if a post does not get filled in five years, the posts lapse. Now some posts, for which the amendment has been brought in, even if for seven years the post is not filled it will not lapse,” said Sawant. Both the HLEC and IDCO, which were introduced by former CM Manohar Parrikar, were discontinued by Sawant in 2019. “The departments can fill the post. The department can outsource the roles to the Human Resource Development Corporation if they don’t fill the post,” said Sawant. The cabinet also approved the appointment of a lecturer in the department of pulmonary medicine at GMC on contract basis for a year for a monthly pay of Rs 95,000 per month. While approving certain posts, the cabinet took the decision to overrule the Goa State Public Commission’s recommendation to appoint Shimona Mae Dias as scientific assistant at the Forensic Science laboratory. The cabinet also gave the green light for recruitment of staff for the state project management unit, which will monitor the execution of phase II of the Integrated Coastal Zone Management plan, a joint venture project between the World Bank and the environment ministry’s Society of Integrated Coastal Management. The Rs 200 crore project is being executed by Goa Coastal and Environment Management Society. “We have given the sanction for the project. If the posts are not filled, the project can’t go ahead,” said Sawant. The state cabinet also gave the approval for the Goa State Solar Policy to be amended. Among the other decisions approved by the state government, is a post facto approval to dredge the mouth of river Sal for Rs 1.6 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/depts-allowed-to-fill-up-vacant-posts-even-7-years-later/articleshow/76738579.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Goa||CM Pramod Sawant takes U-turn, now says no community transmission in Goa||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday backtracked on his assertion that community transmission of Covid-19 had started in Goa. “I stated (that) earlier, but when I studied the matter, I found all cases are connected,” he said. “Community transmission has not happened.” Last Friday, Sawant had said, “Since cases have been reported in all talukas, it has to be considered community transmission,” Sawant said. Now, explaining his U-turn, he said that not a single case has been found in which the person concerned has not moved around or travelled. “The infection has been transmitted from one person to another, and the virus is not in the air,” he said. Trying to buttress his point, he said that Goa’s first Covid death, the 85-year-old man, was bed-ridden for years. “He didn’t step out of his house at all, he got it from a family member who was on the move,” Sawant said. He stressed that it’s impostant for people to take all measures and follow social distancing norms to protect their family members who have co-morbid conditions. “We must protect the elderly people in our families,” he said. Persons above 65 and those with underlying health conditions run a risk of developing complications, he said, even though most cases in the state are mild or do not show any symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-takes-u-turn-now-says-no-community-transmission-in-goa/articleshow/76738593.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Shimla||Transport Nagar to come up at Hamirpur||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh hief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said a Transport Nagar will be established at Hamirpur, which will have facilities such as driving test track, driving training centres, traffic park, vehicle maintenance park, etc. Drive test and training here will be managed by original equipment manufacturers. Presiding over a review meeting of transport department in Shimla, Thakur said 250 new buses would be added to the fleet of HRTC, including 100 electric buses. He said currently, 50 electric buses are plying in Shimla town and 25 in Manali area. The CM said although the government has decided to allow plying of buses with 100% occupancy, proper social distancing, use of masks and sanitisation of buses and bus stands would be ensured. Adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols by drivers, conductors and passengers would also be ensured, he said. Thakur said to provide people-centric services, e-Parivahan Vyvastha would be launched on pilot basis in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/transport-nagar-to-come-up-at-hamirpur/articleshow/76737766.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||CM to monitor ease of doing business in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: With the Centre linking additional capital requirements of states to reforms, the state government is cracking the whip on fast-tracking the implementation of the ease of doing business (EoDB) parameters. Chief secretary D B Gupta said that, from now on, chief minister Ashok Gehlot would chair meetings to ensure time-bound implementation of all the ease of doing business measures. After a meeting on Wednesday, Gupta said the chief minister would personally monitor the progress on EoDB parameters achieved by various departments. “Ensuring the achievement of EoDB goals is more necessary now than before. We need to establish responsibilities, identify focus areas, and set a time-bound programme to fulfil the goals,” said Gupta, adding, “there would be monthly meetings with the department secretaries and nodal officers over the progress achieved.” The Centre has not only increased the parameters of EoDB reforms, but also linked implementation with the additional borrowing limit of several states. The additional borrowing limit has been set at 2% of the respective Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). In the case of Rajasthan, 1% of GSDP comes to about Rs 10,000-Rs 11,000 crore. The states are expected to comply with the directives till January 2021. These guidelines are aimed to make more and more business-related government processes accessible online and free of any physical contact. “We observed that several district-level business reforms proposed under the guidelines cannot be dealt merely at the district level and thus we need portals at the state level to deal with all the user-related requirements,” said Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, department of industries. Agarwal said the portal would also make provisions for future requirements as the central government keeps amending the EoDB criteria. “A centralised portal would ensure that the new parameters can be easily included,” he added. The chief secretary asked related departments to enhance coordination with the department of information technology for the purpose. Underlining the need for a focused approach, he said that compliance of guidelines would be done under the guidance of industries commissioner, Muktanand Agarwal, who is the nodal officer for the implementation of EoDB. “The departments need to sensitise respective nodal officers and ensure that objectives are met before the central government deadline of December. There is still time left for rectification if required,” said the commissioner of Industries. He informed that the implementation of EoDB parameters would not be evaluated merely on the basis of changes in the government procedures and feedback of users would also be taken into consideration to determine if the reforms have benefitted the industry. Officials from the urban development, local self-governance, tourism, excise, mines, energy, PWD, PHED, forest and several other departments were present during the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-to-monitorease-of-doingbiz-in-state/articleshow/76738575.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||Woman ends life by hanging self||Pune: A 20-year-old beauty parlour employee was found dead, hanging from a ceiling fan, in her rented house in Warje Malwadi on Tuesday evening. The reason behind the suicide could not be ascertained immediately, police said and added she did not leave behind a suicide note. Inspector Amrut Marathe of Warje Malwadi police said, “The woman was stuck in her native place Udgir in Latur district since March. She returned to Pune 10 days ago.” “On Tuesday she was alone in her house. Her mother returned home around 5pm to find the door locked. When there was no response the mother called their landlord,” he said. The landlord broke the door and found the woman hanging from the fan with her ‘dupatta’. She was taken to a nearby hospital where doctors pronounced her dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-ends-life-by-hanging-self/articleshow/76738569.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||Techie jumps from 6th floor||Pune: A 34-year-old software engineer working with a company in Pimpri Chinchwad jumped to his death from the sixth floor of a building in Wakad on Wednesday. Assistant inspector Harish Mane of the Wakad police said, “This was his second attempt to end life after he had consumed phenyl in his first attempt on June 13. Preliminary investigation has revealed he was under stress for the last one month. The precise cause behind his extreme step is being ascertained. We did not find any suicide note.” Mane said, “The victim’s wife is also an engineer. Around 10am, when his wife was at home, the techie went to the sixth floor of their building and jumped off it.” He was immediately taken to a private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival by the doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-jumps-from-6th-floor/articleshow/76738577.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||2 dead, 3 hurt as bike rams into truck in Jaisalmer dist||Jaisalmer: Two persons were killed and three were injured in a road accident near Awai village under Nachana police station area here on Wednesday. All five were riding a motorcycle and were returning from Mohangarh to Kolayat in Bikaner, after working as cooks at a wedding there. Their motorcycle hit a mini truck carrying fodder. Two died in the mishap, while three injured were referred to a hospital in Pokhran. The five persons were reportedly under the influence of liquor. SP Kiran Kang said that five persons from Kolayat in Bikaner had come to Mohangarh to work as cooks at a wedding. In the wee hours of Wednesday, they were returning to Kolayat on their motorcycle when near Awai village under Nachana police station area, the motorcycle had a head-on collision with a mini truck coming from the opposite direction carrying fodder. Swaroop (26) died on the spot, whereas other four injured were referred to Pokhran. Kishan Lal Kumbhar (24) too died while undergoing treatment. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-dead-3-hurt-as-bike-rams-into-truck-in-jaisalmer-dist/articleshow/76738573.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Madurai||Fewer temples open in state, others to take more time||Madurai/Trichy: Many temples in the state did not open their doors to the public on Wednesday though the government had allowed those under the control of HR & CE department with an annual income of less than Rs 10,000, to open for pujas on July 1. This follows the authorities’ decision to take extra caution and carry out a fresh round of disinfection and open them only on Thursday. Among the over 44,000 temples under HR & CE, 40,000 with an annual income of less than Rs 10,000 come under the unlisted category. Most of these temples are in the interior villages, which rarely see even ten devotees a day. Some remain closed for a major part of the year and reopen for a festival or two during specific months. Many devotees were indeed excited at the thought of temples reopening. ``I rushed to Chokkanathar temple in Simmakkal after a bath, only to see the doors locked. People told me that Madurai’s temples will not open till July 5,’’ said Shanmugasundaram of Simmakkal. In Madurai, where there is an intense lockdown, HR & CE has decided to open all temples in the permitted category after July 5 only, said assistant commissioner M Vijayan. In Dindigul and Theni, they will open only 1,292 and 249 small temples respectively from Thursday. In Ramanathapuram, 350 out of 377 temples falling in the permitted category opened on Wednesday evening. In the Trichy region, a majority of the rural temples remained closed. Temple staff said they are planning to resume full-fledged darshan only on July 6. “Since the major temples are closed, there is a possibility that people may throng the rural temples for worship. So, a majority of them did not open on Wednesday,” an official source said. A few rural temples in Thiruverumbur opened on Wednesday but did not witness any devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fewer-temples-open-in-state-others-to-take-more-time/articleshow/76738571.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Daily new cases down to 2,442; total nears 90,000||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 2,442 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to over the 89,000 mark. The death toll from the disease mounted to 2,803, the authorities said.  This is the fifth consecutive day when Delhi has reported less than 3,000 new Covid cases in a single day. Before this, from June 23-June 26, the city had reported over 3,000 cases daily. On June 23, the capital had reported the highest single-day spike of 3,947 cases. "If this trend persists for another four to five days, it may mean that we are past the peak," said an epidemiologists. Delhi currently has 27,007 active cases and 59,992 people have recovered from the disease.  Though the number of new cases has come down, Delhi continues to report high fatalities due to the viral infection. On Wednesday, 61 deaths due to Covid-19 was reported by the state health department, taking the total toll to 2,803. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia took a meeting to review the status of Covid-19 management in Delhi on Wednesday. According to data, 66,526 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from June 1-June 30 in the capital. The total death recorded in June stood at 2,231 - 80% of the total Covid-19 deaths reported in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/daily-new-cases-down-to-2442-total-nears-90000/articleshow/76740105.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Plea in court against bail to Sonali||Hisar: Hisar market committee secretary Sultan Singh, who had lodged a police complaint of assault by BJP leader Sonali Phogat, moved an application in a local court on Wednesday for the cancellation of bail granted to her. Sultan has alleged that Sonali was influencing the witnesses. The court has asked Sonali to file her reply in two days. Sonali and five others were arrested on June 17 for assaulting Sultan and granted bail by court on bonds of Rs 30,000 each in view of the Covid-19 situation. Hisar Sadar police station had registered cross cases in the matter. Sonali and her associates were booked on Sultan’s complaint for rioting, unlawful assembly, voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty, assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty, obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions and criminal intimidation. Another case was registered on the complaint of Sonali against Sultan for assault or criminal force on woman with intent to outrage her modesty. Sonali had alleged that the market committee secretary used abusive and vulgar words not only about her but also for women and child development minister Kamlesh Dhanda and chairperson and former minister Krishna Gahlawat of the State Agricultural Marketing Board. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/plea-in-court-against-bail-to-sonali/articleshow/76737787.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Varanasi||Temples violating social distancing norm in Shrawan month to be shut in Varanasi||Varanasi: Concerned over sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, the district administration has made it clear that if any temple administration fails to comply with the guidelines of social distancing and check crowding during the auspicious Shrawan month, it will be closed. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma cautioned all his subordinates and police to increase vigil on the roads and places of public gathering in view of holy month of Shrawan starting from July 6. The DM said, “If crowding and violation of prescribed guidelines for social distancing is found at any temple during Shrawan, the temple will be closed immediately. No devotee will be allowed to move out before 5am to offer prayer while wearing a mask and following norms of social distancing will be mandatory.” The DM had also convened an emergency meeting of the officials at his camp office late Tuesday evening to discuss strategy for combating fresh challenges in view of rise of Covid-19 cases. Assigning task to monitor all problems related to Varanasi Municipal Corporation, Varanasi Development Authority, electricity department, Jal-Kal, Jal Nigam, etc., to the additional city magistrates, the DM also directed them to carry out special drives for two hours every morning against those violating Covid-19 norms. The ACMs were asked to ensure that all shops are closed by 7pm at any cost and nobody ventures out of their homes between 9pm and 5am. The officials were told to create awareness among people for prevention of spread of the virus through police or hired vehicles as required. The ACMs were also instructed to keep a sharp vigil on shops, market-goers, auto and e-rickshaws to ensure that Covid-19 protocol is followed strictly. The DM also asked to ensure sealing of shops for a week in case of violations and also sizing vehicles if anyone found driving without a mask. He asked for strict compliance of restrictions prescribed for hotspot areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/temples-violating-social-distancing-norm-in-shrawan-month-to-be-shut-in-varanasi/articleshow/76736577.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
July 2, 2020||Jodhpur||Triple murder in Bilara: Rajasthan cops solve case in two days||JODHPUR: Police cracked the triple murder case in Bilara within two days and arrested a person, allegedly an aide of the victim, on Wednesday. Police identified the accused as Motiram Sargara (19), who was learnt to have had an altercation with the victim on Monday evening. SP (Jodhpur Rural) Rahul Barhat said Sargara was working in Surat and had come to the village following the lockdown and befriended victim Jawarilal and begun working under him in his work of cutting wood and making coal. “On the same night, he and the victim were together at the latter’s hut, which had been corroborated by many villagers,” said Barhat. Barhat said the accused had admitted to have committed the crime following an altercation with Jawarilal. “After the altercation, he left and returned post-midnight with a sharp edged weapon with a view to kill Jawarilal. He hit him in his head while he was asleep. Hearing the sound, victim’s wife Toladevi woke up and fearing getting identified, he killed her and their five-year-old son Vikram,” said the officer, adding that while fleeing, he also injured 3 other children of the couple. As per the preliminary investigation, the accused visited the crime scene again the night itself and returned home after confirmation of deaths. Barhat said on the basis of the confirmation about the accused’s presence at the victims’ hut, police picked him from his house and interrogated him. “Out suspicion was further affirmed noting that the entire village gathered at the spot and the accused did not turn up despite being a known and having spent evening with him the previous night,” Barhat said. Three members of a family — Jawarilal (35), his wife Toladevi (32) and a son Vikram were murdered in their hut in Bilara near Jodhpur on Monday midnight, while 3 kids were left injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/triple-murder-cops-solve-case-in-2-days/articleshow/76738584.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||Pune: Sassoon hospital set to start antigen tests from tomorrow||PUNE: Sassoon hospital, attached to the state-run B J Medical College, will start using rapid antigen detection kits from Friday to screen individuals for Covid-19. About 700 individuals who may have the infection will be screened in the first phase of tests. “This will be the first time in Pune that a person suspected of having Covid-19 will have the answer within 30 minutes. We placed the order for the kits last week, with a supplier from Delhi. We will start using the kits by Friday,” a hospital official said. The rapid antigen kit is a simple point-of-care or “bed-side test” that can give out results within 30 minutes of a nasal swab collection. The test detects the presence of viral proteins (antigens that trigger reactions in the immune system) in the sample. The swab, if found negative, will be re-tested using an RT-PCR test for re-confirmation. But those who test positive for the antigen (in this case, SARS-Cov-2) will be automatically considered as “confirmed Covid-19 patients”. Currently, the hospital has been using the cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) and molecular test (RT-PCR) for analyzing throat or nasal swab samples. “The CBNAAT takes about an hour to churn out results. The RT-PCR test, which is still the gold standard for confirming infection, takes about four to five hours,” the Sassoon official said. Within the Pune Metropolitan Region, the municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad have also procured the government-approved rapid antigen test kits to test their populations. The PMC and the PCMC are set to test one lakh people each in the coming days. The Department of Medical Education and Research (DMER) — overseeing the 18 state-run medical colleges in Maharashtra — also allowed the institutes to start using rapid antigen test kits to screen individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sassoon-hospital-set-to-start-antigen-tests-from-tomorrow/articleshow/76738614.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||Killers of Sonipat cops were criminals: Police||Chandigarh: Six persons, including two criminals and their woman associates, were involved in the recent double murder of cops in Sonipat, the police claimed on Wednesday. One of the assailants, a notorious gangster, was killed in an encounter in Jind on Tuesday night and his associate arrested.Initial investigations suggest that the accused were drinking in a car parked on the side of Sonipat-Jind road near Butana police post on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, though curfew was in force. When SPO Kaptan and constable Ravinder Singh objected to it, an argument followed, after which the accused attacked the cops with sharp-edged weapons. After the incident, they sped off towards Jind. The bodies of cops were found on the roadside in the wee hours of Tuesday.Based on a tip-off, two special teams went on the trail of criminals and tracking their mobile locations, the teams spotted them in Jind. Finding surrounded, Amit and Sandeep attacked cops with sharp-edged weapons they were carrying, injuring four policemen — a sub-inspector, a surveillance inspector and two constable. In the ensuing encounter, Amit died, while Sandeep was arrested.Sonipat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said Amit had six cases registered against him in Jind district.“Police parties are conducting raids to nab the remaining accused and further investigations are in progress,’’ said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/killers-of-sonipat-cops-were-criminals-police/articleshow/76737800.cms||Manvir Saini
July 2, 2020||Jaipur||State lags behind in mustard procurement||Jaipur: Rajasthan State Co-Operative Marketing Federation (RajFed) is way behind its target of procuring mustard this year.According to data presented, of the 10,46,500 tonnes target, the department was able to procure only 3,34,497 tonnes of mustard.Whereas for chana, the target set by the department is almost completed. According to data, 6,15,750 tonnes was the target and till June 30 they have been able to procure 5,99,343 tonnes have been procured.“The reason for low procurement was higher price of mustard in the market than the MSP set by the government. This year surprisingly mustard was sold at a higher price in the market so farmers did not come forward to register. This year due to pandemic, low imports of palm oil has given a hike to mustard oil sale and rates shot up,” said a senior official of RajFed.Many farmers in the state did not agree with this reason. Harish Chandra Kasaniya, a mustard farmer from Sri Ganganagar, said that the department set very low MSP than the market price.“The rate of market was low in the beginning than the government’s MSP. However, due to coronavirus and lockdown not many farmers were able to reach the procurement centre on time and register. Hence, to save losses and to purchase seeds/fertilizers for the next season, farmers sold the produce in the market to the businessmen at lower rates. Moreover, the government also kept the rate pretty low this year compared to last year. Now, the rates have again shot up in the market, but there is not much produce left as most of it has been sold,” Kasaniya said.According to officials, procurement of chana and mustard will continue till July 29, except Kota zone, as procurement started early there. However, if the farmers continue this trend of not selling to the government, then the entire plan will be wrapped up soon.Ghanshyam Singh, a mustard farmer from Bharatpur, said the government will anyways wrap up the entire procurement process due to arrival of monsoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-lags-behind-in-mustard-procurement/articleshow/76738651.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Goa||‘BJP has failed to give good governance’||Saligao: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Wednesday accused the BJP regime of failing to provide good governance “in every department” during a protest held outside the deputy collector’s office at Mapusa. It also submitted a memorandum to the deputy collector highlighting the failure of the state government in handling the increase in prices of essential commodities and fuel. State NCP general secretary Sanjay Barde told reporters that although most businesses were shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic, nationalised and cooperative banks continued to harass people to pay their EMIs. He also said the government had failed to provide proper electricity and water supply to its citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-has-failed-to-give-good-governance/articleshow/76738673.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Pune||‘Pune needs special plant to process Covid trash’||Pune: The Covid-19 pandemic has given rise to a relatively new type of biomedical waste with a higher percentage of plastic that has overwhelmed existing incinerators.The operator of the Pune-based common bio-medical waste treatment facility (CBWTF) has now proposed a separate plant for the disposal of coronavirus-related biomedical waste in Pune. The plant, the operator said, can be set up to deal with PPE kits, gloves and other times used by health workers or patients.“We have proposed a plant after the state chief secretary gave directions to boost treatment to 10,000 kgs per day. A plant specifically for Covid-19 waste with a special incinerator is the need of the hour,” Sunil Dandawate, who runs the CBWTF in Pune, said.The expected price of the plant is Rs 12 crore. Pune generates about 5,000kg of Covid-19 waste every day. The plant, if approved, can safely treat about 10,000kg daily. The CBWTF near Naidu hospital — it’s Pune’s lone incinerator for medical waste — can process 4,000 kgs of general biomedical waste daily. But that volume has breached 8,000kg, with about 5,000kg made up of only Covid-19 waste. This plant broke down two weeks ago and is still undergoing repairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-needs-special-plant-to-process-covid-trash/articleshow/76738663.cms||Umesh Isalkar
July 2, 2020||Chandigarh||p1Rampal seeks bail for wedding of kin, HC asks cops if he’ll surrender||Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked Haryana police to inform it if adequate security could be deployed in case the controversial, murder convict preacher Rampal of Satlok Ashram in Rohtak was permitted to attend the marriage of his granddaughter. The HC also asked the police to assure the court of Rampal surrendering peacefully at the end of the interim bail period.The force has been asked to submit its reply by July 6. Rampal was arrested amid clashes between his supporters and the police in 2014. A division bench comprising Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan passed these orders while hearing a plea filed by Rampal, seeking one week’s release from jail to attend the marriage in Rohtak on July 15. As Rampal is facing multiple cases, a similar plea for release on bail for one week in another case was filed by him, but it was dismissed by a bench comprising Justice S N Satyanarayana and Justice Archana Puri of the high court. The bench rejected the plea after considering Rampal’s background where he had defied HC directions and court had to interfere for his arrest. “We are shocked and surprised to notice that on an earlier occasion when order of arrest was issued against the same person it was dodged in such a way that high court had to interfere twice to ensure his arrest,” observed the bench dismissing his plea.The bench observed that Rampal’s son, who is also accused, had already been granted bail for the marriage of his daughter. “With that being the case, it is seen there is some responsible elderly person in the family available for marriage to be conducted smoothly. Therefore, in the present situation, the question of considering any relief to the applicant-appellant does not arise and accordingly, the application is hereby dismissed,” the bench had observed.In the other plea in which the court has sought inputs from the police, Rampal has submitted that his presence is necessary to perform ceremonies. “To enable this court to consider the prayer in the present application and, in particular, given the background of the case, this court directs the senior police officer, in charge of the law and order of the concerned district, to file a personal affidavit in this court within two days, assuring the court that adequate security will be deployed at the venue to ensure there is no large gathering of people either at the venue or outside and that it is strictly in conformity with the orders regarding the maximum permissible attendance at weddings during these Covid-19 times. That the applicant/appellant will positively surrender peacefully at the end of the interim bail period,” bench has said.In his plea for interim bail, Rampal also informed the court that residents of the locality had no objection if he was permitted to attend the marriage.Rampal is a convict in mu rder case along with son Virender and 13 others. He is undergoing life imprisonment till death and handed the sentence in October 2018.His son was granted three weeks of interim bail by the HC on June 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/p1rampal-seeks-bail-for-wedding-of-kin-hc-asks-cops-if-hell-surrender/articleshow/76737817.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Nashik||Dental colleges can start new academic term: DCI||Nashik: The Dental Council of India (DCI) on Tuesday issued an advisory to all concerned universities across the country, including Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS), stating that all colleges can start the new academic term for BDS students — first second and third year — irrespective of whether examinations could take place or not. There are around 40 government and private dental colleges across Maharashtra. “The dental colleges are free to allow BDS students to commence their studies for the next higher classes. But when things become normal on the Covid front, the students will have to appear and pass their exam for the previous year of BDS course,” the DCI said. As far as the final year of BDS and MDS exams are concerned, the universities concerned have been allowed to take a call regarding holding of examination depending on the Covid situation in their respective states. The MUHS, which was supposed to conduct its summer 2020 examination for all streams including dental in May-June, had to postpone its plan due to the lockdown. “The advisory of DCI is under active consideration of MUHS. We are in the final stage of making the summer exam schedule which would be declared any time,” a senior MUHS functionary told TOI. According to him, the DCI has come out with the advisory so that new academic term can start in dental colleges as the dentistry course like other health science courses are vast in nature. “But it would be mandatory for the students to appear and pass the exam of the previous year,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dental-colleges-can-start-new-academic-term-dci/articleshow/76736686.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid body lies in morgue, doctors try to allay fears||MARGAO: The body of Goa’s fourth Covid-19 victim — a 66-year-old man from Taleigao who died on Tuesday night — remained at the mortuary of the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao a day later as his family appeared reluctant to accept it to conduct the last rites. Till late Wednesday evening, health officials tried to persuade his family members, who were apprehensive of opposition from locals if they conducted the funeral in the village. However, since there was no consensus on the last rites, the body remained at the morgue. “Our forensic doctor spoke to the family and tried to motivate them and address their fears,” said deputy director of health services Dr Ira Almeida. “They were hesitant to accept the body.” Sources informed TOI that Dr Madhu Ghodkirekar, who heads the forensic department of Hospicio, Margao, discussed the issue with the family. Ghodkirekar had earlier successfully handled a hostile situation in Ponda following the cremation of the first two Covid victims. “If the family doesn’t accept the body, we will perform his last rites at the Hindu crematorium in Pajifond, Margao,” Almeida said. “The management of the crematorium has already permitted us to perform Covid funerals there at a specified location. It’s a good gesture on their part.” While the last rites of the state’s first two Covid victims were performed by the district administration at Ponda, the funeral of the third was conducted at the cemetery of Holy Spirit Church, Margao, in the presence of the deceased person’s family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-body-lies-in-morgue-doctors-try-to-allay-familys-fears/articleshow/76738674.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||Trial run of new traffic system on 3 stretches of Ranchi||Ranchi: For a seamless flow of traffic, the Ranchi Smart City Corporation Limited (RSCCL) has come with ‘Intelligent Traffic Management System’ (ITMS) and it is currently conducting a User Acceptance Test (UAT) across the state capital’s three stretches — from Birsa Munda International Airport to Birsa Chowk, from Birsa Chowk to Raj Bhavan and from Argora Chowk to Patel Chowk near Ranchi railway station — before its implementation in a week or two. RSCCL general manager (technical) Rakesh Kumar Nandkeoliar said, “We have completed the installation of CCTV cameras, emergency call boxes, public announcement (PA) systems and virtual messaging systems (VMS) on the three stretches and are conducting a trial run of the utilities.” Nandkeoliar said, “ITMS will help in the seamless flow of traffic as it detects the traffic volume and makes changes on the route concerned. The PA and VMS systems will inform the commuters of public interest messages from the government and traffic snarls on several routes. The CCTVs will help the law enforcement agencies with surveillance.” Soon after the trial run commenced a week ago, the technical team at RSCCL, which will coordinate the entire exercise from the control and command centre, held a couple of meetings with the law enforcement agencies for receiving their feedback. Asked about the feedback received from them, Nandkeoliar said, “We have received a request to divert the traffic coming from the residential colony near Patel Park towards Harmu Chowk by providing a free left before the junction to avoid accidents.” The traffic personnel at various posts in the three stretches are being provided training by RSCCL on the functioning of the utilities. “The policemen are also being trained on handling the utilities in an emergency situation so that the traffic can be managed manually,” Nandkeoliar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trial-run-of-new-traffic-system-on-3-stretches-of-ranchi/articleshow/76737411.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||Four with Assam-based group nabbed for killing Sahibganj businessman||Dumka: Police in Sahibganj have arrested four persons for their alleged involvement in the abduction and killing of Borio-based businessman Arun Kumar Sah. The four persons who were arrested — Sirichand Murmu from Bodbandh village under Barhet police station, Kisun Soren, Vinod Hasda and Pramila Hembrom, all from Telobathan village under Borio police station — have links with the National Santhali Liberation Army (NSLA), police said. NSLA has its roots in Assam. Sahibganj SP Anuranjan Kispotta said attempts are on to nab others involved in the case. Kispotta, however, said that it was not yet clear whether the militant outfit was attempting to establish its foothold in the district or elsewhere in Santhal Pargana. Sources said police have also detained one Surendra Soren and a tribal woman, Puja alias Hopanmayi, during investigation. They have seized a country-made pistol and five live cartridges, three motorcycles and two mobile phones during the raids. “Security has been provided to the family of the deceased businessman as they have received threats from the gang,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/four-with-assam-based-group-nabbed-for-killing-sahibganj-businessman/articleshow/76738415.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||Chinese chocolates & toys removed from Bokaro shops||Bokaro: Shopkeepers selling Chinese toys and chocolates here have removed such items from their shops following the violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 between Indian and Chinese forces that lead to the death of 20 Indian soldiers. Many among them even said that they have cancelled their bookings for the aforementioned items. Chinese chocolates and toys are supplied to Bokaro from traders in Kolkata. Priced between Rs 20 to Rs 200, these items are in huge demand owing to their cheap rates. Amit Johar, who owns Kozy Sweets, said the the chocolates are cheaper than the ones made in India. “Nevertheless, I have removed such items from my shop and cancelled all my bookings. I have asked my supplier to send chocolates of Malaysia, Vietnam or any other country, except China,” Johar added. A toy seller in City Centre Market, Rahul Kumar, said, “It became difficult to sell the Chinese toys in stock that were procured before the lockdown. People straightaway refused to buy such things. Many even feared that if they touch them, they will contract the coronavirus. Thus, we have now started selling India-made toys and cancelled our order for Chinese ones.” Indian toys are costlier than the Chinese ones but that hasn’t stopped people from buying the former. Dealer Sanjay Kumar, who supplies toys in Bokaro after bringing them from Kolkata, said, “Several orders for Chinese toys have been cancelled. Although Indian toys are costlier, people are preferring them more now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chinese-chocolates-toys-removed-from-bokaro-shops/articleshow/76737758.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||Notice to banquet hall for violation of protocols at Deepika’s marriage||Ranchi: Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi cautioned the people about increasing negligence in social and personal behaviour during Unlock 1.0 and called for strict compliance to norms to control the spread of Covid-19 in his address to the nation on Tuesday evening, all central and state Covid-19 protocols were flouted at the celebrity wedding of ace archers Deepika Kumari and Atanu Das in Ranchi in presence of who is of Jharkhand. The number of guests attending the ceremony was far above the permissible figure of 50 and many from the bride and the groom’s family did not wear masks, which is mandatory in public places and gatherings in the state. The ceremony was attended by several bigwigs, including the chief minister Hemant Soren, DGP M V Rao, social worker and Padamshree awardee Ashok Bhagat, MLAs Sudesh Mahto (Ajsu Party) and Naveen Jaiswal (BJP) and Mayor Asha Lakra among others. While most of the VIP guests wore masks and there were arrangement for sanitizing hands before entering the venue, social distancing norms were not followed as the number of guests was far higher than permitted. Sources at the evet said as many as 500 people were at the venue at one point. The large contingent of security personnel also added to the crowd. While leaving the premises, Hemant congratulated the couple for a successful marital life ahead. He sported a face mask, but had removed it for the photo shoot. DGP M V Rao had to instruct the junior cops on duty to ensure proper social distancing. Leavinng the venue after blessing the couple, Rao asked the cops to instruct the guests to follow the anti-Covid norms in place. As the star-studded event and the violation of norms became a talk of the town on Wednesday, the Ranchi district administration issued a notice to the management of Vrindavan Banquet hall, where the ceremony took place. Ranchi deputy commissioner Rai Mahimapat Ray said that notice was issued as the violation of norms was evident in all the photographs on social and mainstream media. “We are not sure about the exact number of guests and the banquet management has been asked to explain if the guidelines issued by the state and the Centre were followed during the marriage ceremony,” he said. Deepika’s father Shiv Narayan Mahto said they had made arrangements for all necessary precautions like mask and sanitizers. “I repeatedly requested the guests to wear masks before entering the premises and we had arranged for a sufficient number of masks to be distributed. A pedal-operated sanitizer was also placed at the gate and there were just a few chairs inside to ensure that people do not sit close to each other,” he said. Mahato, however, did not comment on the number of guests who attended the marriage. One of the family members said the number of guests was higher, because even if the number of invitees is regulated there are chances of more people coming to extend wishes, especially if it was the first daughter’s marriage in the family. “We can’t refuse any one for coming to bless the couple,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/notice-to-banquet-hall-for-violation-of-protocols-at-deepikas-marriage/articleshow/76737334.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s Covid tally crosses 2,500, 80% of all patients are migrants||Ranchi: Jharkhand’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 2,500 mark on Wednesday night after 35 fresh cases were reported from nine districts. Returning migrants, who started arriving from various states into their home districts of Jharkhand on May 1, constitute 79.24% of the state’s total caseload. As of Wednesday evening, 2,001 patients in the state are migrant workers. Of the total cases detected on Wednesday, 27 are migrants. Jharkhand’s cumulative caseload stood at 2,525 on Wednesday. East Singhbhum reported eight new infections followed by Dhanbad (6) Hazaribag (5) and Garhwa (4). Pakur, which had just one active case till Tuesday, reported two new infections along with Ranchi and Sahibganj. Bokaro, Dumka, Godda, Gumla, Khunti and Lohardaga reported one case each, the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) cell said. The highest number of infected migrant workers are in Simdega (346) followed by East Singhbhum (285), Hazaribag (176), Koderma (172), Ramgarh (116), Gumla (110) and Giridih (79). Until Wednesday, Khunti and Godda had one active case each. In East Singbhum, the Covid-19 tally crossed 400 mark on Wednesday night. West Singhbhum has the second most positive cases (353) followed by Ranchi (224) and Hazaribag (197). As many as 3,051 samples were tested on Wednesday across the designated testing labs. The number of samples tested was higher than previous days, where the figures hovered between 2,100 and 2,700. The IDSP said 47 patients were discharged upon recovery. Of them, Gumla and East Singhbhum have 11 patients each followed by Bokaro (7), Jamtara (5), Deoghar (4), Latehar (4), Ramgarh (2), Palamu (1), Ramgarh (1) and Ranchi (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhands-covid-tally-crosses-2500-80-of-all-patients-are-migrants/articleshow/76737142.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||Damaged NH -75 stretch in Garhwa leading to mishaps||Garhwa: The 40-km-long stretch of National Highway-75 that passes through Garhwa, considered as the lifeline of the town, has turned into a nightmare for commuters, thanks to the potholes and craters. The entire stretch from Garhwa town to Banshidhar Nagar has become prone to accidents. On Sunday, one died and four others were grievously injured in Banshidhar Nagar’s Jangi village when a car they were travelling in collided head-on with a truck. Truck driver Shaukin Khan told the police that the car was being driven on the wrong side of the road in order to avoid a crater, following which it collided with the truck. Banshidhar Nagar SDO Kamleshwar Narayan admitted that commuters are facing problems but assured that the road will repaired soon as NHAI officials have swung into action. “Presently, potholes and craters are being covered with mud,” Narayan added. Garhwa resident Santosh Kumar said, “The highway serves as the only link to all the key places like markets, schools, colleges, banks, post office, sadar hospital, police station, block office, forest department office and the court, among others.” Garhwa SDO Pradeep Kumar said, “NHAI authorities are working on the stretch and it has started covering the potholes and craters with suitable materials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/damaged-nh-75-stretch-in-garhwa-leading-to-mishaps/articleshow/76738495.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||30 out of 1,000 newborns die in Jharkhand every year: Study||RANCHI: As many as 30 out of every 1,000 children born in Jharkhand died in 2018, according to the latest sample registration survey (SRS) report. The infant mortality rate (IMR) in rural areas of the state was higher than in urban pockets. While 26 out of every 1,000 infants born in urban pockets died, 31 of them succumbed in the rural areas. Madhya Pradesh is ranked the worst in terms of IMR with 48 deaths while Kerala has the lowest IMR (seven), the report stated. Jharkhand’s IMR, however, is lower than the national average of 32. In 2018, the IMR in the state was seven points lower than that of 2013. In 2013, the state’s IMR stood at 37 with 38 deaths per 1,000 live births in rural pockets. However, it is marginally higher than what it was in 2017 (29). The death ratio is higher among women in both rural and urban pockets of the state. In rural Jharkhand, 26 female infants died in every 1,000 live births while in urban areas, the figure stood at 28, the report stated. The state’s IMR is lower than several larger states that include Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Rajasthan. But it is higher when compared to Bihar, Punjab, West Bengal, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, among others. Health department officials in Ranchi said the IMR was lowered owing to better antenatal care, institutional delivery and distribution of iron-folic acid tablets among the state’s pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/30-out-of-1k-newborns-die-in-jharkhand-every-yr-study/articleshow/76737372.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||Trial run of new traffic system on 3 stretches of Ranchi||Ranchi: For a seamless flow of traffic, the Ranchi Smart City Corporation Limited (RSCCL) has come with ‘Intelligent Traffic Management System’ (ITMS) and it is currently conducting a User Acceptance Test (UAT) across the state capital’s three stretches — from Birsa Munda International Airport to Birsa Chowk, from Birsa Chowk to Raj Bhavan and from Argora Chowk to Patel Chowk near Ranchi railway station — before its implementation in a week or two. RSCCL general manager (technical) Rakesh Kumar Nandkeoliar said, “We have completed the installation of CCTV cameras, emergency call boxes, public announcement (PA) systems and virtual messaging systems (VMS) on the three stretches and are conducting a trial run of the utilities.” Nandkeoliar said, “ITMS will help in the seamless flow of traffic as it detects the traffic volume and makes changes on the route concerned. The PA and VMS systems will inform the commuters of public interest messages from the government and traffic snarls on several routes. The CCTVs will help the law enforcement agencies with surveillance.” Soon after the trial run commenced a week ago, the technical team at RSCCL, which will coordinate the entire exercise from the control and command centre, held a couple of meetings with the law enforcement agencies for receiving their feedback. Asked about the feedback received from them, Nandkeoliar said, “We have received a request to divert the traffic coming from the residential colony near Patel Park towards Harmu Chowk by providing a free left before the junction to avoid accidents.” The traffic personnel at various posts in the three stretches are being provided training by RSCCL on the functioning of the utilities. “The policemen are also being trained on handling the utilities in an emergency situation so that the traffic can be managed manually,” Nandkeoliar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trial-run-of-new-traffic-system-on-3-stretches-of-ranchi/articleshow/76737402.cms||Gaurav Pandey
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||‘Operate National Academic Depository through DigiLocker’||Ranchi: The University Grants Commission (UGC) asked the universities in the state to operate the National Academic Depository (NAD), a digital database of academic awards, through DigiLocker. The decision was taken by UGC as private players like NSDL Database Management Limited (NDML) and CDSL Ventures Limited (CVL) will no longer be a part of the scheme. NAD was launched by the government of India to facilitate digital issuance, storage, access and verification of academic awards by academic institutions. In a communiqué to universities across the country, UGC secretary Rajnesh Jain asked all the institutions to upload data of academic awards of their institutions to DigiLocker. Jain said, “For seamless transfer of data from NDML and CVL to NAD-DigiLocker, UGC has sent letters to both the depositories and asked them to transfer the data. DigiLocker has been asked to take charge as the sole depository of NAD.” UGC also asked the universities to designate a nodal officer and set up a cell for the implementation of NAD adding they have to also advise students to use the NAD website. Notably, since its launch in July 2017, many academic institutions, including central, state and private universities and central higher education institutions, school and boards are uploading their academic awards on the site. Students are also using the NAD website to access their academic awards online and so are the verification seeking agencies to ascertain the awards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/operate-national-academic-depository-through-digilocker/articleshow/76737434.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Ranchi||Hoteliers, bus operators urge govt for nod to operate during Unlock 2.0||Ranchi: Even as Jharkhand entered Unlock 2.0 on Wednesday along with the rest of the country, bus operators and hoteliers stare at an uncertain future as the state government is yet to approve the sectors’ operations though an approval for resumption of activities from the Centre had come in during the the first phase of unlock. The state government had said that the decision to not allow buses and hotels to resume operations was taken in view of a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. However, in the last one month, after the daily cases dipped, hoteliers and bus operators pressed for immediate resumption of business citing heavy losses. On Tuesday, the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) also held a symbolic protest. FJCCI president Kunal Ajmani said, “After several representations to chief minister Hemant Soren with our demands, we hoped the hotel and transport (bus) sectors would be allowed to operate from July 1, but to no avail.” Ajmani further said, “Hotels and buses are necessary now that flights, intra and interstate movement of vehicles have been allowed. Where will people stay who come to Jharkhand for medical treatment or for other emergencies?” He added, “The hospitality industry is one of the top job creators, but the sustained lockdown will prove to be detrimental.” “The lockdown was the time to prepare for the fight against Covid-19. It is now time to revive the economy and activate all kinds of trade,” Ajmani stressed. FJCCI’s hotel sub-committee head Ranjit Rajpal said that over 500 hotels operate in the state and the industry is facing around Rs 3 crore loss per day. “Imagine the losses since March. The count is still on. How can hotels pay their employees and meet their recurring expenses?” he asked. Jharkhand Bus Owners Association (JBOA) president Arun Budhiya speaking to TOI over phone said further delays will compel many bus operators to change their trade. In Jharkhand, around 10,000 buses operate. “Directly and indirectly, this industry generates 1.2 lakh jobs. Many in the sector are struggling for a day’s square meal since March. It’s time the wheels start rolling with all safety norms in place.” On the losses, he said, “Roughly, each bus is incurring losses to the tune of Rs 45,000 per month since March.” The chorus to allow operations was also joined by the members of the Panda Dhramrakshini Sabha, a priests’ body of the Baba Baidyanath Temple in Deoghar district. A delegation met chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday to cite their woes owing to the closure of religious places. The annual Shravani Mela, which is slated to be held from the first week of July, is also uncertain. The annual fair is a source of livelihood for scores of people who are dependent on the temple. At the meeting, the pandas demanded financial support from Hemant. However, though Hemant promised to consider their demands, he hinted at a no-show for Shravani Mela this year and asked the priests to support the move. He said, “Considering the situation, it isn’t the right time to resume religious activities. It’s time for everyone to unite to fight Covid-19.” Sources said the state government is not in a mood to immediately offer further relaxations. A senior official said, “Hotels may resume with certain restrictions in a week or 10 days, but starting buses is still a concern. The government is also thinking about other sectors, but our focus is to maintain high caution. Ultimately, the CM will take a call at the right time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hoteliers-bus-operators-urge-govt-for-nod-to-operate-during-unlock-2-0/articleshow/76738427.cms||ASRP Mukesh
July 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Submit pending work detail of 6 private colonies, RWAs told||GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has asked the RWAs of six private colonies — Ardee City, Malibu Towne, Mayfield Garden, Vipul World, Uppal South end and Roose Wood City — to submit the details of infrastructure deficiencies in their colony within two days. This will help DTCP prepare a blueprint of existing infrastructure and pending works before handing over the colonies to MCG. So far, the MCG has taken over Suncity, South City 1-2, Palam Vihar, Sushant Lok 1. The takeover of DLF-1, 2 and 3 is still in process. In December last year, MCG had passed a resolution to take over the six private colonies. Malibu Towne is spread across Sector 47 next to Sohna Road, Vipul World is located in Sector 48, Mayfield Garden in Sector 51, Uppal Southend and Rosewood City in Sector 49 are located close to each other along Sohna Road and Vikas Marg. Following the resolution, MCG had sought details from DTCP on the building plan, layout of storm water drains, water and sewerage line, parks, total number of plots, year of construction, status of community centre among others. DTCP on Tuesday held a meeting with the developers and RWAs of these six colonies. The RWAs were asked to submit in two days the details of pending works of the society. Developer were asked to submit details whether they had obtained completion or part completion certificate for the colony “We have been requesting MCG for past several years to take over the colony. HSVP and developer have dispute over ownership of around 20 acres of land. DTCP has cancelled the licence of the colony and put restriction on registry of properties. Residents are facing problems due in absence of basic civic amenities,” said Praveen Yadav, Ardee City RWA president. “Developer stopped the maintenance of Mayfield Garden several years back and till now they have not obtained the completion certificate. Power sub-station, community centre and many other parts of the project is still incomplete,” said Ashok Gulia, former RWA president of J-block of Mayfield Garden. Ravi Sihag, senior town planner (STP) said RWAs of these six colonies have been asked to submit the details of deficiencies in the colony. “After receiving report, we will seek reply from the developers. MCG will also prepare a detailed project report for each colony before taking over,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/submit-pending-work-detail-of-6-private-colonies-rwas-told/articleshow/76738392.cms||Bagish Jha
July 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugaman back from Thursday, mask and Aarogya Setu must for riders||GURUGRAM: After a gap of over three months, Gurugaman —the city bus service — is all set to resume its operations from Thursday. This announcement was made by Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) after obtaining permission from the deputy commissioner on Wednesday. GMBCL officials informed that the service will resume in a phased manner, which is likely to be week-wise. In the first phase, six bus routes will be made operational with a fleet of 68 buses. The routes include Huda City Centre to Basai (route no. 212 ), IFFCO Chowk to IMT Manesar (route no. 134), Gurugram bus stand to Ghata (route number 112D), Gurugram bus stand to Sohna (route no. 218), Rajesh Pilot Chowk to Railway station (route no.116F) and Gurugram bus stand to Sikanderpur metro (route no. 122). “GMCBL would be following the guidelines issued by the home ministry. Social distancing norms will be adhered to and buses will be operating with 50% seating capacity,” stated an official release issued by GMCBL. All buses will be sanitised prior to their schedule starting time from the depot, an official said. “GMCBL has also worked out a detailed SOP that would apply to bus drivers, conductors, passengers, depot staff and special measures for creating public awareness. In order to create awareness among commuters about social distancing, banners have been out up at several bus stops,” an official said. Officials confirmed that maintaining social distancing, wearing a mask and having the Aarogya Setu app will be mandatory for passengers. Talking about the remaining bus routes, an official said, “Based on the passenger data and feedback during phase 1 operation, the number of buses and routes as well as time table will be modified in the second week. So on, buses and more routes will open up based on feedback of each week” The city bus service was earlier supposed to resume operations in June. However, with the reports of another lockdown, the decision was put on hold. After the revised orders for containment zones by the district administration, the decision was taken to resume the bus service from Thursday. There is no decision on the resumption of Rapid metro as yet said the officials. TOI had reported earlier that GMCBL buses were being used to pick up residents from the airport, who were returning from different countries under Vande Bharat Mission. They were also being used to deliver grocery items and transport medical teams, health workers among others to containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurugaman-back-from-today-mask-and-aarogya-setu-must-for-riders/articleshow/76738242.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Gurgaon||MCG told to check illegal disposal of sewage||GURUGRAM: The urban local bodies (ULB) department has asked the MCG to set up a proper monitoring mechanism for checking the activities of illegal disposal of sewage through tankers and by the independent houses and condominiums. The report has to be submitted by July 15 so that the compliance report is further filed to the NGT. The civic body has also been directed to constitute a special task forces for this purpose. Moreover, the MCG has to start a campaign to identify the independent houses, condominiums and tankers disposing of the untreated sewage in the drains. meeting will be held in Chandigarh where we will have to submit the action taken reports. MCG and other municipalities were asked to identify independent houses, condominiums and tankers releasing untreated sewage, conduct a survey to check whether food outlets, restaurants and hotels are treating their waste water by installing the modular STPs and basically whether the solid waste management rules 2016 are being followed or not,” said an MCG official. Municipal corporations have also been told to check whether the solid waste generated by such units is being disposed of by themselves or being collected by the municipalities. The MCG has to ensure that no such establishment is allowed to operate where they are no modular STPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mcg-told-to-check-illegal-disposal-of-sewage/articleshow/76738421.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Gurgaon||DTCP demolishes unauthorised buildings along expressway in Manesar||GURUGRAM: The enforcement team of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) carried out an eight-hour-long demolition drive against illegal buildings in the presence of 100 policemen in Manesar on Wednesday. During the drive, an under-construction building with three floors on a 1,000 sq yard plot along NH-8 was razed in Binola village. The team, led by district town planner RS Batth, also demolished two other buildings near the highway. The boundary walls of four plots were razed as well. Batth told TOI that the team comprised 20 DTCP employees, apart from him and several junior engineers. “We faced resistance from villagers but the drive was completed with the help of police and the illegal structures were demolished. All the buildings were huge and built on agricultural land with permission. Three earthmovers were used to demolish the structures,” he added. He said all the structures were built on farm land identified for widening of roads and the property owners didn’t possess change of land use documents. Despite being served notices in the past, the property owners did not respond in a satisfactory manner after which action was taken against them, he said.  MCG demolishes four illegal structures The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) demolished four illegal under-construction structures and sealed 10 buildings on Daulatabad road on Wednesday. A senior MCG official said several plot owners have carried out unauthorised construction within areas falling under the corporation’s jurisdiction while the staff was occupied with Covid-19 duties. Regular MCG drives to check illegal construction had come to a grinding halt during the lockdown and have now restarted with strict orders from senior officials, he added. MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh recently constituted four teams, one for each zone, to keep a check on illegal construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dtcp-demolishes-unauthorised-buildings-along-expressway-in-manesar/articleshow/76738368.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University extends summer vacation till July 31||NEW DELHI: Delhi University on Wednesday announced the extension of its summer vacations till July 31. The move came after the Union HRD ministry suggested that as per Unlock 2.0 provisions, education institutions should remain shut till the end of July. The university, however, still plans to go ahead with its final year exams from July 10, irrespective of the extension of summer holidays. The university will also be organising its first ever open house for post-graduate students on Thursday morning.  In a notification issued on July 1, the varsity said it would continue its summer vacation till July 31 as per the revised academic calendar. The HRD ministry had on June 30 written to the UGC stating that as per the guidelines for Unlock 2.0, colleges and educational institutes were to remain closed and "online/distance learning should be encouraged."  DU media coordinator Geeta Bhatt clarified that final year examinations would be held from July 10. DU's third live open house on Thursday will be the first for post-graduate admissions and applicants with queries and questions can register and participate in the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-university-extends-summer-vacation-till-july-31/articleshow/76740145.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: In Unlock, MCG for odd-even walk days||GURUGRAM: As the city looks to open up activities in Unlock 2.0, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has once again come out with an advisory on walks in common areas and parks for residents in order to avoid crowding and maintain social distancing. The civic body has suggested that resident welfare associations (RWAs) can have staggered timings for morning and evening walks, between 5am and 10pm, and also implement the same on the basis of odd and even house numbers. This is not the first time a directive on these lines has been issued by the MCG. On May 21, it had directed RWAs to restrict walks between 7am and 7pm in condominiums and group housing societies. The new guidelines to outline the RWAs’ responsibilities in the city’s Covid-19 management were announced late Tuesday night. They will remain in place till July 31. Among other steps recommended, the RWAs have also been asked to cooperate in a health survey, identify those who may be ‘vulnerable’ and put up ‘home isolation’ notices outside houses of Covid patients and enforce quarantine of their family members. “We have called a meeting of our advisory council on Saturday to discuss how to implement the MCG’s directions. I think residents might object to the odd-even system for morning and evening walks, but we will try to find a solution,” said Kuldeep Rana, president of Suncity RWA. V K Singh, a resident of Suncity, told TOI expressed doubts. “I am a heart patient and have been advised to walk for at least 40 minutes every day. However, if the odd-even system is implemented, where will people like me go for a walk? Also, if they try to divide the day in two and keep one half for odd house numbers and one for even, that will not help since most peosple prefer to walk in the morning in the summer heat,” he said. Meanwhile, RWAs have been directed to allow entry and exit, with precautions like thermal scanning and hand sanitisation, for all those who have rejoined their workplaces. Residents staying in containment zones or large outbreak regions, as well as those who have tested positive for Covid-19 or are in quarantine, will not be allowed to go to office. Some RWAs welcomed the MCG move, saying it will enable them to take decisions at the ‘micro level’. “RWAs have a good knowledge about their areas and interact daily with the residents,” said Dhruv Bansal, the spo-kesperson of Qutub Enclave RWA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-unlock-mcg-for-odd-even-walk-days/articleshow/76738975.cms||Vishakha Chaman
July 2, 2020||Gurgaon||‘In the long term, 2020 will be a turning point for flexi office spaces’||In 2015, Paras Arora and Lavesh Bhandari teamed up to found Qdesq, a tech-enabled aggregator of co-working spaces whose target was as much startup founders and young entrepreneurs as established businessmen and corporate majors. “We thought, just like fashion, why can’t people explore and book office spaces online? Not only that but ready-to-move-in office spaces that can be booked for the short and long term?” recalls Arora, the CEO, who has a background in real estate. Thus, was born a platform offering hassle-free, plug-and-play workplaces. And flexi workspaces, they believe, will prosper in the Covid economy. No wonder both are bullish about the future. Silver liningCoronavirus has affected all sectors. In the short term, people are not going back to their offices or co-working spaces, they are not paying rents. Occupancy is routed through us, and what we’ve observed is they are not paying rent on time, and are seeking discount. So, revenue has been down by 30%-50% since April. Enquiry and leads are still on because when the economy is hurt, people move towards flexibility. People will start moving to flexi offices, as per the business plan and recovery. They will not think of buying new offices or renewing large leases. In the long term, this is a turning point for flexible office spaces. If we survive this crunch, six months down the line co-working spaces will be the most important asset. Something out of nothingReal estate is a very broker-driven and offline business. The initial challenge was supply, because these ready-to-move-in spaces never existed. However, we were backed by the whole ecosystem, because we believed in it so much — everything around us started fostering a climate for what we wanted to do. To gain supply, we reached out to corporates who already owned offices in Delhi, Gurugram and Noida. We suggested them that if they had extra space in their offices, they could list it on Qdesq. In that process, they could earn some money or at least reduce the cost of their overheads. Template for successOur technology is about discovering the right workplace. Once you shortlist, your entire journey is handheld both online and offline, be it discovery, selection or documentation. In this business sector, anyone can start a website and aggregate co-working spaces but it is not about the business. It is about how you implement it, and that’s how you grow. No aggregator is as strong as us in terms of traction — when we say we have some 3,000 spaces (and around 7.00,000 desks), we are spanned in 52 cities at the pan-India level, while most of the aggregators are regional or territory champions. Also, we have entered southeast Asia, in the Philippines. Forging aheadWe call ourselves agile online brokers. It’s aggregation cum brokerage, as it requires a great deal of knowledge about real estate, and an understanding of the nuances of the industry. We have received strategic funding from the world’s largest property consulting firm, JLL, and that is one of the strongest validations we have. Anyone can be an aggregator but what we do, and how we do it, there is no comparison. Right now, we are the largest occupancy builder for any co-working space. And, while we have not focused too much on the consumer side, we are strong on the B2B model for clients like Google, Amazon, Hero Group to Xperia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-the-long-term-2020-will-be-a-turning-point-for-flexi-office-spaces/articleshow/76738968.cms||Sharad Kohli
July 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Monitored home isolation for mild Covid-19 cases in Karnataka soon||BENGALURU: Facing shortage of beds, the Karnataka government may soon make monitored home isolation mandatory for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients, who are below 60 years and without comorbidities. Healthcare experts, with whom CM BS Yediyurappa held a meeting on Wednesday to discuss treatment and management of Covid-19 pandemic in the coming days, suggested monitored home isolation to reduce the burden on hospitals and healthcare staff. It will also ensure availability of beds for patients with severe symptoms. Experts said the government must evolve a system to monitor health condition of patients in home isolation and prescribe medication through telemedicine. Home isolation for asymptomatic patients should be done with proper monitoring by ensuring medical help to them through telemedicine, they said. The CM said the government will issue fresh guidelines for treatment of Covid-19 patients keeping the experts’ suggestions in mind. Asymptomatic patients do not need hospitalisation, say expertsDr Sudarshan Ballal of Manipal DHospitals said asymptomatic patients do not require hospitalisation since there is no prescribed treatment for them. “This will help authorities keep beds free for patients with serious health conditions, besides avoiding deaths due to non-availability of timely treatment,’’ he added. Dr Vivek Jawali director, Fortis hospitals, said 80% of private-hospital beds are occupied by asymptomatic patients. “So, those needing critical care find it difficult to get beds. We can avoid this by making home isolation for asymptomatic patients compulsory,’’ he said, suggesting those who can’t afford home-isolation facilities can be moved to Covid Care Centres. Dr Ashish Satpathy, a specialist, said the government must fast-track testing, bed allocation and hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients along with a centralised registry on bed availability. Dr Kumar Satapathy is regional team leader (South), National Professional Officer, WHO Country Office for India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/monitored-home-isolation-for-mild-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-soon/articleshow/76740181.cms||Anil Gejji
July 2, 2020||Business||HPL, partner company buy Lummus Tech||KOLKATA: Haldia Petrochemicals (HPL), a flagship company of The Chatterjee Group (TCG) in West Bengal, has made the biggest overseas acquisition by an Indian company this year. HPL along with an international partner Rhone Capital has acquired the US-based Lummus Technology at an enterprise value (EV) of $2.7 billion (approximately Rs 20,590 crore) from McDermott International. Lummus Technology is a leading master licensor of proprietary technologies in refining, petrochemicals, gas processing and coal gasification sectors. The deal includes the debt of Lummus as well which will be part of the takeover. The share of HPL in the takeover would be 57% and the rest will be with Rhone. According to sources, the current debt of Lummus Technology Lummus Technology would be refinanced by the acquirers. HPL was in the fray for multinational chemicals major Basell as well in 2005-06. Currently, HPL has a turnover of over Rs 12,000 crore and has an ultra-modern petrochemicals facility at Haldia. For HPL, it is a new feather in the cap, which was at the verge of BIFR in 2013 and made a huge turnaround following the takeover by TCG in 2014-15. SBI chairman Rajnish Kumar, the lead banker in the deal, mentioned: “Acquisition of Lummus, world’s premier petrochemicals company, by Haldia Petrochemicals is a landmark achievement by an Indian company.” With a heritage spanning 110 years, Lummus Technology has around 130 licensed technologies and more than 3,400 patents and trademarks. TCG, with its headquarters in the US, has a controlling stake in HPL. Purnendu Chatterjee, founder chairman of TCG said, “Our investments are both strategic and long term, most of which span across 25 to 30 years. We have primarily focused on knowledge-based enterprises, and as such Lummus is a great addition to our portfolio. Leading with innovation, it delivers sustainable value to clients in the areas of materials technology. HPL being a long-term client of Lummus can share its customer experience and collaborate with Lummus to co-create innovations for the benefit of the industry.” Founded by Chatterjee in the mid-1980s, TCG had a focus on investments in ‘knowledge-based industries’. The group owns and controls companies as ‘long-term investments’ in the following sectors: petrochemicals, pharmaceuticals, biotech, financial services, real estate and technology, serving global markets. Rhone Capital, established in 1996, having offices in London and New York, is a global private equity firm, which specializes in investments in market-leading businesses and has a pan-European and trans-Atlantic presence. The company has a diversified portfolio of companies in chemicals, consumer products, food, industrial materials, mining and shipping industries. Elaborating the deal, a top HPL official said Lummus and HPL together would be in a position to provide a more compelling ‘value proposition’ to the clients of Lummus in India and abroad and HPL’s policy initiative to pivot upstream investments in ‘oil to chemical’ sector is likely to receive a major boost as a result of association with Lummus. Welcoming this development, Leon de Bruyn, head, Lummus Technology, said: “For our customers, employees and partners, this is an important milestone. We would be able to focus exclusively on providing world-class technologies and solutions and developing long-term strategies that will allow Lummus to lead and shape the future of our industry.” Subhasendu Chatterjee, wholetime director, HPL said “It is indeed a proud privilege for HPL to be associated with Lummus Technology, the prestigious licensor of several proprietary technologies in the refining, petrochemicals and gas processing segments.” ======================= DEAL DETAILS # HPL will have 57% while the rest with partner Rhone Cap # The deal includes taking over of entire debt of Lummus # Acquisition of the US petrotech giant would help HPL diversify # TCG and HPL came close to acquire Basell in 2006 # From 2014-15, HPL management was taken over by TCG # Rs 12,000-cr HPL is making continuous profit since then||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hpl-partner-co-buy-lummus-tech/articleshow/76738251.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Bengaluru||Denied admission, Covid-19 positive patient dies at Bengaluru hospital doorstep||BENGALURU: A 52-year-old tailor who tested positive for Covid-19 died in the early hours of Wednesday at the doorstep of Victoria Hospital which declined to admit him as it was not intimated by the civic authorities. This is the second instance in three days of a Covid-19 patient dying after being denied admission by hospitals in Bengaluru city. On Sunday, another 52-year-old man had died in front of Bowring Hospital after 18 hospitals declined to admit him. The tailor, a resident of Cholurpalya, near Magadi Road, had fever, cold and cough, a female family member told TOI. On Friday, he voluntarily gave his throat swab for a Covid-19 test and on Sunday morning, the private lab messaged him that he had tested positive. Rules stipulate that the lab should not inform the patient directly; instead, it should upload the details on a portal from where authorities — BBMP in this case — will get in touch with patients. “Our ordeal began as we called many private hospitals seeking to admit him, but each one turned us down, saying they needed a letter from BBMP. He isolated himself in the house but over two days, we couldn’t find a hospital that would admit him,” she said. The man had locked himself in a room on the first floor the house to stay away from his family. Over two days, there was no call to the patient or family from the local authorities either. Had report been submitted on same day, tailor could have survived: KinAround 10pm on Tuesday, family members decided to break open the door as he was not responding to their calls. “We found he had collapsed on the floor. We called an ambulance, but it took two hours to reach our house. We hoped Victoria Hospital would take him in. But the guard and staff did not open the gate even after we told them he was a critically ill Covid patient. They said they can only admit him if BBMP hands over the positive report to Victoria Hospital,” the tailor’s relative said. While his family was pleading his case, the tailor was battling for life in the ambulance. “We fought and begged them to let us in but to no avail. Around 2am, he died as he could not breathe,” said the tailor’s son-in-law.“We did not have an option but to stay at the hospital and the body was in the ambulance till 12.30pm on Wednesday. We ran from pillar to post to get a report from BBMP, in vain. Later, deputy CM Ashwath Narayan called BMRCI staff, who prepared the body for cremation. We are yet to get the Covid report from BBMP officially,” the son-in-law said. The patient was cremated in the evening. “We lost him only because of the policy that a Covid test report should not be shared with the patient or family. Had they submitted the report the same day, we could have saved him,” the woman relative said. The tailor had no travel history. “He was healthy. He went out only to buy vegetables and milk, and may have been infected there,” a relative said. Several officials of Victoria Hospital were not available for comment as they are in quarantine. In-charge superintendent Dr Chandrashekar H said it was unfortunate that private hospitals had denied admission to the patient. “There is a strict policy that the laboratory report must not be handed over to the patient and sent to the admitting hospital only through BBMP,” he said. “However, we are ready to admit patients if they have the report in form of a message/email from the testing lab. The mechanism needs to improve as Victoria Hospital is designated to admit only symptomatic Covid-19 patients. I will get more details on the incident and respond,” he said. Premature baby youngest fatalityA 15-day-old baby girl who tested positive for Covid-19 died in Bengaluru on Wednesday, becoming the youngest victim of the virus in the state, reports Sunitha Rao R. The baby, born in the 27th week at a Koramangala hospital, weighed just 610 grams and was battling for life when she was shifted to another private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/denied-admission-covid-19-positive-patient-dies-at-bengaluru-hospital-doorstep/articleshow/76740196.cms||Kiran Parashar
July 2, 2020||Business||Eveready sees better numbers in Q2||Kolkata: Eveready Industries has done well in June and is hoping to do better in the second quarter of this fiscal. This was disclosed by EIL MD Amritangshu Khaitan. The company has registered a net profit of Rs 63.7 crore compared to Rs 4 crore in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal largely due to sale of its land in Hyderabad that fetched Rs 62 crore. Khaitan added that with reduced Chinese dumping, battery and flashlight segments have improved performance. The turnover for the quarter and the year was lower than that in the previous year as the segments of lighting and appliances were adversely impacted. Furthermore, discontinuance of the packet tea segment decreased turnover by Rs 40.4 crore during the year and Rs 18.7 crore during the quarter. Even the turnover of core categories of batteries and flashlights was lower during the quarter and year. The company has stated that the optimal sale in all the categories, including batteries and flashlights, got adversely impacted as optimal sales could not be achieved in March 2020 consequent to the countrywide lockdown imposed to contain the Covid-19 crisis. “Due to this disruption alone, the company’s turnover during the month was lower by around Rs 60 crore. The lighting and appliance segment was, in addition, significantly impacted by supply constraints and price corrections which had to be undertaken to augment demand,” the company has added. According to EIL, the appliance segment further remain depressed owing to weak consumption demand and portfolio consolidation. However, EIL added that despite the lower turnover, overall profitability of the company was superior to that of the corresponding quarter of previous year mainly due to gross margin expansion of nearly 700 bps, mainly in the core segments of batteries and flashlights and EBIDTA margin expansion of nearly 900 bps due to additional cost savings measures. Box Aditya Khaitan new Eveready chairman Aditya Khaitan has been elected as the chairman (non-executive) of Eveready Industries on Wednesday. He was the vice chairman of the company. B M Khaitan, thefounder of the group, was the last chairman of EIL, but after his demise the position remained vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eveready-sees-better-numbers-in-q2/articleshow/76738284.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Mumbai||Sero survey kicks off in slums of three wards to measure exposure to coronavirus in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A sero survey to gauge the prevalence of the novel coronavirus and presence of antibodies within the community has started in slums of three civic wards. R-North Ward (Dahisar), M-West (Chembur) and F-North (Matunga, Wadala) were selected on the basis of the number of cases they have reported so far. R-North has among the fewest cases in the city at 1,633, M-West has an average number of cases at 3,101 and F-North has reported more than 3,400 cases, which are on the higher side. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has requested all states to carry out sero surveys—test of blood serum—to understand the spread of the virus. The BMC, in partnership with NITI Aayog, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) and other institutions, has started the survey at M-West’s Ghatla village in Chembur, a slum pocket with a population of around 60,000. So far, the slum has reported around 250 cases. Dr Bhupendra Patil, medical health officer for the ward, said, “We have started with slum pockets but will also collect samples from nonslum areas. It is a random sampling, therefore, if a male member from the first residence in a slum is part of the survey, then a female member from, say, the fourth home is included and then, say, a senior citizen from the twelfth. We are also collecting samples on the basis of age brackets—12-24 years, 24-40, 40-60, and 60 and above.” The ward has tied up with a laboratory in the area where participants can give their blood samples for the sero survey. On Wednesday, the BMC began the survey in Ganpat Patil Nagar in Dahisar, one of the largest slum pockets in the western suburbs, which has reported around 38 cases so far. Shiv Sena’s Abhishek Ghosalkar said there was resistance from residents initially on seeing health teams moving around in PPE suits in the area. “We sent our local volunteers with the health teams to explain to them that this was not a Covid-19 test but was meant to detect antibodies—a sign of exposure to the virus. More than 100 people from the area agreed. They were taken to a private school where their blood samples were collected. There, they were counselled before they could give their consent to participate in the survey,” he said. In F-North Ward, the survey started in Korba Mithagar, Wadala. F-North corporator Nehal Shah said the BMC had informed them about the survey, and also that they would require participation from formal housing societies as well. Civic officials said samples of health workers as well as BMC frontline staff would be collected too. This is the second leg of the national sero-surveillance being conducted by the ICMR. In the first phase conducted in the last week of May, 60 districts across the country, including 10 hotspots in Mumbai, were surveyed. The slums were in Kandivli East and West, Deonar, Dharavi and Kurla-Sakinaka; more than 500 people were tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sero-survey-kicks-off-in-slums-of-three-wards-to-measure-exposure-to-coronavirus-in-mumbai/articleshow/76740193.cms||Richa Pinto
July 2, 2020||Gurgaon||2/3rd of Gurugram's Covid +ve are office-goers, daily workers||GURUGRAM: Those with an office or a daily job to go to constitute nearly two-thirds of all Covid-19 patients in the city, data compiled by the health department shows, confirming what we know about the pandemic — the more the contact points, the higher the risk of infection. But the data also counters some notions. Though vegetable and fruit markets, or mandis, were feared as ‘superspreaders’, the number of vegetable vendors to have tested positive so far is 21. And, as the entry of domestic helpers into homes continues to be restricted or prohibited, there is just one positive case under the category ‘housemaids’. The compilation takes into account cases till June 29, when the city’s Covid-19 tally was at 5,260. This had risen to 5,463 on July 1. The city reported its first Covid-19 case on March 16. Since then, the largest bloc of cases has been reported under the category ‘private jobs’ (1,661 or 31% of all cases). The three next largest categories are ‘housewives’ (748), ‘senior citizens’ (516) and ‘children’ or ‘students’ (423), showing how the infection spread to families. The high numbers among senior citizens will be particularly worrying because they are likely to have more comorbidities, making them a vulnerable group. Labourers (417), health department workers who have been on the frontlines of the response to the pandemic (325) and businessmen (322) are the three other categories with high numbers. Factored into the health department numbers are nurses, lab technicians and Asha workers, who have been engaged in door-to-door surveys and contract tracing. Hospital staff (25) have been categorised separately. Five doctors in the city have so far been found to have Covid-19. The other group of frontline personnel that the pandemic has affected is the police (70). Another segment with high infection numbers is ‘government employees’ (174). In government offices, employees in the additional deputy commissioner’s office, mini secretariat, land acquisition office and senior town planner’s office have tested positive. “Even during lockdown, some government employees had to attend office regularly,” said a senior bureaucrat, adding offices get sanitised every time a case is detected and contact tracing is done, but work does not stop. Most of the city’s workforce has, otherwise, been working from home. Offices opened with the beginning of Unlock last month, but most companies continue to largely keep employees in WfH mode with cases surging both in Delhi and Gurugram. The health department said it was using the data for better analysis, contact tracing and containment and monitoring exercises. “At the time of collecting samples, details about a person are taken, includ-ing profession,” said Dr Jai Prakash, the health department’s public relati-ons officer. However, while this data shows how the infection has spread, case numbers need to be seen in tandem with testing numbers for a clear picture of the how the pandemic is affecting not just a geographical area but clusters within it. Since testing in India is largely a factor of contact tracing, categories with a high number of cases would have also been the most tested ones. Though the numbers in each category vary greatly, the range of people and places the pandemic has affected so far is wide — from air force and BSF employees to those working in garment shops and security guards, as well as an MCG councillor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/how-the-pandemic-spread-in-gurgaon-since-march/articleshow/76738695.cms||Bagish Jha
July 2, 2020||Goa||Goa: In a major testing drive at Moti Dongor zone, 986 swabs taken||MARGAO: A team of health officials on Wednesday descended on the containment zone at Moti Dongor, Margao, and tested a major part of the area for Covid-19. In the day-long exercise, throat swab samples of 986 residents were drawn. Sources in the health department said that all 350 samples drawn from the area on Tuesday returned negative. “We have extensively covered the area. Samples of the rest of the residents will be drawn tomorrow,” a district administration official said. The district administration has begun an awareness campaign in the area to explain to people the objective behind declaring the area a containment zone, and to urge them to observe personal hygiene and social distancing norms. Volunteers distributed pamphlets containing such information to residents on Wednesday. The civil supplies department has also ensured availability of sufficient stock of essential commodities at fair price shops and grocery outlets in the area. Parts of Moti Dongor were declared as containment zone by the South Goa collector after 17 persons from the area tested positive for Covid-19. The zone covers part of ward 18 extending from the sulabh shouchalaya near the masjid to BSNL quarters, and part of ward 23 extending from Renuka Devi temple to the public water tank. As per the action plan outlined in the order, screening of suspects, testing of suspected cases, quarantining, isolation, social distancing and other public health measures will be enforced in the containment zone. Movement of inhabitants of the containment zone has been completely restricted with policemen manning the entry and exit points to the area. District administration officials are keeping a close watch on the situation to ensure that there is no breach of law and order in the containment zone. Moti Dongor is considered a vote bank of Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, and was even when he was in the BJP. Around 350 houses are located within the containment zone with over 2,000 persons residing in the densely populated slum area. In Curtorim, Raia, Loutolim and other places, no fresh cases have been detected. Dr Vallabh Nadkarni of the Curtorim primary health centre, said that they have already tested 430 samples and that the number of active cases in Curtorim is on the decline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-major-testing-drive-at-moti-dongor-zone-986-swabs-taken/articleshow/76738331.cms||---
July 2, 2020||Goa||Three Ponda policemen test positive for virus||Ponda: At least three policemen, including an officer attached to Ponda police station, have tested positive for Covid-19. While two police constables were tested on Tuesday, the officer was tested on Wednesday as part of contact tracing. One constables is from Sakhali, which has seen a spike in cases in the last few days. However, the authorities are trying trace the exact source of infection. The other constable is a resident of Borim and was being assisted by the constable from Sakhali. Ponda deputy collector and head of the taluka’s disaster management committee, Kedar Naik, said that he received test reports of around 40 policemen on Wednesday and that all besides the three tested negative. In all 149 policemen, including the DySP and PI were tested. Ponda DySP Nelson Albuquerque said the constables were sent for testing after they developed fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-ponda-policemen-test-positive-for-virus/articleshow/76738361.cms||---
July 2, 2020||India||1 in 5 deaths in MP is a child under 5, just 2% in Kerala||Deaths in the 0-4 year age group account for a shocking 20% of total deaths or one in every five in Madhya Pradesh. In contrast, deaths in this age group account for just 2% or one in fifty of total deaths in Kerala. This was revealed in the Sample Registration System (SRS) 2018 report released recently by the registrar general and census commissioner of India. A high proportion of deaths in the 0-4 age group is not unique to MP and is the case among states with poor development indices. These include Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar in that order with about one in six deaths is in the 0-4 age group. Such a high proportion of deaths in this age group is clearly because of the high under-five mortality rate (the probability of dying before 5 years of age for every 1,000 newborns) in these states. Madhya Pradesh has the highest under-five mortality rate of 56 and Kerala has the lowest of 10. Other than Kerala, the proportion of deaths in the 0-4 age group is low in Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra in that order. Again, these states also have relatively low under-five mortality rates. In India as a whole and in most states, the deaths in the 0-4 age group constitute a higher proportion of total deaths in rural than in urban areas, except in a few states such as Uttarakhand and Punjab, where the proportion is higher in urban areas. In some states, the difference in the proportion of deaths in the 0-4 age group between rural and urban areas is huge. The biggest gap is in Assam, where 0-4 age group deaths are just 6% of total deaths in urban areas and 16.5% in rural Assam. Similarly, in Madhya Pradesh, the proportion is just 13.4% in urban areas and 22% in rural areas. This gap could be an indication of very poor health facilities in rural areas compared to the urban centres of a state. Gujarat and Rajasthan are two other states where the gap in proportion between rural and urban areas is greater than the gap at the all-India level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1-in-5-deaths-in-mp-is-a-child-under-5-just-2-in-kerala/articleshow/76740194.cms||Rema Nagarajan
July 2, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra toll crosses 8,000, only six deaths in Mumbai in 48 hours||MUMBAI: After months of reporting deaths in double and triple digits, there were only six new casualties added to the city’s Covid-19 toll in the past 48 hours. Although a total of 75 deaths were added to the city’s overall mortality numbers on Wednesday, most were old deaths barring the six, the BMC said. Mumbai’s death toll rose to 4,631 and the fatality rate to 5.85%. The state’s toll crossed the 8,000 mark on Wednesday after addition of 198 fatalities. The toll is now at 8,053. Of total deaths in the state, 69 are from the last 48 hours, while 129 are from a previous period, the state update said. The data reconciliation exercise in the state is far from over, as is evident from the bulky addition of deaths every day. Recording its secondhighest addition of fresh cases in a day, Maharashtra added 5,537 cases on Wednesday, taking its tally to 1,80,298. Civic officials said that the death reporting mechanism was being updated and therefore, not all deaths that have occurred over the last 48 hours may have been registered with the epidemiology cell. “There is a decline in deaths but it has not come down to such an extent. The dip is perhaps because of reporting lag,” said a civic official. After seeing a marginal dip in cases (893) on Tuesday, the city returned to reporting 1,487 cases -- 27% of the state’s addition on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases in Mumbai are 79,145, close to the 80,000 mark. Dr Daksha Shah, BMC’s deputy executive health officer said a new mechanism of reporting deaths has been designed. “We may have information about deaths by 48 hours now if all hospitals cooperate,” she said. Civic officials also said that there has been a dip in the number of critical cases, which has dropped below 1,000 in the city out of the 29,288 active cases. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We have ventilators and ICU beds vacant now. But we will continue to build capacity and add around 500 ICU beds,” he said. With the arrival of rapid antigen kits, the number of positive cases is likely to go up from Thursday. The state on Wednesday issued an order under which the problem of shortage of ambulances and overcharging will be addressed. As per the order, private ambulances can be requisitioned by local authorities and used for transport of non-critical patients. Cost of ambulances and per km cost will be paid as per rates decided by the Regional Transport Authority. Section 144 reimposed in city until July 15 in view of virus pandemicThe Mumbai police on Wednesday renewed their order under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code restricting movement of one or more persons in public places or gathering of any sort anywhere, including religious places, to prevent spread of the coronavirus. Police have reimposed the prohibitory orders from July 1 to 15. The initial order was passed when lockdown was declared in March. Mumbai police spokesperson, DCP Pranaya Ashok, said all movement of one of more persons is prohibited between 9 pm and 5 am. Key services are allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-toll-crosses-8000-only-six-deaths-in-mumbai-in-48-hours/articleshow/76740212.cms||Sumitra Debroy
